# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document is a technical report which was requested in the Objective of
the RAN4 work item description "1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB RF requirements" [1].
The goal of this technical report is to describe the agreed approach towards
the RF related issues raised in [1]:
**A)** The existing 1.28Mcps BS classes did not fully address the RF
requirements of the Home NodeB application. Proposals for changes to radio
performance requirement specifications TS 25.105 are therefore provided in
this report, together with the proposals for the test specification TS 25.142.
B) The report intends to provide guidance to mitigate interference and clarify
some interference cases
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] R4-091435, "WI on 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB RF Requirements", 3GPP RAN WG#46
Sanya China Dec.2009 TD Tech, CMCC, CATT, Picochip Designs, ZTE
[2] R4-091232, "25.866 TR on 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB ", 3GPP RAN WG#46 Sanya
China Dec.2009 TD Tech
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [54] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[54].
## 3.1 Definitions
## 3.2 Symbols
[]{.underline}
## 3.3 Abbreviations
DL Downlink, the RF path from BS to UE
UL Uplink, the RF path from UE to BS
# 4 General
As agreed in the work item proposal [1]:
An increasing need for 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeBs is observed to provide
attractive services and data rates in home environments in China as a
consequence of a large number of TD-SCDMA subscribers within recent years.
Whereas UTRAN is not optimally suited for this application, as it was
developed and defined under the assumption of coordinated network deployment.
Actually home NodeBs are typically associated with uncoordinated and large
scale deployment.
Aim of this work item is to amend the 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB related RF
specifications as suggested in the RAN4 specific part of TR 25.866 to support
the Home NodeBs application. No changes to the UE RF specifications are
foreseen.
## 4.1 Task description
TR 25.866 suggests that the existing 1.28Mcps TDD Base Station classes do not
fully address the RF requirements of the Home NodeB application. TR 25.866
summarises the areas where changes to TS 25.105 are expected to transmitter
characteristics, receiver characteristics and performance respectively. And
guidance to mitigate interference and interference test are needed to be
investigated. Correspondingly, there are 2 objects in this WI,
\- To update the RF requirement specification TS 25.105 as suggested by TR
25.866.
\- Guidance to mitigate interference and interference test are need
clarification.
# 5 Radio scenarios
## 5.1 Deployment configurations
## 5.2 Interference scenarios
# 6 HNB class definition
## 6.1 Changes in 3GPP TS 25.105
This section describes the changes to BS RF requirements specifications TS
25.105
### 6.1.1 Changes on transmitter characteristics
#### 6.1.1.1 Maximum Home NodeB output power
**Maximum output power,** Pmax, of the base station is the mean power level
per carrier of the base station measured at the antenna connector in a
specified reference condition. The period of measurement shall be a transmit
timeslot excluding the guard period. Considering interference of Home NodeB,
it is suggested that Home NodeB output power should be controlled. According
to TR25.866, Considering two common Home NodeB scenarios(Home and small-scale
corporation), the following two Max. output power level are recommended in
Table 6.1.1.1-1.
Table 6.1.1.1-1: Recommended power of Home NodeB
* * *
Power class Max. output Power Scenario 1 20 mW (13dBm) Home 2 100 mW(20dBm)
Small-scale Corporation
* * *
Correspondingly, the rated output power, PRAT, of the Home NodeB is suggested
to be specified in the TS 25.105.
In summary, two types of Home NodeB should be defined in specifications, that
is,
\- type 1: the output power of the Home NodeB is limited to 20 dBm
\- type 2: the output power of the Home NodeB is limited to 13 dBm
A minimum requirements was also introduced: In normal conditions, the Base
station maximum output power shall remain within +2 dB and -2dB of the
manufacturer\'s rated output power. In extreme conditions, the Base station
maximum output power shall remain within +2.5 dB and -2.5dB of the
manufacturer\'s rated output power. In certain regions, the minimum
requirement for normal conditions may apply also for some conditions outside
the range of conditions defined as normal.
#### 6.1.1.2 Frequency Accuracy
Considering Home NodeBs are usually deployed at home and office, it is most
likely that the serving UEs are in slow mobility profile and a consensus was
reached that the Home NodeB is expected to support UE speeds up to 30km/h
speed during the 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB SI.
According to 25.866 simulation results, the Home NodeB modulated carrier
frequency can be relaxed to 0.25 PPM.
#### 6.1.1.3 summary of transmitter change
The changes on transmitter characteristics in TS 25.105 are summarised in the
following table.
Table 6.1.1.3-1: Changes on transmitter characteristics to TS 25.105
+---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Section | Requirement | Discussion / Required | | | | Changes | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 4.2 | Base station classes | Add a new BS class -- Home | | | | NodeB. Home NodeBs are | | | | characterized by | | | | requirements derived from | | | | Femto Cell scenarios. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.2.1 | Base station maximum | Two types of Home NodeB | | | output power | should be defined in | | | | specifications, that is, | | | | | | | | type 1: the output power | | | | of the HNB is limited to | | | | 20 dBm | | | | | | | | type 2: the output power | | | | of the HNB is limited to | | | | 13 dBm | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.3 | Frequency error | > Added frequency error | | | | > requirement for Home BS | | | | > | | | | > It was agreed on a | | | | > minimum frequency error | | | | > of 0.25ppm | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
### 6.1.2 Changes on receiver characteristics
#### 6.1.2.1 Sensitivity
According to 3GPP TR25.866, using the reference measurement channel specified
in 25.105 Annex A, the reference sensitivity level and performance of the BS
shall be as specified in Table 6.1.2.1-1.
Table 6.1.2.1-1: 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB reference sensitivity level
* * *
BS Class Reference measurement channel data rate BS reference sensitivity
level BER 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB 12.2 kbps -101 dBm BER shall not exceed
0.001
* * *
#### 6.1.2.2 Dynamic range
Receiver dynamic range is the receiver ability to handle a rise of
interference in the reception frequency channel. The receiver shall fulfil a
specified BER requirement for a specified sensitivity degradation of the
wanted signal in the presence of an interfering AWGN signal in the same
reception frequency channel.
Considering impact of co-channel uplink interference on the Home NodeB, it is
possible that Home NodeB receiver will be exposed to strong interference
signals from un-coordinated UEs. It was shown that the FDD Home NodeB dynamic
range requirement needs to be extended by 20dB to protect the HNB from the
strong interference signal of an un-coordinated UE. This conclusion can be
reused in 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB.
The BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the parameters specified in Table
6.1.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.2.2-1: Dynamic Range of 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB Receiver
* * *
Parameter Level Unit Reference measurement channel data rate 12.2 kbps Wanted
signal mean power -51 dBm Interfering AWGN signal -47 dBm/1.28 MHz
* * *
#### 6.1.2.3 Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS)
Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) is defined as a measure of the receiver
ability to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of a single code CDMA modulated adjacent channel signal at a given
frequency offset from the center frequency of the assigned channel. ACS is the
ratio of the receiver filter attenuation on the assigned channel frequency to
the receiver filter attenuation on the adjacent channel(s).
The BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the parameters specified in Table
6.1.2.3-1.
Table 6.1.2.3-1: Adjacent channel selectivity of 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB
Receiver
* * *
Parameter Level Unit Reference measurement channel data rate 12.2 kbps Wanted
signal mean power -77 dBm Interfering AWGN signal -28 dBm
* * *
#### 6.1.2.4 Blocking characteristics
Blocking requirement of Home NodeB is same as Local Area BS.
#### 6.1.2.5 Intermodulation characteristics
Intermodulation requirement of Home NodeB is same as Local Area BS.
#### 6.1.2.6 summary of receiver change
The changes on receiver characteristics in TS 25.105 are summarised in the
following table.
Table 6.1.2.6-1: Changes on receiver characteristics in TS 25.105
* * *
Section Requirement Discussion / Required Changes 7.2 Reference sensitivity
level Added requirement for Home NodeB. 7.3 Dynamic range Added minimum
requirement for Home NodeB. 7.4 ACS Added minimum requirement for Home NodeB.
7.5 Blocking characteristics Added minimum requirements for Home NodeB. 7.6
Intermodulation characteristics Added minimum requirements for Home NodeB.
* * *
### 6.1.3 Changes on demodulation characteristics
To Multi-path Fading environment shown in Table B.2 of 25.105, case 1 is
recommended for 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB demodulation.
To Propagation Conditions for Multipath Fading Environments for E-DCH
Performance Requirements for 1,28 Mcps TDD shown in Table B.2A of 25.105 , ITU
Pedestrian A speed 3km/h (PA3)，ITU Pedestrian B speed 3km/h (PB3) and ITU
vehicular A speed 30km/h (VA30) are suitable to 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB.
To Parameters in static propagation conditions and multipath Case 1 channel,
Ioc will be changed according to sensitivity of Home NodeB.
## 6.2 Changes in 3GPP TS 25.142
This section describes the considered changes to base station conformance
testing.
### 6.2.1 Changes on transmitter characteristics
The changes on transmitter characteristics in TS 25.142 are summarised in the
following tables. Requirements which are not shown are applicable to Home
NodeB without any modifications from the existing specifications.
Table 6.2.1-1: Changes on transmitter characteristics to TS 25.142
+---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Section | Requirement | Discussion / Required | | | | Changes | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.2 | Base station maximum | Two types of Home NodeB | | | output power | should be defined in | | | | specifications, that is, | | | | | | | | type 1: the output power | | | | of the HNB is limited to | | | | 20 dBm | | | | | | | | type 2: the output power | | | | of the HNB is limited to | | | | 13 dBm | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.3 | Frequency stability | Added frequency stability | | | | requirement for Home NodeB | | | | | | | | It was agreed on a minimum | | | | frequency error of 0.25ppm | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
### 6.2.2 Changes on receiver characteristics
The changes on receiver characteristics in TS 25.142 are summarised in the
following table.
Table 6.2.2-1: Changes on receiver characteristics in TS 25.142
* * *
Section Requirement Discussion / Required Changes 7.2 Reference sensitivity
level Added requirement for Home NodeB. 7.3 Dynamic range Added minimum
requirement for Home NodeB. 7.4 ACS Added minimum requirement for Home NodeB.
7.5 Blocking characteristics Added minimum requirements for Home NodeB. 7.6
Intermodulation characteristics Added minimum requirements for Home NodeB.
* * *
### 6.2.3 Changes on demodulation characteristics
To Multi-path Fading environment shown in Table B.2 of 25.142, case 1 is
recommended for 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB demodulation.
To Propagation Conditions for Multipath Fading Environments for E-DCH
Performance Requirements for 1,28 Mcps TDD shown in Table B.2A of 25.142 , ITU
Pedestrian A speed 3km/h (PA3)，ITU Pedestrian B speed 3km/h (PB3) and ITU
vehicular A speed 30km/h (VA30) are suitable to 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB.
To Parameters in static propagation conditions and multipath Case 1 channel,
Ioc will be changed according to sensitivity of Home NodeB.
# 7 Guidance on how to control HNB interference
## 7.1 HNB measurements
The HNB and its HUE can perform some measurements from the surrounding HNB,
Macro UE, HUE and Macro NodeB (MNB) such that HNB can apply some algorithms to
perform interference mitigation and maintain the HNB coverage. The potential
measurements collected by HNB can be through the Connected Mode UEs attached
to the HNB during normal operation mode or via a DL Receiver function within
the HNB itself in self-configuration mode. Such DL receiver function is also
called Network Listen Mode (NLM) or "HNB Sniffer". The following measurements
can be performed by the HNB and its attached HUE and utilized for interference
mitigation.
1) P-CCPCH RSCP:
\- HNB can inform its DL Receiver HUE perform the PCCPCH RSCP measurement of
the neighbouring cells including the Macro NodeB and HNB and report it to the
HNB. Based on the measurement, the HNB can estimate the DL interference from
neighbouring cell to the HUE, further HNB can control the transmit power of
HUE such that the HUE's UL interference to other cells (HNB and Macros) at a
reasonable level.
\- In "Sniffer mode", HNB itself can also perform the P-CCPCH RSCP of the
neighbouring cells including the Macro NodeB and HNB and can estimate the DL
interference towards the HUE. Base on the measurement, HNB can control the HUE
transmit power such that the HUE UL interference to other cells (HNB and
Macros) at a reasonable level.
\- As the 1.28Mcps TDD system usually operate in multiple carrier, the
measurements of the PCCPCH RSCP and UTRA RSSI can help the HNB choose the
proper carrier with less interference to reside on or estimate the potential
interference from the neighboring cell to the HUE, such that it can perform
the power control or shift to another carrier to avoid the interference.
2) ISCP:
\- HNB can perform the ISCP measurement in a specified time slot in uplink and
thus it can estimate the interference from neighbouring cell in both UL and
DL. If the ISCP measurement value is larger than a pre-defined threshold
(where an interfering MUE is close to HNB), which would mean the MUE's Tx
power cause significant interference towards the HNB, HNB can choose to shift
to work in another carrier to avoid the strong UL interference or communicate
with the interfering cell to coordinate the interference.
-HNB can inform the HUE perform the ISCP and report the ISCP measurement in DL. Judging from the report, HNB can estimate the interference level such that it can perform transmit power control or coordinate the HUE to another timeslot or carrier to avoid the interference.
3) Midamble Strength of Neighbouring Cells:
\- By self-configuration, HNB can have the neighbouring cell list and the
midamble sequences used by the neighbouring cells. When HNB experiences the
strong interference in UL, it can find the potential interfering cell by
estimating the Midamble strength of the potential cells for the neighbouring
list such that HNB can avoid the strong interference by shifting to another
carrier or scheduling HUE to another UL time slot.
\- As 1.28Mcps TDD system operate in multiple carriers, usually only the
primary carrier have the P-CCPCH, when HUE experience some strong interference
from the secondary carrier of some neighbouring cells in DL, HUE can estimate
the interference strength by estimating the midamble strength ofHHH the
potential neighbouring cells and report to the HNB. Base on the report, some
interference management can be performed by the HNB.
4) Macro/HNB Cell to HNB Pathloss:
\- In self-configuration mode, HNB can read the BCH of macro cell and
neighbouring HNB and know the transmit power of the P-CCPCH. Knowing the
P-CCPCH transmit power and the received power of the P-CCPCH, HNB can deduce
the pathloss from Macro cell or neighbouring HNB to HNB. By knowing the
Pathloss from Macro Cell/Neighbouring to HNB, HNB can adjust it's transmit
power or control the transmit power of the HUE such that it have less
interference to the neighbouring or it can control the DL and UL performance
at a reasonable level.
5) Cell ID, LAC and RAC Measurements:
\- The HNB can have the Cell ID or LAC or RAC information in self-
configuration and normal configuration by performing the physical layer
measurement and reading BCH of macro cell and neighbouring HNB. Based on the
measurements, HNB can identify its surrounding macrocells and other HNBs
nearby, and broadcast the information to the HUE to have HUE distinguish the
HNB cell and Macro Cell for purposes such as mobility handling and cell
reselection etc.
## 7.2 Control of output power of Home NodeB
Considering interferences between Home NodeB and Macro BS and among Home
NodeBs, interference scenarios are listed in Table 1 and shown in Figure 1 and
Figure 2. To scenario 2, Home NodeB Downlink will interfere with Macro UE. The
worst case is that the Macro UE is close to Home NodeB and Macro UE located at
the cell edge of Macro BS. Of course, the output power of Home NodeB is big
factor to this scenario. To scenario 6, Home NodeB Downlink will interfere
with HUE which belongs to other Home NodeB.
Table 7.2-1: Interference Scenarios
* * *
Number Aggressor Victim 1 UE attached to Home Node B (Uplink) Macro Node B
Uplink 2 Home Node B（Downlink） Macro Node B Downlink (UE） 3 UE attached to
Macro Node B（Uplink） Home Node B Uplink 4 Macro Node B（Downlink） Home Node B
Downlink 5 UE attached to Home Node B（Uplink） Home Node B Uplink（Home NodeB） 6
Home Node B (Downlink) Other Home Node B Downlink (UE)
* * *
3GPP 25.866 gives the simulation result of scenario 2. It is shown results in
high outage probability and throughput loss are indicated at locations where
the macro P-CCPCH and HSDPA are fairly weak for the co-channel deployment. In
this case the interference can be reduced for example by lowering the Home
NodeB maximum output power. According to the simulation results, there is a
need to set the maximum Home NodeB output power to lower than 0dBm, or in some
cases even below that, in order to obtain an acceptable "coverage vs.
interference" trade-off.
The adjacent channel deployment is found to work much better. The Home NodeB
maximum output power could be much higher than the co-channel deployment
scenario. However, assuming some form of downlink interference control also
for the adjacent channel scenario could further improve the HNB performance.
In this scenario, Home NodeB should have capability to know the interference
strength between Macro UE and Home NodeB. e.g. Home NodeB measure uplink
interference result from Macro UE. If uplink interference is beyond the
limitation which is set by Home NodeB itself, Home NodeB can suppose that
Macro UE is approaching Home NodeB, and Home NodeB will decrease the output
power of Home NodeB. If uplink interference is below the limitation which is
set by Home NodeB itself, Home NodeB will ignore interference from Macro UE,
common power control algorithm are applied to power control of Home NodeB.
It is also a solution that Maximum output power of Home NodeB will be set
according to P-CCPCH RSCP of Macro BS for mitigating Macro UE interference
result from Home NodeB, especially when Macro UE is at the edge of the cell
with bad reception quality. In detail, When Home NodeB is close to Macro BS,
Home NodeB can be set high output power because Macro UE have good reception
quality in this area. When Home NodeB is the edge of cell, Home NodeB can be
set low output power because Macro UE have bad reception quality in this area.
Additionally, if P-CCPCH RSCP of Macro BS is so low that no Macro BS can have
in the vicinity of Home NodeB. In this case, Home NodeB can transmit with
maximum output power.
3GPP 25.866 gives the simulation result of scenario 6. It is shown that
frequency reuse 3 can increase the throughput of Home NodeB. In order to
enhance the throughput of HNB, more frequency band should be reserved for Home
NodeB. In this scenario, the distance between Home NodeBs is key point to
mitigate interference. However, it is managed by operators. So it is suggested
that Home NodeB should have capability to know the uplink interference
strength.
Figure 7.2-1: Interference Scenarios 1, 2, 3 and Scenarios 4
Figure 7.2-2: Interference Scenarios 5 and Scenarios 6
It is suggested that control of output power can be one of efficient
interference mitigation method. It is also suggested that Home NodeB should
have capability to know the uplink interference strength. And Maximum output
power of Home NodeB will be set according to P-CCPCH RSCP of Macro BS for
mitigating Macro UE interference result from Home NodeB, especially when Macro
UE is at the edge of the cell with bad reception quality.
## 7.3 AGC of Home NodeB
AGC(Automatic Gain Control) is an alternative mitigation technique to address
UL interference from uncontrolled UEs towards the HNB and increase in noise
rise from a HUE that cannot be powered down due to limited dynamic range.
25.866 gives that 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB dynamic range requirement needs to
be extended by 20dB to protect the HNB from the strong interference signal of
an un-coordinated UE. Dynamic range of 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB is also asked
that the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the parameters specified in shown in
Table 7.3-1.
Table 7.3-1: Dynamic Range of 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB Receiver
* * *
Parameter Level Unit Reference measurement channel data rate 12.2 Kbps Wanted
signal mean power -51 dBm Interfering AWGN signal -47 dBm/1.28 MHz
* * *
Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) requirement is also tighten. The BER shall
not exceed 0.001 for the parameters specified in Table 7.3-2. The interfering
AWGN signal is increased to -28dBm.
Table 7.3 -2: Adjacent channel selectivity of 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB Receiver
* * *
Parameter Level Unit Reference measurement channel data rate 12.2 kbps Wanted
signal mean power -77 dBm Interfering AWGN signal -28 dBm
* * *
This mitigation approach is based on dynamic control of the receiver gain or
UL attenuation, also known as AGC(Automatic Gain Control). Because receiver
performance is increased, Home NodeB Uplink is no longer blocking by
interfering UE.
Home NodeB can adjust the receiver gain or UL attenuation, driven by UL
measurements. Blocking levels of UL noise rise due to interference can be
detected and the receiver gain reduced accordingly. This adjustment would only
need to be made temporarily while the UL interference was strong and as soon
as the noise rise was seen to fall the receiver gain could be returned to its
normal operating value.
Home NodeB would response this adjustment quickly when the UL interference is
strong or noise rise from a HUE is high and slowly decay with time, e.g., to
accommodate variations in interference due to bursty traffic. Therefore, it is
crucial to determine the correct amount of attenuation that will improve the
HUE's performance without degrading the MUEs.
It is suggested that AGC can be one of efficient interference mitigation
method to Home NodeB.
## 7.4 HNB Self Configuration
Self configuration can be applied in HNB to mitigate the interference between
HNB and neighbour Macro NodeB/neighbour HNB. The trigger of HNB self
configuration could be power up, event triggered or periodical measurement
report. The following self configuration can be performed by the HNB to
mitigate the interference between HNB and Macro NodeB.
### 7.4.1 Carrier selection or reselection:
In general, HNB should have abilities to select a carrier frequency using the
information of DL and UL interference measurement. For example, HNB or HNB
controlled HUE can measure the P-CCPCH RSCP or DL/UL Timeslot ISCP of
neighbour Macro NodeB or HNB. When HNB is power on or self configuration is
triggered by interference measurement, HNB should select a carrier frequency
with smallest interference as its operating frequency.
As the 1.28Mcps TDD system usually operate in multiple carriers, HNB need to
detect the carrier occupation status of neighbour cell's primary frequency and
secondary frequency.
\- If DwPTS or P-CCPCH is detected on one candidate carrier, this carrier can
be affirmed to be occupied by one neighbour cell's primary frequency.
Furthermore, HNB can decode the BCH channel to differentiate the neighbour
Macro NodeB and HNB.
\- If no DwPTS or P-CCPCH is detected on one carrier, HNB or HNB controlled
HUE can measure the RTWP or UL/DL ISCP of the candidate carrier. If the RTWP
or ISCP is higher, this carrier may be occupied by neighbour Macro NodeB or
HNB's secondary frequency. HNB should select another carrier with smaller RTPW
or ISCP as its working frequency.
\- The HNB carrier selection priority should be: HNB secondary frequency > HNB
primary frequency > Macro NodeB's secondary frequency > Macro NodeB's primary
frequency.
If the frequency of Macro NodeB and HNB is pre-configured with different
carrier, HNB needn't to mitigate the HNB-macro interference. HNB only need to
detect the carrier occupation status of neighbour HNB's primary and secondary
frequency, and select carriers with smaller interference.
If the frequency of Macro NodeB and HNB is mixed, HNB could detect and
distinguish the primary frequency of neighbour Macro NodeB and HNB by BCH
information, If HNB carrier selection procedure is limited to the HNB self-
obtained information, HNB can't distinguish the secondary frequency of
neighbour Macro NodeB and HNB. While the HNB can report neighbour cell's ID to
the network controller (i.e. Core Network, HNB-GW), the network controller can
feedback the secondary frequency of the corresponding neighbour cell.
Based on the neighbour cell primary and secondary frequency measurement, HNB
can mitigate the HNB-macro and HNB-HNB interference.
### 7.4.2 Automatic neighbouring cells configuration:
During the HNB self-configuration mode, HNB should be able to decode the
neighbour cells broadcast information and build the following cell lists for
inter-cell interference mitigation:
\- Neighbour cell list including Macro NodeBs: The purpose of the neighbour
list is to mitigate the UL interference of serving HNB to neighbour Macro
NodeBs.
\- Neighbour cell list including HNBs. The purpose of the neighbour list is to
mitigate the UL interference of serving HNB to neighbour HNBs.
HNB and HUE can use the following neighbour cell organisation and SNPL
reporting mechanism to control the UL interference of serving HNB to neighbour
Macro NodeB and HNB.
\- By searching the DwPTS of neighbour Macro NodeB and HNB, and decoding the
BCH channel, HNB can get the information of neighbour Macro NodeB and HNB. If
each HNB is configured with a LAC that is different from the surrounding macro
cells and nearby HNBs, HNB can differentiate the neighbour Macro NodeB and
HNB.
\- If the neighbour cell list contains all Macro NodeB, HUE can calculation
its pathloss to all intra-frequency neighbour Macro cell. In turn, HUE can
estimate the mean pathloss to the serving cell (Lserv) and to each of the N
neighbour cells, and report the SNPL (Serving and Neighbour cell Pathloss) to
serving HNB. Based on the SNPL reporting, serving HNB can control the HUE's
interference to neighbour Macro NodeBs under the predefined interference
target.
\- If the neighbour cell list contains neighbour HNB, HUE can calculation and
report the SNPL of neighbour HNB to serving HNB. In turn, serving HNB can
control the HUE's interference to neighbour HNBs under the predefined
interference target.
Based on the neighbour cell self configuration in HNB, Some ISCP control
method could be introduced in Home NodeB environment. E.g. the same ISCP
control method as Macro NodeB or the maximum UL output power of Home UE should
be limited by the self optimization process of Control HNB according to the
neighbour Home Node B number and distance.
## 7.5 Synchronization
### 7.5.1 Initial synchronization
Home Node B should detect Macro Node B's DwPCH, and define its timing
benchmark according to Macro Node B's DwPCH. Considering the complex
deployment scenario of Home Node B networks, we advise Macro Node BS and Home
Node B be deployed on different frequency band.
If Home Node B can detect multi Macro Node Bs' signal, it should select the
best suitable macro cell from all candidate Macro Node Bs.
Figure 7.5.1-1: 1.28Mcps TDD Home NodeB Timing according to Macro Node B's
DwPCH
Figure 7.5.1-1 gives three candidate 1.28Mcps TDD Home Node B air interface
timing adjust methods:
\- Reference 1: The frame boundary of Home Node B precedes anchored macro one
with oneτadv , which is given by macro Node B via a uplink synchronisation
procedure;
\- Reference 2: The frame boundary of Home Node B is exactly aligned with
anchored macro one via uplink synchronisation procedure;
\- Reference 3: Home Node B sets its frame boundary at the time point when it
detects a downlink synchronisation peak, which in principle lagτadv behind
anchored macro one.
If reference 1 or 2 is selected, Home Node B shall behave as a regular
1.28Mcps TDD UE and perform a 'fake' random access in its synchronization.
If Home Node B can not detect Macro Node Bs' DwPCH, according to its SON
characters, Home Node B should select one empty frequency that not occupied by
its neighbour Home Node Bs.
\- When Home Node B is power on, it should search the best suitable Home Node
B from Home Node B available frequency list, and get its timing advance.
\- Apply any type of Home Node B timing reference as shown in figure 1.
### 7.5.2 Periodic synchronization
Due to cost concern, Home NodeBs' oscillators with loose timing accuracy and
stability requirement were preferred. Therefore 1.28Mcps TDD Home Node B needs
to periodically perform a synchronisation corroboration to amend low stability
problem to enable working frequency and timing accuracy.
On top of those detection rules elaborated above, Home NodeB will establish
synchronization with the macro station at regular intervals. In the technical
specification of 25.866, the description of frequency accuracy for Home NodeB
is as follows:
Taking the conformance of frequency accuracy in the radio interface with the
maximum mobility into account, the Home NodeB modulated carrier frequency can
be relaxed to 0.25 PPM.
So the interval of periodical synchronization will become shorter. If the Home
NodeB synchronizes with macro station so frequently, the Home NodeB needs to
read the downlink signal often from macro station, it will affect the
communication between the Home NodeB and UE in the coverage. So we propose the
UE which works in the Home NodeB cell to measure the SFN-SFN observed time
difference, and UE will report the measure result to Home NodeB, if the value
of SFN-SFN observed time difference is bigger than predefined threshold, the
Home NodeB will change the timing using this value.
SFN-SFN observed time difference is one of UE measurement abilities. It is the
time difference of the reception times of frames from two cells (serving and
target) measured in the UE and expressed in chips. It is distinguished by two
types. Type 2 applies if the serving and the target cell have the same frame
timing.
If there is any UE in the coverage of Home NodeB, a measure of SFN-SFN
observed time difference will be configured by Home NodeB for this UE. UE
performs the measurement periodically, and report it by event triggered or
periodically. If the reporting is event triggered, the condition of reporting
is the measurement value expires the predefined threshold. If the Home NodeB
receives this measure report, the Home NodeB will change the timing of itself
by this value. If the UE reports the measurement periodically, the Home NodeB
will compare the measurement value to one predefined threshold, if the value
is bigger than threshold, the Home NodeB will align it's timing using this
reference.
If there is no UE in the Home NodeB cell, the Home NodeB will use the method
depicted in section 2.1 to synchronize with macro station periodically.
# 8 Interference tests
## 8.1 Adjacent channel deployment
In TR 25.866[3], the adjacent channel deployment is found to work much better.
At the early stage of Home NodeB deployment, the adjacent channel deployment
is suggested for use. The purpose of the test is to ensure that a Home NodeB
does not cause unacceptable interference to the adjacent channel operator. The
Home NodeB can use measurements such as P-CCPCH RSCP and ISCP to adjust its
transmit power such that it does not cause interference for the adjacent
channel operator. The core requirements are specified in 25.105[4],
corresponding test requirements is also specified in 25.142 R10.
## 8.2 Co-channel deployment
In order to ensure reasonable behaviour of Home NodeB and Macro NodeB, two
scenarios are considered for Home NodeB deployments: a) cell edge and b) cell
centre.
When Home NodeB is deployed at the cell edge, Macro UE transmits with maximum
output power and it's reception power is lowest because of far distance. In
this deployment, scenario 2(downlink) and scenario 3(uplink) are concerned
interference scenarios.
When Home NodeB is deployed in the centre of cell, scenario 1(uplink) and
scenario 4(downlink) are concerned interference scenarios.
To interference among Home NodeBs, it is suggested to consider 2 Home NodeBs
and each Home NodeB only has one UE.
Detailed test cases are FFS.
#