# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
Where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This document studies the feasibility of utilising Single Antenna Interference
Cancellation (SAIC) as a means of increasing the downlink spectral efficiency
of GSM networks.
SAIC is a generic name for techniques, which attempt to cancel or suppress
interference by means of signal processing without the use of multiple
antennas. The primary application is the downlink, where terminal space and
aesthetics typically preclude the use of multiple antennas.
Clause 1 of this document defines the scope and objectives of this feasibility
study. Clause 4 defines the network scenarios that have been defined to
evaluate SAIC performance in GSM networks. These scenarios are representative
of typical GSM deployments worldwide today. Clause 5 presents the interference
statistics associated with the network scenarios defined in Clause 4. These
interference statistics are developed via system simulations, and are defined
in terms of the distributions of the parameters which are critical to
understanding SAIC performance. These critical parameters include;
  * The Carrier to Interference plus noise Ratio (CIR)
  * The Dominant to rest of Interferer Ratio (DIR)
  * The other interferer ratios, which define the relative power of the dominant co-channel interferer to each of the other considered interferers
  * The delay between the desired signal and each of the interferers.
It is important to understand the network statistics of these key parameters
since most SAIC algorithms can only cancel one interferer, and their
effectiveness in doing this is affected by the \'remaining\' interference, and
delays between the desired signal and the interferers.
In Clause 6, candidate SAIC algorithms are evaluated at the link level based
on the interference statistics defined in Clause 5. Both \'long-term average\'
and per burst results are generated. The long-term average results represent
the classical way of looking at link performance via link simulations,
defining the Bit Error Rate (BER) and Frame Error Rate (FER) averaged over the
entire simulation run as a function of the CIR. This is the type of
performance that is typically specified in the GSM standards. However, to
develop a system capacity estimate, it is necessary to define the link
performance on a per burst basis. To this end, Clause 6 also defines the
average BER over the burst as a function of the burst CIR and burst DIR. This
burst performance is used to develop a link-to-system level mapping. This
mapping is used in Clause 7 to develop voice capacity and data throughput
estimates for both conventional and SAIC receivers. The voice capacity gain
and data throughput gain for SAIC is then deduced from these estimates.
Clause 8 describes the field trials that have been conducted using an SAIC
prototype Mobile Station (MS). Clause 9 addresses testing considerations for
SAIC capable MSs, while Clause 10 defines a couple of signalling options for
identifying an MS as being SAIC capable. Finally, Clause 11 provides the
relevant conclusions that can be drawn from this feasibility study, the most
important of which is the conclusion that SAIC is a viable and feasible
technology, which will support significant voice capacity gains for both
synchronous and asynchronous networks when applied to GMSK modulation. In
addition, modest increases in GPRS data throughput are also supported for the
types of data traffic considered. Clause 11 also identifies those clauses of
the core and testing specifications that will be impacted by the inclusion of
an SAIC capability.
# 1 Scope / objectives
The objective of this document, as defined in the work item [2], is to
determine the potential of SAIC in typical network layouts. This includes
study of the following aspects:
a) Determine the feasibility of SAIC for GMSK and 8PSK scenarios under >
realistic synchronized and non-synchronized network conditions. > Using a
single Feasibility Study, both GMSK and 8PSK scenarios > will be evaluated
individually.
b) Realistic interference statistics including CIR (Carrier to > Interference
plus noise Ratio) and DIR (Dominant-to-rest of > Interference Ratio) levels
and distributions based on network > simulations and measurements, where
possible.
c) Robustness against different training sequences.
d) Determine method to detect/indicate SAIC capability.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ETSI TR 101 112 v3.2.0 (1998-04), \"Universal Mobile Telecommunications
System (UMTS); Selection procedures for the choice of radio transmission
technologies of the UMTS\".
[2] 3GPP TSG-GERAN TDOC GP-022891: \"Work Item Description, Single Antenna
Interference Cancellation\", Sophia Antipolis, France, 18-22 November 2002.
[3] 3GPP TSG-GERAN SAIC Workshop TDOC GAHS-030009: \"Network level simulation
scenarios and assumptions for SAIC\", Atlanta, USA, 8-9 January 2003.
[4] 3GPP TSG-GERAN SAIC Workshop TDOC GAHS-030005: \"Scenarios and Modelling
Assumptions for SAIC in GERAN\", Atlanta, USA, 8-9 January 2003.
[5] 3GPP TSG-GERAN SAIC Workshop TDOC GAHS-030002: \"Single antenna
interference cancellation - evaluation principles and scenarios\", Atlanta,
USA, 8-9 January 2003.
[6] 3GPP TSG-GERAN SAIC Workshop TDOC GAHS-030020: \"Interference
Characterization for SAIC Link Level Evaluation\", Seattle, USA, 4-5 March
2003.
[7] 3GPP TSG-GERAN SAIC Workshop TDOC GAHS-030022: \"Link Level model for
SAIC\", Seattle, USA, 4-5 March 2003.
> _Additional references are noted in the individual clauses of this document_
# 3 Abbreviations
ACI Adjacent Channel Interference
AMR Adaptive Multi Rate
BEP Bit Error Probability
BER Bit Error Rate
BLER Block Error Rate
BTS Base Transceiver Station
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
C/I Carrier-to-Interference Power Ratio
cdfs cumulative distribution functions
CINR Carrier to Interference-plus-Noise Ratio
DIR Dominant-to-rest Interference Ratio
DPC Downlink Power Control
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EFL Effective Frequency Load
FEP Frame Error Probability
FER Frame Error Rate
FL Frequency Load
FR Full Rate
FTP File Transfer Protocol
GMSK Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
HR Half Rate
IE Information Element
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
MS Mobile Station
PDF Probability Distribution Function
PSK Phase-Shift Keying
QoS Quality of Service
SAIC Single Antenna Interference Cancellation
TSC Training Sequence
# 4 Network scenarios for SAIC evaluation
A multi-step approach was taken to evaluate SAIC performance in realistic
network scenarios. This approach consisted of first determining relevant
interference statistics based on the network scenarios described in this
clause. These interference statistics were then used to determine the link
level performance at the GSM burst level. From this link level
characterization, link-to-system mapping tables were developed, which were
then used in system level simulations to determine the voice and data capacity
gains provided by SAIC capable MSs. The network scenarios used in these
simulations were discussed and agreed to as part of SAIC Workshop #1.
It was agreed that the network scenarios, also referred to as configurations
in this document, should represent typical GERAN networks at the time frame
when operators would be deploying SAIC capable MSs. The goal was to try to
make the interference statistics as realistic as possible, while trying to
keep the overall complexity of the simulations reasonable. As a result of [3],
[4], and [5], the following parameters are considered to be the major issues
which affect the interference statistics:
  * Frequency Hopping scheme
  * Reuse (also adjacent channel reuse) and cell radius
  * Regularity of the network (different cell sizes, different number of TRXs per cell, hotspots)
  * Propagation conditions, including network topology (street corner effects, shadowing from buildings/hills etc.)
  * Downlink Power Control (DPC) scheme
  * Channel coding, mainly if quality-based DPC is used; schemes with less coding requires higher transmission powers
  * Penetration of different MSs/bearers in the network
  * SAIC MS penetration: power levels, higher tolerated load/interference for SAIC MSs, but the non-SAIC MS must not be negatively impacted
  * Packet-switched connections to support GPRS and EGPRS, which are characterized by short connection times, asymmetry, bursty traffic, multiplexing of several users on the same time slot, and often lack of DPC
  * Legacy non-AMR (mainly EFR) mobiles: higher transmit powers, less robustness
  * Level of synchronization in the network
  * Mobility: speed distribution of the mobiles affects the interference pattern
Going into the study, it was believed that SAIC would support larger gains in
tighter reuse networks, as the interference becomes more and more limiting to
system performance. Similarly, the higher the load, the more interference to
cancel. However, interference scenarios are more complex with a higher load,
so the interference cancellation algorithms may be less efficient. Finally,
SAIC techniques generally give the largest gains in synchronized networks.
These initial observations were found to be true, for the most part as is
shown in clause 7, which provides a characterization of the system level
performance of SAIC.
Two tables define the network scenario assumptions. Table 4-1 defines operator
or configuration specific assumptions, while table 4-2 defines parameters
common to all of the configurations. Both tables were derived from [3], [4],
[5], and discussed as part of the SAIC Workshop #1. The four configurations
defined in Table 4-1, and the common parameters defined in Table 4.2 are
described in detail in clause 7.
Table 4-1\ Configuration specific network scenario assumptions
+------------------------+------------------------+------+---------+ | Parameter | Value | Unit | Comment | +------------------------+------------------------+------+---------+ | Configuration 1 - | 900 | MHz | | | Asynchronous | | | | | | 7.8 | MHz | | | > Frequency | | | | | > | 4/12 (BCCH)\ | \% | | | > Bandwidth | 3/9 (TCH) | | | | > | | m | | | > Reuse | Baseband | | | | > | | | | | > Hopping | AMR 12.2 FR | | | | > | | | | | > Voice Codec | 2 | | | | > | | | | | > Blocking | [Source/I | | | | > | nterferer]{.underline} | | | | > Modulation | | | | | > | GMSK/GMSK | | | | > Cell Radius | | | | | | GMSK/8PSK | | | | | | | | | | 500 | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------+---------+ | Configuration 2 -- | 1900 | MHz | | | Sync & Async | | | | | | 1.2 | MHz | | | > Frequency | | | | | > | 1/1 (TCH) | \% | | | > Bandwidth | | | | | > | Random RF | \% | | | > Reuse | | | | | > | AMR 5.9 FR/HR | m | | | > Hopping | | | | | > | 20, 40 (FR) | | | | > Voice Codec | | | | | > | 10, 20 (HR) | | | | > Frequency Load | | | | | > | [Source/I | | | | > Modulations | nterferer]{.underline} | | | | > | | | | | > Cell Radius | GMSK/GMSK | | | | | | | | | | GMSK/8PSK | | | | | | | | | | 8PSK/GMSK | | | | | | | | | | 8PSK/8PSK | | | | | | | | | | 1000 | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------+---------+ | Configuration 3 -- | 900 | MHz | | | Sync & Async | | | | | (Optional) | 2.4 | MHz | | | | | | | | > Frequency | 1/1 (TCH) | \% | | | > | | | | | > Bandwidth | Random RF | \% | | | > | | | | | > Reuse | AMR 5.9 FR/HR | m | | | > | | | | | > Hopping | 40, 70 (FR) | | | | > | | | | | > Voice Codec\ | 25, 40 (HR) | | | | > Frequency Load | | | | | > | [Source/I | | | | > Modulation | nterferer]{.underline} | | | | > | | | | | > Cell Radius | GMSK/GMSK | | | | | | | | | | 750 | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------+---------+ | Configuration 4 - | 900 | MHz | | | Asynchronous | | | | | | 7.2 | MHz | | | > Frequency | | | | | > | 1/3 (TCH) | \% | | | > Bandwidth | | | | | > | Random RF | \% | | | > Reuse | | | | | > | AMR 12.2 FR | m | | | > Hopping | | | | | > | 2 | | | | > Voice Codec | | | | | > | 30 | | | | > Blocking | | | | | > | [Source/I | | | | > Frequency Load | nterferer]{.underline} | | | | > | | | | | > Modulation | GMSK/GMSK | | | | > | | | | | > Cell Radius | GMSK/8PSK | | | | | | | | | | 300 | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------+---------+
Table 4-2\ Common network scenario assumptions
+-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Parameter | Value | Unit | Comment | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Sectors (cells) | 3 | | | | | per site | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Sector antenna | UMTS 30.03 | | | | | pattern | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Propagation | UMTS 30.03 | | Pathloss | | | model | | | exponent, MCL | | | | | | | | | | | | Per 30.03 | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Log-normal | standard | 6 (900) | dB | | | fading | deviation | | | | | | | 8 (1900) | dB | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | | Correlation | 110 | m | | | | distance | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Adjacent | 18 | dB | Carrier +/- 200 | | | channel | | | KHz | | | interference | | | | | | attenuation | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Handover margin | 3 | dB | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Mobile speed | TU3 and TU50 | km/h | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Mean Call | 90 | sec. | | | | length | | | | | | | 5 | sec. | | | | Minimum Call | | | | | | Length | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Voice activity | 60% | | Includes SID | | | | | | signalling. | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | DTX | Enabled | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Link adaptation | Disabled | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | BTS output | 20 | W | | | | power | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Power control | RxQual/RxLev | dB | | | | | | | | | | Dynamic Range | 14 | dB | | | | | | | | | | Step Size | 2 | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Noise figure | 10 | dB | Reference | | | | | | temperature 25c | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Inter-site | 0 | | | | | Lognormal | | | | | | Correlation | | | | | | Coefficient | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Channel | Random | | | | | Allocation | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Traffic data | See clause 7.5 | | Web-browsing & | | | models for GPRS | | | FTP/MMS | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+
# 5 Interference modelling
## 5.1 Introduction
When assessing the link and system level performance it is important to base
the performance investigations on realistic link level models. Especially for
SAIC receivers previous studies have demonstrated that the SAIC link level
performance for the same interference level will vary significantly for
different link level models [GP-030276]. Therefore a lot of work has been done
in the SAIC feasibility study to define realistic models and the outcome of
this work is recaptured in this clause.
Defining realistic link level models is clearly impossible without
investigating the interference statistics seen by mobiles when operating in
different network scenarios. Thus an important part of the modelling work has
been analysis of network traces generated by network simulators for the four
different network configurations defined in clause 4.
To types of link level models have been derived one for synchronous network
configurations and one covering asynchronous networks. The latter is an
extension of the model derived for synchronous networks taking into account
such effects as delay, power control, DTX, etc..
## 5.2 Interference statistics
In GSM/EDGE the performance of the mobiles in interference limited scenarios
have traditionally been evaluated for a single interfering signal at a high
input level where the sensitivity performance of the mobile will have no or
very little influence. This can be described by the conventional CIR (Carrier
to Interference Ratio):
{width="0.125in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}{width="0.9722222222222222in"
height="0.4722222222222222in"}
where _C_ is the power of the carrier, _I_ the power of an interfering signal
(co- or adjacent channel interference) and _N~0~_ the thermal noise[^1].
Although widely used, for evaluation, this ideal one interferer scenario
happens very rarely in practice especially when the network is highly loaded.
When using e.g. AMR a high frequency load can be expected and consequently the
mobiles will receive interference from a number of base stations at the same
time. This can easily be introduced in the above definition of the CIR:
{width="1.2083333333333333in" height="0.5833333333333334in"}
_I~k~_ can be both co- and adjacent channel interference (for the adjacent
channel interference a realistic ACP (Adjacent Channel Protection) shall be
used e.g. ACP=18dB).
For a small number of interfering base stations the performance of a
conventional receiver will be identical for the two definitions, but for a
SAIC mobile the performance (interference cancellation capability) will depend
upon the distribution of the interferer powers. An initial, simple measure to
capture this is the Dominant to rest of Interference Ratio (DIR), which is the
power of the dominant interferer to the sum of the powers of the rest of the
interferers plus N~o~. This ratio is defined as:
{width="1.6388888888888888in" height="0.5833333333333334in"}
where _I_ ~max~ is the average power of the dominant interfering signal (co-
or adjacent channel interference). When only a single interferer is active, as
in the standard interference test case in 45.005, then the DIR will be
identical to the I/N~0~ of the received interfering signal. Although the
standard interference test case is widely used it has been demonstrated in a
number of contributions that this test case does not reflect a realistic
scenario for a SAIC mobile [GAHS-030017][ GAHS-030018][ GAHS-030022].
In [GAHS-030008] a new measure called DIR~2~ was introduced in the link level
modelling discussion. The DIR~2~ measure is defined as:
{width="2.1666666666666665in" height="0.5833333333333334in"}
and basically it can be used to investigate the validity of using a simple two
cochannel interferer model when evaluating the SAIC link level performance. In
TSG GERAN #13 the DIR~2~ measure was included in a number of studies and the
initial conclusion was that more than two cochannel interferers are needed in
the SAIC link level model [GP-030159, GP-030276].
Figures 5-1 through 5-3 are examples of interferer statistics for network
configuration 2[^2]. The figures clearly demonstrate how the interferer
statistics in a network are much more complicated than the single interferer
scenario currently tested in 45.005. The DIR and DIR~2~ statistics clearly
demonstrate the need to define link level models having multiple interferers.
* * *
{width="6.2875in" height="2.5618055555555554in"} Figure 5.1 The CIR cdfs
observed by a MS operating in network configuration 3 [GAHS‑030017].
* * *
* * *
{width="6.2875in" height="2.5618055555555554in"} Figure 5-2 The DIR cdfs
observed by a MS operating in network configuration 3 [GAHS-030017].
* * *
* * *
{width="6.2875in" height="2.5618055555555554in"} Figure 5-3 The DIR~2~ cdfs
observed by a MS operating in network configuration 3 [GAHS-030017].
* * *
## 5.3 Synchronous link level models
Early link level investigations for SAIC demonstrated a higher link level gain
when using a synchronous link level configuration compared to an asynchronous
one. Consequently it was decided to develop link level models for both types
of networks focusing initially on the synchronous mode[^3], which will be
described in this clause.
### 5.3.1 Interferer levels
Having identified the need to have multiple interferers in the link level
model the necessary number of interferers and their levels have to be
estimated. During the SAIC Adhoc #2 a procedure for the estimation was agreed
based on investigations made in document [GAHS-030018] and [GAHS-030022]. From
network traces the cdfs of a number of co- and adjacent channel interferers
plus the residual interference were derived. Examples of the cdfs can be seen
in Figure 5-4 and Figure 5-5. In the estimation process only bursts having a
CIR \ Desired | TSC0 | TSC0 | TSC0 | TSC0 | | > signal, C | | | | | | > | | | | | | > TSC | | | | | | > | | | | | | > Fading | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > Dominant | Random TSC | Random TSC | Random TSC | Random TSC | | > Coch. | excluding | excluding | excluding | excluding | | > Interf. | TSC0 | TSC0 | TSC0 | TSC0 | | > | | | | | | > TSC | | | | | | > | | | | | | > Fading | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > 2^nd^ | 10 dB | 6 dB | 4 dB | 9 dB | | > Strongest | | | | | | > Coch. | Random TSC | Random TSC | Random TSC | Random TSC | | > Interf. | | | | | | > | | | | | | > Ic1/Ic2 | | | | | | > | | | | | | > TSC | | | | | | > | | | | | | > Fading | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > 3^rd^ | 20 dB | 10 dB | 8 dB | 17 dB | | > Strongest | | | | | | > Coch | Random TSC | Random TSC | Random TSC | Random TSC | | > Interf. | | | | | | > | | | | | | > Ic1/Ic3 | | | | | | > | | | | | | > TSC | | | | | | > | | | | | | > Fading | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > Residual | - | 9 dB | 5 dB | 20 dB | | > Coch. | | | | | | > Interf. | NA | NA | NA | NA | | > | | | | | | > (filtered | | | | | | > AWGN) | | | | | | > | | | | | | > Ic1/Icr | | | | | | > | | | | | | > TSC | | | | | | > | | | | | | > No Fading | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > Dominant | 15 dB | 14 dB | 14 dB | 16 dB | | > Adj. | | | | | | > Interf. | Random TSC | Random TSC | Random TSC | Random TSC | | > | | | | | | > | | | | | | Ic1/Ia[^7] | | | | | | > | | | | | | > TSC | | | | | | > | | | | | | > Fading | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > Residual | 20 dB | 15 dB | 14 dB | 21 dB | | > Adj. | | | | | | > Interf. | NA | NA | NA | NA | | > | | | | | | > (filtered | | | | | | > AWGN) | | | | | | > | | | | | | > | | | | | | Ic1/Iar^1^ | | | | | | > | | | | | | > TSC | | | | | | > | | | | | | > No Fading | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.3.2 Delay distributions
Even in a synchronized network the mobile station will receive interference
from the different BTSs at various delays due to the distance to the
interfering sites. Although most SAIC receivers are expected to be robust to
delays less than 10 symbols even small delays can affect the correlation
properties between different TSCs and therefore the performance of both
conventional and SAIC receivers.
Based on network traces, modelling of delay in the synchronous link level
models has been investigated by Motorola for the four network configurations.
The outcome of these studies is the delay model summarized in this clause.
Using a delay resolution of 0.2 symbols, and the observation that delays in
the four configurations are limited to the range [-2,+5] symbols, the discrete
delay distribution can be approximated as:
  1. for delay less than 0, for k=1 to 10, the probability {width="0.3194444444444444in" height="0.20833333333333334in"} of delay equal to -0.2k is:
{width="1.1527777777777777in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}
  1. for delay greater than 0, for k=1 to 25, the probability {width="0.3194444444444444in" height="0.20833333333333334in"} of delay equal to 0.2k is:
{width="1.19375in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}
  1. for zero delay:
{width="0.5833333333333334in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
The parameters to be used for the different configurations can be seen in
Table 5-2.
Table 5-2 Summary of delay model parameters.
* * *
Configuration {width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
{width="0.18055555555555555in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
{width="0.18055555555555555in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}
{width="0.18055555555555555in" height="0.20833333333333334in"} Configuration 1
\@2% blocking 0.9 0.7 0.5602 0.5 2 Configuration 2\@40% 0.37 0.09 0.2157
0.1274 0.8555 Configuration 3\@70% 0.7 0.26 0.4005 0.1658 0.7433 Configuration
4\@30% 0.95 0.25 0.1106 0.1874 1.1742
* * *
The model demonstrates that the carrier and the interferers often are
synchronized when received by the mobile station.
### 5.3.3 Frequency offset distributions
Frequency offset is inevitable in practical implementations and consequently
also needed in the SAIC link level model [GP-032246]. When a mobile station is
connected to a BTS it is synchronized in frequency to this serving BTS.
Therefore the mobile station will not detect if the carrier of this BTS is
offset compared to a correct carrier frequency. Although synchronized some
frequency jitter due to inaccuracy of the frequency estimation procedure will
exist in practice. It has been agreed not to include this vendor specific
frequency jitter in the model but clearly each vendor has to include their own
model when performing simulations.
However, the frequency offset has to be included for each of the three
discrete co-channel, and the one discrete adjacent channel interferers having
a value that includes the fixed offset of the serving BTS[^8]. For each of
these interferers the frequency offset will be varying on burst-by-burst basis
due to frequency hopping and the fact that the interference in the model comes
from a number of BTSs all having different offset. The mean value of these
offsets is assumed to be 0Hz (plus the fixed frequency offset of the serving
BTS[^9]) with a standard deviation of either 17 Hz for 850/900 MHz operation,
or 33Hz for 1800. Thus, the frequency offset is modelled as a normal
distribution, N(50,17) for 850/900 MHz, and N(100,33) for 1800/1900 MHz.
## 5.4 Asynchronous link level models
Most of the initial SAIC link level modelling work concentrated on development
of link level models for synchronous network configurations. Although the
highest SAIC gain is expected in synchronous networks, the majority of
networks will, at least in the near future, still be running in asynchronous
mode. Consequently, estimation of the expected SAIC capacity in asynchronous
networks is seen as an important part of the SAIC feasibility study.
An exact estimation of the network capacity requires a hybrid link and system
level simulator taking all system and link level factors into account. In
practice such an approach is not possible and instead a more simple solution
splitting the system and link level simulations is used. The principle is to
make a table of the link level performance as a function of factors like CIR
and DIR. The system simulator will then use these values as the link level
performance of the mobiles in the network.
Even though the link level models developed for the feasibility study of SAIC
in GERAN are very complicated the agreement was reached that the performance
can be parameterized by the burst wise CIR and DIR for synchronous networks.
For asynchronous networks it would be natural to extend the number of
parameters to include information about delay and scaling of the different
interferers in order to have an accurate estimate of the capacity. But most
system simulators available have been designed for synchronous network
operation and updating these for asynchronous operation would be a major task.
Therefore the agreement during TSG GERAN #15 was to use the standard system
simulators and then restrict the handling of the asynchronous effects to the
link level[^10].
By using this simplified approach an estimation of the capacity in
asynchronous networks requires the following, where obviously the modelling is
a crucial part when estimating the capacity of asynchronous networks:
  * Develop statistical link level model including delay offsets, burst power and structure etc.
  * Make link to system level mapping tables using simulations of the statistical link level model.
  * Simulate network capacity using developed mapping tables and standard system simulators.
### 5.4.1 Burst structure
When operating in an asynchronous network the mobile will experience a more
complex interferer environment than in a synchronous network due to the time
offset and propagation delay between the different BTSs. The agreed way to
model this is to use the interferer burst structure shown in Figure 5-6. The
middle burst of the interferer is referred to as the main burst. On each side
of the main burst, there is an adjacent burst, which is sent in an adjacent
timeslot from the same BTS. The interferer is shifted relative to the desired
signal and therefore one of the adjacent bursts is shifted into the receive
window. Modelling is only necessary for the adjacent burst that is shifted
into the receive window.
{width="5.302083333333333in" height="1.96875in"}
Figure 5-6 Interferer burst structure.
### 5.4.2 Time-offset modelling
Time-offset modelling is only needed for inter-site interference whereas
intra-site interference can be assumed to be time-aligned with the carrier
signal. This difference between inter- and intra-site interference can easily
be taken into account by using the following equation to describe the time
offset[^11] [GP-031524]:
{width="4.375in" height="0.5277777777777778in"}
where _t_ ~max~ represents full slot length (156.25 symbols), and the uniform
distribution is using ¼ symbol resolution of the timing offset. In this
equation {width="0.4861111111111111in" height="0.25in"}represents the
percentage of time the interference is from the same site. One value of
{width="0.4861111111111111in" height="0.25in"}will be used for each
configuration. For configurations 1 and 4, {width="0.7638888888888888in"
height="0.25in"} and for configurations 2 and 3, {width="0.9861111111111112in"
height="0.25in"} has been identified as realistic values.
### 5.4.3 Power control
When designing an asynchronous link level model an important issue is the
modelling of the power variation between the different interfering bursts
(main and adjacent interferer). Assuming the bursts are located within a
frame, i.e. not at a frame boundary, then the bursts will be sent from the
same BTS and therefore affected by nearly the same channel (pathloss, shadow
and multipath fading). Despite this similarity in fading the received power
level of the interfering bursts will in general be different due to power
control and DTX operation.
Power control is not modelled on the main burst[^12] but only for the adjacent
burst (see Figure 5-6) by multiplying it with a coefficient A. The
distribution of A is given in Table 5-3 (A is given in a dB scale). It has an
expected value of 1 (in the linear domain) to keep the average power level
constant.
Table 5-3 -- Power control gain probability density function.
+----------------+------------------------------+ | Gain | Probability Density Function | | | | | 10*log~10~(A) | p(A) | +----------------+------------------------------+ | -18 | 0.0058 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | -16 | 0.0222 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | -14 | 0.0338 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | -12 | 0.0503 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | -10 | 0.0695 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | -8 | 0.0937 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | -6 | 0.1335 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | -4 | 0.1487 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | -2 | 0.1362 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | 0 | 0.1024 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | 2 | 0.0763 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | 4 | 0.0541 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | 6 | 0.0367 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | 8 | 0.0242 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | 10 | 0.0106 | +----------------+------------------------------+ | 12 | 0.0019 | +----------------+------------------------------+
### 5.4.4 Phase transition
When different bursts are transmitted from a BTS on a physical channel the
relative phase between these bursts are not specified and it cannot be
guaranteed that the phase is continuous. Besides the duration of timeslots
will not always be 156.25 symbols but can also be either 156 or 157 symbols,
which will be seen as a phase discontinuity by the mobile (see 45.010 clause
5.7). To model these effects it has been decided to have a random generated
phase change modelled as a random process uniformly distributed in the range
{width="0.4027777777777778in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}. The complex
scaling formed jointly by the phase transition and the power control
(described in clause 5.4.3) can be considered as a change of channel
conditions and can therefore be a challenge for some SAIC receivers.
### 5.4.5 Guard period and power ramping
The symbols to be sent during the guard time between the different bursts are
not covered by the specifications. Due to the power ramping applied between
the bursts it is not expected that the guard symbols will have a major impact
on the link layer performance. Therefore it has been agreed to use uniformly
distributed random symbols.
According to the specifications the BTSs are only required to use power
ramping when non-used timeslots are present i.e. the ramping will be used on
the non-BCCH frequencies. No specific ramping function has been defined but
the ramping should follow the time mask for normal bursts as defined in
45.005. To simplify the asynchronous link level modelling it is agreed to use
power ramping on all bursts besides any ramp function can be used as long as
it is compliant with the time mask from 45.005.
### 5.4.6 DTX
When deriving the original synchronous link level model DTX was taken into
account in the network simulations and consequently also in the link level
model. Because the asynchronous model have been derived from the synchronous
model DTX will not be applied to the main burst (see Figure 5-6). For the
adjacent burst there are two options:
  1. DTX applied\ The adjacent burst is present with 60% probability and absent with 40 % probability.
  2. DTX not applied\ The adjacent burst is always present.
In both cases the complex scaling previously described is applied on the
adjacent burst. Option 1 is expected to give slightly more positive
performance results because it does not take into account that when in DTX
mode in a real network another interferer will pop up and cause interference.
Option 2 on the other hand is expected to be very conservative because it does
not use DTX at all. In practice it is expected that the performance will be in
between the two extremes used in this feasibility study.
With option 1, the average power level of each discrete interferer shall be
increased to compensate for the reduced interferer energy by multiplying the
signal by a factor sqrt(5/4) for configurations 1 and 4 and sqrt(25/21) for
configurations 2 and 3. This is done for both the main and the adjacent burst
and regardless of the actual number of bursts that were absent at a particular
time instant. For configurations 1 and 4, where {width="0.7638888888888888in"
height="0.25in"}, on average half of the desired burst is covered by the main
burst (that is present with 100% probability) and half by the adjacent burst
(that is present with 60% probability), the energy will on average be
(0.5*1+0.5*0.6)=4/5 of the energy without DTX. Multiplying the amplitude of
the interferer with sqrt(5/4) will make the average energy of the interferer
the same with option 1 and option 2. For configurations 2 and 3, where
$t_{\text{intra} - \text{cell}} = \text{20}\text{\%}$, on average 60% of the
desired burst is covered by the main burst, and the energy will on average be
(0.6*1+0.4*0.6)=21/25 of the energy without DTX.
### 5.5 Summary
In this clause the link level modelling used for assessing the SAIC
performance gain has been described. The models developed during the SAIC
feasibility study include a high number of parameters, and are much more
complex than conventional interference test cases. Consequently there is some
risk that the modelling will be done differently by the companies involved,
and this discrepancy can make it difficult to compare results between
companies. To minimize this risk, an extensive link level simulation
verification and alignment effort was carried out [GP-041010] [GP-041011]. The
results of this latter effort were quite encouraging with excellent
correlation obtained for conventional receiver performance. This effort should
ensure that any SAIC performance values that are included in the specification
are realistic and consistent among the participating companies.
Link level models have been derived for synchronous and asynchronous mode
network configurations. The interference levels for the two setups are
identical but the asynchronous model is modified to take into account effects
like time offset, power control, DTX ,etc..
Although the goal has been to model the behaviour in real networks as accurate
as possible clearly the models are only approximations especially the models
for the asynchronous networks. Therefore the link and system level performance
estimated in this study can only be used as guidelines for the performance
that will be seen in a real network.
# 6 SAIC Link Level Characterisation
## 6.1 Introduction
In this clause, the link performance of SAIC receivers is characterized.
In clause 6.2, long-term link level performance is summarized and compared to
the performance of conventional receivers. Results are presented for the link
interference models described in clause 5.
In clause 6.3, the principles of link-to-system modelling are described.
## 6.2 Link level performance
In this clause, long-term link level performance is summarized and compared to
the performance of conventional receivers. Simulation results are presented
for the link interference models described in clause 5, corresponding to the
four network configurations described in clause 4. Results from different
sources are presented. Detailed simulation results can be found in annex A.
It should be noted that the term \"conventional receiver\" does not reflect a
common reference receiver as no such receiver has been defined. Instead, each
source has used a reference receiver of their choice. Consequently, different
sources may present different performance for the conventional receiver.
Two performance measures are considered:
  * The CIR required to achieve a decoded frame erasure rate of class 1A bits (denoted \"FER\") of (less than) 1**%**
  * The CIR required to achieve a raw bit error rate (denoted \"raw BER\") of (less than) 10%
### 6.2.1 Results for exemplary link models
The results for configurations 1 to 4 with unsynchronized interference are
summarized in table 6-1. Two options exist for the link interference model for
unsyncronized interference, one modelling DTX while the other does not.
Results for both options are presented in the table below.
Table 6-1. Summary of average performance for configurations 1 to 4 with
unsynchronized interference.
**Configuration** | **Perf. measure** | **Receiver** | **Source** |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | **Ericsson []** | **Motorola []** | **Nokia []** | **Philips [GAHS-030031]** **NOTE 1** | **Siemens []** | **…** | **Average**  
**1** **DTX on** | **CIR @ 1%FER AFS 12.2** | **SAIC** |  |  |  | 5.2 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  |  | 8.7 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  |  | 3.5 |  |  |   
| **CIR @ 10% raw BER** | **SAIC** |  |  | 2 | 2.3 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  | 4.9 | 5.5 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  | 2.9 | 3.2 |  |  |   
**1** **DTX off** | **CIR @ 1%FER AFS 12.2** | **SAIC** |  |  |  | 5.2 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  |  | 8.7 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  |  | 3.5 |  |  |   
| **CIR @ 10% raw BER** | **SAIC** |  |  | 2.3 | 2.3 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  | 5.1 | 5.5 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  | 2.8 | 3.2 |  |  |   
**2** **DTX on** | **CIR @ 1%FER** **AFS 5.9** | **SAIC** |  |  |  | 2.4 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  |  | 4.6 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  |  | 2.2 |  |  |   
| **CIR @ 10% raw BER** | **SAIC** |  |  | 4.1 | 3.8 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  | 5.7 | 6.0 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  | 1.6 | 2.2 |  |  |   
**2** **DTX off** | **CIR @ 1%FER** **AFS 5.9** | **SAIC** |  |  |  | 2.4 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  |  | 4.6 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  |  | 2.2 |  |  |   
| **CIR @ 10% raw BER** | **SAIC** |  |  | 4.2 | 3.8 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  | 5.7 | 6.0 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  | 1.5 | 2.2 |  |  |   
**3** **DTX on** | **CIR @ 1%FER AFS 5.9** | **SAIC** |  |  |  | 2.6 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  |  | 4.6 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  |  | 2.0 |  |  |   
| **CIR @ 10% raw BER** | **SAIC** |  |  | 4.7 | 4.1 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  | 5.8 | 6.1 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  | 1.1 | 2.0 |  |  |   
**3** **DTX off** | **CIR @ 1%FER AFS 5.9** | **SAIC** |  |  |  | 2.6 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  |  | 4.6 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  |  | 2.0 |  |  |   
| **CIR @ 10% raw BER** | **SAIC** |  |  | 4.8 | 4.1 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  | 5.8 | 6.1 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  | 1.0 | 2.0 |  |  |   
**4** **DTX on** | **CIR @ 1%FER** **AFS 12.2** | **SAIC** |  |  |  | 5.2 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  |  | 8.7 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  |  | 3.5 |  |  |   
| **CIR @ 10% raw BER** | **SAIC** |  |  | 2.3 | 2.3 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  | 5.1 | 5.5 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  | 2.8 | 3.2 |  |  |   
**4** **DTX off** | **CIR @ 1%FER** **AFS 12.2** | **SAIC** |  |  |  | 5.2 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  |  | 8.7 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  |  | 3.5 |  |  |   
| **CIR @ 10% raw BER** | **SAIC** |  |  | 2.6 | 2.3 |  |  |   
|  | **Conv.** |  |  | 5.2 | 5.5 |  |  |   
|  | **Gain** |  |  | 2.6 | 3.2 |  |  |   
NOTE 1:Results with DTX and without DTX are identical (within the precision of this comparison). |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 6-2. Summary of average performance for configurations 2 to 3 with
synchronized interference.
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | ** | ** | **Sou | | | | | | Confi | Perf. | Recei | rce** | | | | | | gurat | meas | ver**| | | | | | | ion** | ure**| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | |** Eri | **Mot | ** |** Ph | **Si | | | | | csson | orola | Nokia | ilips | emens | | | | | [GP- | \ | \ | [GP- | \ | | | | | 04041 | []** | []**| 03151 | []** | | | | | 8]**| | | 4]** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | | _NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1_ _| | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__2_ _|__CIR |__S | | 3.6 | | 3.1 | | | | @ | AIC_ _| | | | | | | | 1% | | | | | | | | | FER_ _| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |__AFS | | | | | | | | | 5.9_ _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | |__Co | | 4.7 | | 5.2 | | | | | nv.__| | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | |__G | | 1.1 | | 2.1 | | | | | ain_ _| | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |__CIR |__S | 5.1 | 5.0 | 4.7 | 4.3 | | | | @ 10% | AIC_ _| | | | | | | | raw | | | | | | | | | BER_ _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | |__Co | 6.7 | 6.0 | 6.5 | 6.7 | | | | | nv.__| | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | |__G | 1.6 | 1.0 | 1.8 | 2.4 | | | | | ain_ _| | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__3_ _|__CIR |__S | | 3.9 | | 5.2 | | | | @ | AIC_ _| | | | | | | | 1%FER | | | | | | | | | AFS | | | | | | | | | 5.9_ _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | |__Co | | 4.7 | | 3.2 | | | | | nv.__| | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | |__G | | 0.8 | | 2.0 | | | | | ain_ _| | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |__CIR |__S | | 5.2 | 5.2 | 4.6 | | | | @ 10% | AIC_ _| | | | | | | | raw | | | | | | | | | BER_ _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | |__Co | | 6.0 | 6.6 | 6.7 | | | | | nv.__| | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | |__G | | 0.8 | 1.4 | 2.1 | | | | | ain_ * | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Some | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | sumpt | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | were | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | greed | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | imula | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | were | | | | | | | | | run, | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | viate | | | | | | | | | sli | | | | | | | | | ghtly | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ssump | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | docu | | | | | | | | | ment. | | | | | | | | | No | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignif | | | | | | | | | icant | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mpact | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | eseen | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | (w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prec | | | | | | | | | ision | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | mpari | | | | | | | | | son). | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 6.2.2 Additional results
One objective of the feasibility study is to determine the performance of SAIC
receivers in presence of 8PSK-modulated interference, as well as performance
in sensitivity limited operation. While it was never the intention of this
feasibility study to investigate SAIC gains with 8-PSK interferers, it is
important to ensure that SAIC receivers do not perform worse than conventional
receivers in sensitivity limited operation or in the presence of 8-PSK
interference. Results have been provided (see e.g. GP-020822 or GP-031965)
demonstrating robustness in these cases.
## 6.3 Link-to-system interface
The purpose of the link-to-system interface is to allow the system simulator
to estimate the performance of each link based on the current interference
situation for the link. A common approach is described in [Olofsson]. With
this approach, the CIR is mapped to a frame erasure rate in two stages. In
stage one, the model takes burst level CIR samples as input and maps them onto
the (raw) bit error probability (BEP) for a burst. In stage two, the BEP
samples of one speech frame are grouped together (hence, for GSM fullrate
speech the group consists of eight BEP samples) and used to estimate the frame
error probability (FEP). This is done by calculating the mean and (optionally)
the standard deviation (or some other variability measure) of the burst BEP
samples of the frame, and mapping these parameters onto the FEP. Finally, the
FEP value is used to calculate whether the particular frame was in error.
With SAIC, the receiver performance typically depends on the interference
environment in a non-trivial manner. Therefore, the burst CIR alone is not
sufficient to determine the burst BEP. Earlier investigations have shown that
a good way to characterize the interference situation in a particular burst is
to use the DIR (for definition, see clause 5) in addition to the CIR. A link-
to-system interface for a SAIC receiver would then map burst CIR and burst DIR
to burst BEP in stage one, and proceed as described above for stage two. The
mappings used in the first and second stages are illustrated in figure 6-1 and
6-2, respectively (these figures are for illustration purposes only and do not
show actual performance).
* * *
{width="3.183333333333333in" height="2.3930555555555557in"}
{width="3.183333333333333in" height="2.3930555555555557in"} Figure 6-1.
Illustration of stage one mapping. The curves show burst-wise BEP versus
burst-wise total CIR for SAIC receivers with different DIR. The performance of
a conventional receiver has also been included and is assumed to be
independent of DIR. Figure 6-2. Illustration of stage two mapping. The curves
show FEP versus mean(BEP) for different std(BEP).
* * *
Simulated performance curves from different sources, corresponding to those
illustrated in figure 6-1 and figure 6-2, can be found in annex Y. These have
been achieved as follows:
  * The stage one mapping (burst-wise performance) is achieved by logging the burst-wise DIR, CIR and (raw) BER from each burst in a link level simulation. The bursts are then binned in a two-dimensional \"grid\", depending on their DIR and CIR. For each bin, the BEP is calculated by averaging the bit error rates of the individual bursts in that bin. The resulting BEP curves are presented as a function of burst CIR and parameterized with DIR.
  * The stage two mapping (frame-wise performance) is achieved from the same type of simulations as the stage one mapping, with the addition that frame errors after channel decoding are also logged. The BEP values described above are grouped in groups of eight (corresponding to the speech frames) and the mean and standard deviation for each frame is calculated. The frames are then binned in a two-dimensional \"grid\", depending on their mean(BEP) and std(BEP). For each bin, the FEP is calculated as the average FER of the frames in that bin. The resulting FEP curves are presented as a function of mean(BEP) and parameterized with std(BEP). Note that a simpler, one dimensional mapping may also be considered. In this case, the std(BEP) is not used.
# 7 SAIC system level characterization
## 7.1 Introduction
In this clause, the system level performance of GSM networks with SAIC capable
terminals is characterized. System level simulation results for GMSK voice
services are presented for the four network configurations described
previously in clause 4 of this document. The results presented show the voice
system capacity that a network can support when all terminals are SAIC
capable. Results are also shown, which describe the system performance as a
function of SAIC terminal penetration rate. In addition, results are presented
showing the effect of SAIC on GPRS throughput performance. The following
clauses describe the methodology employed to develop the system capacity and
throughput estimates along with the results. Clause 7.2 describes the link-to-
system level mapping required to \'map\' the SAIC link level characterization
described in clause 6 into a GSM system level simulator. Clause 7.3 describes
the framework of the system level simulator including all of the key system
assumptions. Clause 7.4 presents the voice system capacity results for both
synchronous and asynchronous networks, and as a function of mobile
penetration. Clause 7.5 describes the GPRS analysis including a description of
the data traffic models and the resulting throughput performance. Finally,
clause 7.6 provides a summary along with the relevant conclusions that can be
drawn.
## 7.2 Link-to-system mapping
Two stages of mapping are required to properly map the link level results for
conventional and SAIC receivers into the system level simulators. For SAIC
receivers, the first stage of mapping attempts to define the average of the
burst BER as a function of the burst CIR and burst DIR. This mapping is
defined by running link level simulations and collecting BER statistics on a
per burst basis. The mean CIR is set to some nominal value, while the mean
interference powers are set per the defined interference profiles. The
Rayleigh fading imposed on top of the desired signal and some of the
interferers will cause variation in the CIR and DIR. In this way the BER
\'bins\' corresponding to different values of burst CIR and burst DIR will be
filled in. Note that multiple simulation runs at different CIR values may be
required to adequately fill in all of the bins. For conventional receivers,
there is only a mapping between burst CIR and burst BER, since there is little
dependence upon the DIR. In the second stage of this process the frame error
probability (FEP) of a speech frame is determined based on the average and
standard deviation of BER over the speech frame [1].
## 7.3 System level simulator
In this clause, the framework of the system level simulator used to develop
the voice system capacity and GPRS throughput results is described. System
simulators have been used extensively in the past to estimate the voice and
data capacity of GSM and GPRS/EDGE networks. Most of these simulators actually
assume a \'synchronized\' GSM network even though the vast majority of GSM
deployments to date are non-synchronized (asynchronous). A synchronized
network implies that the transmitted bursts (slots) from all of the BTSs
modelled in the simulator completely overlap one another. The reason that the
synchronization assumption is invoked is that it becomes computationally
prohibitive to introduce sub-slot delays into the simulator framework. In
addition, up until the SAIC feasibility study, it has been more or less
assumed that there is little loss in the accuracy of system capacity estimates
under the synchronized assumption, although this has not been verified in
detail. However, the performance of SAIC receivers is known to be dependent
upon the delay between the desired signal and the interfering signals. Thus,
it is important to understand SAIC performance for both synchronous and
asynchronous conditions. To circumvent the problem of developing an
asynchronous system simulator, which was estimated to be a very complex and
time-consuming task, it was agreed to use synchronous system simulators for
both synchronous and asynchronous network evaluations. To account for
asynchronous operation, a second link level characterization was performed,
whereby the interfering signals had the characteriztics of an asynchronous
network. Thus, \'first-stage, link-to-system level\' mappings were developed
for both synchronous and asynchronous interferers as described in clause 6.
Four network scenarios or configurations have been evaluated to determine the
voice capacity gain that SAIC might provide. These four configurations are
defined by a unique set of system parameters, and a common set of system
parameters defined in Tables 1 and 2 of clause 4, respectively. The unique set
of system parameters include: designation of synchronous or asynchronous
operation, frequency of operation, useable bandwidth, reuse pattern, the type
of hopping (baseband or RF), the voice codec, whether the system is blocking
limited or soft-limited, the modulation combinations of interest for the
desired and interfering signals, and the cell radius. The common set of
parameters include such parameters as: number of sectors per site (3), BTS
antenna pattern, propagation model, standard deviation of log-normal fading,
etc. The following will briefly describe each of the configurations along with
a discussion of some of the common parameters that may need additional
explanation beyond that provided in Table 2 of clause 4. Note all of the
configurations are primarily concerned with the performance of SAIC on the
hopping layer. This is where SAIC is expected to give its maximum voice
capacity gain, and thus, is the primary emphasis of this study. SAIC will also
provide benefits for BCCH carriers -- e.g. in terms of link frame erasure rate
for SAIC users -- but because of the typical sparse reuse pattern (4/12) the
capacity gains will not be as high as on the hopping layer. The metric used
for evaluation of voice performance for the interference-limited
configurations is frequency load, which is defined herein to be the number of
erlangs carried over the number of hopping time slots. For example, for a
sector with 6 hopping carriers, a frequency load of 40% corresponds to 19.2
erlangs of traffic .Note the terms frequency load, effective frequency load,
and load are used interchangeably in this clause. For the blocking-limited
configuration, the metric employed is the satisfied user percentage for a
predefined load since the load is essentially constant under these conditions.
Configuration 1 is representative of a typical \'European\' deployment of GSM
at 900 MHz. Asynchronous operation is assumed with a total bandwidth of 7.8
MHz. The BCCH is deployed in a 4/12 reuse pattern and thus, requires 2.4 MHz
of bandwidth. The remaining 5.4 MHz of bandwidth is deployed in a 3/9 reuse
pattern, which implies three frequencies per sector not counting the BCCH
frequencies. Baseband hopping is assumed, which implies that the voice traffic
channels hop through the BCCH frequencies. The speech codec is the AMR FR at
12.2 kbps, which is assumed to provide performance nearly equivalent to the FR
and EFR. The reuse pattern is sparse enough so that a blocking limit of 2% is
specified. The modulation combinations of interest are GMSK/GMSK and
GMSK/8PSK, where the first entry is the desired signal and the second entry is
the interferer. A 500 meter cell radius is assumed.
Configuration 2 is representative of a GSM deployment of limited spectrum as
might be encountered in the United States. Both synchronous and asynchronous
networks are of interest. Frequency of operation is 1900 MHz with a total
bandwidth of 1.2 MHz deployed in a 1/1 reuse pattern for the hopping layer.
This implies six hopping carriers per sector over which random RF hopping is
deployed. The tight reuse implies that the capacity will be soft-limited by
the interference generated as opposed to a hard blocking limit encountered in
sparser reuse. Thus, the fractional load at which the network is operated is
the primary performance measure. The AMR 5.9 FR and HR speech codecs are
assumed. The modulation combinations of interest are GMSK/GMSK, GMSK/8PSK,
8PSK/GMSK, and 8PSK/8PSK. The cell radius is assumed to be 1000 meters.
Configuration 3 is also representative of a GSM deployment of limited spectrum
as might be encountered in the United States, but with greater spectrum
availability than that of configuration 2. Synchronous operation is the
primary interest while study of asynchronous operation is optional. The
frequency of operation is 900 MHz[^13] with a total of 2.4 MHz deployed in a
1/1 reuse pattern for the hopping layer. This implies twelve hopping carriers
per sector over which random RF hopping is deployed. As with configuration 2,
fractional load is the performance measure and the speech codecs are assumed
to be AMR 5.9 FR and HR. The modulation combinations of interest are GMSK/GMSK
and the cell radius is assumed to be 750 meters.
Configuration 4 is another example of a possible \'European\' deployment of
GSM at 900 MHz. Asynchronous operation is assumed. The frequency of operation
is 900 MHz and 7.2 MHz of bandwidth is assumed to be deployed in a 1/3 reuse
pattern for the hopping layer. This implies twelve hopping carriers per sector
over which random RF hopping is deployed. As with configuration 1, the AMR
12.2 FR speech codec is assumed and a 2% blocking limit is specified. The
modulation combinations of interest are GMSK/GMSK and GMSK/8PSK. A cell radius
of 300 meters is assumed.
All four network configurations are assumed to have three sectors per cell
site, which corresponds to the vehicular environment deployment model given in
UMTS 30.03. Each cell is configured with an antenna whose horizontal pattern
corresponds to the pattern specified in UMTS 30.03. The propagation model
specified in UMTS 30.03 as the path loss model for the vehicular test
environment is used for this study. The received signal is assumed to be
affected by log-normal fading with a standard deviation of 6 dB for 900 MHz
deployments and 8 dB for 1900 MHz deployments. Log-normal fading tends to be
correlated over short distances and a log-normal correlation distance of 110
meters is assumed. Inter-site log-normal correlation is assumed to be zero.
Voice calls are generated in the system simulator based on Poisson call
arrivals and exponential call durations. The call arrival rate is set
according to the frequency load that is to be simulated in the network. The
mean call duration is assumed to be 90 seconds, with a minimum call duration
of five seconds. A voice activity factor of 60% (including SID signalling) is
assumed and discontinuous transmission (DTX) is assumed to be enabled in the
network.
Downlink power control (DPC) is enabled in the system simulator for all four
network configurations. A common DPC algorithm for the SAIC Feasibility Study
was not specified but it was agreed that the DPC algorithm used should be
based on RXQUAL and RXLEV. All system level simulations assume a DPC dynamic
range of 14 dB and a step size of 2 dB.
## 7.3.1 Satisfied user definition
To determine voice system capacity it is necessary to define what is meant by
a \'satisfied user\'. During the study two definitions for a satisfied user
were proposed and they are as follows:
  * Option 1: The speech quality is measured over the duration of one call. The speech quality is considered satisfactory if the FER is not higher than 2% (the user is said to be satisfied). The network capacity is defined as the network load at which X% of the users are satisfied, where X = 95%, except where noted.
  * Option 2: The speech quality is measured over periods of 1.92 seconds (i.e., four SACCH periods). The speech quality (of one particular link) is considered satisfactory during the period if the frame erasure rate (FER) is not higher than 2%. The network capacity is defined as the network load at which the speech quality is satisfactory in X% of the measured 1.92 second periods, where again X = 95%, except where noted.
One must note that each option may have a different capacity for an identical
system. [5] suggests the difference is small, but nonetheless caution must be
observed when comparing results when different options were used.
## 7.4 System level simulation results
The results for the system simulations are presented in Sub-clauses 7.4.1 and
7.4.2. Sub-clause 7.4.1 presents the results obtained during the feasibility
study for 100% SAIC loaded systems versus a benchmark of a system with 100%
conventional users[^14]. Sub-clause 7.4.2 presents the impact of SAIC mobile
penetration rate on the system\'s performance and on the performance of non-
SAIC users.
### 7.4.1 System capacity for 100% SAIC mobile penetration
In the next six sub-clauses results are presented for asynchronous operation
for all four of the configurations, and synchronous operation for
configurations 2 and 3. Synchronous system performance results may be expected
to match closely with what will be seen in actual deployments. However, for
asynchronous networks, the system results may only be approximate due to the
complex nature of the link-system mapping in asynchronous networks [6]. The
general trends shown for the asynchronous network cases should, however, hold
when a real network is deployed, but the absolute capacity of those networks
may be different.
#### 7.4.1.1 Configuration 1 -- unsynchronized network
In this clause, results are shown for configuration 1 under asynchronous
operation. Since this configuration is blocking-limited, the voice performance
metric employed to characterize the SAIC gain is the satisfied user percentage
for the load associated with 2% blocking, which for the assumed bandwidth and
reuse is about 23 erlangs [7]. The satisfied user percentages are shown in
Table 7.1 for 100% conventional mobiles and 100% SAIC mobiles. The satisfied
user definition corresponding to option 1 was assumed, except that the
percentage was allowed to vary. The percentage gain is also shown in the table
as the ratio of the respective satisfied user percentages. As expected, the
SAIC gain is fairly small for blocking-limited conditions since the
\'highest\' gains are only achievable in interference-limited conditions.
However, SAIC is shown to still provide some gain in the overall user
experience. For another perspective on how to quantify gain for this
configuration see clause 7.4.3.
Table 7.1. Satisfied user percentage for Configuration 1.
* * *
            Satisfied user percentage for predefined load (2% blocking)
Source 100% Conventional 100% SAIC mobiles Percentage Gain Siemens 96.1 % 99.5
% 3.4%
* * *
#### 7.4.1.2 Configuration 2 -- synchronized network
In this clause, results are shown for configuration 2 under synchronous
operation. The loads corresponding to 95% satisfied users are shown in Table
7.2 for 100% conventional mobiles and 100% SAIC mobiles. The number in ()
defines the option used for the satisfied user definition. The percentage gain
is also shown in the table as the ratio of the respective loads. The
satisfaction percentage as a function of load is shown in Figure 7.1 for two
types of SAIC receivers and for penetration rates of 50 and 100%,
respectively. Performance for 100% conventional mobiles is also shown in the
figure. Note the effects of mobile penetration rates other than 100% will be
discussed in clause 7.4.2.
Table 7.2. Load at which 95% of users are satisfied, Configuration 2 --
synchronous.
* * *
                  LOAD for which 95% of Satisfied Users is reached.
Source 100% Conventional 100% SAIC mobiles Percentage Gain Motorola[^15] 34.75
(1) 47.25 (1) 35.9 (1) Siemens 31.7 50.2 58.4%
* * *
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | {width="5.497916666666667in" height="3.44375in"} | | | | Figure 7.1. System performance for Configuration 2 - Synchronous [8]. | +-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 7.4.1.3 Configuration 2 -- unsynchronized network
In this clause, results are shown for configuration 2 under asynchronous
operation. The loads corresponding to 95% satisfied users are shown in Table
7.3 for 100% conventional mobiles and 100% SAIC mobiles. The number in ()
defines the option used for the satisfied user definition. The percentage gain
is also shown in the table as the ratio of the respective loads. The
satisfaction percentage as a function of load is shown in Figure 7.2 for two
types of SAIC receivers and for a conventional receiver all at 100%
penetration.
Table 7.3. Load at which 95% of users are satisfied, Configuration 2 --
asynchronous.
* * *
             LOAD for which 95% of Satisfied Users is reached.
Source 100% Conventional 100% SAIC mobiles Percentage Gain Motorola 34.00 (1)
43.25 (1) 27.2 (1) Siemens 31.7 47.1 48.6%
* * *
* * *
{width="5.5in" height="3.4555555555555557in"} Figure 7.2. System performance
for Configuration 2 -- Asynchronous [8].
* * *
#### 7.4.1.4 Configuration 3 -- synchronized network
In this clause, results are shown for configuration 3 under synchronous
operation. The loads corresponding to 95% satisfied users are shown in Table
7.4 for 100% conventional mobiles and 100% SAIC mobiles. The number in ()
defines the option used for the satisfied user definition. Note that Nokia
elected to evaluate both satisfied user options and although the loads
supported were found to be different, the relative gains were found to be the
same. The percentage of bad quality calls, which is equal to 100 minus the
satisfaction percentage[^16], is shown in Figure 7.3 as a function of load for
an SAIC receiver and a conventional receiver both at 100% penetration. Curves
are shown for FER averaging over the call (designated as A) and over 1.92
seconds (designated as B).
Table 7.4. Load at which 95% of users are satisfied, Configuration 3,
synchronous.
+------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | LOAD for which | | | | | 95% of | | | | | Satisfied Users | | | | | is reached. | | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Source | 100% | 100% SAIC | Percentage Gain | | | Conventional | mobiles | | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Motorola | 33.50 (1) | 48.75 (1) | 45.5 (1) | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Nokia[^18] | 20.9 (1) | 32.0 (1) | 53.1 (1) | | | | | | | | 22.4 (2) | 34.3 (2) | 53.1 (2) | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Siemens | 37.0 (1) | 51.0 (1) | 37.8 (1) | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Cingular | 35.8 (2) | 51.2 (2) | 42.8 (2) | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
* * *
{width="5.9375in" height="3.625in"} Figure 7.3. System performance for
Configuration 3 -- Synchronous [10].
* * *
#### 7.4.1.5 Configuration 3 -- unsynchronized network
In this clause, results are shown for configuration 3 under asynchronous
operation. The loads corresponding to 95% satisfied users are shown in Table
7.5 for 100% conventional mobiles and 100% SAIC mobiles, along with the
respective gain. The number in () defines the option used for the satisfied
user definition. The satisfaction percentage is shown in Figure 7.4 as a
function of load for an SAIC receiver and a conventional receiver both at 100%
penetration.
Table 7.5. Load at which 95% of users are satisfied, Configuration 3,
asynchronous.
* * *
             LOAD for which 95% of Satisfied Users is reached.
Source 100% Conventional 100% SAIC mobiles Percentage Gain Motorola 29.75 (1)
40.25 (1) 35.3 (1) Siemens 34.0 (1) 49.0 (1) 44.1 (1)
* * *
* * *
[{width="5.5in" height="3.4555555555555557in"} Figure 7.4. System performance
for Configuration 3 -- Asynchronous [8].
* * *
#### 7.4.1.6 Configuration 4 -- unsynchronized network
In this clause, results are shown for configuration 4 under asynchronous
operation. The loads corresponding to 95% satisfied users are shown in Table
7.6 for 100% conventional mobiles and 100% SAIC mobiles, along with the
respective gain. The number in () defines the option used for the satisfied
user definition. The satisfaction percentage is shown in Figure 7.5 as a
function of load for a SAIC receiver and a conventional receiver both at 100%
penetration.
Table 7.6. Load at which 95% of users are satisfied, Configuration 4,
asynchronous.
* * *
             LOAD for which 95% of Satisfied Users is reached.
Source 100% Conventional 100% SAIC mobiles Percentage Gain Motorola 49.50 (1)
66.50 (1) 34.3 (1) Siemens 47.2 (1) 76.0 (1) 61.0 (1)
* * *
* * *
{width="5.5in" height="3.4555555555555557in"} Figure 7.5. System performance
for Configuration 4 - Asynchronous. [8]
* * *
### 7.4.2 Impact of SAIC Mobile Penetration
In clause 7.4.1, voice system capacity results were presented assuming 100%
penetration of SAIC capable mobiles (except for Figure 7.1, which did show
some results for a 50% penetration rate). In this clause we investigate the
effects of SAIC mobile penetration on system capacity. Figure 7.6 shows the
system capacity as a function of the frequency load for configuration 3 under
synchronous operation as the SAIC terminal penetration rate goes from 0% to
100%. The results shown in Figure 7.6 are based on the Philips SAIC and
Philips conventional receivers [2]. As the SAIC terminal penetration increases
the overall system capacity gradually starts increasing with the peak capacity
obtained at 100% penetration. The resulting gains in system capacity as a
function of penetration are shown in Figure 7.7. The gains shown are with
respect to a network with 0% SAIC terminal penetration (i.e. all terminals are
conventional receivers). Capacity gain due to SAIC is not linearly related to
SAIC terminal penetration. Hence, for low to moderate terminal penetration
rates, SAIC is expected to provide its primary benefit in terms of immediate
improvement in call quality (and GPRS throughput) of SAIC-enabled terminals,
with the secondary benefit of modest system capacity gain. For high terminal
penetration rates, SAIC is expected to provide both, improvement in call
quality of SAIC-enabled terminals as well as large gain in overall system
capacity.
In Figure 7.8 results are compared from Cingular (SBC Labs), Motorola, and
Siemens as presented in GERAN contributions [2] [3] and [4]. This comparison
is not totally normalized because the results generated by Motorola and
Siemens are based on FER averaged over the entire call duration (option 1),
while the Cingular results are based on FER averaged over 1.92 seconds (option
2). Another difference is that the Cingular results are based on Philips\'
SAIC algorithm while those of Motorola and Siemens are based on their own
respective SAIC algorithms. Nevertheless, such a comparison is useful to
validate the non-linear nature of the relationship between SAIC terminal
penetration and SAIC capacity gain. In spite of the difference in assumptions,
all three sets of results show a similar non-linear relationship between
system capacity gain and SAIC terminal penetration. More importantly, all
three show a significant SAIC gain at 100% penetration.
{width="5.991666666666666in" height="4.105555555555555in"}
Figure 7.6. System capacity versus SAIC terminal penetration rate for
Configuration 3 [2]
{width="5.991666666666666in" height="4.105555555555555in"}
Figure 7.7. Gain in system capacity versus SAIC terminal penetration rate for
Configuration 3 [2]
{width="5.991666666666666in" height="4.105555555555555in"}
Figure 7.8: Comparison of results presented at TSG-GERAN [2]
In addition to investigating the effect of mobile penetration on system
capacity, this study also examined the effect of penetration on the non-SAIC
or conventional, legacy mobiles. Figure 7.9 shows results developed by
Cingular for configuration 3 [11], which illustrate the outage probabilities
experienced by non-SAIC terminals, SAIC terminals, and the total population of
terminals for SAIC terminal penetration rates ranging from 0% to 100% for a
fixed FL = 50%. Obviously, the 50% FL is too high for the lower SAIC terminal
penetration rates, which is why the outage probabilities are large for those
cases. For the 100% penetration rate, the outage probability falls below the
target of 5%.
The results of Figure 7.9 indicate that the outage probability experienced by
non-SAIC terminals decreases as the SAIC terminal penetration rate increases.
As the SAIC terminal penetration increases, it is believed that the downlink
power control algorithm is able to drive down the power for an increasing
number of mobiles. This can be seen in Figure 7.10, which shows the
probability distribution functions of carrier power measured at the terminals
as the SAIC terminal penetration rate increases from 0% to 100%. This decrease
in power is believed to reduce the overall interference in the network as the
SAIC terminal penetration increases, thus reducing the outage probability of
non-SAIC terminals in the network.
Similar results developed by Nokia are shown in Figures 7.11 and 7.12, also
for configuration 3 [12]. From these latter two figures, it is clearly seen
that the presence of SAIC mobiles in the network also helps the conventional
users. The SAIC mobiles are able to use lower power levels, which mean that
they also transmit less interference to other users. This is illustrated in
Figure 7.12 where the carrier and interference distributions are plotted. With
increased (5% -> 95%) SAIC penetration the interference (and carrier) powers
are decreased, leading to improved performance also for the conventional
mobiles.
{width="6.4375in" height="3.9479166666666665in"}
Figure 7.9. Outage probability versus SAIC terminal penetration rate for 50%
FL (Results for Configuration 3) [11]
{width="5.397222222222222in" height="3.7263888888888888in"}
Figure 7.10. PDF of carrier power (dBm) for various SAIC terminal penetration
rates (Results for Configuration 3) [11]
{width="5.159722222222222in" height="3.4006944444444445in"}
Figure 7.11. Changes in non-SAIC user experience as a factor of SAIC
penetration rate for Configuration 3 [12].
{width="4.677777777777778in" height="2.825in"}
Figure 7.12. Effect of SAIC penetration on carrier (C) and interference (I)
power distributions.
### 7.4.3 Additional results
In this clause results are presented, which do not explicitly conform to the
network scenarios defined in clause 4, but are of interest nonetheless.
#### 7.4.3.1 Effect of antenna patterns and Quality of Service (QoS) on system
capacity
During the SAIC feasibility study, the effect of antenna beamwidth and QoS
(satisfaction percentage) on system capacity results was discussed. The
default antenna pattern specified in clause 4 has a 90-degree beamwidth (at 3
dBi point), which may not be the best choice from a capacity point of view.
The antenna pattern may also have an effect on the SAIC gains because it
changes the DIR distribution experienced by the MS. To give some insight into
this issue, simulations were made with both a 90-degree and a more efficient
65-degree beamwidth. The effect of different levels of QoS was also
investigated. Figure 7.13 shows the voice capacity gain of a system with 65
degree antennas as a function of SAIC terminal penetration, two different
Quality of Service (QoS) measures (95% and 98% satisfied users), and the two
satisfied user definitions specified in 7.3.1 (Option 1 = A, Option 2 = B). As
shown in the figure, the higher QoS (98%) actually translates into higher gain
approaching 56% at 100% penetration compared to 46% for the lower QoS (95%).
The effect of the two satisfied user definitions turns out to be fairly
negligible.
Figure 7.14 also includes the effect of the two different beamwidths, and
indicates that the antenna pattern does affect the SAIC gain, but that the
effect is not that large. With a wider beamwidth the gains are actually 5-10%
greater than the narrower beamwidth. The reason for this is that although the
narrow beamwidth supports higher absolute performance, there is actually less
interference in the system to cancel and thus, the SAIC gain is not as large.
{width="6.16875in" height="4.101388888888889in"}
Figure 7.13. SAIC capacity gain as a function of SAIC penetration. A = call
level averaging, B = 1.92 sec. averaging. 95% and 98% satisfied user ratios
and 2% FER criteria. [5].
{width="6.172916666666667in" height="3.9819444444444443in"}
Figure 7.14. SAIC capacity gain with two different antenna patterns. A = call
level averaging, B = 1.92 sec. averaging. 95% and 98% satisfied user ratios
and 2% FER criteria. [5].
#### 7.4.3.2 System performance for Configuration 1, another perspective
In clause 7.4.1.1, the SAIC gain for configuration 1 was defined in terms of
the increase in the percentage of satisfied users as opposed to the increase
in load, which is the voice metric used for all of the other configurations.
The reason that the gain is defined differently is that configuration 1
happens to be blocking-limited for the target quality threshold considered
(FER = 2%), and thus, the load is essentially constant. However, by lowering
the FER threshold to 0.6% (thereby increasing the quality and the required
C/I), configuration 1 was found to be interference-limited for certain loads,
and thus, the increase in load can be used to quantify SAIC gain [13]. Figure
7.15 shows the percentage of bad quality calls as a function of effective
frequency load for three levels of SAIC penetration, 0%, 50% and 100%. As
shown in the figure, performance eventually becomes blocking-limited as the
load increases. However, extrapolating the linear region of each curve to the
2% point (blocking limit), load estimates are obtained for each of the
penetration levels as follows: 0% = 6.25 EFL, 50%= 7.3 EFL, 100% = 8.4 EFL.
The resulting gains for the 50% and 100% penetrations are 17% and 34%,
respectively. These results are based on synchronous operation and the use of
the AMR 12.2FR. The percentage decrease in performance in going from
synchronous operation to asynchronous for configurations 2 and 3 is estimated
to be about 23-24%. If we use the 24% value then the gains adjusted for
asynchronous operation of configuration 1 are about 13% and 26%, respectively.
Thus, at this different QoS point, SAIC is shown to provide modest gain even
for configuration 1.
{width="6.45in" height="4.250694444444444in"}
Figure 7.15. System performance for configuration 1, another perspective.
#### 7.4.3.3 Impact of 8-PSK interference on GMSK SAIC performance
Another concern addressed by this study was the effect of 8-PSK interference
on the performance of a GMSK transmitted signal processed by an SAIC receiver.
In [14], this concern was addressed for both a single co-channel interferer,
and the GERAN interference model defined in Table 5-1 for configuration 2. The
simulation results presented in [14] indicate that there is gain of 2.5 to 3.0
dB for the single co-channel condition, and 0.8 dB for the GERAN model, when
the GMSK interferers are replaced by 8-PSK interferers in each of these
conditions. Thus, based on these results we can conclude that the presence of
8-PSK interference will not degrade the performance of a GMSK SAIC link, and
in fact will provide some level of gain, albeit not as great as when the
interference is GMSK.
## 7.5 The effect of SAIC on GPRS performance
Although the potential capacity gain of SAIC for GMSK voice services has been
the primary focus of this study, it is also important to determine if SAIC
will provide benefits for the GPRS packet data service as well. Since GPRS
employs GMSK modulation there will be an improvement in both the raw BER and
BLER [15], and thus, there should be a corresponding improvement in
throughput. To verify this, system level simulations were conducted, which
included a mix of speech and GPRS traffic. Two data traffic models were
defined - a web-browsing model and an FTP/MMS model. The main parameters of
the web-browsing model are summarized in Table 7.6 with a complete definition
provided in [16]. This model is a hybrid model based on other existing models
with suitable modifications for use on a GPRS bearer. The model includes
packet segmentation at the transport layer (TCP/IP), which is based on
measurement data and published literature. The model was tested with a system
level simulator to verify realistic traffic patterns. The second data traffic
model is representative of FTP and MMS applications, and has characteriztics
very similar to speech traffic.
Table 7.6 Main parameters for web-browsing data traffic model.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **General | | | | parameters** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **P |** Value**|** Comment**| | arameter/algorithm** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Downlink power | OFF | | | control | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Link adaptation | OFF | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coding scheme | CS-2 | (For EGPRS: MCS-7) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of slots in | 3 | | | DL (max) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Session arrival | Poisson arrivals, λ | | | | = 5 | | | | calls/hour/terminal | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traffic model | | | | parameters** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Variable** | **Distribution** | **Parameters** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of packet | Geometric with | Mean = 5, cut-off = | | calls in a session | cut-off | 15 | | | | | | | | ( => true mean ≈ | | | | 4.5) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Packet call size | Pareto with cut-off | α = 1.1; k = 2.25 | | [bytes] | | (kBytes) | | | | | | | | m = 225 (kBytes) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reading time between | Geometric | Mean = 5 seconds | | packet calls | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of packets in | Determined by IP | Mean = 18.3 | | packet call | packet size | | | | distribution and | | | | call size | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Packet size | Semi-empirical | Mean = 577.2 bytes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Packet inter-arrival | Geometric | 0.1443 seconds (for | | time | | input bit rate of 32 | | | | kbps) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
In order to perform a system level simulation of GPRS it is necessary to
define the stage 1 link-to-system level mapping as described for voice
services in clauses 6 and 7.2. Extensive system simulations were conducted as
described in clause 5 to define the interference models, which were used in
the link level characterization to produce the stage 1 mapping for voice
services. There was much to be gained if these voice stage 1 mappings could be
reused for evaluating data performance, provided of course that the accuracy
of the GPRS results were not compromized. That the voice mapping can be reused
is definitely the case for the FTP/MMS data traffic model since the
characteriztics are very similar to a circuit-switched voice connection.
However, this conclusion had to be verified for the web traffic model.
In [17] system level simulations were conducted, which showed that the
statistics of a combination of voice and web-browsing data users were quite
similar to the voice-only statistics for network configuration 3 at 40% FL.
Table 7.7 summarizes those findings where the various ratios of the dominant
co-channel interferer to the other interferers are shown for the baseline
voice-only system, and what the voice and data user experiences for three
different data loads. As shown in the table the values of all of the
interference ratios decreased by only 0.5 to 1.0 dB. In addition [17] also
investigated the effect on the CINR, DIR and DIR~2~ distributions, and found
that the CINR at the 10% point decreased by about 1 dB, while the median
values of DIR and DIR~2~ decreased by 0.5 to 0.7 dB, and 0.2 to 0.3 dB,
respectively. These small differences in the interference ratios and shifts in
the distributions are not expected to have much of an effect, if any, on the
link-to-system level mappings. We base this latter statement on the fact that
the stage 1 mappings for voice at 40% and 70% FL for network configuration 3
were nearly identical, and the difference in interference ratios between these
two loads was of the same order (1-2 dB) as the differences between voice-only
and voice plus data described above. Thus, the voice-only stage 1 mapping can
be used for the web traffic model defined herein.
Table 7.7. Interference ratios in dBs comparing the baseline voice only and
voice plus data for three different data loads (30, 60 and 90 web-browsing
data users per sector) [GP-040225].
* * *
Interference Ratio Baseline -- Voice Voice plus Data  
Voice Users Data Users  
30 60 90 30 60 90 Ic1/Ic2 7.3 6.8 6.7 6.7 6.9 6.8 6.8 Ic1/Ic3 12.7 12.0 11.8
11.8 12.0 11.9 11.9 Ic1/Icr 13.0 12.1 11.8 11.8 12.2 11.8 11.9 Ic1/Ia 15.1
14.9 14.6 14.7 13.7 13.2 13.6 Ic1/Iar 18.4 17.7 17.3 17.4 17.1 16.7 16.8
* * *
Having defined the data traffic models and stage 1 link-to-system level
mappings required, one can now conduct system level simulations to determine
the potential benefit of SAIC for GPRS. The results of a system simulation for
a mix of voice (70% of the traffic) and web-browsing data users (30%) are
shown in Figure 7.16 for network configuration 3 [18]. Figure 7.16 depicts
speech call quality and GPRS throughput as a function of the frequency load
and penetration of SAIC terminals in the network. The speech quality is
defined in terms of the proportion of bad quality calls (100 minus the
satisfaction percentage), averaged over SAIC and non-SAIC terminals. The voice
codec used was the AFS5.9 with DTX and a voice quality threshold of 2% FER.
The GPRS throughput is averaged over the duration of the session, and is also
averaged over SAIC and non-SAIC terminals. Figure 7.16 clearly shows that SAIC
provides gain in both voice capacity and data throughput. Figure 7.17 depicts
the gain in GPRS throughput as a function of the frequency load and SAIC
terminal penetration. This latter figure shows that the relative gain is
almost linear with frequency load for 100% penetration even though the
absolute throughput is decreasing. The range of throughput gain is a modest
2.5 to 13.5% for 100% penetration.
{width="5.997222222222222in" height="3.671527777777778in"}
Figure 7.16: Speech and GPRS performance indicators for web data traffic.
{width="5.997222222222222in" height="3.671527777777778in"}
Figure 7.17: GPRS throughput gain for web data traffic.
The results of a similar system simulation for a mix of voice and FTP/MMS data
users in shown in Figure 7.18 for network configuration 3 [19]. As with the
web traffic model simulation, Figure 7.18 depicts speech call quality and GPRS
throughput as function of the frequency load, while Figure 7.19 shows the gain
in GPRS throughput also as a function of the frequency load. Figure 7.19 shows
that the range of throughput gain for FTP/MMS traffic is 7-37% for 100% SAIC
terminal penetration, which is quite a bit better than that achieved for web
browsing traffic. The most likely reasons for this latter difference are that
the CIR values with web traffic are higher on average, thus less SAIC gain,
and the shorter data bursts translate into a higher percentage of overhead,
thus decreasing useful data throughput. Nonetheless, SAIC supports throughput
gains for both types of data traffic.
{width="6.0777777777777775in" height="3.9229166666666666in"}
Figure 7.18: Speech and GPRS performance indicators for FTP/MMS data traffic.
{width="6.683333333333334in" height="4.322916666666667in"}
Figure 7.19: GPRS throughput gain versus load for FTP/MMS data traffic.
## 7.6 Summary and conclusions
In summary, SAIC is expected to provide system voice capacity gains for all
four of the configurations studied, and for both synchronous and asynchronous
operation as well. What is particularly impressive is that gains were observed
for a number of different SAIC receiver implementations and system level
simulators. The use of system level simulators has proven to be an effective
method for evaluating the performance of new features like SAIC, and even
though there were some differences between simulators, considerable effort was
expended to make these simulators as representative of the real world as
possible. As noted, the synchronous results are expected to be closer to what
will be observed in the field, than the asynchronous results. Nonetheless, the
gains shown for asynchronous operation do give the operators some confidence
that gains will be realized in this environment as well.
The study has shown that the greatest gains are obtained for tighter reuse
patterns where there is more interference to cancel, and for synchronous
operation where limited, interferer time delays result in better SAIC receiver
performance. The greatest gains are also achieved at 100% mobile penetration,
although there are immediate benefits with the introduction of SAIC in terms
of better voice quality and higher data throughputs. As a side benefit, the
performance of non-SAIC mobiles is also expected to improve as SAIC is
introduced due to the lower BTS transmit power levels required, which results
in less overall downlink interference. SAIC was also shown to provide gains in
GPRS throughput for both web-browsing and FTP/MMS type of applications. In
conclusion, the results of this clause indicate that SAIC will provide
significant gains in voice capacity and data throughput once 100% penetration
is achieved, and that the impact to existing MSs is slightly improved
performance as well.
References
[1] H. Olofsson, et al, \'Improved Interface Between Link Level and System
Level Simulations Applied to GSM\', IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference,
1997.
[2] GP-032588, \'SAIC System Capacity Results\', Source Cingular.
[3] GP-032107, \'Effect of SAIC Terminal Penetration on System Performance\',
Source Motorola.
[4] GP-032023, \'System Performance Results for SAIC\' Source Siemens.
[5] GAHS-032649, \'SAIC network capacity with different antenna patterns and
performance criteria\' Source Nokia.
[6] GAHS-030036, Ericsson, \'Working assumptions for capacity estimation for
SAIC in unsynchronized networks\', Chicago, USA 28-30 October 2003.
[7] GP-041582, Siemens, \'System Performance for Network Configurations 1 and
3 for Draft Feasibility Study on SAIC\', Bilbao, Spain, 21-25 June 2004.
[8] GAHS-030029, Motorola, \'SAIC System Simulation Results\', Chicago, USA,
28-30 October 2003.
[9] GAHS-030030, Motorola, \'SAIC link level results\', Chicago, USA, 28-30
October 2003.
[10] GAHS-030040, Nokia, \'SAIC network capacity with different antenna
patterns and performance criteria\', Chicago, USA, 28-30 October 2003.
[11] GP-032587, Cingular, \'Outage Probability due to SAIC for Legacy
Mobiles\', Budapest, Hungary, 18-20 November, 2003.
[12] GP-032648, Nokia, \'The effect of SAIC terminal penetration on non-SAIC
terminal performance\', Budapest, Hungary, 18-20 November 2003.
[13] GP-041691, Nokia, \'System performance results for SAIC network
configuration 1\', Bilbao, Spain, 21-25 June, 2004.
[14] GP-031965, Philips, \'SAIC Link Performance for 8-PSK Interference
(rev.)\', New York, USA, 25-29 August 2003.
[15] GAHS-030010, Cingular, \'Draft Feasibility Study on Single Antenna
Interference Cancellation (SAIC) for GSM Networks (Release 6)\', Atlanta USA,
8-9 January 2003.
[16] GP-040408, Nokia, \'A GPRS traffic model for SAIC performance
evaluation\', Reykjavik, Iceland, 2-6 February 2004.
[17] GP-040225, Cingular, \'Effect of GPRS Traffic on Interference
Characteristics for SAIC Link Level Evaluation\', Reykjavik, Iceland, 2-6
February 2004.
[18] GP-041057, Nokia, \'SAIC gains with mixed speech and GPRS traffic\',
Cancun, Mexico, 19-23 April 2004.
[19] GP-040909, Nokia, \'The effect of SAIC on GPRS performance\', Reykjavik,
Iceland, 2-6 February 2004.
# 8 SAIC field trials
In order to determine the viability of SAIC technology for GSM networks,
Cingular Wireless conducted two separate field trials using a prototype SAIC
mobile offered by Philips Semiconductors [1] [2]. The first trial was
conducted in an operational, asynchronous (non-synchronized) GSM network.
Network parameters were varied to determine performance as function of the
Frequency Load (FL). A maximum gain of 2.7 dB in the C/I distribution at the
10% point was obtained at the maximum load. The second trial was conducted in
a synchronized network, the status of which was pre-operational at the time of
testing. Synchronized networks are expected to provide higher SAIC gains since
the amount of overlap between the desired signal and the interference can be
controlled. The results of this latter trial support the above conclusion,
where a C/I gain of 4.5 dB was observed. The following clauses provide
additional information for each of the respective trials.
## 8.1 Asynchronous network field trial
Cingular\'s Savannah market was chosen as the test market for the first
asynchronous network trial of SAIC technology. The field trial took place in
June 2002. Savannah is representative of a relatively mature GSM network,
which employs Frequency Hopping (FH) on the voice traffic channels in a very
tight 1/1 reuse, with the FL per sector ranging from 10-25%. The results of
the trial indicated a gain in the downlink C/I distribution at the 10% points
of 2.7 dB for the most heavily loaded test condition, Figure 8.1.1. This gain
was measured by alternately toggling SAIC on and off every RXQUAL reporting
period (0.48 s). Gain was also observed in terms of a reduction in the BER and
FER as recorded by the mobile. For example, for the most heavily loaded
condition, the probability of the BER being less than 3% increased from 75% to
82%, while the average FER decreased from 4.4% to 2.5%.
Additional testing was performed where the duty cycle of SAIC on to off was
changed to see the effect SAIC might have on Downlink Power Control (DPC). The
results of this latter testing at a SAIC on-to-off duty cycle of 15:1
indicated a decrease in the average BTS transmit power of 1.8 dB and a 1.3 dB
decrease in the average received signal level at the mobile. In addition, the
mobile reported RXQUAL was almost identical for both duty cycles indicating
that performance was not compromized for the high SAIC on duty cycle
condition.
{width="5.336805555555555in" height="4.002083333333333in"}
Figure 8.1.1. C/I distributions for asynchronous field trial.
## 8.2 Synchronous network field trial
To determine performance in a synchronized network the same SAIC Philips\'
prototype was tested in Cingular\'s Delaware market in November 2002. This
trial was particularly useful as the Delaware network was pre-operational at
the time of SAIC testing, and as such offered the unique capability to test
SAIC under both synchronized and non-synchronized conditions. Tests were
conducted for synchronized random FH with three and five interferers, and for
non-synchronized random FH for one and three interferers..
The results of the synchronized random FH tests with five interferers indicate
a gain in the C/I distribution of approximately 4.5 and 5.0 dB at the 10 and
20% points, respectively, as shown in Figure 8.2.1. The results of the same
test for three interferers indicate a gain in the C/I distribution in the
range of 2-3 dB. This decrease is expected since the network load was not as
high as the five-interferer condition, and thus, there was not as much
interference for SAIC to cancel.
For the non-synchronized tests, the amount of gain observed varied with the
delay between the desired signal and the interfering signals. This was
expected since as the delay increases a \'second\' interferer begins to
overlap the slot of interest and thus, causes degradation in performance. For
a single interferer, the gain in C/I distribution at the 10% points ranged
from 0 dB when the delay was equal to about 80 symbols (near worst case) to
5.3 dB when the delay was less than 19 symbols. For the three-interferer tests
the same trends were observed. The lowest gain of 1.6 dB was observed when all
three interferers had delays of greater than 20 symbols, while a gain of 4.0
dB was observed when only one of the three had a delay greater than 20
symbols.
The conclusion from these trials is that SAIC will provide gains in both non-
synchronized and synchronized networks, but that maximum gains will be
achieved with a synchronized network, where the amount of overlap between
desired signal and interference can be controlled.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 8.2.1. C/I distributions for synchronous field trial.
References
[1] GP-022557, \"Laboratory & Field Testing of Mono Interference Cancellation
(MIC) for GSM Networks\", Source: Philips Semiconductors, Cingular Wireless.
[2] GP-032497, \"SAIC Field Trials for Asynchronous and Synchronous GSM
Networks\", Source: Cingular Wireless.
# 9 Test considerations
## 9.1 Introduction
While it is not within the scope of the SAIC Feasibility Study to define
detailed performance requirements for inclusion into e.g. 3GPP TS 45.005, nor
detailed test scenarios for 3GPP TS 51.010 to verify conformance to those
requirements, it is recognized that the Feasibility Study Technical Report
should comment on the requirements and practicality of the test apparatus
required to assess SAIC receivers.
This clause therefore briefly discusses the testing of SAIC capable MSs, which
clearly is far from trivial. In the event SAIC is accepted by GERAN as a
feasible technology (which is the recommendation of this report, see clause
12), more comprehensive studies will be needed both in TSG GERAN WG1 and WG3.
Note some of these studies are already in progress with preliminary test
scenarios defined for both synchronous and asynchronous operation [GP-041572]
[GP-041576]. In performing this work it is respectfully suggested that WG1 and
WG3 take particular care to ensure that:
a) the requirements which are adopted reflect and warrant those receiver
performance improvements identified as feasible during the Feasibility Study
phase, and in doing so, ensure the realisation of the original goals of the
Feasibility Study,
b) improvements in specific areas of receiver performance are not achieved at
the expense of poorer performance in other areas, or by creating the risk of
non-robust receiver operation under normal GSM/GPRS/EGPRS system conditions,
and
c) any effort to simplify the assessment criteria used by the Feasibility
Study (in order, for example, to simplify test apparatus or procedures) should
be done without risking adherence to item a) above.
## 9.2 Discussion
Conformance to the 3GPP TS 45.005 and 3GPP TS 51.010 specifications requires
that a combination of narrowband and modulated signal sources be made
available as part of the test apparatus. Fundamentally, however, the most
commonly required test configuration can be summarized by the structure shown
in Figure 9-1.
{width="5.665972222222222in" height="2.8604166666666666in"}
Figure 9.1: Summary -- current MS test configuration[^19].
At the same time, however, in order to capture real-world network scenarios
the synchronous and asynchronous link-level models identified by the SAIC
Feasibility Study capture more complex interference scenarios, including:
a) simultaneous generation of multiple, independently-faded, co- and adjacent
channel interferers,
b) burst-formatted interfering signals with randomly varying training
sequences,
c) randomly-selected interferer delays & frequency offsets, and
d) interferer inter-burst phase changes, DTX (optional) and power control.
These scenarios were determined to be very important when investigating
achievable link and system level performance gains for SAIC mobiles, and it is
recommended that they are used as the starting point in determining test
procedures and requirements for SAIC-enhanced terminals. If TSG GERAN
determines that direct implementation of these scenarios is an essential part
of SAIC terminal assessment, one possible approach to synthesising such
signals in real-time appears in Figure 9-2[^20], where a general-purpose
streaming signal source is used to generate multiple interfering signals which
are agile in terms of embedded training sequence, delay and frequency offset
etc.
{width="5.995833333333334in" height="3.1909722222222223in"}
Figure 9.2: Alternative potential configuration for complex\ test signal
scenario generation.
It is also recognized, however, that support for such an approach could
represent a considerable technical and economic challenge and may well be too
complex to realise in practice. Accordingly, it may be necessary to consider
which elements of the GERAN interference models are necessary to verify
conformance, and how the models could potentially be simplified.
In considering potential simplifications, the following considerations and
options should be considered.
**_Requirement for Simultaneous Co- and Adjacent Channel Interference_** \--
Although the current CIR and DIR definitions do not discriminate between
interferer types (i.e. co- or adjacent channel), it may be possible to reduce
the required number of simultaneous discrete interferers by restricting
performance assessment to be _either_ on the basis of co-channel _or_ adjacent
channel performance. Alternatively if a combined test is seen as necessary, a
single co- or adjacent channel interferer could be combined with residual
interferers to model more complex scenarios.
**_Structured Interfering Signals_** \-- A departure from the currently-
specified continuous, randomly-generated interfering signal definition can be
principally divided into a) selection of an interfering burst type, and
modification of the interfering signal power burst envelope, and b)
modification of the interfering symbol content. It is obviously commonplace to
generate interfering signal bursts compliant with the envelope definition of
3GPP TS 45.005, and the normal burst could be a natural choice when
synthesising transmitted waveforms for test purposes.
Similarly, generation of an interfering signal with a pseudo-randomly
generated training sequence and pseudo-randomly generated data payload is not
fundamentally difficult[^21]. Indeed, training sequences (TSCs) could be
selected on a per-burst basis, or -- if this was not feasible \-- selection of
constant TSCs per interferer could also be considered. However, either change
would most likely require upgrading of test apparatus, depending on the
capability of the signal generators currently available to each tester, and
could also make calibration of e.g. interferer power marginally more
difficult. One possible simplification would be to require only that a
specified bit sequence (i.e. tail bits, data payload, and training sequence)
be periodically applied to the interfering signal, and that the interfering
signal remain a continuously-modulated waveform.[^22]
**_Number of Interfering Signals_** \-- The GERAN models currently define a
total of 3 co-channel interferers, plus a residual co-channel interferer.
Synthesis of the residual co-channel interference term could, with the
addition of an appropriate filter, be achieved relatively straightforwardly
using the apparatus of Figure 9.1. Using the discretely-configured apparatus
of Figure 9.1 as a guide, however, a requirement to synthesise 3 co-channel
interfering signals could be challenging, since it would imply a requirement
for multiple discrete fading channel emulators. An obvious alternative is to
reduce the number of co-channel interferers to 2 or even a single interferer.
Restricting testing to be performed only with a single interferer would,
however, represent a significant departure from the GERAN models, and
therefore testing under dual interferer conditions could represent a practical
compromise.[^23] For test apparatus where the desired signal fading is handled
by the system emulator, this would require the provisioning of only a single
dual-channel fading emulator. A _possible_ system configuration appears in
Figure 9-3. Importantly, however, the relative power of the interfering
signals would need to be established by further work, as would the equivalence
(in terms of guaranteeing performance) of this configuration compared to the
link scenarios generated in the GERAN Feasibility Study.
**_Interferer Frequency Offset_** \-- The GERAN models currently specify a
normally distributed interferer frequency offset, with a new offset generated
for each interfering signal burst. Again, provided the network emulator
(Figure 9-1) and interfering signal generator have a shared triggering signal,
and the interfering signal generator is appropriately programmable, this is
not a difficult proposition. However, this requirement again complicates
laboratory calibration and traceability, and older apparatus may not possess
such a capability. As an alternative, constant interferer frequency offsets
could be applied to each interfering signal source (using values specified in
the Work Item phase). Indeed, based on future simulation results, such a
requirement could be found to have little bearing on receiver performance and
might be eliminated as redundant.
**_Interferer Delay Generation_** \-- Again, specification of a pseudo-
randomly generated interferer delay (according to the GERAN interferer models)
could present practical difficulties to legacy signal generators, or add
complexity to the overall timing control of the test apparatus. However, in a
similar fashion to the frequency offset problem, a constant delay or set of
delays could be specified for each interferer. In more detail, the synchronous
case could make use of a constant delay which could include zero relative
delay for interferers, or alternatively a simplified delay distribution could
be used. Again this would depend on test vendor capability and further
simulation work. Potential simplifications for asynchronous operation would
also be for further study, since such scenarios are recognized as important in
establishing robust receiver operation.
**_Power Control and DTX_** \-- The power control distribution requirement and
(optional) DTX aspect of the asynchronous interferer scenario could also be
potentially difficult (although not impossible) for contemporary test
apparatus to implement. Nevertheless, a subsequent Work Item phase could
determine that assessment of robust performance in asynchronous network
scenarios is important, and it is therefore worthwhile to consider how the
current asynchronous GERAN model could be approximated. One potential approach
would be to simply convert the GERAN-specified power control distribution into
a simple binary distribution, and to essentially \'gate\' each interfering
signal (i.e. on or off). This approach has the advantage of a relatively
simple calibration procedure.
{width="5.665972222222222in" height="3.925in"}
Figure 9-2 -- Potential reduced-order co-channel interference configuration.
## 9.3 Summary
It is beyond the scope of the SAIC Feasibility Study to specify exactly which
test scenarios are addressed during a performance specification phase. A
variety of options exist for constructing test waveforms that may be either
precisely or approximately consistent with the GERAN Feasibility Study. The
exact nature of the conformance of these approaches to the original
Feasibility Study models is for further study. This clause has identified some
potential approaches to achieving this; the views of test equipment vendors
will be needed in the performance and test specification phase of SAIC.
# 10 Signalling considerations
Over the course of the feasibility study, due consideration has been given
regarding whether or not the network would benefit from the knowledge of
whether a mobile terminal supports a SAIC advanced receiver technique or not
[1, 3, 4]. Discussed was the option of eliminating signalling altogether from
this work item, but it is noted that without _a priori_ knowledge by the
network of mobile receiver performance, the network must deduce from multiple
uplink measurement reports whether SAIC were supported or not. This may have
significant impacts on such radio resource management operations by the
network as dynamic channel allocation and/or MAIO allocation strategies.
In order for networks to take full advantage of intelligent radio resource
management techniques, the participants involved in the SAIC feasibility study
felt that it is generally desirable for the mobile terminal to indicate to the
network whether it supports an advanced receiver capabilities. Following are
some possibilities for indicating receiver capability to the network:
1) Classmark information using the version number, i.e. that advanced receiver
support may be inferred for mobiles beyond a certain specification version
2) Explicitly specifying level of advanced receiver support in Classmark 3 IE
[1,2]
3) Explicitly specifying level of advanced receiver support in MS Radio Access
Capability IE [3,4,7]
Subsequent discussions among manufacturers have indicated that the most
appropriate method, given the constraints of the existing GSM system and
specifications, is a means by which the network would be informed by an
optional field in the \"Classmark 3\" Information Element specified in TS
24.008, clause 10.5.1.7, [5], which was added to accommodate the notification
of support for such 2.5G and 3G enhancements as GPRS/EDGE, various Multislot
capabilities and Dual Transfer Mode. In case of GPRS, the network would be
informed of MS SAIC capability by an optional field in \"MS Radio Access
Capability\" IE.
The Classmark 3 and MS Radio Access Capability Information Elements are easily
modifiable to accept an optional element indicating advanced receiver support.
The method is inversely-compatible with the legacy mobile population, _viz_.
that legacy mobiles would not send the optional information element, thereby
allowing the network to infer that they do not support an advanced receiver
such as SAIC, but rather use conventional receivers. It is also very simple to
implement in both the specifications and equipment. There are nevertheless
limitations to this approach which are further addressed in this clause.
## 10.1 Logical binding of receiver performance to protocol version
One way to specify the signalling requirements for what to send in the
Classmark is simply to define a flag in TS 24.008 [1, 6] to indicate advanced
receiver availability by the mobile terminal, then to define i) the scope and
ii) meaning of the flag as it relates to the current version of the protocol.
The following is an example of how the requirement may be worded:
_\"The optional Boolean flag ADVANCED_RX_SUPPORTED shall be sent in the
Classmark 3 message if the mobile station supports advanced receiver
requirements. If this flag is present, then it indicates that the mobile
station conforms to the optional advanced receiver performance specifications
defined by the version of the core specification to which the mobile station
was implemented.\"_
For example, if ADVANCED_RX_SUPPORTED is present and the version of the
protocol is R6, then the mobile shall exhibit performance requirements
consistent with the performance requirements for advanced receiver operation
specified by TS 45.005 R6, and accordingly meet certification tests as
specified by the tests of TS 51.010 R6 as well.
The consequences of such a technique is that it mandates the continuous
upgrade of receiver requirements from one version of the specification to the
next, if advanced receiver performance specifications differ from the previous
version. This is important, since it may present difficulties for
manufacturers and operators who wish to offer their users an additional
feature found in a subsequent release, but without incurring the time-to-
market impact of having to implement the next level of advanced receiver
specifications. In effect, once an advanced receiver is implemented in a
mobile terminal product, this signalling approach makes upgrading to the next
version of e.g. SAIC mandatory to the next level of GERAN protocol release
version. This would mean e.g. to support a new R8 feature, the mobile terminal
would also require its receiver to be updated to conform to any updated
advanced receiver performance requirements specified in R8. This expectation
may or may not be the intention of the industry.
## 10.2 Release-independent indication of receiver performance: Classmark 3 IE
An alternative to binding advanced receiver support, and therefore receiver
performance requirements, to the protocol release is to send an optional field
in the Classmark 3 IE indicating an actual level of receiver performance
specifications supported by the mobile terminal. For example:
Advanced Receiver Type 00 -- Basic conventional receiver support
Advanced Receiver Type 01 -- Optional receiver performance enhancement: Level
I
Advanced Receiver Type 10 -- Optional receiver performance enhancement: Level
II
Advanced Receiver Type 11 -- Optional receiver performance enhancement: Level
III
The core performance specifications would define exactly what is meant by
\"Level I, II, III\" and so on. In this manner, a mobile implemented to any
protocol release beyond the initial release [^24] supporting an SAIC advanced
receiver would be able to implement mobiles compliant to any specified set of
receiver performance criteria and then indicate the performance level to the
network.
There are some limitations to this approach. For example, we as an industry
group must anticipate the ultimate number of advanced receiver versions, and
therefore the number of bits required to express this number, over the useful
lifetime of GSM.
## 10.3 Release-independent indication of receiver performance: MS Radio
Access Capability IE
There is a significant limitation to the use of the Classmark 3 message in
GPRS mode. It is neither used for in one phase access nor in two phase access
for TBF establishment. Therefore, if the operator wishes to utilise SAIC with
GPRS, then a complementary solution must be devised.
A possibility mentioned in [3,7] may be to include also the advanced receiver
capability signalling, i.e. in a similar way as described in [1, 2] within the
MS Radio Access Capability IE in 3GPP TS 24.008 [5]. This information is sent
by the MS to the network within the first PACKET RESOURCE REQUEST message on
the PACCH of the assigned TBF during GPRS two phase access and EGPRS one phase
access if requested by the network [4].
For GPRS one phase access the PACKET RESOURCE REQUEST message is not sent by
the MS to the network, thus a more sophisticated solution must be found. A
possible approach could be to include extra signalling, i.e. one bit, in the
IMMEDIATE_ASSIGNMENT message and in the PACKET_UPLINK_ASSIGNMENT message,
indicating that the MS shall send the PACKET RESOURCE REQUEST in the beginning
of the UL TBF, as proposed in [4]. Another approach would be to use two-phase
access for SAIC MS until a more generalized solution is found [7].
The inclusion into both IE, the MS Classmark 3 IE and the MS Radio Access
Capability IE, should be considered for an initial release (e.g. Release 6)
onwards. Below an example for including the information in the MS Radio Access
Capability IE in TS 24.008 is given. The information is sent in a two bit
field named Advanced Receiver Type, leading to 3 different levels of advanced
receiver support.
**Table 10.5.146/3GPP TS 24.008:_Mobile Station Radio Access Capability_
Information Element**
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | \**; -- _may be used for future enhancements_ | | | | \::= --_recursive structure | | allows any number of Access technologies_ | | | | { { \ exclude 1111 | | | | \ > } | | | | \| { \ _\-- | | structure adding Access technologies with same capabilities_ | | | | \ \-- _length in bits of list of Additional | | access technologies and spare bits_ | | | | { 1 \ > } ** 0 | | | | \** } } | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } ; | | | | ... | | | | -- Additions in release 5 | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | \ | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ | | | | \ }; | | | | -- Additions in release 6 | | | | \ | | | | ... | | | | **Advanced Receiver Type\ | | ** | | | | This field indicates the level of support of radio receiver | | improvement.** \ | | ** | | | | Bits\ | | 2 1\ | | 0 0 basic conventional receiver support (no SAIC)\ | | 0 1 optional receiver performance enhancement: Level I _\ | |_ 1 0 optional receiver performance enhancement: Level II | | | | 1 1 optional receiver performance enhancement: Level III | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
We may give further consideration to whether this information field would be
mandatory from an initial release (e.g. Release 6) onwards with optional
indication of advanced receiver support, or completely optional. Further
consideration must also be made on the number of supported advanced receiver
levels, and therefore the number of required bits to accommodate future
extensibility over the useful lifetime of GSM.
## 10.4 Summary
The purpose of this clause is not to make recommendations, but to present some
possibilities for signalling and an evaluation of extensibility, limitations
and issues so that we may have a basis from which to work when GERAN
approaches changes to the core specifications for SAIC. At the close of the
feasibility study, the generally preferred approach to signalling mobile
receiver capabilities is the method proposed here that would send a release-
independent indication of receiver support to the network in the Mobile
Station Classmark 3 Information Element and the Mobile Station Radio Access
Capability Information Element. We welcome the input of operators and
especially network manufacturers on this topic so that we may address it in a
timely manner in the core specification phase to follow.
In addition to a fundamental method of informing the network of the mobile
station\'s basic receiver capabilities, it may be desirable to introduce an
additional, more granular method of signalling for the purpose of managing
EGPRS link adaptation when advanced receivers are used.
## 10.5 References
[1], Tdoc GP-023100, \"SAIC: discussion on signalling requirements\",
(Motorola; TSG GERAN #12, Sophia Antipolis, France), November 18^th^ --
22^nd^, 2002.
[2], Tdoc GP-032105, \"SAIC: signalling issues and alternatives, (Motorola;
TSG GERAN #16, New York City, U.S.A.), August 25^th^ -- 29^th^, 2003.
[3], Tdoc GAHS-030046, \"Signalling support for SAIC\", (Siemens; 3GPP TSG-
GERAN SAIC Workshop #3; Schaumburg, IL, USA), 28-30 October 2003.
[4], Tdoc GP-032569, \" Impact of SAIC on radio resource management\", (Nokia;
3GPP TSG-GERAN #17 Budapest, Hungary), November 17^th^ -- 21^st^, 2003.
[5], 3GPP TS 24.008, \"3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group GSM EDGE Radio Access Network; Mobile radio interface
layer 3 specification, Core network protocols Stage 3 specification\", (3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Technical Specification (TS)).
[6], 3GPP TS 45.008, \"3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network; Radio subsystem link
control\", (3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Technical
Specification (TS)).
[7], Tdoc GP-032615, \"SAIC signalling aspects, (Nortel; TSG GERAN #17,
Budapest, Hungary), November 17^th^ -- 21^st^, 2003.
# 11 Conclusions
The work item associated with the SAIC feasibility study was approved at GERAN
#12 in November of 2002. Since that time a significant amount of work has been
accomplished to determine if SAIC is a feasible technology for deployment in
GSM networks. Based on this vast body of work, which has only been briefly
summarized in this document, it is the conclusion of WG1 that SAIC is indeed a
very viable and feasible technology, and that when applied to GMSK modulation
and fully deployed, will provide significant gains in voice capacity in
interference-limited networks, both synchronous and asynchronous. For example,
SAIC was shown to support voice capacity gains ranging from 37.8% to 53.1% for
a fractionally loaded, synchronous network with 1/1 reuse and frequency
hopping, representative of a highly loaded U.S. deployment. (configuration 3).
The gains for an asynchronous network employing 1/3 reuse with frequency
hopping, which is representative of a possible European deployment were an
equally impressive 34.3% (configuration 4). Even for a blocking-limited
deployment (configuration 1), SAIC was shown to support a higher percentage of
satisfied users, 99.5% compared to 96.1%. In addition, SAIC was also found to
support modest increases in GPRS data throughput for the data traffic models
considered.
A very thorough procedure was defined for developing system simulation
results, which modelled the SAIC receiver performance as accurately as
possible for both synchronous and asynchronous networks. This procedure
included the conduction of initial system level simulations to determine the
relevant interference statistics for the four network configurations
considered. These statistics, which were defined in terms of each
interferer\'s power relative to the dominant interferer, were then used in a
link level characterization to generate not only the traditional \'long-term\'
average BER and FER as function of long-term, average CIR, but also the
\'burst\' BER as function of burst CIR and DIR. This latter burst
characterization formed the basis of the link-to-system level mapping tables,
which were then used in a separate system simulation to determine the
estimated voice capacity and data throughput gains.
It is important to note that due to complexity constraints in system
simulators, that all of the current simulators developed by the participating
companies are synchronous in nature. Thus, the synchronous results are
expected to be of a higher fidelity than the asynchronous results. That said,
great care was taken to characterize the link level performance for
asynchronous conditions so as to develop a second set of mapping tables. These
latter mapping tables were then used in the synchronous system simulators to
estimate performance in asynchronous networks. One other point to note is that
these system simulators are fairly complex and even though a common set of
assumptions were agreed to, it is not always possible to duplicate results
from one company to the next. In addition, most companies used mapping tables
based on their own SAIC receivers, which added even more variability to the
comparison. However, for those configurations where multiple results were
developed, the results were found to be fairly consistent, thus, showing SAIC
to be fairly robust at least in the simulator world.
Other key conclusions that can be drawn from this study include the following:
  * Capacity gain due to SAIC is not linearly related to SAIC terminal penetration. Hence, for low to moderate terminal penetration rates, SAIC is expected to provide its primary benefit in terms of immediate improvement in call quality (and GPRS throughput), with the secondary benefit of modest system capacity gain. For high terminal penetration rates (>70-80%), SAIC is expected to provide both, improvement in call quality as well as large gain in overall system capacity.
```{=html}
``` \- There is no degradation to legacy MSs in terms of voice quality
statistics as SAIC MSs are introduced. In fact, there is a decrease in the
outage probability of legacy MSs due to a higher overall C/I environment
resulting from the lower transmit powers of SAIC MSs.
  * For the mix of voice and data traffic considered (70% voice, 30% data), the GPRS throughput as a function of voice load is \~2.5-13.5% for web browsing, and \~7-37% for FTP/MMS applications.
  * SAIC was shown to experience no degradation in the midst of 8-PSK interference, and in fact, provided some gain, albeit less than what is achieved for GMSK interference.
  * In both asynchronous and synchronous field trials, SAIC prototypes were able to demonstrate significant increases in the measured CIR (C/I) distribution. In the asynchronous case, an increase in the CIR of 2.7 dB at the 10% cdf point was observed for the most highly loaded condition. For the synchronous case a gain of 4.5 dB was observed.
  * A practical SAIC solution for 8-PSK modulation has not been identified to date. It is expected that a \'joint demodulation\' based receiver with a reduced number of states will be required.
Another important aspect of SAIC addressed by this study is how to test SAIC
capable MSs in a laboratory environment to establish the performance values
that will ultimately go into the next version of the GSM specifications.
Clause 9 of this document addressed this issue, and identified some of the key
elements required in testing to insure that a tested MS will have the desired
SAIC capability. At the time of this writing test scenarios were already being
finalized for both synchronous and asynchronous conditions. Finally, in clause
10, two signalling options were identified, which allow the MS to indicate to
the network that it is SAIC capable. This capability was judged to be
important, since the network could possibly exploit this information in
dynamic frequency planning to further increase system capacity. The two basic
options considered were to make this feature either release dependent or
release independent. At the close of this feasibility study, the
recommendation of at least one of the operators, and the generally preferred
approach of WG1 is to make this signalling capability a release independent
feature, which would be indicated by the MS Classmark 3 Information Element
and the MS Radio Access Capability Information Element.
The remainder of this clause addresses the specific impacts to the
specification to ensure that future MSs have an SAIC capability.
## 11.1 Specification impacts
The following two sub-clauses identify the Core and Testing Specifications
that will be impacted by the addition of an SAIC capability to MSs.
## 11.1.1 Core specifications
* * *
**Clause No** **Title** **Analysis** **TS and clause number** 6.3 Reference
Interference Level Test scenarios and performance requirements TS 45.005
V6.6.0 10.5.1.7 Mobile Station Classmark 3 SAIC capability indication TS
24.008 V6.5.0 10.5.5.12a Mobile Station Radio Access Capability SAIC
capability indication TS 24.008 V6.5.0
* * *
## 11.1.2 Testing specifications
* * *
**Clause No** **Title** **Analysis** **TS and clause number** 14.4 Receiver,
Co-channel rejection MS conformance tests TS 51.010-1 V5.9.0 14.16.2 GPRS
Receiver, Co-channel rejection MS conformance tests TS 51.010-1 V5.9.0
* * *
#