# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Energy saving is important for operators\' operational efficiency. Energy
consumption is a significant operational cost factor, for example in
developing markets, up to 30% of OPEX is spent on energy. For one operator
group, almost 80% of base stations in Africa and India use diesel as the
primary or as a backup power source. Furthermore, base stations account up to
80% of the total CO~2~ emissions in a mobile operator network. Many operators
have a target to cut CO~2~ emissions as part of their environmental
objectives. With increasing voice usage, data usage (e.g. introduction of
smart phones, MTC devices, etc.) and more dense networks, the thirst for
energy consumption is expected to increase further, hence, motivating the need
for low energy base station technology. Increasing the energy efficiency of
base stations or reducing the energy consumption of base stations will also
facilitate the possibility for operators to power all types of base stations
with alternative fuels and rely less on fossil fuels either from diesel
generators or from the electricity grid.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a study into BTS energy saving solutions. The
document analyses and evaluates different solutions to determine the benefits
provided compared to the legacy BTS energy consumption.
In the scope of this study there are following solutions:
\- Reduction of Power on the BCCH carrier (potentially enabling dynamic
adjustment of BCCH power)
\- Reduction of power on DL common control channels
\- Reduction of power on DL channels in dedicated mode, DTM and packet
transfer mode
\- Deactivation of cells (e.g. Cell Power Down and Cell DTX like concepts as
discussed in RAN [4])
\- Deactivation of other RATs in areas with multi-RAT deployments, for
example, where the mobile station could assist the network to suspend/minimize
specific in-use RATs at specific times of day
\- And any other radio interface impacted power reduction solutions
The solutions will also consider the following aspects:
\- Impacts on the time for legacy and new mobile stations to gain access to
service from the BTS
\- Impacts on legacy and new mobile stations to keep the ongoing service
(without increasing drop rate)
\- Impacts on legacy and new mobile stations implementation and power
consumption, e.g. due to reduction in DL power, cell (re-)selection
performance, handover performance, etc.
\- Impacts on UL/DL coverage balance, especially to CS voice
Solutions will be considered for both BTS energy saving non-supporting and
supporting mobile stations (i.e. solutions that are non-backwards compatible
towards legacy mobile stations will be out of the scope of this study).
The contents of the present document when stable will determine the
modifications to existing GERAN specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] ETSI TS 102 706, \"Energy Efficiency of Wireless Access Network
Equipment\".
[4] 3GPP TR 25.927, \"Solutions for Energy Savings within UTRA NodeB\",
V.10.0.0
[5] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[6] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[7] 3GPP TR 45.913: \"Optimized transmit pulse shape for downlink Enhanced
General Packet Radio Service (EGPRS2-B)\".
[8] 3GPP TR 45.050: \"Background for Radio Frequency (RF) requirements\".
[9] 3GPP TR 45.914: \"Circuit switched voice capacity evolution for GSM/EDGE
Radio Access Network (GERAN)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**busy hour:** one hour period during which occurs the maximum total load in a
given 24-hour period
**busy hour load:** average BTS load during busy hour
**energy efficiency** : relation between the useful output and energy/power
consumption
**low load:** average BTS load during time when there is only very low traffic
in network
**medium term load:** defined BTS load level between busy hour and low load
levels
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AFS Adaptive multirate Fullrate Speech
AHS Adaptive multirate Halfrate Speech
APD Average Power Decrease
BBU Base Band Unit
BHT Busy Hour Traffic
BTS Base Transceiver Station
DARP Downlink Advanced Receiver Performance
EGPRS Enhanced General Packet Radio Service
EGPRS2 Enhanced General Packet Radio Service phase 2
FTP File Transfer Protocol
GoS Grade of Service
IRC Interference Rejection Combining
LA Link Adaptation
MCBTS Multi-Carrier BTS
MCPA Multi-Carrier Power Amplifier
NC1 Network Control mode 1
RE Radio Equipment
SAIC Single Antenna Interference Cancellation
SCPA Single Carrier Power Amplifier
TRX Transceiver
VAMOS Voice services over Adaptive Multi-user channels on One Slot
# 4 Study Considerations
This clause depicts considerations on appropriate network scenarios and on
qualitative analysis of the BTS energy consumption.
## 4.1 Network Scenario Considerations
All the scenarios to be studied in BTS energy saving are listed in this
subclause. The scenarios should consider deployment, GERAN configuration (e.g.
CS+PS resource dimensioning, EGPRS, EGPRS2), cell utilization, etc.
Below is a list of aspects that could be used to characterize the energy
saving scenarios:
\- Deployment and coverage:
\- GERAN only, multi cell, single band, 900 coverage layer
\- GERAN only, multi cell, single band, 1800 capacity layer
\- GERAN only, multi cell, dual band with 900 coverage layer, 1800 capacity
layer
\- BTS type and configuration:
\- Number of sectors and carriers
\- SCPA (Normal BTS) and MCPA (MCBTS)
\- The following traffic and load models are assumed:
\- SDCCH configuration model
\- Traffic load profiles for low load, medium term load and busy hour load
subscriber traffic (derived from ETSI TS 102 706 [3], Annex D)
\- Backward compatibility to previous MS releases
## 4.2 Energy Consumption of BTS
This clause contains a qualitative analysis of energy consumption breakdown of
current BTSs for different antenna/carrier configurations, topologies and DL
and UL loading scenarios.
The components listed below are the main parts in a BTS energy consumption
breakdown, containing BBU, REs, power supply, coaxial feed, and other related
consumptions. The relation in Table 4.2-1 is summarized based on a variety of
configurations of BTSs under a low load assumption specified as 10% in ETSI TS
102 706 [3].
Table 4.2-1: Power Consumption breakdown of a BTS
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BTS component | Qualitative contribution to | | | | | | Total Power Consumption of BTS | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Base Band Unit (BBU) | Medium | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Radio Equipments (RE) | High | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Primary DC Power Supply (i.e. | Medium | | rectifiers, battery) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Coaxial feed | Medium | | pressurization/dehydration | | | | (vary with feeder length and | | | diameter) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Other related consumption(like | Low | | fan, lighting, alarm, etc.） | | | | (under typical environmental | | | conditions) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
From Table 4.2-1, the BTS component RE appears to contribute the most to the
total BTS power consumption. However, the qualitative analysis above does not
take into consideration the different permutations of BTS type and
configuration, which can influence alternative energy saving solutions and is
an important aspect in the definitions of the scenarios.
# 5 Objectives
This clause describes how to evaluate the solutions and the rules for adopting
energy saving solution into this technical report. To this purpose performance
and compatibility objectives are defined. For each objective an evaluation
metric will be defined for benchmarking the proposed candidate solutions. A
candidate solution will not be necessarily discarded, if it does not fulfil a
particular objective, but this will be taken into account in the overall
evaluation of the candidate solution and in the comparison against other
candidate solutions.
## 5.1 Performance Objectives: energy efficiency target
The energy efficiency will be measured in terms of relative energy savings in
% versus a reference configuration, where the reference configuration does not
apply any energy saving mechanism and is based on the configuration specified
in subclause 6.1 and based on the agreed minimum GoS requirements as stated in
subclause 5.2.1 and 5.2.2 and the fulfillment of the requirement stated in
subclause 5.2.3. The relative energy savings are to be evaluated in regard to
TRX power consumption and in regard to average RF output power as stated in
subclause 6.6.2.
## 5.2 Compatibility Objectives
There are seven compatibility objectives defined for this study.
### 5.2.1 Avoid impact to voice user call quality
The introduction of a candidate solution will minimize degradation of voice
quality as perceived by the user. The acceptable limit for the call blocking
rate is less than 2%. For the candidate solution the call qualitywill fulfil
the target of at least 95% of satisfied users, where the call FER, determined
as average FER over the entire call duration, will be less than 2% for FR
codecs and less than 3% for HR codecs. The percentage of satisfied users will
be recorded for the reference case and the candidate solution.
### 5.2.2 Avoid impact to data user session quality
The introduction of a candidate solutionwill minimize degradation of active
data sessions for the user. The degradation of the session throughput will be
recorded at the 10th, 50th and 90th percentiles of the session throughput
cumulative distribution function.
### 5.2.3 Avoid impact to cell (re)selection and handover
Impact to cell (re)selection and handover should be minimized with any
candidate solution, in that additional cell reselections and handovers
compared to the reference case will be minimized. The call drop rate will not
be higher than 0.2% for the reference case and the candidate solution. If the
reference case does not meet this call drop rate level, the call drop rate of
the candidate solution will not be worse compared to the reference case.
### 5.2.4 Support of legacy MSs
Legacy MS types will be supported.
### 5.2.5 Implementation impacts to new MSs
The introduction of any candidate solution proposed under this study should
avoid changes to MS hardware. Additional complexity in terms of processing
power and memory should be kept to a minimum for a new MS. Impacts to power
consumption should be avoided.
### 5.2.6 Implementation impacts to BSS
The introduction of any candidate solution proposed under this study should
change BSS hardware as little as possible and HW upgrades to the BSS should be
avoided.
### 5.2.7 Impacts to network planning
Impacts to network planning and frequency reuse will be avoided.
# 6 Common Assumptions
This clause lists the common assumptions for the evaluation of candidate
solutions.
## 6.1 Reference Configuration
The reference configuration described hereafter is derived from that specified
in Annex D, Table D.1 of ETSI TS 102 706 [3].
Table 6.1-1 below describes the load conditions for various load levels and
site configurations. The BCCH TRX is active in every site configuration and
for different load levels. The busy hour traffic figures for the three site
configurations listed in the rightmost column are taken from Table 6.3-1.
Table 6.1-1: Load model for different site configuration and offered load
level
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | **Low load** | **Medium term |** Busy hour | | | | load**| load** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load for S222 | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | | | all TS except | all TS except | all TS except | | | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | | | allocated for | allocated for | allocated for | | | user traffic | user traffic | user traffic | | | | | | | | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | | | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | | | for user | for user | for user | | | traffic | traffic | traffic | | | | | | | | - Mean | - Mean | - Mean | | | Traffic load | Traffic load | traffic load | | | per sector: | per sector: | per sector: | | | 20% of busy | 50% of busy | according to | | | hour (see | hour (see | busy hour (see | | | Table 6.3-1) | Table 6.3-1) | Table 6.3-1) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load for S444 | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | | | all TS except | all TS except | all TS except | | | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | | | allocated for | allocated for | allocated for | | | user traffic | user traffic | user traffic | | | | | | | | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | | | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | | | for user | for user | for user | | | traffic | traffic | traffic | | | | | | | | - Mean | - Mean | - Mean | | | Traffic load | Traffic load | traffic load | | | per sector: | per sector: | per sector: | | | 20% of busy | 50% of busy | according to | | | hour (see | hour (see | busy hour (see | | | Table 6.3-1) | Table 6.3-1) | Table 6.3-1) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load for S888 | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | | | all TS except | all TS except | all TS except | | (optional) | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | | | allocated for | allocated for | allocated for | | | user traffic | user traffic | user traffic | | | | | | | | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | | | all TS allowed | all TS per | all TS allowed | | | for user | each sector | for user | | | traffic | can be | traffic | | | | allocated and | | | | - Mean | remaining TS | - Mean | | | Traffic load | idle | traffic load | | | per sector: | | per sector: | | | 20% of busy | - Mean | according to | | | hour (see | traffic load | busy hour (see | | | Table 6.3-1) | per sector: | Table 6.3-1) | | | | 50% of busy | | | | | hour (see | | | | | Table 6.3-1) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load level | 6 hours | 10 hours | 8 hours | | duration | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The evaluation will be performed for configurations S222 and S444 and
optionally for configuration S888, since configurations S222 and S444 are
considered sufficient to prove gains in BTS energy saving. Dedicated
signalling channels (SDCCH) are modelled for each cell according to Table
6.1-2. The load model for these channels (i.e. channel usage for call set-up
phase, location signalling, etc.), the allocation of these channels (i.e. if
allocated on BCCH TRX and/or on any other TRX belonging to the cell) and the
energy saving method for these channels (i.e. applied power reduction/power
control method) need to be reported.
Table 6.1-2: Number of SDCCH channels per sector for each site configuration
and each load profile
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Site | Load | Load | Load | Load | | | Profile 1 | Profile 2 | Profile 3 | Profile 4 | | Co | | | | | | nfiguration | Low Traffic | Medium Term | High | High | | | Load | Traffic | Traffic | Traffic | | | | Load | Load | Load | | | (20% of | | | | | | BHT) with | (50% of | (100% of | (100% of | | | | BHT) with | BHT) with | BHT) with | | | 100 % FR | | | | | | codec | 100 % FR | 100% FR | 100% HR | | | | codec | codec | codec | | | | | | | | | | | | (optional) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S222 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S444 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S888 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 8 | | | | | | | | (optional) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The evaluation will be performed for load profiles 1 to 3, whilst load profile
4 is optional, since load profiles 1 to 3 are considered sufficient to prove
gains in BTS energy saving. **Reference deployment scenarios are listed in
subclause 6.4.**
## 6.2 Evaluation Metrics
Appropriate metrics for the evaluation by means of dynamic system simulations
need to be identified.
Two Radio Equipment (RE) related performance metrics for energy efficiency
evaluation are defined as reflected in the performance objective in clause
5.1:
\- RE Performance Metric 1: Gain in Cumulated TRX power consumption for all
TRXs belonging to a cell.
\- RE Performance Metric 2: Gain in Average RF output power for all TRXs
belonging to a cell.
For comparison of candidate techniques RE Performance Metric 1 has higher
priority than RE Performance Metric 2.
The evaluation should refer to energy savings in percent versus the reference
configuration specified in subclause 6.1. The method for evaluating the
performance gain is further described in subclause 6.6.2.
NOTE: Dynamic system simulations can be supported by measurements from real
networks.
## 6.3 Traffic Load profiles
The busy hour traffic for the three site configurations from Table 6.1-1 are
detailed in Table 6.3-1. CS voice traffic is 0,020 Erlangs/subscriber during
Busy Hour. **CCCH is allocated on one timeslot.**
Table 6.3-1: Load profiles for different site configuration
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Site | Load | Load | Load | Load | | | Profile 1 | Profile 2 | Profile 3 | Profile 4 | | Co | | | | | | nfiguration | Low Traffic | Medium Term | High | High | | | Load | Traffic | Traffic | Traffic | | | | Load | Load | Load | | | (20% of | | | | | | BHT) with | (50% of | (100% of | (100% of | | | | BHT) with | BHT) with | BHT) with | | | 100 % FR | | | | | | codec | 100 % FR | 100% FR | 100% HR | | | | codec | codec | codec | | | | | | | | | | | | (optional) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S222 | 4,8 Erlangs | 12,3 | 24,6 | 54,9 | | | | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | | | (3×1,6) | | | | | | | (3×4,1) | (3×8,2) | (3×18,3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S444 | 12,6 | 31,5 | 63,0 | 131,7 | | | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | | | | | | | | | (3×4,2) | (3×10,5) | (3×21,0) | (3×43,9) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S888 | 26,1 | 73,2 | 146,1 | 292,8 | | | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | | (optional) | | | | | | | (3×8,7) | (3×24,4) | (3×48,7) | (3×97,6) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The traffic load levels in Table 6.3-1 are derived from a call blocking rate
of 2% assumed for the busy hour traffic in load profile 3 and load profile 4
and from the indicated share of the busy hour load of load profile 3 in case
of load profile 1 and load profile 2. Table 6.3-1 is valid for the voice-only
scenario.
For the mixed voice/data scenario the traffic load levels need to be modified
to accommodate the traffic on data channels. _A straightforward way is to use
the same traffic load levels as for the voice only scenario depicted in Table
6.3-1 and reuse the call arrival model. For each call arrival it will be
decided with a probability of 70% that a voice call is requested and with a
probability of 30% that a data session is requested according to the entry in
Table 6.4-1. Note for each data user a session has a size of 800 kb according
to the data traffic model in Table 6.4-1. If this session was transported over
only 1 TS with an average throughput of only 10 kBit/s, then the session would
have a duration of 80 s, which is less than the assumed mean call duration of
90 s for a voice call. Hence the overall traffic load for the mixed voice/data
scenario is assumed to not exceed the one for the voice only scenario. The
traffic load for the data sessions for load profile 4 is derived from load
profile 3 in that it is equal._
_BCCH time slot allocation for both traffic scenarios related to voice and
data traffic is depicted in Table 6.4-1._
## 6.4 Reference deployment scenarios
Further detailing of deployment scenarios listed in clause 4.1 is of
importance to progress evaluations on identified candidate solutions.
Following settings are proposed for network parameters as depicted in Table
6.4-1 below.
**Table 6.4-1: Network parameters for site configurations defined in subclause
6.1**
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Parameter | Value | Unit | Comment | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Sectors per site | 3 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Frequency Band | 900 / 1800 | MHz | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Cell size | 2000 | m | Coverage layer | | | | | (900 MHz) as | | | 500 | m | investigated in | | | | | TR 45.050 Annex | | | | | Z.B.2.3 for MCBTS | | | | | | | | | | Capacity layer | | | | | (1800 MHz) as | | | | | investigated in | | | | | 3GPP TR 45.913 | | | | | and 45.914 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BCCH frequency | 4/12 | | BCCH frequency | | re-use | | | reuse applied | | | | | also in WIDER, | | | | | see 3GPP TR | | | | | 45.913, and | | | | | MUROS, see 3GPP | | | | | TR 45.914, | | | | | feasibility | | | | | studies. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BCCH TS | TN 0 | | BCCH/CCCH, | | occupation | | | multiple CCCH not | | | []{.underline} | | used. | | | | | | | | [Traffic scenario | | TS for TCH in the | | | 1]{.underline} | | voice only | | | (Voice only): TN | | scenario | | | 1...7 | | excluding TS on | | | | | BCCH carrier | | | [Traffic scenario | | allocated to | | | 2]{.underline} | | SDCCH. | | | (Mixed voice/data | | | | | scenario): | | TS for TCH in the | | | | | mixed voice / | | | for low load / | | data scenario | | | medium term load: | | excluding TS on | | | | | BCCH carrier | | | TS occupation for | | allocated to | | | voice and data | | SDCCH. | | | flexible | | | | | | | The SDCCH | | | for busy hour | | allocation needs | | | load: | | to be described | | | | | for the candidate | | | voice: TN 5...7 | | technique (see | | | | | subclause 6.1). | | | data: TN 1...4 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | TCH frequency | Configuration | | TCH frequency | | re-use | 2/2/2: | | reuse figures | | | | | depend on the | | | 1/1 and 3/9 for | | site | | | RF synthesizer | | configuration | | | hopping | | under | | | | | investigation and | | | 3/9 for baseband | | the frequency | | | hopping | | hopping type. | | | | | Site | | | Configuration | | configurations | | | 4/4/4: | | are according to | | | | | subclause 6.1 . | | | 1/1 and 3/9 for | | | | | RF synthesizer | | For baseband | | | hopping | | hopping the BCCH | | | | | carrier is | | | 3/9 for baseband | | included in the | | | hopping | | hopping set. | | | | | | | | Configuration | | Information on | | | 8/8/8 (optional): | | the frequency | | | | | hopping type, on | | | 1/1 and 3/9 for | | MA length, on | | | RF synthesizer | | MAIO allocation | | | hopping | | and on how the | | | | | imposed bandwidth | | | 3/9 for baseband | | restriction for | | | hopping | | hopping carriers | | | | | is taken into | | | | | account in the | | | | | modelling should | | | | | be reported. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Frequency | 21 frequencies | | BCCH frequencies | | Allocation | (12 + 9) | | and TCH | | | | | frequencies | | Site | 39 frequencies | | separated by 1 | | configuration | (12 + 27) | | guard frequency | | 2/2/2 | | | (0.2 MHz) | | | 75 frequencies | | | | Site | (12 + 63) | | | | configuration | | | | | 4/4/4 | | | | | | | | | | Site | | | | | configuration | | | | | 8/8/8 | | | | | | | | | | (optional) | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Bandwidth of BCCH | 2.4 MHz | | | | layer | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Bandwidth of TCH | 1.8 MHz | | TCH on adjacent | | layer | | | freq. | | | 5.4 MHz | | | | Site | | | TCH on adjacent | | configuration | 12.6 MHz | | freq. | | 2/2/2 | | | | | | | | TCH on adjacent | | Site | | | freq. | | configuration | | | | | 4/4/4 | | | | | | | | | | Site | | | | | configuration | | | | | 8/8/8 | | | | | | | | | | (optional) | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Path loss model | Okumura-Hata | | ETSI TS 102 706 | | | | | | | | | | - rural (cell | | | | | size 2000 m) | | | | | | | | | | - urban (cell | | | | | size 500 m) | | | | | | | | | | A description on | | | | | modelling short | | | | | distances should | | | | | be provided. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Log-normal fading | 6 | dB | ETSI TS 102 706 | | st.dev | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Correlation | 110 | m | | | distance | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Inter-site | 50 | \% | | | log-normal | | | | | correlation | | | | | coefficient | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Handover margin | 3 | dB | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS output power | 43 | dBm | Other output | | for BCCH carrier | | | power levels may | | and other | | | in addition be | | carriers | | | used in the study | | | | | but need to be | | | | | indicated. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS antenna | 40 | m | ETSI TS 102 706 | | height | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS Sector | 65º deg H-plane,\ | dBi | UMTS 30.03 | | antenna pattern | max TX gain 18 | | (modified from | | | | | assumption in | | | | | ETSI\ | | | | | TS 102 706) | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS feeder and | 3 | dB | ETSI TS 102 706 | | connector loss | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS sensitivity\ | | dBm\ | implementation | | BTS noise figure | | dB | dependent | | | | | | | | | | implementation | | | | | dependent | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS output power | 31 (GSM 900) | dBm | ETSI TS 102 706 | | | | | | | | 28 (DCS 1800) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | RACH power | Disabled | | | | reduction | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS antenna height | 1.5 | m | ETSI TS 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS antenna gain | 0 | dBm | ETSI TS 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS sensitivity | -104\ | dBm\ | ETSI TS 102 706 | | | 8 | dB | | | MS noise figure | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Body loss | 3 | dB | ETSI TS 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Indoor/Outdoor | 0 / 100 | \% | Outdoor users are | | users | | | more interesting | | | | | in a | | | | | res | | | | | election/handover | | | | | study. This will | | | | | effectively | | | | | eliminate the | | | | | impact of | | | | | building | | | | | penetration loss | | | | | listed in ETSI TS | | | | | 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Traffic scenarios | 100 % voice users | | **First priority | | | | | for evaluation** | | Traffic scenario | 70 % voice users, | | | | 1 | 30 % data users | | **Second priority | | | | | for evaluation** | | Traffic scenario | | | | | 2 | | | **Note VAMOS | | | | | channels are not | | | | | included for | | | | | voice.** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Average power | 0,2,..,APDmax | dB | **L** evel chosen | | decrease (APD) | | | according to | | for voice | | | power control. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Average power | GMSK: 0 dB | | | | decrease (APD) | | | | | for data | 8PSK: 4.0 dB\ | | | | | 16QAM: 6.0 dB\ | | | | | 32QAM: 6.0 dB | | | | | | | | | | (Values from | | | | | 3GPP\ | | | | | TS 45.008) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Average power | APDmax | dB | **Pre-CCCH | | decrease (APD) | | | timeslot has | | for dummy bursts | | | APDmax = 3 dB.** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Speech codecs | FR: AFS 12.2 and | | **FR codecs are | | | AFS 5.9 HR: AHS | | evaluated at all | | | 5.9 and GSM HR | | traffic load | | | | | levels.** | | | | | | | | | | **HR codecs are | | | | | only evaluated at | | | | | busy hour traffic | | | | | load level and | | | | | are optional | | | | | (load profile | | | | | 4).** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DARP phase I | Traffic scenario | | **See clause | | penetration rate | 1: 60% | | 6.5.8.** | | | | | | | | Traffic scenario | | | | | 2: 60% for voice | | | | | users, 100% for | | | | | data users | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | AMR codec mode | Disabled | | | | adaptation | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DTX on DL/UL | Enabled | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Channel | Description of | | Information | | allocation | channel | | should be | | strategy | allocation | | provided (e.g. | | | strategy | | allocation | | | | | priority for | | | | | channel on BCCH | | | | | layer / TCH layer | | | | | and other | | | | | criteria). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Handover | Penalty in terms | | Vendor specific | | | of speech frame | | penalty. | | | erasures during | | **Aligned to | | | handover to be | | MUROS TR 45.913** | | | taken into | | | | | account for DL | | Information on | | | and UL. | | enabling of | | | | | intra-cell | | | | | handovers and on | | | | | HO penalty size | | | | | for inter-/ | | | | | intra-cell | | | | | handovers should | | | | | be provided. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DL Repeated FACCH | Optional | | assumed to be | | | | | supported by | | | | | legacy MS | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | nabling/disabling | | | | | should be | | | | | reported. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Repeated SACCH | Disabled | | not supported by | | | | | legacy MS | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Voice call model | - Poisson | | **Aligned to | | | distributed call | | MUROS\ | | | arrivals and | | TR 45.913** | | | exponential call | | | | | durations. - mean | | | | | call duration: 90 | | | | | sec - min. call | | | | | duration: 5 sec. | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Data traffic | - PS data | | **In WIDER TR | | model | transfer size per | | 45.913 FTP | | | session: 100 kB | | service with 1 MB | | | | | file size has | | | - MCS belonging | | been assumed.** | | | to GPRS and EGPRS | | | | | to be used in | | **In GERAN | | | phase 1 of the | | Evolution TR | | | study. MCS for | | 45.912 FTP | | | EGPRS2 to be used | | service with 100 | | | in phase 2 of the | | and 120 kB was | | | study. | | assumed aside | | | | | HTTP traffic.** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Link adaptation | Enabled | | LA kept vendor | | | | | specific | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Fading channel | Typical Urban | | | | profile | (TU) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Paging cycle | BS_PA_MFRMS = 4 | | **relevant for MS | | | | | measurements in | | | (4*235.38 ms = | | idle mode.** | | | 941.5 ms) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Number of cells | 12 | | **relevant for | | in neighbour cell | | | measurements in | | list | | | idle and | | | | | connected mode** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Number of | 6 | | **signalled in | | reported | | | normal | | neighbour cells | | | measurement | | | | | reporting** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Reselection | C2 = C1 | | **Represents the | | criteria | | | default case in | | | | | TS 45.008, i.e. | | | | | no additional | | | | | parameters for | | | | | cell reselection | | | | | are broadcast** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS velocity | 3 km/h and 50 | | **3 km/h | | | km/h | | evaluated for all | | | | | scenarios** | | | | | | | | | | **50 km/h only | | | | | evaluated for | | | | | certain | | | | | scenarios, see | | | | | subclause 6.5.7** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
A high level description of the user mobility model should be provided.
Information in regard to the traffic load creation and handling of service
area border effects may be beneficial to be reported. Other simulation
parameters such as simulated time, network size, usage of propagation wrap
around need to be reported.
## 6.5 MS characteristics
The need for clarification of MS related procedures has been raised during the
study in order to create a simplistic model for measurement sampling,
averaging and cell reselection procedures and handover preparation in the MS.
These items are subject for discussion with MS manufacturers and feedback was
requested to derive such a model. Behaviour of legacy MS in field and new MS
has to be distinguished. Deviations from the common assumptions stated in this
clause need to be reported.
### 6.5.1 BCCH carrier power measurement sampling {#bcch-carrier-power-
measurement-sampling .list-paragraph}
#### 6.5.1.1 Idle mode
In idle mode, information was provided during Telco#1 on BTSEnergy, that the
measurement window of the MS for monitoring signal strength of serving cell
and neighbour cells is enlarged compared to connected mode, but it is
sufficiently different from selecting a time slot on random basis between 0
and 7. Measurements in idle mode are not taken in a continuous manner, since
the MS will enter DRX periods and only measure during active periods between
two DRX periods. Feedback received from MS manufacturers so far indicates that
all BCCH measurements, performed for serving cell and neighbour cells, are
done in the time interval where the MS listens to its paging block.
The minimum performance requirement for cell selection in idle mode is
specified in TS 45.008 in subclause 6.6.1:
Whilst in idle mode an MS will continue to monitor all BCCH carriers as
indicated by the BCCH allocation (BA ‑ See table 1). A running average of
received signal level (RLA_C) in the preceding 5 to:
Max {5 , ((5 * N + 6) DIV 7) * BS_PA_MFRMS / 4}
seconds will be maintained for each carrier in the BCCH allocation. N is the
number of non‑serving cell BCCH carriers in BA and the parameter BS_PA_MFRMS
is defined in 3GPP TS 45.002.
The same number of measurement samples will be taken for all non‑serving cell
BCCH carriers of the BA list, and the samples allocated to each carrier will
as far as possible be uniformly distributed over each evaluation period. At
least 5 received signal level measurement samples are required per RLA_C
value. New sets of RLA_C values will be calculated as often as possible.
Hence at least 5 samples need to be taken in a period no shorter than 5
seconds for all neighbour cells ( i.e. Max {5 , ((5 * N + 6) DIV 7) *
BS_PA_MFRMS / 4}). Consequently the number of neighbour cells N is an
important parameter to define the length of the averaging period. The meaning
of the above formula in TS 45.008 is an important clue to help identify
mobiles behaviour. Figure 6.5-1 below shows an example for neighbour cell
monitoring in idle mode.
Figure 6.5-1 Example for MS neighbour cell monitoring in idle mode.
The MS belonging to P1 paging group needs to monitor downlink CCCH for paging.
During reading paging messages there are totally 28(7*4) idle slots for
mobiles to monitor neighbour cells (7 timeslots in each frame). The time for
each neighbour cell measurement is consisted of the monitoring time for
measurements and the switching time between two neighbour BCCH frequencies. To
guarantee the time for measurements is sufficiently long it can be assumed
that during this period totally 7 samples are made for neighbour cells (i.e.
the sampling is made every 4 timeslots). Suppose for each neighbour cell 5
samples are made then the total number of paging blocks which completes the
measurement for all neighbour cells reach to (5 * N + 6) DIV 7). Since the
period for each paging group equals to 240 ms* BS_PA_MFRMS (≈BS_PA_MFRMS/4),
the total time for samples averaging approximately equals to ((5 * N + 6) DIV
7) * BS_PA_MFRMS / 4.
From the above analysis we can assume that when 5 samples are required for
each neighbour cell and sampling is made every 4 timeslots (7 samples are
collected in each paging reading), the averaging time reaches to ((5 * N + 6)
DIV 7) * BS_PA_MFRMS / 4.
It is thus necessary to define typical values for the mentioned parameters
including BS_PA_MFRMS, number of neighbour cells and number of samples to be
taken into account in the performance evaluations. At GERAN#50 agreement was
found on following parameters in Table 6.5-1.
Table 6.5-1: Parameters for MS measurements in idle mode
* * *
Parameters Value Number of neighbour cells 12 BS_PA_MFRMS 4 Number of samples
per neighbour cell for cell (re)selection 5
* * *
Based on these figures, the minimum requirement as depicted in TS 45.008
related to cell (re)selection can be derived. In addition measurement patterns
for neighbour cells in idle mode can be derived based on the assumption that
sampling is made every 4 timeslots in the non-DRX mode as depicted above.
#### 6.5.1.2 Connected mode
In connected mode it is assumed that the MS performs only 1 neighbour cell
BCCH power measurement per TDMA frame. This would be rather on the same time
slot (e.g. on time slot preceding DL receive timeslot or any other suitable
time slot). Note this assumption is expected to apply for a multislot
supporting mobile, that has a bidirectional data transfer ongoing, such as
class 12 (4+1) and higher. Also for a MS handling voice service, it is
expected that one time slot per TDMA frame is available for sampling the
received power of one neighbour cell.
### 6.5.2 BCCH carrier power measurement accuracy
A sufficient large measurement sampling window of 64 symbols for idle and
connected mode at MS side is assumed, yielding a margin of ±1 dB for the
tolerances in regard to difference between power measurements as confirmed by
feedback of MS manufacturers. This figure is valid for a non-fading channel
only. The impact of the fading radio channel has to be superposed on top of
this level of accuracy.
### 6.5.3 BCCH carrier power measurement averaging
The MS behaviour related to averaging of neighbour cell measurements in idle
mode is described in subclause 6.5.1.1.
In the connected mode, TS 45.008, subclause 7.2, specifies that comparison of
averaged power measurements for neighbour cells will be based on the time
period of 2 SACCH block periods, in order to derive the need for BSIC
detection. Feedback received from MS manufacturers indicates that averaging of
serving cell and neighbour cell measurements is done per SACCH period. This
means that 100 TDMA frames are available if 4 search frames are used for BSIC
decoding and other measurement tasks. With the assumption stated in subclause
6.5.1 above that 1 neighbour cell BCCH can be measured per TDMA frame, which
is assumed to be valid both for legacy MS with voice calls or multislot MS as
depicted in subclause 6.5.1 above, and that the complete BA list is processed,
the number of measurements per neighbour cell for averaging then solely is
dependent on the length of the neighbour cell list N, i.e. N_av = int (100 /
N). For the agreed value of N = 12 (see table 6.5-1), the number of neighbour
cell measurement samples per SACCH period equals 8.
### 6.5.4 BSIC Decoding
The identification of suitable cells, i.e. the serving cell in case of idle
mode and neighbour cells in case of connected mode, is subject to successful
BSIC decoding, once the neighbour cell has sufficient signal strength. For
instance TS 45.008, subclause 6.6.1 describes the BSIC decoding requirement
for idle mode:
\- The MS will attempt to check the BSIC for each of the 6 strongest
non‑serving cell BCCH carriers at least every 30 seconds, to confirm that it
is monitoring the same cell.
Further TS 45.008 subclause 7.2 specifies the BSIC decoding requirement in
dedicated mode:
\- If, after averaging measurement results over 2 SACCH block periods, the MS
detects one or more BCCH carriers, among the 6 strongest, whose BSICs are not
currently being assessed, then the MS will as a matter of priority attempt to
decode their BSICs.
Modelling of the BSIC decoding process in idle and in connected mode, such as
defining a minimum radio channel quality for successful BSIC decoding, was
discussed during Telco#2. Feedback received from MS manufacturers indicates
that the overall impact of BSIC decoding is seen as low since the process is
much less executed than the frequent BCCH power measurements and a decoding
failure is unlikely to result in a cell (re)selection failure or a handover
failure. Thus no modelling of the BCCH decoding process is mandated for this
study. However for taking into account impact of neighbour cell quality during
preparation phase for handover and cell (re-)selection it may be useful to be
modelled.
### 6.5.5 Power reduction on TS preceding BCCH timeslot
No further power reduction on the timeslot preceding the BCCH or CCCH timeslot
is foreseen in comparison to what is allowed in TS 45.008 subclause 7.1 in
regard to modulations other than GMSK:
\- Furthermore, between a slot used for BCCH/CCCH and the slot preceding it,
the difference in output power actually transmitted by the BTS will not exceed
3 dB.
This includes output power tolerance on BTS transmitter side.
### 6.5.6 Handover, Cell Selection and Cell Reselection {#handover-cell-
selection-and-cell-reselection .list-paragraph}
The impact on cell selection and cell reselection performance will be
evaluated for each candidate solution against the reference case. The number
of cell reselections and handovers will be counted for the reference case and
the candidate solution in the evaluation period. The call drop rate will be
evaluated in all cases. The method to derive the call drop rate and the
handover failure rate need to be reported. For handover a penalty in terms of
speech frame erasures needs to be taken into account as described in Table
6.4-1. For cell (re-)selection NC1 mode is assumed.
### 6.5.7 Mobile velocity {#mobile-velocity .list-paragraph}
Mobile velocity of 3 km/h will be considered for all scenarios.
Mobile velocity of 50 km/h will be considered for low and medium traffic load
profiles, i.e. load profiles 1 and 2 in subclause 6.3, for both selected full
rate speech codecs, i.e. AFS 12.2 and AFS 5.9. In addition high traffic load
profiles, i.e. load profiles 3 and 4 in subclause 6.3, may be investigated.
The mobility model used in the performance evaluation will be described for
each candidate solution.
### 6.5.8 Mobile station types {#mobile-station-types .list-paragraph}
The MS types used in the evaluation need to be specified. A distinction is
done between traffic scenario 1 (voice only) and traffic scenario 2 (mix of
voice and data).
Traffic scenario 1: all MS are single TS mobiles (MSC=1) with DARP phase I
penetration rate of 60%.
Traffic scenario 2: MS with voice service: single TS (MSC=1) with DARP phase I
penetration rate of 60%,
MS with data service: MSC=12 with DARP Phase I penetration rate of 100%.
## 6.6 BTS characteristics
### 6.6.1 Network synchronization {#network-synchronization .list-paragraph}
The study will investigate both synchronized networks and asynchronous
networks.
For intra-site synchronization TDMA frame alignment is assumed in both cases.
For inter-site synchronization time slot alignment is assumed on random basis
with fixed offsets in case of synchronized networks, whilst neither TDMA frame
alignment nor multi-TDMA frame alignment is part of this assumption.
For inter-site synchronization no time slot or frame alignment (multi-frame,
TDMA frame, time slot) is assumed in case of asynchronous networks.
### 6.6.2 Modelling of TRX power consumption {#modelling-of-trx-power-
consumption .list-paragraph}
Modeling of TRX power consumption aspects is needed in order to accurately
model expected savings in BTS power consumption. Typically the power
consumption of a SCPA TRX is not linear, i.e. a 3 dB decrease in RF output
power does not correspond to a 50% decrease of TRX power consumption. Also
ramping down of a SCPA TRX may yield to higher energy savings than taken into
account in savings for the RF output power. This is similar for a BTS with
MCPA component. To take any non-linear dependency between RF output power and
actual TRX power consumption into account two metrics to quantify the relative
power savings during the performance evaluation are introduced based on the
definitions in clause 6.2:
\- RE Performance Metric 1: relative energy savings in % related to the
reference configuration
\- RE Performance Metric 2: relative energy savings in % related to the
reference configuration
Both metrics refer to the comparison of the candidate solution against the
reference configuration depicted in subclause 6.1 and will be related to the
BTS power consumption including BCCH TRX and non-BCCH TRX, or in case of MCPA
including total number of operated BCCH and TCH carriers.
# 7 Candidate Solution: BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Methodology
## 7.1 Introduction
This methodology is proposed to involve a dynamic power adjustment scheme to
each timeslot on BCCH carrier by traffic load.
## 7.2 Methodology
The methodology is applied to GMSK modulated BCCH carrier. Two variants have
been included. The value of X should be pre-set.
### 7.2.1 Variant 1
{width="5.995833333333334in" height="1.7125in"}
Figure 7.2-1: BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Method; Variant 1
\- The timeslots used as control channel (TS0, TS1, blue area) is transmitted
with maximum power.
\- For idle TCH timeslots (yellow area), the BCCH carrier is transmitted with
X dB power reduction.
\- During DTX active period (orange area) of TCH timeslots, the BCCH carrier
is transmitted with maximum power.
\- During DTX silence period (green area) of TCH timeslots, the BCCH carrier
is transmitted with X dB power reduction.
Table 7.2-1: Power Scheme of Variant 1
* * *
Timeslot Preceding Traffic Status DTX status BCCH Carrier Transmit Power
BCCH/SDCCH Idle N/A Maximum BCCH/SDCCH Busy N/A Maximum TCH Idle N/A Reduced
by X dB TCH Busy Active period Maximum TCH Busy Silence period Reduced by X dB
* * *
### 7.2.2 Variant 2
{width="6.844444444444444in" height="1.9465277777777779in"}
Figure 7.2-2: BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Method; Variant 2
\- The timeslots used as control channel (TS0, TS1, blue area) is transmitted
with maximum power.
\- For idle TCH timeslots (yellow area), the BCCH carrier is transmitted with
X dB power reduction.
\- During DTX active period (orange area) of TCH timeslots, power control
algorithm is applied to BCCH carrier, but the total reduced power is not
allowed to exceed X dB.
\- During DTX silence period (green area) of TCH timeslots, the BCCH carrier
is transmitted with X dB power reduction.
Table 7.2-2: Power Scheme of Variant 2
* * *
Timeslot Preceding Traffic Status DTX status BCCH Carrier Transmit Power
BCCH/SDCCH Idle N/A Maximum BCCH/SDCCH Busy N/A Maximum TCH Idle N/A Reduced
by X dB TCH Busy Active period Power control applied (reduction not exceed X
dB) TCH Busy Silence period Reduced by X dB
* * *
## 7.3 Evaluation
Three cases are simulated to compare:
**Reference case:** No BCCH power reduction is applied.
**Case 1:** Variant 1 is applied, with x = 2;
**Case 2:** Variant 2 is applied, with x = 2;
Assumptions are aligned to current common assumptions.
### 7.3.1 Simulation Assumptions
Table 7.3-1: Simulation Assumptions
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Parameter | Default Value | Unit | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Frequency band | 900 | MHz | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | BCCH frequency re-use | 4/12 | - | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TCH frequency re-use | 1/1 | | | | | | | | 3/9 | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Frequency Hopping | 1/1 for synthesizer hopping | - | | | | | | | 3/9 for baseband hopping | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Cell Size | 500 | m | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Network size | 84 cells | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Sectors (cells) per Site | 3 | - | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Sector Antenna Pattern | UMTS 30.03 | - | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Propagation Model | Okumura-Hata | dB | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Log-Normal Fading: Standard | 6 | dB | | Deviation | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Log-Normal Fading: | 110 | m | | Correlation Distance | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Log-Normal Fading: | 50 | \% | | Inter-Site Correlation | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Adjacent Channel | 18 | dB | | Interference Attenuation | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Fast Fading | Enabled | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Fast Fading Type | TU3 | km/hr | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Receiver Type | Conventional Receiver(DL | | | | EGC/ UL IRC) | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | SAIC penetration rate | 60 | \% | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Speech codec | AFS 12.2 | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Traffic mix | 100 % voice | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Indoor/outdoor users | 0/100 | \% | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
Table 7.3-2: Traffic Load Configuration
+--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | **Low load** | **Medium |** Busy hour | | | | load**| load** | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load for 222 | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | | | all TS except | all TS except | all TS except | | | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | | | allocated for | allocated for | allocated for | | | user traffic | user traffic | user traffic | | | | | | | | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | | | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | | | for user | for user | for user | | | traffic | traffic | traffic | | | | | | | | - Mean | - Mean | - Mean | | | Traffic load | Traffic load | traffic load | | | per sector: | per sector: | per sector: | | | 20% of busy | 50% of busy | according to | | | hour | hour | busy hour | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load for 444 | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | | | all TS except | all TS except | all TS except | | | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | | | allocated for | allocated for | allocated for | | | user traffic | user traffic | user traffic | | | | | | | | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | | | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | all TS allowed | | | for user | for user | for user | | | traffic | traffic | traffic | | | | | | | | - Mean | - Mean | - Mean | | | Traffic load | Traffic load | traffic load | | | per sector: | per sector: | per sector: | | | 20% of busy | 50% of busy | according to | | | hour | hour | busy hour | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Load for 888 | BCCH TRX: all | - BCCH TRX: | - BCCH TRX: | | | TS except TS0 | all TS except | all TS except | | | can be | TS0 can be | TS0 can be | | | allocated for | allocated for | allocated for | | | user traffic | user traffic | user traffic | | | | | | | | Other TRX: all | - Other TRX: | - Other TRX: | | | TS allowed for | all TS per | all TS allowed | | | user traffic | each sector | for user | | | | can be | traffic | | | - Mean | allocated and | | | | Traffic load | remaining TS | - Mean | | | per sector: | idle | traffic load | | | 20% of busy | | per sector: | | | hour | - Mean | according to | | | | traffic load | busy hour | | | | per sector: | | | | | 50% of busy | | | | | hour | | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 7.3-3: Load profiles for different site configuration
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Site | Load | Load | Load | Load | | | Profile 1 | Profile 2 | Profile 3 | Profile 4 | | Co | | | | | | nfiguration | Low Traffic | Medium | High | High | | | Load | Traffic | Traffic | Traffic | | | | Load | Load | Load | | | (20% of | | | | | | BHT) with | (50% of | (100% of | (100% of | | | | BHT) with | BHT) with | BHT) with | | | 100 % FR | | | | | | codec | 100 % FR | 100% FR | 100% HR | | | | codec | codec | codec | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S222 | 4,8 Erlangs | 12,3 | 24,6 | 54,9 | | | | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | | | (3×1,6) | | | | | | | (3×4,1) | (3×8,2) | (3×18,3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S444 | 12,6 | 31,5 | 63,0 | 131,7 | | | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | | | | | | | | | (3×4,2) | (3×10,5) | (3×21,0) | (3×43,9) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S888 | 26,1 | 73,2 | 146,1 | 292,8 | | | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | Erlangs | | | | | | | | | (3×8,7) | (3×24,4) | (3×48,7) | (3×97,6) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 7.3-4: Number of SDCCH channels per sector for each site configuration
and each load profile
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Site | Load | Load | Load | Load | | | Profile 1 | Profile 2 | Profile 3 | Profile 4 | | Co | | | | | | nfiguration | Low Traffic | Medium | High | High | | | Load | Traffic | Traffic | Traffic | | | | Load | Load | Load | | | (20% of | | | | | | BHT) with | (50% of | (100% of | (100% of | | | | BHT) with | BHT) with | BHT) with | | | 100 % FR | | | | | | codec | 100 % FR | 100% FR | 100% HR | | | | codec | codec | codec | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S222 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S444 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S888 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 8 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 7.3.2 Evaluations
#### 7.3.2.1 Impacts to Radiated Power and Power Consumption
Table 7.3-5: Average Tx power on all carriers including BCCH carrier
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | TCH | Site | Traffic | Reference | Case 1 | Case 2 | | Frequency | Conf | Load | Case | | | | Reuse | iguration | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | | (dBm) | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | 1/1 Reuse | S222 | Busy Hour | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | Busy Hour | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | Busy Hour | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | 3/9 Reuse | S222 | Busy Hour | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | Busy Hour | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | Busy Hour | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+
_[Editor\'s Note: Evaluation results for this metric need to be added.]_
Table 7.3-6: Average power consumption on all carriers including BCCH carrier
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | TCH | Site | Traffic | Reference | Case 1 | Case 2 | | Frequency | Conf | Load | Case | | | | Reuse | iguration | | | (Watt) | (Watt) | | | | | (Watt) | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | 1/1 Reuse | S222 | Busy Hour | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | Busy Hour | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | Busy Hour | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | 3/9 Reuse | S222 | Busy Hour | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | Busy Hour | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | Busy Hour | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+
> _[Editor\'s Note: Evaluation results for this metrics need to be added.]_
#### 7.3.2.2 Impacts to Call Quality
> The following table includes the percentage of satisfied users (FER ≤ 2%)
> for different load scenarios and site configurations.
Table 7.3-7 Percentage of satisfied users
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | TCH | Site | Uplink | Traffic | Re | Case 1 | Case 2 | | Fr | Config | or | Load | ference | | | | equency | uration | D | | Case | (100%) | (100%) | | Reuse | | ownlink | | | | | | | | | | (100%) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | 1/1 | S222 | UL | Busy | 99.57 | 98.71 | 97.86 | | Reuse | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 98.29 | 97.44 | 97.44 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 99.9 | 98.8 | 98 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | DL | Busy | 99.15 | 99.14 | 98.71 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 99.15 | 99.15 | 99.15 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 99.7 | 99.5 | 99.3 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | UL | Busy | 97.78 | 94.85 | 94.27 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 98.75 | 98.75 | 97.18 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 98.39 | 97.58 | 96.77 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | DL | Busy | 96.67 | 94.85 | 94.58 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 98.75 | 98.75 | 97.5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 99.42 | 99.23 | 99.19 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | UL | Busy | 94.72 | 93.69 | 93.42 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 98.06 | 97.93 | 96.84 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 98.58 | 98.23 | 97.52 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | DL | Busy | 93.37 | 92.52 | 91.93 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 97.69 | 96.96 | 96.84 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 98.58 | 97.86 | 97.51 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | 3/9 | S222 | UL | Busy | 97.83 | 97.79 | 97.69 | | Reuse | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 99.74 | 99.49 | 99.23 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 99.9 | 98.72 | 98.08 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | DL | Busy | 96.48 | 96.34 | 95.97 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 99.23 | 98.97 | 98.46 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 99.36 | 98.08 | 96.15 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | UL | Busy | 96.71 | 96.51 | 96.49 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 98.72 | 98.33 | 98.13 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 98.39 | 98.39 | 98.12 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | DL | Busy | 96.09 | 95.37 | 94.9 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 97.74 | 97.64 | 97.64 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 98.93 | 98.66 | 98.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | UL | Busy | 95.49 | 95.2 | 95.16 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 98.18 | 98.05 | 97.89 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 99.53 | 99.3 | 98.94 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | DL | Busy | 94.37 | 94.25 | 94.17 | | | | | Hour | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Medium | 97.72 | 97.43 | 96.64 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+ | | | | Low | 98.83 | 98.83 | 98.59 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+
From the evaluation results, the BCCH power reduction method decreases the
percentage of satisfied users. However, in most cases, this KPI still fulfills
the 95% target or within 2% degradation compare to reference case. During the
busy hours, the power reduction method does not performs well in S444
configuration, 1/1 reuse.
_[Editor\'s Note: The results of call quality should be further
investigated.]_
#### 7.3.2.3 Impacts to Handover
**HO modeling:** Use the link FER to determine whether SABM and UA frames are
successfully delivered. If the SABM and UA frames fail to be sent/received
after retry, a HO failure is marked.
**Call drop modeling:** 1\. HO failure may leads to a call drop; 2. Use the
link FER to determine whether SACCH frame is correctly transmitted. The
threshold for call drop depends on how many SACCH frame fails within an
interval.
**HO Penalty:** Penalty in terms of speech frame erasures during handover to
be taken into account for DL and UL. **Aligned to MUROS TR 45.913.**
Table 7.3-8: Handover number
* * *
TCH Frequency Reuse Site Configuration Traffic Load Reference Case Case 1 Case
2 1/1 Reuse S222 Busy Hour 188 185 183 Medium 70 63 60 Low 45 40 40 S444 Busy
Hour 1030 948 758 Medium 250 245 230 Low 78 75 75 S888 Busy Hour 2795 2750
2723 Medium 883 825 790 Low 195 193 178 3/9 Reuse S222 Busy Hour 685 628 610
Medium 240 233 223 Low 105 85 85 S444 Busy Hour 2323 2280 2178 Medium 840 788
780 Low 260 235 230 S888 Busy Hour 6033 5965 5870 Medium 2200 2190 2153 Low
608 603 598
* * *
> From the evaluation results, the total number of handover slightly decreases
> after power reduction method had been applied.
Table 7.3-9: Call Drop Rate
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | TCH | Site | Traffic | Reference | Case 1 | Case 2 | | Frequency | Conf | Load | Case | | | | Reuse | iguration | | | (100%) | (100%) | | | | | (100%) | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | 1/1 Reuse | S222 | Busy Hour | 0.03 | 0.05 | 0.09 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 0.02 | 0.03 | 0.05 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 0 | 0 | 0 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | Busy Hour | 0.05 | 0.07 | 0.11 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 0.03 | 0.05 | 0.08 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 0 | 0 | 0 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | Busy Hour | 0.09 | 0.13 | 0.20 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 0.05 | 0.08 | 0.11 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 0.05 | 0.07 | 0.10 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | 3/9 Reuse | S222 | Busy Hour | 0.02 | 0.03 | 0.05 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 0.01 | 0.02 | 0.04 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 0 | 0 | 0 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S444 | Busy Hour | 0.04 | 0.07 | 0.09 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 0.02 | 0.05 | 0.06 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 0 | 0.01 | 0.01 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | S888 | Busy Hour | 0.07 | 0.11 | 0.15 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Medium | 0.01 | 0.04 | 0.05 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+ | | | Low | 0 | 0.02 | 0.05 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+--------+--------+
> The call drop rate slightly increased while all cases are within the 0.2%
> target.
## 7.4 Conclusion
This methodology has impacts to network KPI. The total handover number
slightly decreases when it is applied. The percentage of satisfied users may
decrease but be within a 95% target in most cases, especially when the
reference case meets the target. It also has limited impacts to the call drop
rate.
## 7.5 Bibliography
[7-1] System Simulation on BCCH Carrier Power Reduction; ZTE Corporation. BTS
Energy Teleconference #1; 19th Jan 2011.
[7-2] GP110155 - BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Methodology; ZTE Corporation.
GERAN #49, Chengdu, Feb 28th \~ Mar 4th, 2011.
[7-3] BTSEnergy_simulation_Huawei; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; BTS Energy
Teleconference #3; 4th May 2011.
[7-4] GP110528 Enhancement on BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Methodology; ZTE
Corporation. GERAN #50, Dallas, May 16th \~ May 20th, 2011.
[7-5] GP-111210 BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Methodology; ZTE Corporation.
GERAN #51, Goteborg, Sweden, August 29th \~ September 2nd, 2011.
[7-6] BTS Energy Draft TR459xx GSM BTS Energy Saving v010; SI Rapporteur,
GERAN #51, Goteborg, Sweden, 29th August \~ 2nd September 2011.
[7-7] GP-111210 BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Methodology; ZTE Corporation.
GERAN #52, Bratislava, Slovakia, November 21th \~ November 25, 2011.
[7-8] 3GPP TR 45.926 V030 (2011-11) Solutions for GSM/EDGE BTS Energy Saving
(Release 11)
[7-9] GP-120105 Evaluation on BCCH Carrier Power Reduction; ZTE Corporation.
GERAN #53, Hamburg, Germany. Februry 27^th^ -- March 2^nd^ 2012.
# 8 Output Power Reduction on BCCH Carrier for GMSK
## 8.1 Introduction
The need to investigate energy savings in the GERAN networks and in particular
at the BTS side has been previously raised in GERAN [8-1]. This clause depicts
the candidate technique 'output power reduction on BCCH carrier for GMSK\'. It
is judged to achieve significant energy savings in networks in low and medium
loaded network scenarios. After the concept description performance evaluation
results for various defined scenarios are reported that confirm the assumption
that this candidate technique will lead to significant OPEX savings.
## 8.2 Concept Description
This clause depicts the concept of the output power reduction on BCCH carrier
for GMSK candidate technique.
### 8.2.1 Overview
Energy saving in the BTS may be possible across the whole network for times
with low and medium traffic loads, e.g. at night when there is no or very few
traffic served on the BCCH transceiver or during other day phases with medium
traffic. In these times a reduced output power could be permitted on the BCCH
carrier for all time slots carrying GMSK modulation except time slots carrying
BCCH and CCCH channels as well as timeslots preceding them. The latter ones
are excluded due to impact on BCCH monitoring task in the mobile.
In addition power reduction on specific time slots on the BCCH carrier,
allocated to SDCCH/8 channels, which are used by multiple mobile stations and
only sporadically, such as for location update, during channel access or for
directed retry, is excluded, since the power reduction estimate may be
unreliable due to insufficient channel quality measurements.
In case of absence of traffic channels, i.e. presence of idle time slots, TS
45.008 specifies that dummy bursts have to be sent using GMSK modulation at
maximum Tx power on the BCCH carrier. Also for GMSK modulated traffic channels
the usage of maximum TX power on the BCCH carrier is currently specified.
The proposed concept foresees to operate all time slots on BCCH carrier using
GMSK modulation, except the time slot carrying the BCCH/CCCH or further
BCCH/CCCH channels (in case of extended BCCH or multiple CCCH configurations)
and SDCCH/8 channels, with a modified output power, as follows:
\- a static maximum output power reduction of APDmax = 2, 4 or 6 dB for idle
time slots on BCCH carrier.
\- a dynamic output power reduction of APDdyn = m * 2 dB , with m steps, up to
the maximum power reduction APDmax for time slots carrying TCH on BCCH
carrier. Time slots dedicated to TCH handling distant users with high pathloss
will use maximum output power, whilst users with lower pathloss will be served
with reduced output power.
\- a static output power reduction of APDmax,red = 2 dB for TN 7 and in
addition for all time slots preceding CCCH timeslots in case of Multiple CCCH.
The applied power reduction of 2 dB equals one power step. On other TRX than
the BCCH TRX normal dynamic transmit power control is applied.
### 8.2.2 Exemplary Scenario
The different power levels for one TDMA frame are depicted in Figure 8.2-1 for
one exemplary scenario with 1 SDCCH on TN 1 and three active TCH users, one
with high, another with medium and another with low pathloss.
{width="6.022222222222222in" height="2.7375in"}
Figure 8.2-1: Output power reduction on BCCH carrier for selected GMSK
modulated timeslots using static and dynamic power reduction in 2 dB power
steps
## 8.3 Concept Evaluation
This clause depicts updated simulation results from the evaluation of the BCCH
power saving method introduced in [8-2] and described above. Clause 2 provides
an overview of the simulation model and of the applied power reduction method,
clause 3 describes the observed performance for six specific scenarios. The
conclusion and further proceeding are outlined in clause 4.
### 8.3.1 Simulation Model
The simulation model is described hereafter including general simulation
assumptions, investigated channel allocation strategies, evaluated deployment
scenarios, the network layout, the output power reduction settings on BCCH
carrier and the employed Link-to-System Mapping.
#### 8.3.1.1 Simulation Assumptions
The general simulation assumptions are summarized in Table 8.3-1.
Table 8.3-1: Summary of simulation assumptions.
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Parameter | Value | Unit | Comment | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Sectors per site | 3 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Frequency Band | 900 | MHz | | | | | | | | | 1800 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Cell size | 2000 | m | Coverage layer | | | | | (900 MHz, rural) | | | 500 | | | | | | | Capacity layer | | | | | (1800 MHz, urban) | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BCCH frequency | 4/12 | | | | re-use | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | TS occupation on | []{.underline} | | BCCH allocation: | | BCCH carrier | | | on TN 0. | | | [Traffic scenario | | | | | 1]{.underline} | | SDCCH allocation: | | | (Voice only): | | | | | | | S(2/2/2): TN 1 of | | | S(2/2/2): TN | | BCCH TRX, | | | 2...7 | | operated without | | | | | power reduction. | | | S(4/4/4): TN | | | | | 3...7 | | S(4/4/4): TN 1, | | | | | TN 2 of BCCH TRX, | | | | | operated without | | | | | power reduction. | | | | | | | | | | TCH allocation: | | | | | all TS of cell | | | | | excluding TS on | | | | | BCCH carrier | | | | | allocated to BCCH | | | | | / SDCCH. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | TCH frequency | S(2/2/2): | | S(2/2/2): MA | | re-use | | | length is 9 for | | | 1/1 for RF | | hopping channel. | | | synthesizer | | | | | hopping | | Bandwitdth | | | | | restriction is | | | S(4/4/4): | | taken into | | | | | account by loss | | | 1/1 for RF | | factor of 3 dB | | | synthesizer | | against ideal | | | hopping | | frequency | | | | | hopping. | | | | | Coherence BW for | | | | | paths in rural | | | | | area between 2 | | | | | and 4 km is up to | | | | | 1 MHz [8-3]. | | | | | | | | | | S(4/4/4): MA | | | | | length is 27 for | | | | | hopping channel. | | | | | | | | | | Bandwitdth | | | | | restriction is | | | | | taken into | | | | | account by loss | | | | | factor of 0 dB | | | | | against ideal | | | | | frequency | | | | | hopping. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Frequency | S(2/2/2): | | BCCH frequencies | | Allocation | | | and TCH | | | 21 frequencies | | frequencies | | | (total) | | separated by 1 | | | | | guard frequency | | | 12 (BCCH layer) | | (0.2 MHz) | | | | | | | | 9 (TCH layer) | | | | | | | | | | S(4/4/4): | | | | | | | | | | 39 frequencies | | | | | (total) | | | | | | | | | | 12 (BCCH layer) | | | | | | | | | | 27 (TCH layer) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Bandwidth of BCCH | 2.4 MHz | | | | layer | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Bandwidth of TCH | S(2/2/2): 1.8 MHz | | TCH layer in one | | layer | | | frequency block | | | S(4/4/4): 5.4 MHz | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Path loss model | Okumura-Hata | | ETSI TS 102 706 | | | | | | | | | | - rural (cell | | | | | size 2000 m) | | | | | | | | | | - urban (cell | | | | | size 500m) | | | | | | | | | | Short distances | | | | | are modelled by | | | | | means of a two | | | | | breakpoint model | | | | | with LOS area, | | | | | LOS-NLOS | | | | | transition area | | | | | and NLOS area | | | | | aligned to ITU-R | | | | | F1336-4 and ECC | | | | | Report 146. | | | | | | | | | | MCL = 59 dB is | | | | | applied acc. to | | | | | 3GPP 45.050 for | | | | | GSM900 small | | | | | cells. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Log-normal fading | 6 | dB | ETSI TS 102 706 | | st.dev | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Correlation | 110 | m | | | distance | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Inter-site | 50 | \% | | | log-normal | | | | | correlation | | | | | coefficient | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Handover margin | 3 | dB | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS output power | 43 | dBm | | | for BCCH carrier | | | | | and other | | | | | carriers | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS antenna | 40 | m | ETSI TS 102 706 | | height | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS Sector | 65º deg H-plane,\ | dBi | UMTS 30.03 | | antenna pattern | max TX gain 18 | | (modified from | | | | | assumption in | | | | | ETSI TS 102 706) | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS feeder and | 3 | dB | ETSI TS 102 706 | | connector loss | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BTS sensitivity\ | | dBm\ | implementation | | BTS noise figure | | dB | dependent | | | | | | | | | | implementation | | | | | dependent | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS output power | 31 (GSM 900) | dBm | ETSI TS 102 706 | | | | | | | | 28 (DCS 1800) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | RACH power | Disabled | | | | reduction | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS antenna height | 1.5 | m | ETSI TS 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS antenna gain | 0 | dBm | ETSI TS 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS sensitivity | -104\ | dBm\ | ETSI TS 102 706 | | | 8 | dB | | | MS noise figure | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Body loss | 3 | dB | ETSI TS 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Indoor/Outdoor | 0 / 100 | \% | Outdoor users are | | users | | | more interesting | | | | | in a | | | | | res | | | | | election/handover | | | | | study. This will | | | | | effectively | | | | | eliminate the | | | | | impact of | | | | | building | | | | | penetration loss | | | | | listed in ETSI TS | | | | | 102 706 | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Traffic scenarios | 100 % voice users | | **First priority | | | | | for evaluation** | | Traffic scenario | | | | | 1 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Average power | 0 dB up to X dB | | Level chosen | | decrease (APD) | in 2 dB steps | | according to | | for voice | | | dynamic power | | | | | control. | | | | | | | | | | **See clause | | | | | 8.3.1.4** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Average power | X:= 0 dB, 2 dB, 4 | | **See clause | | decrease (APD) | dB, 6 dB | | 8.3.1.4** | | for dummy bursts | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Speech codecs | FR: AFS 12.2 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DARP phase I | As defined for | | | | penetration rate | traffic scenario | | | | | 1: 60 % | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | AMR codec mode | Disabled | | | | adaptation | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DTX on DL/UL | Enabled | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Channel | Description of | | **See clause | | allocation | channel | | 8.3.1.2** | | strategy | allocation | | | | | strategy | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Handover | Penalty in terms | | No intra-cell | | | of speech frame | | handovers | | | erasures during | | enabled. | | | handover to be | | | | | taken into | | HO penalty size | | | account for DL | | of 6 speech | | | and UL. | | frames assumed | | | | | for inter-cell | | | | | handovers. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Handover failure | modelled | | Loss of HO | | | | | command in source | | | | | cell and failure | | | | | of HO access in | | | | | target cell taken | | | | | into account. | | | | | | | | | | Leading to call | | | | | drop. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Voice call model | - Poisson | | **Aligned to | | | distributed call | | MUROS TR 45.913** | | | arrivals and | | | | | exponential call | | | | | durations. | | | | | | | | | | - mean call | | | | | duration: 90 sec | | | | | | | | | | - min. call | | | | | duration: 5 sec. | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Fading channel | Typical Urban | | | | profile | (TU) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Paging cycle | BS_PA_MFRMS = 4 | | | | | | | | | | (4*235.38 ms = | | | | | 941.5 ms) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Number of cells | 12 | | | | in neighbour cell | | | | | list | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MS velocity | 3 km/h | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User mobility | random movement | | **User moves in | | model | | | random | | | | | direction.** | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Traffic load | according to | | Traffic is | | creation | configured load | | generated at a | | | | | randomly | | | | | determined | | | | | location in a | | | | | cell after random | | | | | determination of | | | | | a cell in the | | | | | network. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Handling of | taken into | | User is moved to | | service area | account in idle | | a location at the | | border effects | and connected | | opposite side of | | | mode. | | the service area | | | | | with similar | | | | | propagation | | | | | conditions to | | | | | continue the call | | | | | until its end. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BSIC decoding | enabled for | | rate of 9.6 sec | | | neighbour cells | | in connected mode | | | in idle and | | (for each | | | connected mode | | neighbour cell) | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | rate of 4.7 sec | | | | | in idle mode (for | | | | | each of the | | | | | strongest 6 | | | | | neighbour cells). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Propagation wrap | activated | | | | around | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Network size | Cluster of 16 | | Cluster is | | | sites | | repeated for | | | | | propagation wrap | | | (48 cells) | | around, cell | | | | | statistic over 48 | | | | | cells | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Network | Timeslot | | TDMA frame | | synchronization | synchronous | | synchronous for | | mode | | | BS at same cell | | | | | site, | | | | | | | | | | not TDMA frame | | | | | synchronous for | | | | | BS of different | | | | | cell sites | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Interference | Co-channel and | | ACP = 18 dB | | types | 1^st^ adjacent | | | | | channel | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | RLF Timeout | 16 | | Leading to call | | | | | drop | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DL Repeated FACCH | disabled | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Repeated SACCH | disabled | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Simulated time | 90 000 TDMA | | Equals about 415 | | | frames | | sec | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Simulated | DL and UL | | | | directions | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
#### 8.3.1.2 Channel Allocation Strategies
Two different simple channel allocation strategies have been investigated
depicted in Table 8.3-2.
Table 8.3-2 Investigated channel allocation strategies
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Aspect | Strategy 1 | Strategy 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Carrier | no preference for | preference for | | selection** | allocation on BCCH | channel allocation | | | carrier or hopping | is given to BCCH | | | TCH carrier | carrier | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS selection** | random selection of | random selection of | | | time slot, both on | time slot, both on | | | BCCH carrier or | BCCH carrier or | | | hopping TCH carrier | hopping TCH carrier | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Activation of** | second TRX goes into | second TRX is only | | | standby mode once no | activated if the | | **non-BCCH TRX** | channel is allocated | BCCH TRX is filled | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 8.3.1.3 Deployment Scenarios and Network Layout
The following deployment scenarios were evaluated.
Table 8.3-3: Evaluated scenarios for small site configuration S(2/2/2)
+----------+------------------+----------------+------------------+ | Scenario | Frequency band | Load Profile | Channel | | | and propagation | | Allocation | | | | | Strategy | +----------+------------------+----------------+------------------+ | S1 | GSM 900 | Load Profile 1 | 1 | | | | | | | | rural | (20% of BHT) | | +----------+------------------+----------------+------------------+ | S2 | GSM 900 | Load Profile 1 | 2 | | | | | | | | rural | (20% of BHT) | | +----------+------------------+----------------+------------------+ | S3 | GSM 900 | Load Profile 2 | 1 | | | | | | | | rural | (50% of BHT) | | +----------+------------------+----------------+------------------+ | S4 | GSM 900 | Load Profile 2 | 1 | | | | | | | | rural | (100% of BHT) | | +----------+------------------+----------------+------------------+
Table 8.3-4: Evaluated scenarios for medium site configuration S(4/4/4)
+----------+--------------------------------+----------------+--------------------+ | Scenario | Frequency band and propagation | Load Profile | Channel Allocation | | | | | | | | | | Strategy | +----------+--------------------------------+----------------+--------------------+ | M1 | GSM 900 | Load Profile 1 | 2 | | | | | | | | rural | (20% of BHT) | | +----------+--------------------------------+----------------+--------------------+ | M2 | DCS 1800 | Load Profile 1 | 2 | | | | | | | | urban | (20% of BHT) | | +----------+--------------------------------+----------------+--------------------+
The layout of the simulated network deployment is shown in Figure 8.3-1.
{width="5.165972222222222in" height="3.077777777777778in"}
Figure 8.3-1: Layout of simulated network deployment for evaluation of BCCH
power reduction. Cell statistic area (yellow) and propagation wrap-around
shown for one DL co-channel interferer set (red)
#### 8.3.1.4 Output Power Reduction Settings on BCCH carrier
This clause lists the power reduction settings on BCCH carrier which were
evaluated.
For idle timeslots on BCCH carrier, different levels of power reduction were
evaluated: 0 dB (reference case), 2 dB, 4 dB and 6 dB. An exception is the
timeslot preceding the BCCH; a power reduction of 0 dB (reference case) or 2
dB (power reduction case) was applied in this case.
For the timeslots carrying the SDCCH no power reduction was applied.
For TCH channels, a power reduction of 0 dB up to the configured figure X for
idle channels was applied in 2 dB steps according to dynamic power control.
The considered reference case depicts the case of no power reduction on BCCH
carrier, whilst dynamic power control is active on hopping TCH layer.
In the evaluation following power reduction settings were thus compared:
\- no power reduction on BCCH carrier for idle time slots / TCH time slots (0
dB / 0 dB), reference case;
\- a fixed reduction of X dB on BCCH carrier for idle timeslots and a maximum
reduction of X dB for TCH time slots (X dB / X dB) with 2 dB steps on TCH time
slots and with X = 2, 4, 6. The actual reduction is determined by dynamic
power control.
#### 8.3.1.5 Employed Link-to-System Mapping
This clause contains a brief description of the implemented link-to-system
mapping in the network simulator used for the evaluation in clause 3.2. It
consists of a two stage mapping model including burst level mapping and block
level mapping.
For deriving the input to the burst level mapping, received carrier and
interferer power levels are determined on burst basis based on coupling loss,
addition of shadow fading and rayleigh fading. On BCCH layer correlated
rayleigh fading is used due to no frequency hopping and low MS speed of 3
km/h, whilst on TCH layer employing frequency hopping uncorrelated rayleigh
fading is added.
For a non SAIC MS, carrier to noise plus interference ratio C/(I+N) is then
calculated as input to the burst level mapping, which picks a value of the raw
BER distribution.
For a SAIC MS, carrier to noise plus strongest interferer ratio C/(I~1~+N) and
Dominant to Rest of Interference ratio (DIR) are determined as input to the
burst level mapping, which picks a value of the raw BER distribution.
In the block level mapping the accumulated raw BER over 8 bursts is mapped
onto the FER, which is derived according to the used codec AFS 12.2.
A user is included in the satisfied user rate, if the call is successfully
terminated or if the call needs to be cut and has reached a minimum duration
of 30 s.
### 8.3.2 Simulation Results
This clause presents the simulation results for depicted scenarios in clause
8.3.1.3.
#### 8.3.2.1 Scenario S1
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-5a for DL and UL, where separate
statistics for DL are recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH
layer.
Table 8.3-5a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Sati | Sati | Sati | Call | Call | Han | Han | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | dover | dover | | ction | users | users | users | rate | rate | Fa | rate | | on | | | | | | ilure | vs. | | idle | DL | DL | UL | | | Rate | refe | | TS / | TCH | BCCH | TCH | | | | rence | | TS | | | | | | | | | ~TCH~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | 100 % | 99.3 | 99.6 | 0 % | 0.26 | 0.11 | - | | / 0 | | % | % | | % | % | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | 100 % | 100 % | 100 % | 0.24 | 0.59 | 0.29 | -7.2 | | / 2 | | | | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | 100 % | 99.4 | 100 % | 0.51 | 0.28 | 0.15 | -17.0 | | / 4 | | % | | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | 99.4 | 100 % | 100 % | 0 % | 0.29 | 0.18 | -26.5 | | / 6 | % | | | | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-5b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-5b: Power consumption metrics
* * *
Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH~ Mean cumulated output power per cell
[dBm] Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB] Reduction of TRX power
consumption per cell 0 dB / 0 dB 43.2 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 42.0 1.2 7.1 % 4 dB / 4
dB 41.1 2.1 11.6 % 6 dB / 6 dB 40.4 2.8 15.7 %
* * *
**Observations:**
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of 95 % is met in all cases, the
actual levels being between 99 % and 100%.
\- Call block rate: remains far below 2%. It includes blocking both due to
capacity and due to insufficient radio quality.
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are observed for the reference and
all three power reduction settings.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures impact the call drop rate which is still
in the order of the required level of 0.2 % except for the setting (2 dB/2
dB).
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction.
A reduction of up to 26.5 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to about
15.7 %.
#### 8.3.2.2 Scenario S2
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-6a for DL and UL, where separate
statistics for DL are recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH
layer.
Table 8.3-6a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Sati | Sati | Sati | Call | Call | Han | Han | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | dover | dover | | ction | users | users | users | rate | rate | Fa | rate | | on | | | | | | ilure | vs. | | idle | DL | DL | UL | | | Rate | refe | | TS / | TCH | BCCH | TCH | | | | rence | | TS | | | | | | | | | ~TCH~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | - | 99.1 | 100 % | 0.29 | 0.27 | 0.24 | - | | / 0 | | % | | % | % | % | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | - | 99.0 | 99.7 | 0 % | 0.3 % | 0.33 | -21.0 | | / 2 | | % | % | | | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | - | 98.5 | 100 % | 0.54 | 0 % | 0 % | -26.2 | | / 4 | | % | | % | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | - | 99.1 | 100 % | 0 % | 0 % | 0 % | -26.7 | | / 6 | | % | | | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-6b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-6b: Power consumption metrics
* * *
Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH~ Mean cumulated output power per cell
[dBm] Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB] Reduction of TRX power
consumption per cell 0 dB / 0 dB 43.0 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 41.7 1.3 7.6 % 4 dB / 4
dB 40.8 2.2 12.0 % 6 dB / 6 dB 40.2 2.8 15.7 %
* * *
**Observations:**
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of 95 % is met in all cases, the
actual levels being between 98.5 % and 100%. With the applied channel
allocation strategy 2 the TCH layer is not loaded in this scenario.
\- Call block rate: remains far below 2%. It includes blocking both due to
capacity and due to insufficient radio quality.
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are observed in rare cases for two
power reduction settings.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures impact the call drop rate which is still
in the order of the required level of 0.2%.
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction.
A reduction of up to 26.7 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to about
15.7 %. The reference case for scenario S2 has a cumulative TRX power
consumption of 6.3 % less compared against the reference case of scenario S1.
#### 8.3.2.3 Scenario S3
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-7a for DL and UL, where separate
statistics for DL are recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH
layer.
Table 8.3-7a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Sati | Sati | Sati | Call | Call | Han | Han | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | dover | dover | | ction | users | users | users | rate | rate | Fa | rate | | on | | | | | | ilure | vs. | | idle | DL | DL | UL | | | Rate | refe | | TS / | TCH | BCCH | TCH | | | | rence | | TS | | | | | | | | | ~TCH~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | 98.9 | 100 % | 99.9 | 0.21 | 0.22 | 0.15 | - | | / 0 | % | | % | % | % | % | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | 99.5 | 99.7 | 100 % | 0.21 | 0 % | 0 % | -19.2 | | / 2 | % | % | | % | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | 99.3 | 99.7 | 100 % | 0.22 | 0.11 | 0.09 | -20.6 | | / 4 | % | % | | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | 99.2 | 99.5 | 100 % | 0.23 | 0.12 | 0.11 | -27.3 | | / 6 | % | % | | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-7b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-7b: Power consumption metrics
* * *
Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH~ Mean cumulated output power per cell
[dBm] Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB] Reduction of TRX power
consumption per cell 0 dB / 0 dB 43.7 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 42.6 1.1 6.8 % 4 dB / 4
dB 41.9 1.8 10.5 % 6 dB / 6 dB 41.4 2.3 14.1 %
* * *
**Observations:**
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of 95 % is met in all cases, the
actual levels being between 98.9 % and 100%.
\- Call block rate: remains far below 2%. It includes blocking both due to
capacity and due to insufficient radio quality.
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are observed in rare cases for
three power reduction settings.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures impact the call drop rate which is either
below or close to the required level of 0.2 %.
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction.
A reduction of up to 27.3 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to 14.1 %.
#### 8.3.2.4 Scenario S4
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-8a for DL and UL, where separate
statistics for DL are recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH
layer.
Table 8.3-8a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Sati | Sati | Sati | Call | Call | Han | Han | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | dover | dover | | ction | users | users | users | rate | rate | Fa | rate | | on | | | | | | ilure | vs. | | idle | DL | DL | UL | | | Rate | refe | | TS / | TCH | BCCH | TCH | | | | rence | | TS | | | | | | | | | ~TCH~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | 96.1 | 98.5 | 99.7 | 0.18 | 0.98 | 0.56 | - | | / 0 | % | % | % | % | % | % | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | 96.7 | 98.7 | 99.8 | 0.21 | 1.0 % | 0.71 | -12.0 | | / 2 | % | % | % | % | | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | 96.7 | 98.5 | 99.8 | 0.06 | 0.92 | 0.63 | -17.9 | | / 4 | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | 95.5 | 99.3 | 99.8 | 0.06 | 0.67 | 0.74 | -20.6 | | / 6 | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-8b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-8b: Power consumption metrics
* * *
Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH~ Mean cumulated output power per cell
[dBm] Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB] Reduction of TRX power
consumption per cell 0 dB / 0 dB 44.2 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 43.3 0.9 4.9 % 4 dB / 4
dB 42.7 1.5 8.6 % 6 dB / 6 dB 42.3 1.9 11.2 %
* * *
**Observations:**
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of satisfied users of 95 % are met
in all cases, the actual levels being between 95.5 % and 99.3 % on downlink
and close to 100% on UL.
\- Call block rate: remains far below 2%. It includes blocking both due to
capacity and due to insufficient radio quality. It decreases along the level
of power reduction. This is reasoned by the slightly increased good server
cells, see Figures 8.3-2 and 8.3-3.
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are observed for all settings.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures leading to an increased call drop rate
between 0.67 % and 1.0 %, thus exceeding the required level of 0.2 %. However
no increase of the call drop rate with regard to the reference is observed.
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction.
A reduction of up to 20.6 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to 11.2 %.
#### 8.3.2.5 Scenario M1
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-9a for DL and UL, where separate
statistics for DL are recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH
layer.
Table 8.3-9a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | * | * | * | * | * | **Han |** Han | | Power | _Sati |_ Sati | _Sati |_ Call | _Call | dover | dover | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | Fa | rate | | ction | us | us | us | r | r | ilure | vs. | | on | ers_ _| ers_ _| ers_ _| ate_ _| ate_ _| R | r | | idle | | | | | | ate_ _| efere | | TS / |__DL |__DL |__UL | | | | nce_ _| | TS~T | TCH_ _| B | TCH_ _| | | | | | CH~__| | CCH_ * | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | 100 % | 99.6 | 99.9 | 0.53 | 0.10 | 0.10 | - | | / 0 | | % | % | % | % | % | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | 100 % | 99.9 | 100 % | 0.11 | 0 % | 0 % | -11.7 | | / 2 | | % | | % | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | 100 % | 99.8 | 99.9 | 0.11 | 0 % | 0 % | -18.8 | | / 4 | | % | % | % | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | 100 % | 99.9 | 99.8 | 0 % | 0 % | 0 % | -22.6 | | / 6 | | % | % | | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-9b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-9b: Power consumption metrics.
* * *
**Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH\ ~** **Mean cumulated output power per
cell [dBm]** **Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB]** **Reduction
of TRX power consumption per cell** 0 dB / 0 dB 43.1 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 42.2 0.9
4.3 % 4 dB / 4 dB 41.6 1.5 7.0 % 6 dB / 6 dB 41.2 1.9 8.9 %
* * *
**Observations:**
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of 95 % is met in all cases, the
actual levels being between 99 % and 100%.
\- Call block rate: decreases along the level of power reduction. This is
reasoned by the slightly increased good server cells, see Figures 8.3-2 and
8.3-3. In all cases it remains far below 2%. It includes blocking both due to
capacity and due to insufficient radio quality.
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are observed only for the
reference case.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures impact the call drop rate which is still
below the required level of 0.2 %.
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction.
A reduction of up to 22.6 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to 8.9 %.
#### 8.3.2.6 Scenario M2
Call quality metrics are shown in table 8.3-10a for DL and UL, where separate
statistics for DL are recorded for traffic channels on BCCH layer and TCH
layer.
Table 8.3-10a: Call quality metrics
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | Sati | Sati | Sati | Call | Call | Han | Han | | redu | sfied | sfied | sfied | block | drop | dover | dover | | ction | users | users | users | rate | rate | Fa | rate | | on | | | | | | ilure | vs. | | idle | DL | DL | UL | | | Rate | refe | | TS / | TCH | BCCH | TCH | | | | rence | | TS | | | | | | | | | ~TCH~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 dB | 99.4 | 99.9 | 99.9 | 0.44 | 0 % | 0 % | - | | / 0 | % | % | % | % | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 dB | 100 % | 99.7 | 99.8 | 0.31 | 0.1 % | 0.09 | +0.5 | | / 2 | | % | % | % | | % | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 dB | 100 % | 100 % | 100 % | 0.11 | 0 % | 0 % | -10.0 | | / 4 | | | | % | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 dB | 100 % | 100 % | 100 % | 0.12 | 0 % | 0 % | -15.6 | | / 6 | | | | % | | | % | | dB | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Power consumption metrics in terms of reduction in cumulative output power and
reduction in overall TRX power consumption per cell are shown in table 8.3-10b
for this scenario.
Table 8.3-10b: Power consumption metrics
* * *
**Power reduction on idle TS / TS~TCH\ ~** **Mean cumulated output power per
cell [dBm]** **Reduction of cumulated output power per cell [dB]** **Reduction
of TRX power consumption per cell** 0 dB / 0 dB 43.1 - - 2 dB / 2 dB 42.2 0.9
4.1 % 4 dB / 4 dB 41.7 1.4 6.9 % 6 dB / 6 dB 41.3 1.8 9.2 %
* * *
**Observations:**
\- Satisfied user rates: the required level of 95 % is met in all cases, the
actual levels being between 99 % and 100%.
\- Call block rate: decreases along the level of power reduction. This is
reasoned by the slightly increased good server cells, see Figures 8.3-2 and
8.3-3. In all cases it remains far below 2%. It includes blocking both due to
capacity and due to insufficient radio quality.
\- Handover failure rate: Handover failures are observed only for one power
reduction setting (2 dB / 2 dB) in rare cases.
\- Call drop rate: Handover failures impact the call drop rate which is below
the required level of 0.2 %.
\- Handover rate: is significantly reduced along the level of power reduction.
A reduction of up to 15.6 % is achieved.
\- Cumulated TRX power consumption: reduction is observed to go up to 9.2 %.
#### 8.3.2.7 Impact on performance of neighbour cell identification in
connected mode
The impact of power reduction on BCCH carrier on the performance of neighbour
cell identification was investigated for MS\'s in connected mode for a medium
traffic load scenario. The measurement of neighbour cells in connected mode
follows the description in clauses 6.5.1.2 and 6.5.3 of the present document.
The modelling parameters for connected mode operation are summarized in table
8.3-11.
**Table 8.3-11: Additional modelling parameters for connected mode operation**
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Parameter | Value | Unit | Comment | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Scenario | S3 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Cell size | 2000 | m | Rural | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Number of samples | 8 | | | | per neighbour | | | | | cell per SACCH | | | | | frame | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | BSIC detection | 9.6 | sec | Per neighbour | | rate | | | cell | | | | | | | | | | ([8-4], clause | | | | | 7.2 requires at | | | | | least every 10 | | | | | sec) | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | CIR threshold for | 8 / 7 | dB | for non-DARP MS / | | detection of BSIC | | | DARP MS | | failure | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Simulated time | 50 000 TDMA | | Equals about 230 | | | frames | | sec | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Modelling of BSIC detection for neighbour cells is done with a periodicity of
20 SACCH multiframes, i.e. 9.6 sec, for each neighbour cell during the active
connection. To identify the impact on handover measurements, the number of
BSIC decodable neighbour cells from the BA list, which determines the number
of cells included in the neighbour cell measurement report, has been logged
during the simulation and the average was calculated over the simulated time
and all MSs and was compared against the reference without power reduction.
Figure 8.3-2 depicts for the investigated scenario the difference in mean
number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells in connected mode.
{width="5.690277777777778in" height="2.9965277777777777in"}
Figure 8.3-2: Difference in mean number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells as
function of the power reduction on BCCH carrier for the investigated scenario
S3
It is observed that the mean number of neighbour cells which can be decoded
during the call (i.e. good neighbour cells) in order to perform an intercell
handover steadily increases along the maximum power reduction in the
considered APD range. The relative gain for the investigated scenario S3
versus the reference (no power reduction) is 0.42 cells (2 dB power
reduction), 0.83 cells (4 dB power reduction) and 1.09 cells (6 dB power
reduction) from the set of 12 neighbour cells the MS continuously measures.
This investigation confirms the behaviour already observed in [5]. Thus BCCH
power reduction overall has a positive impact on the number of BSIC decodable
neighbour cells in connected mode.
#### 8.3.2.8 Impact on performance of neighbour cell identification in idle
mode
The impact of power reduction on BCCH carrier on the performance of neighbour
cell identification was also investigated for MS\'s in idle mode for a medium
traffic load scenario. The measurement of neighbour cells in idle mode follows
the description in clause 6.5.1.1 of the present document.
The modelling parameters for idle mode operation are summarized in table
8.3-12.
**Table 8.3-12: Additional modelling parameters for idle mode operation**
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Comment Scenario S3  
Cell size 2000 m Rural BS_PA_MFRMS 4 DRX period = 942 ms Number of samples per
serving cell for cell reselection 20 4 paging bursts per DRX period Number of
samples per neighbour cell for cell (re)selection 5 1 sample per DRX period
Cell (re)selection based on C2 criterion 5 dB offset for cell reselection
within 15 sec after last one, acc. to [8-4] BSIC detection rate 4.7 sec ([8-4]
requires to measure the six strongest carriers once per reselection period (=5
sec) and BSIC detection of each neighbour cell at least every 30 sec) CIR
threshold for detection of BSIC failure 8 / 7 dB for non-DARP MS / DARP MS
Idle mode duration 28.2 sec Allowing 6 subsequent cell reselections after
initial cell selection, followed by call set up procedure Simulated time 50
000 TDMA frames Equals about 230 sec
* * *
Neighbour cell identification performance in idle mode was assessed by
recording the number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells from the list of non-
serving strongest 6 neighbour cells belonging to the BA list, after power
ranking. This list was recorded at cell reselection instants for all MSs. A
BSIC detection rate for reconfirmation of the 6 strongest neighbours of 4.7
sec was assumed for accurate modelling of the idle mode operation allowing for
6 cell reselections before call set-up is initiated. The average over the
simulated time and all MSs was then calculated and was compared against the
reference without power reduction. Figure 8.3-3 depicts for the investigated
scenario the difference in mean number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells in
idle mode.
{width="5.621527777777778in" height="2.986111111111111in"}
Figure 8.3-3: Difference in mean number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells in
idle mode at cell reselection instants as function of the power reduction\ on
BCCH carrier for the investigated scenario S3
It is observed that the mean number of cells which can be BSIC decoded at cell
reselection instants steadily increases also here along the maximum power
reduction in the considered APD range. The relative gain for the investigated
scenario S3 versus the reference (no power reduction) is 0.33 cells (2 dB
power reduction), 0.52 cells (4 dB power reduction) and 0.70 cells (6 dB power
reduction) from the set of strongest 6 neighbour cells the MS continuously
monitors. Thus BCCH power reduction overall has a positive impact on the
number of BSIC decodable neighbour cells also in idle mode.
For the idle mode operation, the number of cell reselections was evaluated and
the relative decrease compared against the reference case is reported in Table
8.3-13.
Table 8.3-13: Relative decrease in cell reselections in idle mode (Scenario
S3)
+-----------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Power reduction | Relative decrease in cell reselections [%] | | | | | on idle TS | | | | | | / TS~TCH~ | | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------+ | 0 dB / 0 dB | - | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------+ | 2 dB / 2 dB | 13.3 | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------+ | 4 dB / 4 dB | 0 | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------+ | 6 dB / 6 dB | 36.7 | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------+
Thus a significant reduction of the number of cell reselections in idle mode
is observed. This is in line with the reduction of intercell handovers
depicted for Scenario 3 in Table 8.3-7a.
## 8.4 Conclusion
The candidate technique 'output power reduction on BCCH carrier for GMSK\'
described in this clause has been evaluated for a series of scenarios, both
for the coverage layer and the capacity layer for the small site configuration
S(2/2/2) and the medium site configuration S(4/4/4) for low mobility users and
for the voice-only traffic scenario. From the results it can be seen that in
the investigated power reduction range (APD range) up to 6 dB, savings in
cumulated TRX power consumption up to 16 % are achieved for the small site
configuration S(2/2/2) and up to 9 % for the medium site configuration
S(4/4/4), respectively, which is considered to be substantial.
With regard to call quality, the level of satisfied users of 95 % is met in
all scenarios, the actual levels being all above 98.5 % except for the busy
hour scenario (Scenario S4), where the levels decrease to 95.5 % at most.
With regard to reliability of the evaluation results, satisfied user rates on
the BCCH for the reference case in all investigated scenarios are close to
each other (i.e. between 98.5 % and 100%) indicating that still a somewhat
longer simulation duration is needed.
On the other side the handover rate is significantly reduced along the power
reduction, the reduction being in the order of 15...27 % against the reference
case depending on the scenario.
It is also observed that call blocking remains below 2% and call dropping
rates are generally not degraded against the reference case (except in one
scenario S1).
Impacts to neighbour cell identification performance in connected mode for
intercell handover and in idle mode for cell reselection were also studied by
evaluating the mean number of suitable candidate cells in idle and in
connected mode. It was observed that for the medium traffic load scenario S3
the average number of suitable candidate cells is increased up to 0.70 cells
in idle mode, and up to 1.09 cells in connected mode, respectively, for the
configured set of 12 neighbour cells. In both cases the number of good
neighbour cells is observed to steadily increase along the maximum power
reduction in the considered APD range. Furthermore the number of cell
reselections in idle mode is observed not to be increased compared to the
reference case.
Power reduction on BCCH layer for the APD range 2 dB to 6 dB is supposed to
improve system performance in interference limited scenarios yielding higher
spectral efficiency. It is noted that this APD range corresponds to the
allowed reduction of output power on the BCCH carrier up to 4 dB for 8PSK and
up to 6 dB for 16QAM and 32QAM ([8-4], clause 7.1).
Simulations have been also run for the capacity layer indicating the same
level of power saving as described for the coverage layer. Evaluations with
regard to higher traffic loads for the medium site configuration S(4/4/4) and
higher MS velocity (50 km/h) are foreseen. Other channel allocation methods
are also being investigated to identify possible additional gains.
From the results obtained so far, it is observed that the BCCH power saving
candidate technique employing an APD range of 2 dB... 6 dB depicts an
attractive feature for operators in saving OPEX, in particular in low and
medium traffic load scenarios where energy savings are larger than in the busy
hour.
## 8.5 Bibliography
[8-1] GP-101638, \"New Study Item on Solutions for GSM/EDGE BTS Energy
Saving\", source Vodafone Group Plc, Alcatel-Lucent, Nokia Siemens Networks,
China Mobile Comm Corp, Telecom Italia S.p.A., Huawei Technologies Co.Ltd, ZTE
Corporation, Telefon AB LM Ericsson, GERAN#47.
[8-2] GP-101880 -- \"Output power decrease on BCCH carrier for GMSK\", Nokia
Siemens Networks, GERAN#48
[8-3] \"Mobile Communications Engineering\", William C.Y. Lee, 1982, McGraw-
Hill, p.44
[8-4] 3GPP TS 45.008, \"Radio subsystem link control\"
# 9 Summary and Conclusions
The BTSEnergy study has investigated candidate techniques for BTS energy
saving solutions. The major focus in the study was on energy saving in regard
to RF output power reduction. In particular RF output power reduction for the
BCCH carrier was investigated for different scenarios in regard to traffic
load profiles (low load, medium term load and busy hour load) and site
configurations (three sectorized sites with 2 TRX, 4TRX and 8 TRX per cells).
The study has defined performance objectives and compatibility objectives as
depicted in clause 5.
In regard to the evaluation of candidate solutions, two performance metrics
have been defined, one assessing the savings in cumulated RF output power over
all carriers of the cell and one assessing the savings in cumulated TRX power
consumption over all TRXs of the cell.
The candidate solution \"BCCH Carrier Power Reduction Methodology\", depicted
in clause 7.1, foresees to reduce the transmit power on the BCCH carrier for
idle timeslots and for timeslots used for traffic channels. Two variants have
been investigated, one applying power reduction for traffic channels only for
DTX silence periods (variant 1) and one applying power reduction for traffic
channels both for DTX silence and active periods (variant 2). The level of
power reduction against the reference case, not applying any power reduction,
was evaluated for both variants for different load profiles and different site
configurations defined as part of the common assumptions in clause 6.
_[Editor\'s Note: Evaluation results for both metrics need to be added. In
addition the conclusion on this candidate technique needs to be added.]_
_[Editor\'s Note: In addition other potential candidate solutions need to be
summarized and a conclusion drawn on their feasibility. A final selection of
the candidate technique(s) to be standardized needs to be performed and the
impacts to the standard need to be depicted.]_
#