# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This report describes issues relating to the GPRS specifications, which lead
to the specifications being modified after the placement of GPRS compliant
mobiles into the market place.
Where possible the present report clarifies any recommended measures which may
be adopted by the GPRS infrastructure to enable interworking to be obtained
between the GPRS infrastructure and legacy Mobile Station (MS) implementations
of the GPRS specifications.
For each issue this report also defines the time after which all new GPRS
mobiles are required to meet the modified specifications.
The lifetime of the herein described measures together with their potential
impact on optimal network performance is out of the scope of the present
document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 General
In the implementation of the GPRS standard it has been found that some aspects
of GPRS have not been fully covered and as a result late changes have been
made to the specifications.
This has lead to the situation where existing GPRS mobiles (i.e. those already
in the field) no longer aligned with the latest version of the specifications.
These \'legacy\' mobiles will not be modified; however, where possible the
present report clarifies any recommended measures which may be adopted by the
GPRS infrastructure to enable interworking to be obtained between the GPRS
infrastructure and these legacy Mobile Station (MS).
In addition and to ensure sufficient time for implementation and testing of
modified GPRS implementation (MS and network) this TR specifies the point in
time at which the specification modification come into force. After this point
in time all new GPRS mobiles will be required to support the modified
specification and all GPRS networks will be expected to handle the new mobile
behaviour correctly.
The remainder of this TR describes how to overcome the possible impacts of the
above factors.
# 5 Specific implementation on the radio interface
## 5.1 MS behaviour during one phase contention resolution
### 5.1.1 Justification
It has been found that in some instances the one phase contention resolution
procedure leads to interoperability issues.
### 5.1.2 Solution
To avoid interoperability issues, TSG GERAN#3 agreed on the following mobile
station behaviour during the contention resolution phase (CR 04.60-A952):
1 A mobile station shall accept a Packet Uplink Assignment addressing it by
the uplink TFI or TLLI; the mobile station shall act on this message according
to the procedures defined in packet transfer mode during operation on an
uplink TBF. If a valid RRBP field is received as part of this message, the
mobile station shall transmit a Packet Control Acknowledgment in the block
specified in uplink.
2 A mobile station may act on the other non-distribution messages addressing
the mobile station with the TFI or TLLI, and may transmit a Packet Control
Acknowledgment when a valid RRBP field is received in downlink RLC/MAC control
blocks
3 A mobile station shall not answer to a polling request received in a Packet
Uplink Ack/Nack message in case it includes a TLLI addressing another mobile
station; then an ambiguous word is deleted in 3GPP TS 04.60 sub-clause 10.4.5.
4 To prevent a mobile station receiving downlink data intended to another
mobile station, it is required that a mobile station in contention resolution
phase shall not accept a PACKET DOWNLINK ASSIGNMENT nor a PACKET TIMESLOT
RECONFIGURE message, whatever the address used in these assignment messages.
### 5.1.3 Implementation requirements
All new GPRS mobiles shall support the basic contention resolution procedure
(covered by points 1, 2, and 3) as soon as the relevant specification (GSM
04.60 v6.12.0) is published by 3GPP.
All new GPRS mobiles shall support the complete contention resolution
procedure (covered by points 1, 2, 3, and 4) within four months of the
relevant specification (GSM 04.60 v6.12.0) being published by 3GPP.
### 5.1.4 Support of Legacy mobiles
In order to force the rejection of occasional LLC frames that may be received
by the wrong mobile station, ciphering needs to be applied. This will cause an
LLC frame that is received by the wrong mobile station to be rejected by the
receiving LLC entity.
## 5.2 Roaming
### 5.2.1 Justification
It has been found that where two operators have a CS roaming agreement but no
GPRS roaming agreement the GPRS specifications cause the user's SIM to be
\"invalidated for GPRS service\".
This means, for example, that a user roaming from his home network into a
visited network and back to his home network will see an inconsistent level of
GPRS service. In other words a service which was working (before the user
roamed) will no longer be working even though the user has returned to the
original network which provided GPRS service.
### 5.2.2 Solution
To avoid the SIM being invalidated unnecessarily TSG CN#11 agreed to a
modification to the GPRS specifications, which allows a network to reject a
mobile\'s GPRS Attach request with a new GMM cause code \"GPRS services not
allowed in the current PLMN\".
The new rejection cause value \"GPRS services not allowed in this PLMN\"(#14)
can be indicated to the MS during GPRS attach, detach and RAU in a PLMN which
does not offer GPRS roaming to that MS. When an MS receives this cause code it
shall not attempt a new GPRS attach before entering a new PLMN on which it
hasn\'t be rejected with the same cause after the last switch on.
In order to memorise the PLMNs on which the MS has been rejected with #14, a
new PLMN list is introduced, which should be deleted when the MS is switched
off. The list is introduced in order to avoid subsequent registration attempts
if either the MS (in class C mode), or the user (in class A/B mode) triggers a
PLMN reselection after reception of #14.
### 5.2.3 Implementation requirements
All new GPRS mobiles shall support the handling of the new cause value within
four months of the relevant specification (04.08 v6.14.0) being published by
3GPP.
### 5.2.4 Support of Legacy mobiles
To restore the SIM to proper operation for GPRS service the user needs to
power off and on the mobile. As defined by the specifications, this resets the
SIM to its original state and removes the information indicating that the SIM
is invalid for GPRS service.
The use of cause value #14 (or any other cause value which is not defined in
the reference specification of the MS), towards some of the roaming legacy
mobiles which were implemented prior to the date laid down in 5.2.3, operating
in a network using Network Mode of Operation I (NMO I), may lead to those
legacy mobiles not receiving service (see 04.08 subclauses 4.2.4.2.2 and
4.7.3.1.5). This means that the behaviour of some roaming legacy mobiles may
be unpredictable in NMO I if cause value #14 is used towards those legacy
mobiles.
## 5.3 Early Classmark Sending on PBCCH cell
### 5.3.1 Justification
It was found that the Early Classmark Sending Capability (ECSC) bit is present
on BCCH in SI3 but is not present on PBCCH.
If the MS considers that early classmark sending is not allowed by the
network, it will not spontaneously send a CLASSMARK CHANGE message when a call
is initiated, and the Classmark 3 IE will not be received by the network. This
may result in that the MS will not receive expected service from the network
based on actual MS capabilities.
Three different mobile implementations have been identified for a GPRS R97
mobile on a PBCCH cell:
a) The MS systematically reads SI3 on BCCH and uses the ECSC value,
b) When the MS does not read SI3, it systematically sends early classmark
message,
c) When the MS does not read SI3, the MS never sends early classmark message.
### 5.3.2 Solution
TSG GERAN#07 has agreed that the three mobile implementations are acceptable
for a GPRS R97 MS.
### 5.3.3 Implementation requirements
The systematic reception of an early CLASSMARK CHANGE message shall be
supported by the BSS, even though the BSS may ignore the content of the
message.
### 5.3.4 Support of Legacy mobiles
The network may initiate a classmark interrogation procedure (see 3GPP TS
04.08) to get the Classmark 3 information from the MS.
## 5.4 Conditions for IOV reset
### 5.4.1 Justification
It was found that the term \"change of Kc\" used in 3GPP TS 04.64 sec. 8.9.2
was interpreted differently.
Two different mobile implementations have been identified for a GPRS R98
mobile for the case that the network uses the same authentication triplets
twice:
a) the MS does not reset the IOV value to its default value, but keeps the
current value;
b) the MS resets the IOV value to its default value.
### 5.4.2 Solution
TSG-CN1 Meeting #21has agreed that only the behaviour described in 5.4.1 a) is
correct and has clarified this behaviour in the corresponding CR 04.64 A155.
### 5.4.3 Implementation requirements
All new GPRS mobiles shall support the correct behaviour of the IOV handling
described above within four months of the relevant specification (04.64
v7.4.0) being published by 3GPP.
### 5.4.4 Support of Legacy mobiles
After the assignment of the same Kc value, in order to avoid different IOV
values in the SGSN and the legacy mobile station, the SGSN may negotiate a
random IOV value, after the authentication procedure is completed.
## 5.5 Two-message packet downlink assignment on CCCH
### 5.5.1 Justification
It has been found that the \'downlink' bit in the _Dedicated Mode or TBF_
information element has been implemented differently.
The _Dedicated Mode or TBF_ information element is used in the IMMEDIATE
ASSIGNMENT message on CCCH. The \'downlink' bit is significant at a packet
downlink assignment using this message. If the mobile station has received a
first IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT message where the _Dedicated Mode or TBF_
information element indicates that this is the first message in a two-message
assignment (3GPP TS 04.08), two different implementations have been identified
for a GPRS R98 mobile station:
a) The mobile station expects a second IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT message with the
\'downlink' bit set to \'0' in the _Dedicated Mode or TBF_ information
element.
b) The mobile station expects a second IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT message with the
\'downlink' bit set to \'1' in the _Dedicated Mode or TBF_ information
element.
In each case, if there is no second IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT message received with
the \'downlink' bit set to the expected value, the two-message assignment
procedure fails.
### 5.5.2 Solution
TSG GERAN meeting #12 has agreed that the two implementations are acceptable
for a GPRS R98 mobile station.
### 5.5.3 Implementation requirements
Not applicable to GPRS R98.
### 5.5.4 Support of Legacy mobiles
The network may avoid using the two-message assignment procedure for packet
downlink assignment. If frequency hopping shall be applied and the _direct
encoding_ of the frequency parameters does not fit into a single IMMEDIATE
ASSIGNMENT message, the network may use _indirect encoding_ of the frequency
parameters.
## 5.6 Negotiation of SNDCP compression entities
### 5.6.1 Justification
It has been found that the negotiation of SNDCP compression entities with
unknown algorithm type described in 3GPP TS 44.065 subclause 6.8 was
interpreted differently up to and including version 6.2.0 of the TS.
According to 3GPP TS 44.065 subclauses 6.8.1 and 6.8.2, an SNDCP entity can
accept a compression entity proposed by its peer SNDCP entity by not including
it in the responding SNDCP XID block.
On the other hand, according to subclause 6.8.3, exception handling:
> \"In this subclause, the term \"parameter\" may refer, wherever applicable,
> to an SNDCP XID parameter, a compression field (for parameter type 1 or 2),
> or a parameter for a compression field. If the originating SNDCP XID block
> includes a parameter with **unrecognised Type field** , the parameter shall
> be ignored by the responder.\"
Some manufacturers have interpreted the above requirement in such a way that
it applies also to the parameter \"algorithm type\" in the SNDCP XID
parameters \"protocol control information compression\" and \"data
compression\".
With such an interpretation, in some scenarios the SNDCP entity originating
the XID negotiation cannot decide whether the peer SNDCP entity did not
respond to a proposed compression entity in order to accept it or because it
did not know the algorithm and therefore ignored the proposed compression
entity.
In particular, some R97/98 MS implementations ignore a proposal for a protocol
control information compression with algorithm type RFC2507, because this
algorithm was only introduced in R99. Since the MS does not explicitly reject
the proposed compression entity for RFC2507, a R99 SGSN following subclauses
6.8.1 and 6.8.2 may assume that the MS has accepted the proposal and will
start using this compression entity. The MS will then discard the downlink
packets compressed by the SGSN with RFC2507.
### 5.6.2 Solution
TSG-CN #25 approved the CR 015r2 to 3GPP TS 44.065 for Rel-4 and CR 016r2 from
Rel-5 onwards. These CRs mandate explicit rejection of non-supported
compression algorithms to remove the ambiguity.
### 5.6.3 Implementation requirements
All new GPRS mobile stations shall support the explicit rejection of non-
supported compression algorithms as described above within four months of the
relevant specification being approved by 3GPP.
NOTE: This subclause was added in the present document in TSG-GERAN meeting
#24 in April 2005.
### 5.6.4 Support of Legacy mobiles
For the algorithm RFC2507 which was introduced in R99, the SNDCP entity in the
network originating the XID negotiation can resolve this ambiguity by
evaluating the revision level of its peer entity (revision level in the MS
network capability IE), since a R99 implementation cannot treat RFC2507 as
unknown compression algorithm. To this purpose the SNDCP entity in the network
needs to be informed about the revision level of the mobile station.
If the mobile station uses SNDCP version 0 and does not explicitly reply to
the proposal for a compression entity, and the revision level of the mobile
station is
\- \'GSM phase 2\':
the SGSN may assume that the entity was rejected, if the proposed algorithm
was introduced in R99 or later. If the algorithm was introduced before R99,
the network shall proceed as specified in TS 44.065;
\- \'R99 or later\':
the SGSN may assume that the entity was rejected, if the proposed algorithm
was introduced in Rel-4 or later. If the algorithm was introduced in R99 or
earlier, the network shall proceed as specified in TS 44.065.
#