# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum RF characteristics and minimum
performance requirements of E-UTRA Relay.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\"
[3] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\"
[4] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329-10, \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[5] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
**Access link:** Link for communication between Relay and UE.
**Backhaul link:** Link for communication between Relay and BS.
**Carrier: The modulated waveform conveying the E-UTRA or UTRA physical
channels**
**Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Channel edge:** The lowest and highest frequency of the E-UTRA carrier,
separated by the channel bandwidth.
**In-band relay:** A Relay where the access link and backhaul link operates in
the same operating band.
**Measurement bandwidth** : The bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**Occupied bandwidth:** The width of a frequency band such that, below the
lower and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each
equal to a specified percentage β/2 of the total mean power of a given
emission.
**RRC filtered mean power:** The mean power of a UTRA carrier as measured
through a root raised cosine filter with roll-off factor α and a bandwidth
equal to the chip rate of the radio access mode.
NOTE 1: The RRC filtered mean power of a perfectly modulated UTRA signal is
0.246 dB lower than the mean power of the same signal.
**Transmission bandwidth:** Bandwidth of an instantaneous transmission from a
UE or BS, measured in Resource Block units.
**Transmission bandwidth configuration:** The highest transmission bandwidth
allowed for uplink or downlink in a given channel bandwidth, measured in
Resource Block units.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACK Acknowledgement (in HARQ protocols)
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BS Base Station
CP Cyclic prefix
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CW Continuous Wave
DC Direct Current
DFT Discrete Fourier Transformation
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
DwPTS Downlink part of the special subframe (for TDD operation)
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EPA Extended Pedestrian A model
ETU Extended Typical Urban model
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
EVA Extended Vehicular A model
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FFT Fast Fourier Transformation
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GP Guard Period (for TDD operation)
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
HD-FDD Half- Duplex FDD
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the ITU
LA Local Area
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex
OOB Out-of-band
PA Power Amplifier
PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
PSS Primary Synchronization Signal
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
QPSK Quadrature Phase-Shift Keying
> RAT Radio Access Technology
RB Resource Block
RE Resource Element
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity power level
RF Radio Frequency
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
R-PDCCH Relay Physical Downlink Control Channel
RS Reference Symbol
RX Receiver
RRC Root Raised Cosine
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
SSS Secondary Synchronization Signal
TA Timing Advance
TDD Time Division Duplex
TX Transmitter
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
WA Wide Area
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification defines Test Tolerances. These
Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each test. The Test Tolerances
are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in this specification to create
Test Requirements.
The measurement results returned by the Test System are compared - without any
modification - against the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The Shared Risk principle is defined in ITU-R M.1545 [5].
## 4.2 Relay classes
The Relay classes are defined based on the RF scenarios expected for the Relay
access deployment, defined in terms of the Minimum Coupling Loss (MCL) between
Relay and UE. The following definitions are used:
\- High-CL Relay are characterised by requirements derived from outdoor Relay
scenarios with a Relay to UE minimum coupling loss equals to 59 dB.
\- Low-CL Relay are characterised by requirements derived from indoor Relay
scenarios with a Relay to UE minimum coupling loss equals to 45 dB.
## 4.3 Regional requirements
Some requirements in the present document may only apply in certain regions
either as optional requirements or set by local and regional regulation as
mandatory requirements. It is normally not stated in the 3GPP specifications
under what exact circumstances that the requirements apply, since this is
defined by local or regional regulation.
Table 4.3-1 lists all requirements that may be applied differently in
different regions.
Table 4.3-1: List of regional requirements
* * *
Clause number Requirement Comments 5.2 Operating bands Some bands may be
applied regionally. 5.3 Channel bandwidth Some channel bandwidths may be
applied regionally. 5.4 Channel arrangement The requirement is applied
according to what operating bands in clause 5.5 that are supported by the BS.
6.5.1 Transmitter spurious emissions Some of the requirements references in
this may be applied regionally. This is further detailed in TS 36.104 [3]
subclause 4.3. 7.6.3 Blocking requirements for co-location Some of the
requirements references in this may be applied regionally. This is further
detailed in TS 36.104 [3] subclause 4.3.
* * *
# 5 Operating bands and channel arrangement
## 5.1 General
The channel arrangements presented in this clause are based on the operating
bands and channel bandwidths defined in the present release of specifications.
NOTE: Other operating bands and channel bandwidths may be considered in future
releases.
## 5.2 Operating bands
E-UTRA is designed to operate in the operating bands defined in Table 5.5-1 of
TS 36.104 [3].
## 5.3 Channel bandwidth
Requirements in present document are specified for the channel bandwidths
listed in Table 5.6-1 of TS 36.104 [3].
For the access link the manufacturer shall declare the channel bandwidths
supported by the Relay.
The the backhaul link the Relay shall support the channel bandwidths denoted
by \"Yes\" in Table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [2] for the supported operating band.
Note 1 in Table 5.6.1-1 does not apply.
## 5.4 Channel arrangement
The channel spacing is specified in subclause 5.7.1 of TS 36.104 [3].
The channel raster is specified in subclause 5.7.2 of TS 36.104 [3].
Carrier frequency and EARFCN is specified in subclause 5.7.3 of TS 36.104 [3].
# 6 Transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in clause 6 are expressed for a
single transmitter antenna connector. In case of multi-carrier transmission
with one or multiple transmitter antenna connectors, transmit diversity or
MIMO transmission, the requirements apply for each transmitter antenna
connector.
Unless otherwise stated the requirements in clause 6 shall apply for both the
access link and backhaul link at all times, i.e. during the Transmitter ON
period, the Transmitter OFF period and the Transmitter transient period.
## 6.2 Output power
The rated output power is the mean power level that the manufacturer has
declared to be available at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON
period. Two power classes are defined for relay access link and single power
class is defined for relay backhaul link, where the rated output power shall
be as specified in Table 6.2-2 and Table 6.2-3.
Table 6.2-1: Void
Table 6.2-2: Relay access link rated output power
+-------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Access link Power class | Rated output power [dBm] | +-------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Power class 1 | ≤ +24 (for one transmit antenna port) | | | | | | ≤ +21 (for two transmit antenna ports) | | | | | | ≤ +18 (for four transmit antenna ports) | | | | | | ≤ +15 (for eight transmit antenna ports) | +-------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Power class 2 | ≤ +30 (for one transmit antenna port) | | | | | | ≤ +27 (for two transmit antenna ports) | | | | | | ≤ +24 (for four transmit antenna ports) | | | | | | ≤ +21 (for eight transmit antenna ports) | +-------------------------+------------------------------------------+
Table 6.2-3: Relay backhaul link rated output power
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Backhaul link Power class | Rated output power [dBm] | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Power class 1 | ≤ +24 (for one transmit antenna port) | | | | | | ≤ +21 (for two transmit antenna ports) | | | | | | ≤ +18 (for four transmit antenna ports) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
NOTE: For coexistence with a victim base station a minimum MCL should be met
in all scenarios. This is particularly relevant for use cases where relays are
placed wall mounted or in rooftops. The value for this MCL is FFS.
### 6.2.1 Maximum output power
The maximum output power, of the Relay is the mean power level measured at the
antenna connector during the transmitter ON period in a specified reference
condition. The period of measurement shall be at least one sub frame (1ms)
#### 6.2.1.1 Minimum requirement
In normal conditions, the maximum output power shall remain within +2 dB and
-2 dB of the rated output power declared by the manufacturer.
In extreme conditions, the maximum output power shall remain within +2.5 dB
and -2.5 dB of the rated output power declared by the manufacturer.
In certain regions, the minimum requirement for normal conditions may apply
also for some conditions outside the range of conditions defined as normal.
### 6.2.2 Configured transmitted Power for backhaul link
The Relay backhaul link is allowed to set its configured maximum output power
P~CMAX~. The configured maximum output power P~CMAX~ is set within the
following bounds:
\- P~CMAX~ = MIN { P~EMAX~, PRAT }
\- P~EMAX~ is the value given to IE _P-Max_ , defined in TS36.331
\- PRAT is the Relay rated output power specified in table 6.2.1-1 without
taking into account the tolerance specified in the table 6.2.2.1-1
#### 6.2.2.1 Minimum requirement
The measured configured maximum output power P~UMAX~ shall be within the
following bounds:
P~CMAX~ -- T(P~CMAX~) ≤ P~UMAX~ ≤ P~CMAX~ + T(P~CMAX~)
Where T(P~CMAX~) is defined by the tolerance table below and applies to
P~CMAX_L~ and P~CMAX_H~ separately. If the P~EMAX~ is specially
informed/declared that it would be settled as fixed level, the tolerance
T(P~CMAX~) should be aligned with the corresponding requirement for rated
output power for Relay backhaul link and the test could focus on the specific
range.
If the informed/declared P~EMAX~ is equal to PRAT, P~CMAX~ could be tested
together with PRAT.
Table 6.2.2.1-1: P~CMAX~ tolerance
* * *
P~CMAX~ [dBm] Tolerance T(P~CMAX~) [dB] PRAT-3 ≤ P~CMAX~ ≤PRAT 2.0 PRAT-4 ≤
P~CMAX~ \< PRAT-3 2.5 PRAT-5 ≤ P~CMAX~ \< PRAT-4 3.0 PRAT-6 ≤ P~CMAX~ \<
PRAT-5 3.5 PRAT-13 ≤ P~CMAX~ \< PRAT-6 4.0 -50 ≤ P~CMAX~ \< PRAT-13 6.0
* * *
## 6.3 Output power dynamics
### 6.3.1 Minimum output power
The minimum controlled output power of the RN is defined as the broadband
transmit power of the RN, i.e. the power in the channel bandwidth for all
transmit bandwidth configurations (resource blocks), when the power is set to
a minimum value. The minimum output power is defined as the mean power in one
sub-frame (1ms).
#### 6.3.1.1 Minimum requirement
For a Relay backhaul link with one antenna connector the minimum output power
shall not exceed -50dBm.
For a Relay backhaul link with multiple transmit antenna connectors, the
requirement is FFS
### 6.3.2 ON/OFF time mask and transmitter OFF power
For a backhaul link with one antenna connector the ON/OFF time mask is
specified in subclause 6.3.4 of TS36.101 [2]. The requirements for PRACH
specified in subclause 6.3.4 of TS36.101 [2] does not apply.
For a backhaul link with multiple antenna connectors the ON/OFF time mask is
specified in subclause 6.3.4B of TS36.101 [2]. The requirements for PRACH
specified in subclause 6.3.4B of TS36.101 [2] does not apply.
For backhaul link the transmitter OFF power shall not exceed the values
specified in Table 6.3.2-1.
Table 6.3.2-1: Transmitter OFF power
* * *
                          Channel bandwidth / Transmitter OFF power / measurement bandwidth                                            
                          1.4 MHz                                                             3.0 MHz   5 MHz     10 MHz    15 MHz     20 MHz
Transmitter OFF power -66 dBm  
Measurement bandwidth 1.08 MHz 2.7 MHz 4.5 MHz 9.0 MHz 13.5 MHz 18 MHz
* * *
For the access link the transient period requirements are specified in
subclause 6.4.2 of TS36.104 [3]. The requirements only apply for TDD Relay.
For the access link the transmitter off power requirements are specified in
subclause 6.4.1 of TS36.104 [3]. The requirements only apply for TDD Relay.
### 6.3.3 Power control
For the backhaul link the absolute power tolerance requirements are specified
in subclause 6.3.5.1 of TS36.101[2]. The requirements specified for PRACH in
subclause 6.3.5.1 of TS36.104[3] does not apply. Note 2 in table 6.2.2-1 in
TS36.101[2] does not apply.
For the backhaul link the relative power tolerance requirements are specified
in subclause 6.3.5.2 of TS36.101[2]. The requirements specified for PRACH in
subclause 6.3.5.1 of TS36.104[3] does not apply. Note 2 in table 6.2.2-1 in
TS36.101[2] does not apply.
For the backhaul link the aggregate power control tolerance requirements are
specified in subclause 6.3.5.3 of TS36.101[2].
For a backhaul link with multiple antenna connectors the UL-MIMO power control
requirements are specified in subclause 6.3.5B of TS36.101[2].
For the access link the RE Power control dynamic range requirements are
specified in subclause 6.3.1 of TS36.104[3].
For the access link the total power dynamic range requirements are specified
in subclause 6.3.2 of TS36.104[3].
## 6.4 Transmitted signal quality
### 6.4.1 Frequency error
Frequency error is the measure of the difference between the actual
transmitting frequency of Relay and the assigned frequency.
#### 6.4.1.1 Minimum requirement
For the backhaul link the modulated carrier frequency of the Relay shall be
accurate to within ±0.1 PPM observed over a period of one time slot (0.5 ms)
compared to the carrier frequency received from the Donor eNode B.
For the access link the modulated carrier frequency of Relay shall be accurate
to within ±0.1 PPM observed over a period of one subframe(1ms).
### 6.4.2 EVM
For the backhaul link the EVM; requirements are specified in subclause 6.5.2.1
of TS36.101[2].
For the access link the EVM requirements are specified in subclause 6.5.2 of
TS36.104[3].
### 6.4.3 Time alignment error
For the access link the time alignment error requirements are specified in
subclause 6.5.3 of TS36.104 [3].
For the backhaul link the time alignment error requirement is specified in
subclause 6.8.1 of TS36.101 [2].
### 6.4.4 DL RS power
For the access link the DL RS power requirement is specified in subclause
6.5.4 of TS 36.104 [3].
## 6.5 Unwanted emissions
Unwanted emissions consist of out-of-band emissions and spurious emissions
[4]. Out of band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the
channel bandwidth resulting from the modulation process and non-linearity in
the transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. Spurious emissions are
emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter effects such as harmonics
emission, parasitic emission, intermodulation products and frequency
conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions.
The out-of-band emissions requirement for the BS transmitter is specified in
terms of an Operating band unwanted emissions requirement that defines limits
for emissions in the downlink operating band plus the frequency ranges 10 MHz
above and 10 MHz below the band. Emissions outside of this frequency range are
limited by a spurious emissions requirement.
### 6.5.1 Transmitter spurious emissions
The spurious emission requirements are specified in subclause 6.6.4.1 of TS
36.104[3].
For a FDD Relay the requirements for protecting the own receiver are specified
in subclause 6.6.4.2 of TS 36.104[3].
The requirements for protecting systems operating in other frequency bands are
specified in subclause 6.6.4.3 of TS 36.104[3].
The requirements for protecting other co-located nodes are specified in table
6.6.4.4.1-2 of TS 36.104[3].
### 6.5.2 Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR)
The ACLR requirements are specified in subclause 6.6.2.1 of TS 36.104[3].
### 6.5.3 Operating band unwanted emissions
Unless otherwise stated, the Operating band unwanted emission limits are
defined from 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of the operating band up to 10
MHz above the highest frequency of the operating band.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered
(single carrier or multi-carrier) and for all transmission modes foreseen by
the manufacturer\'s specification.
The unwanted emission limits in the part of the operating band that falls in
the spurious domain are consistent with ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [4].
#### 6.5.3.1 Minimum requirements
Emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in the tables below,
where:
\- ∆f is the separation between the channel edge frequency and the nominal
-3dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency.
\- f_offset is the separation between the channel edge frequency and the
centre of the measuring filter.
\- f_offset~max~ is the offset to the frequency 10 MHz outside the operating
band.
\- ∆f~max~ is equal to f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the
measuring filter.
Table 6.5.3.1-1: Relay operating band unwanted emission limits for 1.4 MHz
channel bandwidth
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Value | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< | 1.4 MHz ≤ ∆f | 2.8 MHz ≤ ∆f | | offset of | 1.4 MHz | \< 2.8 MHz | \< ∆f~max~ | | measurement | | | | | filter -3dB | | | | | point, ∆f | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 0.05 MHz ≤\ | 1.45 MHz ≤\ | 2.85 MHz ≤\ | | offset of | f_offset\ | f_offset\ | f_offset\ | | measurement | \< 1.45 MHz | \< 2.85 MHz | \< | | filter centre | | | f_offset~max~ | | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Measurement | 100 kHz | 100 kHz | 100 kHz | | bandwidth | | | | | (Note 1) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Minimum | { | | | | | width="2.19791 | | | | Power class 1 | 66666666665in" | | | | | he | | | | | ight="0.426388 | | | | | 8888888889in"} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Minimum | { | | | | | width="2.07291 | | | | Power class 2 | 66666666665in" | | | | | heigh | | | | | t="0.46875in"} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 6.5.3.1-2: Relay operating band unwanted emission limits for 3 MHz
channel bandwidth
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Value | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< | 3 MHz ≤ ∆f \< | 6 MHz ≤ ∆f \< | | offset of | 3 MHz | 6 MHz | ∆f~max~ | | measurement | | | | | filter -3dB | | | | | point, ∆f | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 0.05 MHz ≤\ | 3.05 MHz ≤\ | 6.05 MHz ≤\ | | offset of | f_offset\ | f_offset\ | f_offset\ | | measurement | \< 3.05 MHz | \< 6.05 MHz | \< | | filter centre | | | f_offset~max~ | | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Measurement | 100 kHz | 100 kHz | 100 kHz | | bandwidth | | | | | (Note 1) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Minimum | | | | | | {width="2.2388 | | | | Power class 1 | 88888888889in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.4277777 | | | | | 7777777776in"} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Minimum | | -29 dBm | -29 dBm | | requirement | | | | | | | | | | Power class 2 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 6.5.3.1-3: Relay operating band unwanted emission limits for 5, 10, 15
and 20 MHz channel bandwidth
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Value | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< | 5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< | 10 MHz ≤ ∆f \< | | offset of | 5 MHz | min(10 MHz, | ∆f~max~ | | measurement | | ∆f~max~) | | | filter -3dB | | | | | point, ∆f | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 0.05 MHz ≤\ | 5.05 MHz ≤\ | 10.05 MHz ≤\ | | offset of | f_offset\ | f_offset\ | f_offset\ | | measurement | \< 5.05 MHz | \< min(10.05 | \< | | filter centre | | MHz,f | f_offset~max~ | | frequency, | | _offset~max~) | | | f_offset | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Measurement | 100 kHz | 100 kHz | 100 kHz | | bandwidth | | | | | (Note 1) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Minimum | | | | width="2.11805 | | | | Power class 1 | 55555555554in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.4229166 | | | | | 6666666666in"} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Minimum | | | | | | {width="2.1361 | | | | Power class 2 | 11111111111in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.4277777 | | | | | 7777777776in"} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
NOTE 1: As a general rule for the requirements in subclause 6.5.3, the
resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment should be equal to the
measurement bandwidth. However, to improve measurement accuracy, sensitivity
and efficiency, the resolution bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement
bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement
bandwidth, the result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in
order to obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.
NOTE 2: The requirement is not applicable when ∆f~max~ \< 10 MHz.
## 6.6 Transmitter intermodulation
The transmitter requirements are specified in subclause 6.7 of TS 36.104[3].
# 7 Receiver characteristics
## 7.1 General
## 7.2 Reference sensitivity level
### 7.2.1 Backhaul link reference sensitivity
The reference sensitivity power level REFSENS is the minimum mean power
applied to both the backhaul antenna ports at which the throughput shall meet
or exceed the requirements for the specified reference measurement channel.
#### 7.2.1.1 Minimum requirement
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and A.3.2 of TS
36.101[2] (with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD for the DL-signal
as described in Annex A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1 of TS 36.101[2]) with parameters
specified in Table 7.1.1.1-1.
NOTE: Whether the transmitter should be turned on or not during tests is FFS.
Table 7.2.1.1-1: Backhaul antenna connector reference sensitivity
* * *
E-UTRA channel bandwidth [MHz] Reference sensitivity power level, PREFSENS
[dBm] 1.4 -105.7 3 -102.7 5 -101 10 -98 15 -96.2 20 -95
* * *
### 7.2.2 Access link reference sensitivity
The reference sensitivity power level P~REFSENS~ is the minimum mean power
received at the antenna connector at which a throughput requirement shall be
met for a specified reference measurement channel.
#### 7.2.2.1 Minimum requirement
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in Annex A of TS 36.104[3] with parameters
specified in Table 7.2.2.1-1
Table 7.2.2.1-1: Access link antenna connector reference sensitivity
* * *
E-UTRA channel bandwidth [MHz] Reference measurement channel of Annex A.1 in
TS 36.104 Reference sensitivity power level, PREFSENS [dBm]  
Relay power class 1 Relay Power class 2 1.4 FRC A1-1 -98.8 -98.8 3 FRC A1-2
-95.0 -95.0 5 FRC A1-3 -93.5 -93.5 10 FRC A1-3* -93.5 -93.5 15 FRC A1-3* -93.5
-93.5 20 FRC A1-3* -93.5 -93.5 Note*: P~REFSENS~ is the power level of a
single instance of the reference measurement channel. This requirement shall
be met for each consecutive application of a single instance of FRC A1-3
mapped to disjoint frequency ranges with a width of 25 resource blocks each
* * *
## 7.3 Dynamic range
### 7.3.1 Backhaul link maximum input level
For the backhaul link the maximum input level requirements are specified in
subclause 7.4 of TS 36.101[2]. For reference channels defined in Annex A.3.2
only measurement channels for UE category 3-5 should be used.
### 7.3.2 Access link Receiver Dynamic Range
For the access link the receiver dynamic range requirements are specified in
subclause 7.3 of TS 36.104[3]. Only requirements in table 7.3.1-2 for local
area shall apply.
## 7.4 In-channel selectivity
### 7.4.1 Access link in-channel selectivity
For the access link the in-channel selectivity requirements are specified in
subclause 7.4 of TS 36.104[3]. Only requirements in table 7.4.1-2 for local
area shall apply.
## 7.5 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to
receive an E-UTRA signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of
an adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre
frequency of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the receive filter
attenuation on the assigned channel frequency to the receive filter
attenuation on the adjacent channel(s).
### 7.5.1 Backhaul link Adjacent Channel Selectivity
#### 7.5.1.1 Minimum requirement
The wanted and the interfering signal coupled to the backhaul antenna input
are specified in Tables 7.5.1.1-1 and 7.5.1.1-2.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and A.3.2 of TS
36.101[2] (with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD for the DL-signal
as described in Annex A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1 of TS 36.101[2]).
Table 7.5.1.1-1: Adjacent Channel Selectivity for relay backhaul link (large
wanted signal power)
* * *
E-UTRA channel bandwidth [MHz] Wanted signal mean power [dBm] Interfering
signal mean power [dBm] Interfering signal centre frequency offset from the
channel edge of the wanted signal [MHz] Type of interfering signal 1.4
P~REFSENS~ + 40.5dB* -25 0.7025 1.4MHz E-UTRA signal 3 P~REFSENS~ + 35.5dB*
-25 1.5075 3MHz E-UTRA signal 5 P~REFSENS~ + 33.5dB* -25 2.5025 5MHz E-UTRA
signal 10 P~REFSENS~ + 33.5dB* -25 2.5075 5MHz E-UTRA signal 15 P~REFSENS~ +
33.5dB* -25 2.5125 5MHz E-UTRA signal 20 P~REFSENS~ + 33.5dB* -25 2.5025 5MHz
E-UTRA signal Note*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the channel bandwidth as specified
in Table 7.2.1.1-1.
* * *
Table 7.5.1.1-2: Adjacent Channel Selectivity for relay backhaul link (low
wanted signal power)
* * *
E-UTRA channel bandwidth [MHz] Wanted signal mean power [dBm] Interfering
signal mean power [dBm] Interfering signal centre frequency offset from the
channel edge of the wanted signal [MHz] Type of interfering signal 1.4
P~REFSENS~ + 21 dB* -44.5 0.7025 1.4MHz E-UTRA signal 3 P~REFSENS~ + 16 dB*
-44.5 1.5075 3MHz E-UTRA signal 5 P~REFSENS~ + 14 dB* -44.5 2.5025 5MHz E-UTRA
signal 10 P~REFSENS~ + 14 dB* -44.5 2.5075 5MHz E-UTRA signal 15 P~REFSENS~ +
14 dB* -44.5 2.5125 5MHz E-UTRA signal 20 P~REFSENS~ + 14 dB* -44.5 2.5025
5MHz E-UTRA signal Note*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the channel bandwidth as
specified in Table 7.2.1.1-1.
* * *
### 7.5.2 Access link Adjacent Channel Selectivity
For the access link the adjacent channel selectivity requirements are
specified in subclause 7.5.1 of TS 36.104[3]. The Local Area BS requirements
shall apply to the access link.
## 7.6 Blocking characteristics
### 7.6.1 Backhaul link blocking characteristics
#### 7.6.1.1 Minimum requirement
The wanted and the interfering signal coupled to the backhaul antenna input
are specified in Tables 7.6.1.1-1 and 7.6.1.1-2.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and A.3.2 of TS
36.101[2] (with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD for the DL-signal
as described in Annex A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1 of TS 36.101[2]).
Table 7.6.1.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for backhaul link
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1-7, | ( | to | (F | -15 | P~REF | See | See | | 9-11, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 1 | _low~ | | high~ | | +33. | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 3-14, | -20) | | +20) | | 5dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 33-43 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF | - | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | ( | to | (F | -15 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +33. | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +10) | | 5dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF | - | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +10) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | ( | to | (F | -15 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +33. | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +13) | | 5dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF | - | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +13) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | ( | to | (F | -15 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +33. | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +18) | | 5dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF | - | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +18) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | ( | to | (F | -15 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +33. | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -11) | | +20) | | 5dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF | - | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -11) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 25 | ( | to | (F | -15 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +33. | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +15) | | 5dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF | - | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +15) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | No | | | | | | | | | te*: | | | | | | | | | P~REF | | | | | | | | | SENS~ | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | pends | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7.2.1 | | | | | | | | | .1-1. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-2: Interfering signals for blocking performance requirement
* * *
E-UTRA channel BW of the lowest (highest) carrier received [MHz] Interfering
signal centre frequency minimum offset to the lower (higher) edge [MHz] Type
of interfering signal 1.4 ±2.1 1.4MHz E-UTRA signal 3 ±4.5 3MHz E-UTRA signal
5 ±7.5 5MHz E-UTRA signal 10 ±7.5 5MHz E-UTRA signal 15 ±7.5 5MHz E-UTRA
signal 20 ±7.5 5MHz E-UTRA signal
* * *
### 7.6.2 Access link blocking characteristics
For the access link the blocking requirements are specified in subclause 7.6.1
of TS 36.104 [3]. The Local Area BS requirements shall apply for the access
link.
### 7.6.3 Blocking requirements for co-location
For the backhaul link the blocking requirements for co-location are specified
in subclause 7.6.2 of TS 36.104[3]. The Local Area BS requirements shall apply
for the backhaul link.
For the access link the blocking requirements for co-location are specified in
subclause 7.6.2 of TS 36.104[3]. The Local Area BS requirements shall apply
for the access link for relay power class 1. For relay power class 2 the
interfering signal power in table 7.6.2.1-2 of TS 36.104[3] shall be changed
to 0 dBm.
## 7.7 Receiver spurious emissions
For the backhaul link the spurious emission requirements are specified in
subclause 7.9 of TS 36.101[2].
For the access link the spurious emission requirements are specified in
subclause 7.7 of TS 36.104[3].
## 7.8 Receiver intermodulation
### 7.8.1 Backhaul link receiver intermodulation
The receiver IM is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the presence of two or more
interfering signals which have a specific frequency relationship to the wanted
signal.
#### 7.8.1.1 Minimum requirement
The wanted and the interfering signals coupled to the backhaul antenna input
are specified in tables 7.8.1.1-1
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and A.3.2 of TS
36.101[2] (with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD for the DL-signal
as described in Annex A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1 of TS 36.101[2])
Table 7.8.1.1-1: Wide band intermodulation for relay backhaul link
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | Para | | annel | | | | | | | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | dBm | RE | | | | | | | in | | FSENS | | | | | | | Tr | | + | | | | | | | ansmi | | ch | | | | | | | ssion | | annel | | | | | | | Band | | band | | | | | | | width | | width | | | | | | | Con | | spe | | | | | | | figur | | cific | | | | | | | ation | | value | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 12 | 8 | 6 | 6 | 6 | 6 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P | dBm | -42 | | | | | | | ~Inte | | | | | | | | | rfere | | | | | | | | | r\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (CW) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P | dBm | -42 | | | | | | | ~Inte | | | | | | | | | rfere | | | | | | | | | r\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | Modul | | | | | | | | | ated) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | BW | | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | | | | | ~Inte | | | | | | | | | rfere | | | | | | | | | r\ 2~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | F | MHz | -BW/2 | -BW/2 | -BW/2 | | | | | ~Inte | | - 2.1 | - 2.1 | - 7.5 | | | | | rfere | | | | | | | | | r\ 1~ | | / | / | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Of | | +BW/2 | +BW/2 | +BW/2 | | | | | fset) | | + 2.1 | + 2.1 | + 7.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | F | MHz | 2*F | | | | | | | ~Inte | | ~Inte | | | | | | | rfere | | rfere | | | | | | | r\ 2~ | | r\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Of | | | | | | | | | fset) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Note | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | TS3 | | | | | | | | | 6.101 | | | | | | | | | [2] | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A.3.2 | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | dy | | | | | | | | | namic | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | Pa | | | | | | | | | ttern | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | FD | | | | | | | | | D/TDD | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | | ribed | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | .5.1. | | | | | | | | | 1/A.5 | | | | | | | | | .2.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | sists | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | TS3 | | | | | | | | | 6.101 | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A.3.2 | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | dy | | | | | | | | | namic | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | Pa | | | | | | | | | ttern | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | FD | | | | | | | | | D/TDD | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | | ribed | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A.5.1 | | | | | | | | | .1/A. | | | | | | | | | 5.2.1 | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | et-up | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | C.3 | | | | | | | | | .1The | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | 5MHz | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | | ribed | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | D for | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ≥5MHz | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 7.8.2 Access link receiver intermodulation
For the access link the receiver intermodulation requirements are specified in
subclause 7.8 of TS 36.104[3]. The Local Area BS requirements shall apply for
the access link.
# 8 Access Performance requirement
## 8.1 General
Performance requirements for the acess link are specified for the fixed
reference channels defined in Annex A and the propagation conditions in Annex
B of TS 36.104 [3]. The requirements only apply to those FRCs that are
supported by the relay.
Unless stated otherwise, performance requirements apply for a single carrier
only.
The SNR used in this clause is specified based on a single carrier and defined
as:
SNR = S / N
Where:
S is the total signal energy in the subframe on a single antenna port.
N is the noise energy in a bandwidth corresponding to the transmission
bandwidth over the duration of a subframe.
## 8.2 Performance requirements for PUSCH
### 8.2.1 Requirements in multipath fading propagation conditions
The PUSCH performance requirements in multipah fading propagation conditions
are the same as defined in TS 36.104 [3]. The requirements associated with ETU
70Hz or ETU 300Hz are optional.
### 8.2.2 Requirements for UL timing adjustment
The requirements for UL timing adjustment are the same as defined in TS 36.104
[3].
### 8.2.3 Requirements for HARQ-ACK multiplexed on PUSCH
The performance requirements for HARQ-ACK multiplexed on PUSCH are the same as
defined in TS 36.104 [3]. The requirements associated with ETU 70Hz are
optional.
## 8.3 Performance requirements for PUCCH
### 8.3.1 DTX to ACK performance
The DTX to ACK performance requirements are the same as defined in TS 36.104
[3].
### 8.3.2 ACK missed detection requirements for single user PUCCH format 1a
The ACK missed detection requirements for single user PUCCH format 1a are the
same as defined in TS 36.104 [3]. The requirements associated with ETU 70Hz or
ETU 300Hz are optional.
### 8.3.3 CQI missed detection requirements for PUCCH format 2
The CQI missed detection requirements for PUCCH format 2 are the same as
defined in TS 36.104 [3]. The requirements associated with ETU 70Hz are
optional.
### 8.3.4 ACK missed detection requirements for multi user PUCCH format 1a
The ACK missed detection requirements for multi user PUCCH format 1a are
optional and are the same as defined in TS 36.104 [3].
## 8.4 Performance requirements for PRACH
### 8.4.1 PRACH False alarm probability
The requirements for PRACH False alarm probability are the same as defined in
TS 36.104 [3].
### 8.4.2 PRACH detection requirements
The PRACH detection requirements are the same as defined in TS 36.104 [3]. The
requirements associated with ETU 70Hz are optional.
# 9 Backhaul Performance requirement
## 9.1 General
The performance requirements for the backhaul are based on relays that utilize
a dual-antenna receiver.
For all test cases, the SNR is defined as:
where the superscript indicates the receiver antenna connector. The above SNR
definition assumes that the REs are not precoded. The SNR definition does not
account for any gain which can be associated to the precoding operation. The
relative power of physical channels transmitted is defined in TS 36.101[2]
Table C.3.2-1. The symbols of ${\hat{E}}_{s}$and $N_{\text{oc}}$are defined in
TS36.101 [2].
## 9.2 Demodulation of PDSCH (Cell-Specific Reference Symbols)
The requirements for demodulation of PDSCH with Cell-Specific Reference
Symbols are defined in TS 36.101[2] subclause 8.2. The requirements associated
with ETU 300Hz or high speed train propagation condition are optional.
## 9.3 Demodulation of PDSCH (User-Specific Reference Symbols)
The requirements for demodulation of PDSCH with User-Specific Reference
Symbols are defined in TS 36.101[2] subclause 8.3.
## 9.4 Demodulation of PDCCH/PCFICH
The requirements for demodulation of PDCCH/PCFICH are defined in TS 36.101[2]
subclause 8.4.
## 9.5 Demodulation of PHICH
The requirements for demodulation of PHICH are defined in TS 36.101[2]
subclause 8.5.
## 9.6 Demodulation of PBCH
The requirements for demodulation of PBCH are defined in TS 36.101[2]
subclause 8.6.
## 9.7 Sustained downlink data rate provided by lower layers
The requirements for sustained downlink data rate provided by lower layers are
defined in TS 36.101[2] subclause 8.7.
## 9.8 Demodulation of R-PDCCH
The requirements are valid for the propagation conditions given in Annex A and
for the reference channels provided in Annex B.
### 9.8.1 R-PDCCH format without cross-interleaving
#### 9.8.1.1 FDD
For single-layer transmission on antenna port 7, the requirements are
specified in Table 9.8.1.1-2, with parameters in Table 9.8.1.1-1.
Table 9.8.1.1-1: Test Parameters for single-layer transmission on port 7 of
R-PDCCH
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Test 1 | Test 2 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cyclic prefix | | Normal | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cell ID | | 0 | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Un subframe | | Normal | | | type in DeNB | | subframe | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | SubframeCo | | 10110101 | | | nfigurationFDD | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of OFDM | OFDM symbols | 2 | | | symbols for | | | | | PDCCH | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Configuration | | 2 (Note 1) | | | of OFDM | | | | | symbols for | | | | | eNB-to-RN | | | | | transmission | | | | | in the first | | | | | slot | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Downlink power | R-PDCCH_RA | dB | 0 | | allocation | | | | | | OCNG_RA | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | R-PDCCH_RB | dB | 0 | | | | | | | | OCNG_RB | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cell-specific | | Antenna port 0 | Antenna port | | reference | | | 0,1 | | symbols | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | CSI reference | | 1 | | | signal | | | | | configuration | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of CSI | | 1 | 4 | | reference | | | | | signals | | | | | configured | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | CSI reference | | _I_ ~CSI-RS~ = | | | signal | | 37 | | | subframe | | | | | configuration | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | $N_ | dBm/15kHz | -98 | | | {\text{oc}}$at | | | | | antenna port | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of | PRB | 2 | 4 | | allocated | | | | | resource | | | | | blocks | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Unused REs and | | OCNG (Note 2) | | | PRBs | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Simultaneous | | No | | | transmission | | | | | (Note 3) | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Beamforming | | No precoding | a precoder | | Model | | | vector $W(i)$ | | | | | of size | | | | | $4 \times 1$ | | | | | is randomly | | | | | selected with | | | | | the number of | | | | | layers | | | | | $\upsilon = 1$ | | | | | from Table | | | | | 6.3.4.2.3-2 in | | | | | TS 36.211 as | | | | | beamforming | | | | | weights | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Precoder | | Frequency | | | update | | domain: 1 PRG | | | granularity | | | | | | | Time domain: 1 | | | | | ms | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: as | | | | | specified in | | | | | Table 5.4-1 in | | | | | TS 36.216 | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: These | | | | | physical | | | | | resource | | | | | blocks are | | | | | assigned to an | | | | | arbitrary | | | | | number of | | | | | virtual UEs | | | | | with one PDSCH | | | | | per virtual | | | | | UE; the data | | | | | transmitted | | | | | over the OCNG | | | | | PDSCHs or | | | | | other OCGN REs | | | | | shall be | | | | | uncorrelated | | | | | pseudo random | | | | | data, which is | | | | | QPSK | | | | | modulated. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: The | | | | | modulation | | | | | symbols of the | | | | | signal under | | | | | test are | | | | | mapped onto | | | | | antenna port 7 | | | | | while antenna | | | | | port 8 is | | | | | unused. | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: | | | | | $n_{\te | | | | | xt{SCID}} = 0$ | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 9.8.1.1-2: Minimum performance for R-PDCCH without cross-interleaving
(FRC)
* * *
Test number Bandwidth Reference channel OCNG Pattern Aggregation level DCI
format Propagation Condition Antenna configuration and correlation Matrix
Reference value  
Pm-dsg (%) SNR (dB) 1 10MHz R.1 FDD OP.1 FDD 2 PRB Format 2C LOS with strong
dominant component 1x2 1 2.1 2 10 MHz R.2 FDD OP.1 FDD 4 PRB Format 2C NLOS
with medium correlation 4x2 1 11.5
* * *
#### 9.8.1.2 TDD
For single-layer transmission on antenna port 7, the requirements are
specified in Table 9.8.1.2-2, with parameters in Table 9.8.1.2-1.
Table 9.8.1.2-1: Test Parameters for single-layer transmission on port 7 of
R-PDCCH
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Test 1 | Test 2 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cyclic prefix | | Normal | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cell ID | | 0 | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Un subframe | | Normal | | | type in DeNB | | subframe | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Uplink | | 1 | | | downlink | | | | | configuration | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | SubframeCo | | 4 | | | nfigurationTDD | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of OFDM | OFDM symbols | 2 | | | symbols for | | | | | PDCCH | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Configuration | | 2 (Note 1) | | | of OFDM | | | | | symbols for | | | | | eNB-to-RN | | | | | transmission | | | | | in the first | | | | | slot | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Downlink power | R-PDCCH_RA | dB | 0 | | allocation | | | | | | OCNG_RA | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | R-PDCCH_RB | dB | 0 | | | | | | | | OCNG_RB | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cell-specific | | Antenna port 0 | Antenna port | | reference | | | 0,1 | | symbols | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | CSI reference | | 1 | | | signal | | | | | configuration | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of CSI | | 1 | 4 | | reference | | | | | signals | | | | | configured | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | CSI reference | | _I_ ~CSI-RS~ = | | | signal | | 35 | | | subframe | | | | | configuration | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | $N_ | dBm/15kHz | -98 | | | {\text{oc}}$at | | | | | antenna port | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of | PRB | 2 | 4 | | allocated | | | | | resource | | | | | blocks | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Unused REs and | | OCNG (Note 2) | | | PRBs | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Simultaneous | | No | | | transmission | | | | | (Note 3) | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Beamforming | | No precoding | a precoder | | Model | | | vector $W(i)$ | | | | | of size | | | | | $4 \times 1$ | | | | | is randomly | | | | | selected with | | | | | the number of | | | | | layers | | | | | $\upsilon = 1$ | | | | | from Table | | | | | 6.3.4.2.3-2 in | | | | | TS 36.211 as | | | | | beamforming | | | | | weights | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Precoder | | Frequency | | | update | | domain: 1 PRG | | | granularity | | | | | | | Time domain: 1 | | | | | ms | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: as | | | | | specified in | | | | | Table 5.4-1 in | | | | | TS 36.216 | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: These | | | | | physical | | | | | resource | | | | | blocks are | | | | | assigned to an | | | | | arbitrary | | | | | number of | | | | | virtual UEs | | | | | with one PDSCH | | | | | per virtual | | | | | UE; the data | | | | | transmitted | | | | | over the OCNG | | | | | PDSCHs or | | | | | other OCNG REs | | | | | shall be | | | | | uncorrelated | | | | | pseudo random | | | | | data, which is | | | | | QPSK | | | | | modulated. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: The | | | | | modulation | | | | | symbols of the | | | | | signal under | | | | | test are | | | | | mapped onto | | | | | antenna port 7 | | | | | while antenna | | | | | port 8 is | | | | | unused. | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: | | | | | $n_{\te | | | | | xt{SCID}} = 0$ | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 9.8.1.2-2: Minimum performance for R-PDCCH without cross-interleaving
(FRC)
* * *
Test number Bandwidth Reference channel OCNG Pattern Aggregation level DCI
format Propagation Condition Antenna configuration and correlation Matrix
Reference value  
Pm-dsg (%) SNR (dB) 1 10MHz R.1 TDD OP.1 TDD 2 PRB Format 2C LOS with strong
dominant component 1x2 1 2.1 2 10 MHz R.2 TDD OP.1 TDD 4 PRB Format 2C NLOS
with medium correlation 4x2 1 11.5
* * *
###### ### Annex A: Propagation models for relay demodulation requirements
# A.1 Propagation models for backhaul link
## A.1.1 Delay Profiles
Three representative delay profiles are selected corresponding to the LOS and
NLOS scenarios.
### A.1.1.1 LOS between eNB and relay
Table A.1.1-1 and Table A.1.1-2 show the delay profiles for the LOS scenarios:
one with strong dominant component and the other with medium dominant
component. Note that the first tap in both Table A.1.1-1 and Table A.1.1-2
corresponds to the LOS component, it is therefore a non-fading tap and the
corresponding Doppler frequency is 0.
Table A.1.1-1: Delay Profile for LOS Scenario (strong dominant component)
+-------------------------+----------------+ | Excess tap delay [ns] | Relative power | | | | | | [dB] | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 0 | 0.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 30 | -21.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 70 | -22.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 90 | -23.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+
Note that as the first tap is at least 21dB stronger than the rest taps, this
channel may be considered as an AWGN channel. The exact one-tap static AWGN
channel model is FFS.
Table A.1.1-2: Delay Profile for LOS Scenario (medium dominant component)
+-------------------------+----------------+ | Excess tap delay [ns] | Relative power | | | | | | [dB] | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 0 | 0.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 30 | -11.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 70 | -12.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 90 | -13.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 110 | -18.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 190 | -27.2 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 410 | -30.8 | +-------------------------+----------------+
Note that as the first tap is at least 11dB stronger than the rest taps, this
channel may be characterized by one dominant path combined with significant
scattering paths.
### A.1.1.2 NLOS between eNB and relay
For NLOS scenario, the delay profile is given in Table A.1.1-3.
Table A.1.1-3: Delay Profile for NLOS Scenario
+-------------------------+----------------+ | Excess tap delay [ns] | Relative power | | | | | | [dB] | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 0 | 0.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 30 | -1.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 70 | -2.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 90 | -3.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 110 | -8.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 190 | -17.2 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 410 | -20.8 | +-------------------------+----------------+
## A.1.2 Doppler Frequency
For NLOS between the eNB and the relay, as the relay nodes are often fixed,
hence a low Doppler frequency of 2Hz is used. Note that this 2Hz Doppler
frequency is only used for the new channels (such as R-PDCCH).
## A.1.3 MIMO Correlation Matrices
For LOS component between the eNB and the relay, the spatial channel
correlation matrix is modeled as an all one matrix unless cross-polarized
antennas are deployed. This is because the correlation matrix for the channel
with single LOS component is of rank 1.
For NLOS scenario, the correlation matrices are given in the following tables.
Table A.1.3-1 defines the correlation matrices for the eNB:
Table A.1.3-1: eNB correlation matrix
* * *
                    One antenna                                                           Two antennas                                                                        Four antennas
eNB Correlation {width="0.5833333333333334in" height="0.25in"}
{width="1.1666666666666667in" height="0.5277777777777778in"}
{width="2.0368055555555555in" height="1.2229166666666667in"}
* * *
Table A.1.3-2 defines the correlation matrices for the relay:
Table A.1.3-2: Relay correlation matrix
* * *
                      One antenna   Two antennas   Four antennas
Relay Correlation
* * *
The values of _α_ and _β_ for different correlation types are given in Table
A.1.3-3
Table A.1.3-3: Low, Medium and High Correlation Values
* * *
Low correlation Medium Correlation High Correlation  
α β α β α β 0 0 0.3 0.9 0.9 0.9
* * *
For the channel from the eNB to the relay, the channel spatial correlation
matrix $R_{\text{spat}}$ is then given as the Kronecker product of the eNB
correlation matrix and the relay correlation matrix, i.e. $R_{\text{spat}} =
R_{\text{eNB}} \otimes R_{\text{Re}\text{lay}}$.
# A.2 Multipath propagation fading conditions for access link
Tables A.2-1 -- Table A.2-3 show multi-path delay profiles that are used for
the performance measurements in multi-path fading environment. All taps have
classical Doppler spectrum, defined as:
(CLASS) {width="1.7777777777777777in" height="0.25in"} for _f_ ∈ -_fD_ , _fD_.
Table A.2-1: Extended Pedestrian A model (EPA)
* * *
Excess tap delay [ns] Relative power\ [dB]
0 0.0
30 -1.0
70 -2.0
90 -3.0
110 -8.0
190 -17.2
410 -20.8
* * *
Table A.2-2: Extended Vehicular A model (EVA)
* * *
Excess tap delay [ns] Relative power [dB] 0 0.0 30 -1.5 150 -1.4 310 -3.6 370
-0.6 710 -9.1 1090 -7.0 1730 -12.0 2510 -16.9
* * *
Table A.2-3: Extended Typical Urban model (ETU)
* * *
Excess tap delay [ns] Relative power [dB] 0 -1.0 50 -1.0 120 -1.0 200 0.0 230
0.0 500 0.0 1600 -3.0 2300 -5.0 5000 -7.0
* * *
A multipath fading propagation condition is defined by a combination of a
multi-path delay profile and a maximum Doppler frequency _f~D~_ which is
either 5, 70 or 300 Hz.
Note that the ETU model shown in Table A.2-3 and Doppler frequency of 300Hz
are optional for relay access link demodulation requirments.
The relay access link demodulation requirements are the same or subset of the
eNB requirements as described in TS 36.104.
###### ### Annex B: Reference Measurement Channel
# B.1 Reference measurement channels for R-PDCCH performance requirements
## B.1.1 R-PDCCH format without cross-interleaving
### B.1.1.1 FDD
Table B.1.1.1-1: Fixed Reference Channel for R-PDCCH transmitted on single-
layer antenna port 7
* * *
Parameter Unit Value  
Reference channel R.1 FDD R.2 FDD Number of transmitter antennas 1 4 Channel
bandwidth MHz 10 10 Allocated RB for R-PDCCH RB 24, 25 23, 24, 25, 26
Aggregation level PRB 2 4 DCI Format Format 2C Format 2C Cell ID 0 0 Payload
(without CRC) Bits 42 42
* * *
### B.1.1.2 TDD
Table B.1.1.2-1: Fixed Reference Channel for R-PDCCH transmitted on single-
layer antenna port 7
* * *
Parameter Unit Value  
Reference channel R.1 TDD R.2 TDD Number of transmitter antennas 1 4 Channel
bandwidth MHz 10 10 Allocated RB for R-PDCCH RB 24, 25 23, 24, 25, 26
Aggregation level PRB 2 4 DCI Format Format 2C Format 2C Cell ID 0 0 Payload
(without CRC) Bits 45 45
* * *
# B.2 OCNG patterns for R-PDCCH performance requirements
The following OCNG patterns are used for modelling allocations to virtual UEs
(which are not under test) and/or allocations used for MBSFN. The OCNG pattern
for each sub frame specifies the allocations that shall be filled with OCNG,
and furthermore, the relative power level of each such allocation.
In each test case the OCNG is expressed by parameters OCNG_RA and OCNG_RB
which together with a relative power level ($\gamma$) specifies the PDSCH
EPRE-to-RS EPRE ratios in OFDM symbols with and without reference symbols,
respectively. The relative power, which is used for modelling boosting per
virtual UE allocation, is expressed by:
where $\gamma_{i}$ denotes the relative power level of the i:th virtual UE.
The parameter settings of OCNG_RA, OCNG_RB, and the set of relative power
levels $\gamma$are chosen such that when also taking allocations to the UE
under test into account, as given by a PDSCH reference channel, a constant
transmitted power spectral density that is constant on an OFDM symbol basis is
targeted.
Moreover the OCNG pattern is accompanied by a PCFICH/PDCCH/PHICH reference
channel which specifies the control region. For any aggregation and PHICH
allocation, the PDCCH and any unused PHICH groups are padded with resource
element groups with a power level given respectively by PDCCH_RA/RB and
PHICH_RA/RB as specified in the test case such that a total power spectral
density in the control region that is constant on an OFDM symbol basis is
targeted.
## B.2.1 FDD
### B.2.1.1 OCNG FDD pattern 1for R-PDCCH
This OCNG Pattern fills with OCNG all empty PRB-s (PRB-s with no allocation of
data or system information) of the DL sub-frames, when the unallocated area is
discontinuous (divided in two parts by the allocated area -- two sided) or
continuous (one sided) in the frequency domain, starts with PRB 0 and ends
with PRB _N~RB~_ -1.
Table B.2.1-1: OCNG for FDD R-PDCCH
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Relative | PDSCH | | | | | | power | Data | | | | | | level | | | | | | | _γ~PRB~_ | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Subframe | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | A | S | | | | | | llocated | ubframes | | | | | | s | una | | | | | | ubframes | llocated | | | | | | for | for | | | | | | R-PDCCH | R-PDCCH | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | The | The | 0 | 5 | Other | | | 1^st^ | 2^nd^ | | | s | | | slot | slot | | | ubframes | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Al | | | | | | | location | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 0 -- | First | First | First | First | | | (First | una | una | una | una | | | a | llocated | llocated | llocated | llocated | | | llocated | PRB | PRB | PRB | PRB | | | PRB-1) | | | | | | | | -- | -- | -- | -- | | | and | | | | | | | | Last | Last | Last | Last | | | (Last | una | una | una | una | | | a | llocated | llocated | llocated | llocated | | | llocated | PRB | PRB | PRB | PRB | | | PRB+1) | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | (_N | | | | | | | ~RB~_ -1) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | Note 1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | physical | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | | to an | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | rbitrary | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | UEs with | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | UE; the | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsmitted | | | | | | | over the | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | PDSCHs | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | unco | | | | | | | rrelated | | | | | | | pseudo | | | | | | | random | | | | | | | data, | | | | | | | which is | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | mo | | | | | | | dulated. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | arameter | | | | | | | _γ~PRB~_ | | | | | | | is used | | | | | | | to scale | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | power of | | | | | | | PDSCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | If two | | | | | | | or more | | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | | antennas | | | | | | | with CRS | | | | | | | are used | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | test, | | | | | | | the OCNG | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsmitted | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | users by | | | | | | | all the | | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | | antennas | | | | | | | with CRS | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ccording | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | mode 2. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | arameter | | | | | | | _γ~PRB~_ | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | to each | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | sep | | | | | | | arately, | | | | | | | so the | | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | | power is | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | all the | | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | | antennas | | | | | | | with CRS | | | | | | | used in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | test. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | modes | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | section | | | | | | | 7.1 in | | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | | 36.213. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+
## B.2.2 TDD
### B.2.2.1 OCNG TDD pattern 1for R-PDCCH
This OCNG Pattern fills with OCNG all empty PRB-s (PRB-s with no allocation of
data or system information) of the subframes available for DL transmission
(depending on TDD UL/DL configuration), when the unallocated area is
discontinuous (divided in two parts by the allocated area -- two sided) or
continuous (one sided) in the frequency domain, starts with PRB 0 and ends
with PRB _N~RB~_ -1.
Table B.2.2-1: OCNG for TDD R-PDCCH
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | R | PDSCH | | | | | | | elative | Data | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | γ~PRB~_| | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | S | | | | | | | | ubframe | | | | | | | | (only | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | av | | | | | | | | ailable | | | | | | | | for DL | | | | | | | | ^No | | | | | | | | te\ 2^) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Al | Su | | | | | | | located | bframes | | | | | | | su | unal | | | | | | | bframes | located | | | | | | | for | for | | | | | | | R-PDCCH | R-PDCCH | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | The | The | 0 | 5 |__1 and | Other | | | 1^st^ | 2^nd^ | | | 6 (as | normal | | | slot | slot | | | special | su | | | | | | | subfr | bframes | | | | | | | ames)__| | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | All | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | 0 -- | First | First | First | First | First | | | (First | unal | unal | unal | unal | unal | | | al | located | located | located | located | located | | | located | PRB | PRB | PRB | PRB | PRB | | | PRB-1) | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | | | and | | | | | | | | | Last | Last | Last | Last | Last | | | (Last | unal | unal | unal | unal | unal | | | al | located | located | located | located | located | | | located | PRB | PRB | PRB | PRB | PRB | | | PRB+1) | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | (_ N~ | | | | | | | | RB~_-1) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | Note 1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | hysical | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ssigned | | | | | | | | to an | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | bitrary | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | | UE; the | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | | smitted | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | PDSCHs | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | uncor | | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | | pseudo | | | | | | | | random | | | | | | | | data, | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | is QPSK | | | | | | | | mod | | | | | | | | ulated. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | rameter | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | γ~PRB~_ | | | | | | | | is used | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | scale | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | PDSCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | | Su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | av | | | | | | | | ailable | | | | | | | | for DL | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | depends | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | plink-D | | | | | | | | ownlink | | | | | | | | config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | 4.2-2 | | | | | | | | in 3GPP | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | 36.211 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | | | If two | | | | | | | | or more | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ntennas | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | CRS are | | | | | | | | used in | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | test, | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | | smitted | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | | users | | | | | | | | by all | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ntennas | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | CRS | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | cording | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | mode 2. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | rameter | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | γ~PRB~* | | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | | to each | | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | | sepa | | | | | | | | rately, | | | | | | | | so the | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | | all the | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ntennas | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | CRS | | | | | | | | used in | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | test. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | modes | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | ecified | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | section | | | | | | | | 7.1 in | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | | | 36.213. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
#