# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document covers the assessment of E-UTRA base stations, repeaters
and associated ancillary equipment in respect of Electromagnetic Compatibility
(EMC).
The present document specifies the applicable test conditions, performance
assessment and performance criteria for E-UTRA base stations, repeaters and
associated ancillary equipment in one of the following categories:
> \- base sations of E-UTRA meeting the requirements of TS 36.104 [2], with
> conformance demonstrated by compliance to TS 36.141 [3].
>
> \- repeaters of E-UTRA meeting the requirements of TS 36.106 [4], with
> conformance demonstrated by compliance to TS 36.143 [5].
Technical requirements related to the antenna port of E-UTRA base stations or
repeaters are not included in the present document. These are found in the
relevant product standards [2-5].
The environment classification used in the present document refers to the
environment classification used in IEC 61000-6-1 [6] and IEC 61000-6-3 [7].
The EMC requirements have been selected to ensure an adequate level of
compatibility for apparatus at residential, commercial and light industrial
environments. The levels, however, do not cover extreme cases which may occur
in any location but with low probability of occurrence.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TR 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TR 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> Base Station (BS) conformance testing \".
>
> [4] 3GPP TR 36.106: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> Repeater radio transmission and reception\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TR 36.143: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> Repeater conformance testing \".
>
> [6] IEC 61000-6-1: 2005; \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6:
> Generic standards - Section 1: Immunity for residential, commercial and
> light-industrial environments\".
>
> [7] IEC 61000-6-3: 1996; \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6:
> Generic standards - Section 3: Emission standard for residential, commercial
> and light industrial environments\".
>
> [8] IEC 60050(161): \"International Electrotechnical Vocabulary - Chapter
> 161: Electromagnetic compatibility\".
[9] 3GPP TR 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[10] ITU-R Rec. SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious domain\".
[11] CISPR 22: \"Limits and methods of measurement of radio disturbance
characteristics of information technology equipment\".
[12] CISPR 16-1-1: \"Specification for radio disturbance and immunity
measuring apparatus and methods - Measuring apparatus\".
[13] IEC 61000-3-2 (2004): \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3:
Limits - Section 2: Limits for harmonic current emissions (equipment input
current ≤ 16 A)\".
[14] IEC 61000-3-12 (2005): \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3-12:
Limits- Limits for harmonic current produced by equipment connected to public
low-voltage system with input current >16 A and ≤ 75 A.
[15] IEC 61000-3-3 (2002): \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3:
Limits - Section 3: Limitation of voltage fluctuations and flicker in low-
voltage supply systems for equipment with rated current ≤ 16 A\".
[16] IEC 61000-3-11 (2000): \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3-11:
Limits --Limitation of voltage fluctuations and flicker in low-voltage supply
systems for equipment with rated current ≤ 75 A and subject to conditional
connections\".
[17] IEC 61000-4-3: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Section 3: Radiated, radio-frequency
electromagnetic field immunity test\".
[18] IEC 61000-4-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Section 2: Electrostatic discharge immunity
test\".
[19] IEC 61000-4-4: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Section 4: Electrical fast transient/burst
immunity test\".
[20] IEC 61000-4-6: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Section 6: Immunity to contacted disturbances,
induced by radio frequency fields\".
[21] IEC 61000-4-11: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Section 11: Voltage dips, short interruptions and
voltage variations. Immunity tests\".
[22] IEC 61000-4-5: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Section 5: Surge immunity test\".
[23] ITU-R Recommendation SM.1539 (2001): \"Variation of the boundary between
the out-of-band and spurious domains required for the application of
Recommendations ITU-R SM.1541 and ITU-R SM.329\".
[24] 3GPP TS 37.113: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Ancillary equipment:** Equipment (apparatus), used in connection with a
receiver, transmitter or transceiver is considered as an ancillary equipment
(apparatus) if:
> \- the equipment is intended for use in conjunction with a receiver,
> transmitter or transceiver to provide additional operational and/or control
> features to the radio equipment, (e.g. to extend control to another position
> or location); and
>
> \- the equipment cannot be used on a stand-alone basis to provide user
> functions independently of a receiver, transmitter or transceiver; and
>
> \- the receiver, transmitter or transceiver to which it is connected, is
> capable of providing some intended operation such as transmitting and/or
> receiving without the ancillary equipment (i.e. it is not a sub‑unit of the
> main equipment essential to the main equipment basic functions).
**Base Station equipment:** Radio and/or ancillary equipment intended for
operation at a fixed location and powered directly or indirectly (e.g. via an
AC/DC converter or power supply) by AC mains network, or an extended local DC
mains network.
**Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Continuous phenomena (continuous disturbance):** Electromagnetic
disturbance, the effects of which on a particular device or equipment cannot
be resolved into a succession of distinct effects (IEC 60050-161 [8]).
**Maximum throughput: The maximum achievable throughput for a reference
measurement channel.**
**Multi-band Base Station:** Base Station characterized by the ability of its
transmitter and/or receiver to process two or more carriers in common active
RF components simultaneously, where at least one carrier is configured at a
different non-overlapping operating band than the other carrier(s).
**Radio communications equipment :** Telecommunications equipment which
includes one or more transmitters and/or receivers and/or parts thereof for
use in a fixed, mobile or portable application. It can be operated with
ancillary equipment but if so, is not dependent on it for basic functionality.
**Radio equipment: Equipment which contains Radio digital unit and Radio
unit.**
**Radio digital unit: Equipment which contains base band and functionality for
controlling Radio unit.**
**Radio unit: Equipment which contains transmitter and/or receiver.**
**Port:** A particular interface, of the specified equipment (apparatus), with
the electromagnetic environment. For example, any connection point on an
equipment intended for connection of cables to or from that equipment is
considered as a port (see Figure 3.1.1).
**Receiver exclusion band: The receiver exclusion band is the band of
frequencies over which no tests of radiated immunity of a receiver are made.
The exclusion band for receivers is expressed relative to the base station
receive band.**
**Repeater:** A device that receives, amplifies and transmits the radiated or
conducted RF carrier both in the down-link direction (from the base station to
the mobile area) and in the up-link direction (from the mobile to the base
station). In operating bands specified with only down-link or up-link, only
the up-link or down-link as specified for the operating band is repeated.
**Signal and control :** Port which carries information or control signals,
excluding antenna ports.
**Telecommunication port:** Ports which are intended to be connected to
telecommunication networks (e.g. public switched telecommunication networks,
integrated services digital networks), local area networks (e.g. Ethernet,
Token Ring) and similar networks.
**Throughput: The number of payload bits successfully received per second for
a reference measurement channel in a specified reference condition.**
**Transient phenomena:** Pertaining to or designating a phenomena or a
quantity which varies between two consecutive steady states during a time
interval short compared with the time-scale of interest (IEC 60050-161 [8]).
**Transmitter exclusion band: The transmitter exclusion band is the band of
frequencies over which no tests of radiated immunity of a transmitter are
made. The exclusion band for transmitters is expressed relative to the carrier
frequencies used (the carrier frequencies of the base stations activated
transmitter(s).)**
{width="6.001388888888889in" height="1.707638888888889in"}
Figure 3.1.1: Examples of ports
Figure 3.1.2: BS with single enclosure solution
Figure 3.1.3: BS with multiple enclosure solution
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
> BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> AC Alternating Current
>
> AMN Artificial Mains Network
>
> CDN Coupling/Decoupling Network
>
> DC Direct Current
>
> E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
>
> EMC Electromagnetic Compatibility
>
> EPC Evolved Packet Core
>
> ESD Electrostatic discharge
>
> EUT Equipment Under Test
>
> FRC Fixed Reference Channel
>
> RF Radio frequency
>
> rms root mean square
# 4 Test conditions
## 4.1 General
The equipment shall be tested in normal test environment defined in base
station conformance testing specification TS 36.141 [3] or in the E-UTRA
repeater conformance testing specification TS 36.143 [5]. The test conditions
shall be recorded in the test report.
For an EUT which contains more than one BS, it is sufficient to perform tests
relating to each type of port of each representative type of the BS forming
part of the EUT.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirements in the present
document apply for each supported operating band unless otherwise stated.
Operating bands shall be activated according to the test configuration in
subclause 4.6. Tests shall be performed relating to each type of port and all
bands shall be assessed during the tests.
## 4.2 Arrangements for establishing a communication link
The wanted RF input signal nominal frequency shall be selected by setting the
E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) to an appropriate
number.
A communication link shall be set up with a suitable test system capable of
evaluating the required performance criteria (hereafter called \"the test
system\") at the air interface and/or the S1 interface. The test system shall
be located outside of the test environment.
When the EUT is required to be in the transmit/receive mode, the following
conditions shall be met:
> \- the EUT shall be commanded to operate at maximum rated transmit power;
>
> \- Adequate measures shall be taken to avoid the effect of the unwanted
> signal on the measuring equipment;
>
> \- The wanted input signal level shall be set to a level where the
> performance is not limited by the receiver noise floor or strong signal
> effects e.g.15 dB above the reference sensitivity level as defined in TS
> 36.141 [3] to provide a stable communication link.
For immunity tests subclause 4.3 shall apply and the conditions shall be as
follows.
### 4.2.1 Multiple enclosure BS solution
For a BS with multiple enclosures, the BS part with Radio digital unit and the
Radio unit may be tested separately. Communication link shall be set up in the
same way as if they are in single BS enclosure. The Radio Digital unit and the
Radio unit shall communicate over an interface enabling establishment of a
communication link.
## 4.3 Narrow band responses on receivers
Responses on receivers or duplex transceivers occurring during the immunity
test at discrete frequencies which are narrow band responses (spurious
responses), are identified by the following method:
> \- if during an immunity test the quantity being monitored goes outside the
> specified tolerances (clause 6), it is necessary to establish whether the
> deviation is due to a narrow band response or to a wide band (EMC)
> phenomenon. Therefore, the test shall be repeated with the unwanted signal
> frequency increased, and then decreased by 2 x BW~Channel~ MHz, where
> BW~Channel~ is the channel bandwidth as defined in TS 36.104 [2];
>
> \- if the deviation disappears in either or both of the above 2 x
> BW~Channel~ MHz offset cases, then the response is considered as a narrow
> band response;
>
> \- if the deviation does not disappear, this may be due to the fact that the
> offset has made the frequency of the unwanted signal correspond to the
> frequency of another narrow band response. Under these circumstances the
> procedure is repeated with the increase and decrease of the frequency of the
> unwanted signal set to 2.5 x BW~Channel~ MHz;
>
> \- if the deviation does not disappear with the increased and/or decreased
> frequency, the phenomenon is considered wide band and therefore an EMC
> problem and the equipment fails the test.
Narrow band responses are disregarded.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, all supported operating bands shall be
considered for narrowband responses.
## 4.4 Test condition for Repeater
The wanted RF input signal nominal frequency shall be selected by setting the
Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (ARFCN) to an appropriate number
within the operating band of the Repeater.
The Repeater path shall be tested with a suitable test system capable of
measuring RF performance criteria (hereafter called \"the test system\"). The
test system shall be located outside of the test environment.
When the EUT is required to be in the operational mode, the following
conditions shall be met:
> \- the EUT shall be commanded to operate at maximum rated gain;
>
> \- Adequate measures shall be taken to avoid the effect of the unwanted
> signal on the measuring equipment;
For immunity tests conditions subclause 4.3 shall apply.
### 4.4.1 Arrangements for test signals for repeaters
For immunity tests of repeaters, the wanted RF input signal shall be coupled
to one antenna port at a level which will result, when measured, in the
maximum rated RF output power per channel, as declared by the manufacturer.
The test shall either be repeated with a wanted signal coupled to the other
antenna port, or a single test shall be performed with the specified input
signals being simultaneously coupled to both antenna ports.
## 4.5 Exclusion bands
### 4.5.1 Transmitter exclusion band
For the purpose of EMC specifications there shall be a transmitter exclusion
band.
> \- Lower carrier frequency used - 2.5 x BW~Channel~ MHz to upper carrier
> frequency used + 2.5 x BW~Channel~ MHz, where BW~Channel~ is the channel
> bandwidth as defined in TS 36.104 [2].
### 4.5.2 Receiver exclusion band
The receiver exclusion band for base stations extends from the lower frequency
of the Base Station receive band minus 20 MHz to the upper frequency of the
Base Station receive band plus 20 MHz. The exclusion bands are as set out
below:
> \- 1900 MHz to 2000 MHz (Band 1) ;
>
> \- 1830 MHz to 1930 MHz (Band 2) ;
>
> \- 1690 MHz to 1805 MHz (Band 3) ;
>
> \- 1690 MHz to 1775 MHz (Band 4) ;
>
> \- 804 MHz to 869 MHz (Band 5) ;
>
> \- 810 MHz to 860 MHz (Band 6) ;
>
> \- 2480 MHz to 2590 MHz (Band 7) ;
>
> \- 860 MHz to 935 MHz (Band 8) ;
>
> \- 1729.9 MHz to 1804.9 MHz (Band 9) ;
>
> \- 1690 MHz to 1790 MHz (Band 10) ;
>
> \- 1407.9 MHz to 1467.9 MHz (Band 11) ;
>
> \- 679 MHz to 736 MHz (Band 12) ;
>
> \- 757 MHz to 807 MHz (Band 13) ;
>
> \- 768 MHz to 818 MHz (Band 14) ;
>
> \- 684 MHz to 736 MHz (Band 17);
>
> \- 795 MHz to 850 MHz (Band 18);
>
> \- 810 MHz to 865 MHz (Band 19) ;
>
> \- 812 MHz to 882 MHz (Band 20);
>
> \- 1427.9 MHz to 1482.9 MHz (Band 21);
>
> \- 3390 MHz to 3510 MHz (Band 22);
>
> \- 1980 MHz to 2040 MHz (Band 23);
>
> \- 1606.5 MHz to 1680.5 MHz (Band 24);
>
> \- 1830 MHz to 1935 MHz (Band 25);
>
> \- 794 MHz to 869 MHz (Band 26);
>
> \- 787 MHz to 844 MHz (Band 27);
>
> \- 683 MHz to 768 MHz (Band 28);
>
> \- N/A (Band 29);
>
> \- 2285 MHz to 2335 MHz (Band 30);
>
> \- 432.5 MHz to 477.5 MHz (Band 31);
>
> \- N/A (Band 32);
>
> \- 1880 MHz to 1940 MHz (Band 33);
>
> \- 1990 MHz to 2045 MHz (Band 34);
>
> \- 1830 MHz to 1930 MHz (Band 35);
>
> \- 1910 MHz to 2010 MHz (Band 36);
>
> \- 1890 MHz to 1950 MHz (Band 37);
>
> \- 2550 MHz to 2640 MHz (Band 38);
>
> \- 1860 MHz to 1940 MHz (Band 39);
>
> \- 2280 MHz to 2420 MHz (Band 40);
>
> \- 2476 MHz to 2710 MHz (Band 41);
>
> \- 3380 MHz to 3620 MHz (Band 42);
>
> \- 3580 MHz to 3820 MHz (Band 43);
>
> \- 683 MHz to 823 MHz (Band 44).
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the total receiver exclusion band
shall be the combination of the exclusion bands for each operating band
supported by the BS.
## 4.6 BS test configurations
The present clause defines the BS test configurations that shall be used for
demonstrating conformance. A single E‑UTRA carrier shall be used for testing
of single-carrier capable BS. For other BS types, the test configurations in
Table 4.6.1 shall be used. The test configurations (ETCx) are defined in TS
36.141 [3], subclause 4.10.
Table 4.6.1: Test configurations for E-UTRA BS
* * *
BS test case BS capable of multi-carrier and/or CA operation in contiguous
spectrum in single band only BS capable of multi-carrier and/or CA operation
in both contiguous and non-contiguous spectrum in single band BS capable of
multi-band operation Emission tests ETC1 ETC3 ETC1/3 (Note 1), ETC5 Immunity
tests ETC1 ETC3 ETC1/3 (Note 1), ETC5 NOTE 1: ETC1 or ETC3 shall be applied in
each supported operating band according to the respective capability in each
band, as defined in the 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ column of the table.
* * *
# 5 Performance assessment
## 5.1 General
Following information shall be recorded in or annexed to the test report:
\- the primary functions of the radio equipment to be tested during and after
the EMC testing;
\- the intended functions of the radio equipment which shall be in accordance
with the documentation accompanying the equipment;
\- the method to be used to verify that a communications link is established
and maintained;
\- the user-control functions and stored data that are required for normal
operation and the method to be used to assess whether these have been lost
after EMC stress;
\- the ancillary equipment to be combined with the radio equipment for testing
(where applicable);
\- the information about ancillary equipment intended to be used with the
radio equipment;
\- information about the common and/or band-specific active RF components and
other HW blocks for a communication link in BS capable of multi-band
operation;
\- an exhaustive list of ports, classified as either power or signal/control.
Power ports shall further be classified as AC or DC power.
Performance assessment of a BS with multiple enclosures may be done separately
for the BS part with the Radio digital unit and the Radio unit respectively,
according to the manufacturer\'s choice.
A communication link used by more than one operating band shall be assessed on
all operating bands. Communication link(s) and/or radio performance parameters
for the operating bands can during the test be assessed simultaneously or
separately for each band, depending on the test environment capability.
## 5.2 Assessment of throughput in Downlink
The output of the transmitter shall be connected to an equipment which meet
the requirements for the throughput assessment of TS 36.101 [9] for the bearer
used in the immunity tests. The level of the signal supplied to the equipment
should be within the range for which the assessment of throughput is not
impaired. Power control shall be off during the immunity testing.
## 5.3 Assessment of throughput in Uplink
The value of the throughput at the output of the receiver shall be monitored
at S1 interface by using suitable test equipment.
## 5.4 Ancillary equipment
At the manufacturer\'s discretion the test may be performed on the ancillary
equipment separately or a representative configuration of the combination of
radio and ancillary equipment. In each case EUT is tested against all
applicable immunity and emission clauses of the present document and in each
case, compliance enables the ancillary equipment to be used with different
radio equipment.
## 5.5 Repeaters
The parameter used for assessment of performance of a repeater is the gain
within the operating band.
# 6 Performance Criteria
## 6.1 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena for BS
The test should, where possible, be performed using a bearer with the
characteristics of data rate and throughput defined in Table 6.1.1. If the
test is not performed using one of these bearers (for, example, of none of
them are supported by the BS), the characteristics of the bearer used shall be
recorded in the test report.
The throughput in Table 6.1.1 is stated relative to the maximum throughput of
the FRC. The maximum throughput for an FRC is equal to the payload size * the
number of uplink subframes per second.
The BS Uplink and Downlink paths shall each meet the performance criteria
defined in Table 6.1.1 during the test. If the Uplink and Downlink paths are
evaluated as a one loop then the criteria is two times the throughput
reduction shown in Table 6.1.1. After each test case BS shall operate as
intended with no loss of user control function, stored data and the
communication link shall be maintained.
Table 6.1.1: BS Performance Criteria for continuous phenomena for BS
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA Channel | Bearer Information | Performance Criteria | | Bandwidth [MHz] | Data Rate | ^1,2^ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.4 | **FRC A1-1 in Annex | Throughput > 95 % | | | A.1 in TS 36.104 | | | | [2]** | No loss of service | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | **FRC A1-2 in Annex | Throughput > 95 % | | | A.1 in TS 36.104 | | | | [2]** | No loss of service | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | **FRC A1-3 in Annex | Throughput > 95 % | | | A.1 in TS 36.104 | | | | [2]** | No loss of service | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 | **FRC A1-3 in Annex | Throughput > 95 % | | | A.1 in TS 36.104 | | | | [2]** ^3^ | No loss of service | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 15 | **FRC A1-3 in Annex | Throughput > 95 % | | | A.1 in TS 36.104 | | | | [2]** ^3^ | No loss of service | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 20 | **FRC A1-3 in Annex | Throughput > 95 % | | | A.1 in TS 36.104 | | | | [2]** ^3^ | No loss of service | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
> NOTE 1: The performance criteria, Throughput > 95 % / No loss of service,
> applies also if a bearer with another characteristics is used in the test.
>
> NOTE 2: The performance criteria, Throughput > 90 % / No loss of service,
> applies instead if the Uplink and Downlink paths are evaluated as a one
> loop.
>
> NOTE 3: This is the information data rate of a single instance of the bearer
> mapped to 25 resource blocks. The performance criteria shall be met for each
> consecutive application of a single instance of the bearer mapped to
> disjoint frequency ranges with a width of 25 resource blocks each.
## 6.2 Performance criteria for transient phenomena for BS
The test should be, where possible, be performed using a bearer with the
characteristics of data rate and throughput defined in Table 6.2.1. If the
test is not performed using one of these bearers (for, example, of none of
them are supported by the BS), the characteristics of the bearer used shall be
recorded.
The throughput in Table 6.2.1 is stated relative to the maximum throughput of
the FRC. The maximum throughput for an FRC is equal to the payload size * the
number of uplink subframes per second.
The BS Uplink and Downlink paths shall each meet the performance criteria
defined in Table 6.2.1 during the test. If the Uplink and Downlink paths are
evaluated as a one loop then the criteria is two times the throughput
reduction shown in Table 6.2.1. After each test case BS shall operate as
intended with no loss of user control function, stored data and the
communication link shall be maintained.
Table 6.2.1: BS Performance Criteria for transient phenomena for BS
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA Channel | Bearer Information | Performance Criteria | | Bandwidth [MHz] | Data Rate | ^1,\ 2^ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.4 | **FRC A1-1 in Annex | Throughput \  NOTE 1: The performance criteria, Throughput \ the communication link shall be maintained, applies also if a bearer with
> another characteristics is used in the test.
>
> NOTE 2: The performance criteria, Throughput \ the communication link shall be maintained, applies instead if the Uplink
> and Downlink paths are evaluated as a one loop.
>
> NOTE 3: This is the information data rate of a single instance of the bearer
> mapped to 25 resource blocks. The performance criteria shall be met for each
> consecutive application of a single instance of the bearer mapped to
> disjoint frequency ranges with a width of 25 resource blocks each.
## 6.3 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena for Ancillary equipment
The apparatus shall continue to operate as intended during and after the test.
No degradation of performance or loss of function is allowed below the
performance level specified by the manufacturer, when the apparatus is used as
intended. The performance level may be replaced by a permissible performance
loss. If the minimum performance level or the permissible performance loss is
not specified by the manufacturer, either of these may be derived from the
product description and documentation and what the user may reasonably expect
from the apparatus if used as intended.
## 6.4 Performance criteria for transient phenomena for Ancillary equipment
The apparatus shall continue to operate as intended after the test. No
degradation of performance or loss of function is allowed below the
performance level specified by the manufacturer, when the apparatus is used as
intended. The performance level may be replaced by a permissible performance
loss. During the test, degradation of performance is however allowed. If the
minimum performance level or the permissible performance loss is not specified
by the manufacturer, either of these may be derived from the product
description and documentation and what the user may reasonably expect from the
apparatus if used as intended.
## 6.5 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena for repeaters
The gain of the EUT shall be measured throughout the period of exposure of the
phenomenon. The gain measured during the test shall not change from the gain
measured before the test by more than ± 1 dB. At the conclusion of the test
the EUT shall operate as intended with no loss of user control functions or
stored data.
## 6.6 Performance criteria for transient phenomena for repeaters
The gain of the EUT shall be measured before the test and after each exposure.
At the conclusion of each exposure the gain of the EUT shall not have changed
by more than ± 1 dB. At the conclusion of the total test comprising the series
of individual exposures, the EUT shall operate as intended with no loss of
user control functions or stored data, as declared by the manufacturer, and
the gain of the EUT shall not have changed by more than ± 1 dB.
# 7 Applicability overview
## 7.1 Emission
Table 7.1.1: Emission applicability
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+ | Phe | Appl | Eq | Re | Re | | | | nomenon | ication | uipment | ference | ference | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | requ | su | S | | | | | | irement | bclause | tandard | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | ocument | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+ | | | BS | An | R | | | | | | eq | cillary | epeater | | | | | | uipment | eq | | | | | | | | uipment | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+ | R | En | app | | app | 8.2.1 | ITU-R | | adiated | closure | licable | | licable | | SM.329 | | e | | | | | | [10] | | mission | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 1) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+ | R | En | | app | | 8.2.2 | CISPR | | adiated | closure | | licable | | | 22 | | e | | | | | | [11] | | mission | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+ | Co | DC | app | app | app | 8.3 | CIS | | nducted | power | licable | licable | licable | | PR 22 \ | | e | input | | | | | [11],\ | | mission | /output | | | | | CISPR | | | port | | | | | 16‑1-1 | | | | | | | | [12] | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+ | Co | AC | app | app | app | 8.4 | C | | nducted | mains | licable | licable | licable | | ISPR 22 | | e | input | | | | | [11] | | mission | /output | | | | | | | | port | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+ | H | AC | app | app | app | 8.5 | IEC 61 | | armonic | mains | licable | licable | licable | | 000-3-2 | | current | input | | | | | [13] | | em | port | | | | | or\ | | issions | | | | | | IEC | | | | | | | | 610 | | | | | | | | 00-3-12 | | | | | | | | [14] | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+ | Voltage | AC | app | app | app | 8.6 | IEC 61 | | fluct | mains | licable | licable | licable | | 000-3-3 | | uations | input | | | | | [15] | | and | port | | | | | ] or\ | | flicker | | | | | | IEC | | | | | | | | 610 | | | | | | | | 00-3-11 | | | | | | | | [16] | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+ | Co | Tele | app | app | app | 8.7 | CISPR | | nducted | communi | licable | licable | licable | | 22 | | e | ca-tion | | | | | [11] | | mission | port | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | adiated | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | issions | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | eq | | | | | | | | uipment | | | | | | | | covers | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | adiated | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | issions | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | purious | | | | | | | | domain. | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | that in | | | | | | | | ETSI | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | andards | | | | | | | | and in | | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | | GERAN | | | | | | | | specifi | | | | | | | | cations | | | | | | | | it is | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | sidered | | | | | | | | a part | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | spects. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+
## 7.2 Immunity
Table 7.2.1: Immunity applicability
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | Phe | Appl | Eq | Re | Re | | | | nomenon | ication | uipment | ference | ference | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | requ | su | s | | | | | | irement | bclause | tandard | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | ocument | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | | | BS | An | R | | | | | | eq | cillary | epeater | | | | | | uipment | eq | | | | | | | | uipment | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | RF | En | app | app | app | 9.3 | IEC 61 | | el | closure | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑3 | | ectro­m | | | | | | [17] | | agnetic | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | (80 - | | | | | | | | 27 | | | | | | | | 00 MHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | Electr | En | app | app | app | 9.4 | IEC 61 | | ostatic | closure | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑2 | | di | | | | | | [18] | | scharge | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | Fast | Signal, | app | app | app | 9.5 | IEC 61 | | tra | tele | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑4 | | nsients | communi | | | | | [19] | | common | cations | | | | | | | mode | and | | | | | | | | control | | | | | | | | ports, | | | | | | | | DC and | | | | | | | | AC | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | input | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | RF | Signal, | app | app | app | 9.6 | IEC 61 | | common | tele | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑6 | | mode | communi | | | | | [20] | | | cations | | | | | | | 0,15 - | and | | | | | | | 80 MHz | control | | | | | | | | ports, | | | | | | | | DC and | | | | | | | | AC | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | input | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | Voltage | AC | app | app | app | 9.7 | IEC 610 | | dips | mains | licable | licable | licable | | 00‑4‑11 | | and | power | | | | | [21] | | interr | input | | | | | | | uptions | ports | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | Surges, | AC | app | app | app | 9.8 | IEC 61 | | common | power | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑5 | | and | input | | | | | [22] | | diffe | ports | | | | | | | rential | and | | | | | | | mode | tele | | | | | | | | communi | | | | | | | | cations | | | | | | | | port | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+
## 7.3 Applicability of requirements in TS 37.113
For a BS that is E-UTRA (single-RAT) capable only, the requirements in the
present document are applicable and additional conformance to TS 37.113 [24]
is optional. For a BS additionally conforming to TS 37.113 [24], conformance
to some of the emission test requirements in the present document can be
demonstrated through the corresponding requirements in TS 37.113 [24] as
listed in Table 7.3.1 and conformance to some of the immunity test
requirements in the present document can be demonstrated through the
corresponding requirements in TS 37.113 [24] as listed in Table 7.3.2.
Table 7.3.1: Alternative emission test requirements for a BS additionally
conforming to TS 37.113 [24]
* * *
Phenomenon Application Clause in the present document Alternative clause in TS
37.113 [24] Radiated emission Enclosure 8.2.1 8.2.1 Conducted emission DC
power input/output port 8.3 8.3 Conducted emission AC mains input/output port
8.4 8.4 Harmonic current emissions AC mains input port 8.5 8.5 Voltage
fluctuations and flicker AC mains input port 8.6 8.6 Conducted emission
Telecommunication port 8.7 8.7
* * *
Table 7.3.2: Alternative immunity test requirements for a BS additionally
conforming to TS 37.113 [24]
* * *
Phenomenon Application Clause in the present document Alternative clause in TS
37.113 [24] RF electro­magnetic field (80 - 2700 MHz) Enclosure 9.3 9.2
Electrostatic discharge Enclosure 9.4 9.3 Fast transients common mode Signal,
telecommunications and control ports, DC and AC power input ports 9.5 9.4 RF
common mode (0,15 - 80 MHz) Signal, telecommunications and control ports, DC
and AC power input ports 9.6 9.5 Voltage dips and interruptions AC mains power
input ports 9.7 9.6 Surges, common and differential mode AC power input ports
and telecommunications port 9.8 9.7
* * *
# 8 Emission
## 8.1 Test configurations
This subclause defines the configurations for emission tests as follows:
> \- the equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions as specified
> in the functional standards;
>
> \- the test configuration shall be as close to normal intended use as
> possible;
>
> \- if the equipment is part of a system, or can be connected to ancillary
> equipment, then it shall be acceptable to test the equipment while connected
> to the minimum configuration of ancillary equipment necessary to exercise
> the ports;
>
> \- if the equipment has a large number of ports, then a sufficient number
> shall be selected to simulate actual operation conditions and to ensure that
> all the different types of termination are tested;
>
> \- the test conditions, test configuration and mode of operation shall be
> recorded in the test report;
>
> \- ports which in normal operation are connected shall be connected to an
> ancillary equipment or to a representative piece of cable correctly
> terminated to simulate the input/output characteristics of the ancillary
> equipment, Radio Frequency (RF) input/output ports shall be correctly
> terminated;
>
> \- ports which are not connected to cables during normal operation, e.g.
> service connectors, programming connectors, temporary connectors etc. shall
> not be connected to any cables for the purpose of EMC testing. Where cables
> have to be connected to these ports, or interconnecting cables have to be
> extended in length in order to exercise the EUT, precautions shall be taken
> to ensure that the evaluation of the EUT is not affected by the addition or
> extension of these cables;
>
> \- the test arrangements for transmitter and receiver sections of the
> transceiver are described separately for the sake of clarity. However, where
> possible the test of the transmitter section and receiver section of the EUT
> may be carried out simultaneously to reduce test time.
## 8.2 Radiated emission from Base station, Repeater and ancillary equipment
### 8.2.1 Radiated emission, Base stations and Repeater
This test is applicable to Base station and Repeater. This test shall be
performed on a representative configuration of the Base station or Repeater.
#### 8.2.1.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of BS and Repeater to limit unwanted emission
from the enclosure port.
#### 8.2.1.2 Test method
> a) A test site fulfilling the requirements of ITU-R SM. 329 [10] shall be
> used. The BS or Repeater shall be placed on a non-conducting support and
> shall be operated from a power source via a RF filter to avoid radiation
> from the power leads.
>
> Mean power of any spurious components shall be detected by the test antenna
> and measuring receiver (e.g. a spectrum analyser). At each frequency at
> which a component is detected, the BS or Repeater shall be rotated and the
> height of the test antenna adjusted to obtain maximum response, and the
> effective radiated power (e.r.p.) of that component determined by a
> substitution measurement. The measurement shall be repeated with the test
> antenna in the orthogonal polarization plane.
>
> NOTE: Effective radiated power (e.r.p.) refers to the radiation of a half
> wave tuned dipole instead of an isotropic antenna. There is a constant
> difference of 2,15 dB between e.i.r.p. and e.r.p.
e.r.p. (dBm) = e.i.r.p. (dBm) − 2,15 Ref: ITU-R SM.329 ANNEX 1 [10].
> b) The BS shall transmit with maximum power declared by the manufacturer
> with all transmitters active. Set the base station to transmit a signal as
> stated for measurement of spurious emission in the TS 36.141 [3].
>
> In case of a Repeater the gain and the output power shall be set to the
> maximum value as declared by the manufacturer.
>
> c) The received power shall be measured over the frequency range 30 MHz to
> 12.75 GHz, excluding 2.5 x BW~Channel~ MHz below the first carrier frequency
> to 2.5 x BW~Channel~ MHz above the last carrier frequency used, where
> BW~Channel~ is the channel bandwidth as defined in TS 36.104 [2]. The
> measurement bandwidth shall be 100 kHz between 30 MHz and 1 GHz and 1 MHz
> above 1 GHz as given in ITU-R SM.329 [10]. The video bandwidth shall be
> approximately three times the resolution bandwidth. If this video bandwidth
> is not available on the measuring receiver, it shall be the maximum
> available and at least 1 MHz. Unless otherwise stated, all measurements are
> done as mean power (RMS).
#### 8.2.1.3 Limits
The frequency boundary and reference bandwidths for the detailed transitions
of the limits between the requirements for out of band emissions and spurious
emissions are based on ITU-R Recommendations SM.329 [10] and SM.1539 [23].
The BS or the Repeater shall meet the limits below:
Table 8.2.1: Limits for radiated emissions from BS and repeater
* * *
Frequency range Minimum requirement (e.r.p.)/Reference Bandwidth
30 MHz≤ f \ Fc1: Center frequency of first carrier frequency used by the BS and
> repeater.
>
> Fc2: Center frequency of last carrier frequency used by the BS and repeater.
>
> BW~Channel~: Channel bandwidth as defined in TS 36.104 [2].
#### 8.2.1.4 Interpretation of the measurement results
The interpretation of the results recorded in a test report for the radiated
emission measurements described in the present document shall be as follows:
> \- the measured value related to the corresponding limit will be used to
> decide whether an equipment meets the requirements of the present document;
>
> \- the value of the measurement uncertainty for the measurement of each
> parameter shall be included in the test report;
>
> \- the recorded value of the measurement uncertainty shall be, for each
> measurement, equal to or lower than the figures in Table 8.2.2 for BS and
> repeater.
Table 8.2.2 specifies the Maximum measurement uncertainty of the Test System.
The Test System shall enable the equipment under test to be measured with an
uncertainty not exceeding the specified values. All tolerances and
uncertainties are absolute values, and are valid for a confidence level of 95
%, unless otherwise stated.
A confidence level of 95% is the measurement uncertainty tolerance interval
for a specific measurement that contains 95% of the performance of a
population of test equipment.
Table 8.2.2: Maximum measurement uncertainty (BS, and Repeater)
* * *
Parameter Uncertainty for EUT dimension ≤ 1 m Uncertainty for EUT dimension >1
m Effective radiated RF power between 30 MHz to 180 MHz ±6 dB ±6 dB Effective
radiated RF power between 180 MHz to 4 GHz ±4 dB ±6 dB Effective radiated RF
power between 4 GHz to 12,75 GHz ±6 dB ±9* dB *Note: This value may be reduced
to ±6 dB when further information on the potential radiation characteristic of
the EUT is available.
* * *
> NOTE: If the Test System for a test is known to have a measurement
> uncertainty greater than that specified in Table 8.2.2, this equipment can
> still be used, provided that an adjustment is made follows:
>
> Any additional uncertainty in the Test System over and above that specified
> in Table 8.2.2 is used to tighten the Test Requirements - making the test
> harder to pass. This procedure will ensure that a Test System not compliant
> with Table 8.2.2 does not increase the probability of passing an EUT that
> would otherwise have failed a test if a Test System compliant with Table
> 8.2.2 had been used.
### 8.2.2 Radiated emission, Ancillary equipment
This test is applicable to ancillary equipment. This test shall be performed
on a representative configuration of the ancillary equipment.
#### 8.2.2.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of ancillary equipment to limit unwanted
emission from the enclosure port.
#### 8.2.2.2 Test method
The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 22 [11].
#### 8.2.2.3 Limits
The ancillary equipment shall meet the limits according to CISPR 22 [11] shown
in Table 8.2.3 and Table 8.2.4.
Table 8.2.3: Limits for radiated emissions from ancillary equipment, measured
on a stand-alone basis (10 m measuring distance)
* * *
Frequency range Quasi-peak 30 MHz‑230 MHz 30 dBµV/m 230 MHz‑1000 MHz 37 dBµV/m
* * *
Table 8.2.4: Limits for radiated emissions from ancillary equipment, measured
on a stand-alone basis\ (3 m measuring distance)
+---------------------------------------+---------------+------------+ | Frequency range | Average limit | Peak limit | | | | | | GHz | dBµV/m | dBµV/m | +---------------------------------------+---------------+------------+ | 1 to 3 | 50 | 70 | +---------------------------------------+---------------+------------+ | 3 to 6 | 54 | 74 | +---------------------------------------+---------------+------------+ | Note: The lower limit applies at the | | | | transition frequency. | | | +---------------------------------------+---------------+------------+
## 8.3 Conducted emission DC power input/output port
This test is applicable to equipment which may have DC cables longer than 3 m.
If the DC power cable of the radio equipment is intended to be less than 3 m
in length, and intended only for direct connection to a dedicated AC to DC
power supply, then the measurement shall be performed only on the AC power
input of that power supply as specified in subclause 8.4.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the radio
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 8.3.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
limit internal noise from the DC power input/output ports.
### 8.3.2 Test method
The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 22 [11] and the Artificial
Mains Network (AMN) shall be connected to a DC power source.
In the case of DC output ports, the ports shall be connected via a AMN to a
load drawing the rated current of the source.
A measuring receiver shall be connected to each AMN measurement port in turn
and the conducted emission recorded.
The equipment shall be installed with a ground plane as defined in CISPR 22
[11]. The reference earth point of the AMNs shall be connected to the
reference ground plane with a conductor as short as possible.
The measurement receiver shall be in accordance with the requirements of
section one of CISPR 16‑1-1 [12].
### 8.3.3 Limits
The equipment shall meet the limits below (including the average limit and the
quasi‑peak limit) when using, respectively, an average detector receiver and a
quasi‑peak detector receiver and measured in accordance with the method
described in subclause 8.3.2 above. If the average limit is met when using a
quasi‑peak detector, the equipment shall be deemed to meet both limits and
measurement with the average detector receiver is not necessary.
The equipment shall meet the limits given in Table 8.3.1.
Table 8.3.1: Limits for conducted emissions
* * *
Frequency range Quasi-peak Average >0,15‑0,5MHz 79dBµV 66dBµV >0,5‑30 MHz
73dBµV 60dBµV
* * *
## 8.4 Conducted emissions, AC mains power input/output port
This test is applicable to equipment powered by the AC mains.
This test is not applicable to AC output ports which are connected directly
(or via a circuit breaker) to the AC power port of the EUT.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the radio
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 8.4.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
limit internal noise from the AC mains power input/output ports.
### 8.4.2 Test method
The test method shall be in accordance with CISPSR 22 [11].
Mains connected ancillary equipment which is not part of the EUT shall be
connected to the mains via a separate AMN. According to CISPR 16‑1-1 [12], the
Protective Earth (PE) conductor shall also be terminated by a 50 Ω/50 μH
common mode RF impedance.
### 8.4.3 Limits
The equipment shall meet the limits below (including the average limit and the
quasi‑peak limit) when using, respectively, an average detector receiver and a
quasi‑peak detector receiver and measured in accordance with the method
described in subclause 8.4.2 above. If the average limit is met when using a
quasi‑peak detector, the equipment shall be deemed to meet both limits and
measurement with the average detector receiver is not necessary.
Table 8.4.1: Limits for conducted emissions
* * *
Frequency range Quasi-peak Average > 0,15‑0,5 MHz 66 - 56 dBµV 56 - 46 dBµV >
0.5- 5 MHz 56 dBµV 46 dBµV > 5‑30 MHz 60 dBµV 50 dBµV NOTE: The limit
decreases linearly with the logarithm of the frequency in the range 0,15 MHz
to 0,50 MHz.
* * *
Alternatively, for equipment intended to be used in telecommunication centres
the limits given in Table 8.4.2 shall be used.
Table 8.4.2: Limits for conducted emissions
* * *
Frequency range Quasi-peak Average >0,15‑0,5MHz 79dBµV 66dBµV >0,5‑30 MHz
73dBµV 60dBµV
* * *
## 8.5 Harmonic Current emissions (AC mains input port)
The requirements of IEC 61000‑3‑2 [13] for harmonic current emission apply for
equipment covered by the scope of the present document. For equipment with an
input current of greater than 16 A per phase, IEC 61000-3-12 [14] applies.
## 8.6 Voltage fluctuations and flicker (AC mains input port)
The requirements of IEC 61000‑3‑3 [15] for voltage fluctuations and flicker
apply for equipment covered by the scope of the present document. For
equipment with an input current of greater than 16 A per phase, IEC 61000-3-12
[14] applies.
## 8.7 Telecommunication ports
This test is applicable for radio equipment and/or ancillary equipment for
fixed use which have telecommunication ports.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of radio
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or a representative
configuration of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 8.7.1 Definition
This test assesses the EUT unwanted emission present at the telecommunication
ports.
### 8.7.2 Test method
The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 22 [11].
The measurement frequency range extends from 150 kHz to 30 MHz. When the EUT
is a transmitter operating at frequencies below 30 MHz, then the exclusion
band for transmitters applies (see subclause 4.5) for measurements in the
transmit mode of operation.
### 8.7.3 Limits
The telecommunication ports shall meet the limits according to CISPR 22 [11]
shown in Table 8.7.1.
Table 8.7.1: Limits for conducted emissions from telecommunication ports
+--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | Frequency | Voltage | Current | | | | range | limits\ | limits\ | | | | | dB (µV) | dB (µA) | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | MHz | Quasi-peak | Average | Quasi-peak | Average | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | 0,15 to 0,5 | 84 to 74 | 74 to 64 | 40 to 30 | 30 to 20 | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | 0,5 to 30 | 74 | 64 | 30 | 20 | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | limits | | | | | | decrease | | | | | | linearly | | | | | | with the | | | | | | logarithm of | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency in | | | | | | the range | | | | | | 0,15 MHz to | | | | | | 0,5 MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | current and | | | | | | voltage | | | | | | disturbance | | | | | | limits are | | | | | | derived for | | | | | | use with an | | | | | | impedance | | | | | | s | | | | | | tabilization | | | | | | network | | | | | | (ISN) which | | | | | | presents a | | | | | | common mode | | | | | | (asymmetric | | | | | | mode) | | | | | | impedance of | | | | | | 150 Ω to the | | | | | | telec | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | port under | | | | | | test | | | | | | (conversion | | | | | | factor is 20 | | | | | | log10 150/I | | | | | | = 44 dB). | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+
Alternatively, for equipment intended to be used in telecommunication centres
only, the limits given in Table 8.7.2 may be used.
Table 8.7.2: Limits for conducted emissions from telecommunication ports of
equipment intended for use in telecommunication centres only
+--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | Frequency | Voltage | Current | | | | range | limits\ | limits\ | | | | | dB (µV) | dB (µA) | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | MHz | Quasi-peak | Average | Quasi-peak | Average | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | 0,15 to 0,5 | 97 to 87 | 84 to 74 | 53 to 43 | 40 to 30 | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | 0,5 to 30 | 87 | 74 | 43 | 30 | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | limits | | | | | | decrease | | | | | | linearly | | | | | | with the | | | | | | logarithm of | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency in | | | | | | the range | | | | | | 0,15 MHz to | | | | | | 0,5 MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | current and | | | | | | voltage | | | | | | disturbance | | | | | | limits are | | | | | | derived for | | | | | | use with an | | | | | | impedance | | | | | | s | | | | | | tabilization | | | | | | network | | | | | | (ISN), which | | | | | | presents a | | | | | | common mode | | | | | | (asymmetric | | | | | | mode) | | | | | | impedance of | | | | | | 150 Ω to the | | | | | | telec | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | port under | | | | | | test | | | | | | (conversion | | | | | | factor is 20 | | | | | | log10 150/I | | | | | | = 44 dB). | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+
# 9 Immunity
## 9.1 Test methods and levels for immunity tests
## 9.2 Test configurations
This subclause defines the configurations for immunity tests as follows:
> \- the equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions as specified
> in the functional standards;
>
> \- the test configuration shall be as close to normal intended use as
> possible;
>
> \- if the equipment is part of a system, or can be connected to ancillary
> equipment, then it shall be acceptable to test the equipment while connected
> to the minimum configuration of ancillary equipment necessary to exercise
> the ports;
>
> \- if the equipment has a large number of ports, then a sufficient number
> shall be selected to simulate actual operation conditions and to ensure that
> all the different types of termination are tested;
>
> \- the test conditions, test configuration and mode of operation shall be
> recorded in the test report;
>
> \- ports which in normal operation are connected shall be connected to an
> ancillary equipment or to a representative piece of cable correctly
> terminated to simulate the input/output characteristics of the ancillary
> equipment, Radio Frequency (RF) input/output ports shall be correctly
> terminated;
>
> \- ports which are not connected to cables during normal operation, e.g.
> service connectors, programming connectors, temporary connectors etc. shall
> not be connected to any cables for the purpose of EMC testing. Where cables
> have to be connected to these ports, or interconnecting cables have to be
> extended in length in order to exercise the EUT, precautions shall be taken
> to ensure that the evaluation of the EUT is not affected by the addition or
> extension of these cables;
>
> \- Immunity tests on the entire base station shall be performed by
> establishing communication links at the air interface (e.g. with the mobile
> simulator) and the S1 interface (e.g. with an EPC simulator) and evaluating
> the throughput (see Figure 9.2.1);
>
> \- Immunity tests shall be performed on both the Uplink and Downlink paths.
> The tests shall also include both the air interface and S1 interface.
> Throughput evaluation may be carried out at either interface, where
> appropriate, and the measurements for the Uplink and Downlink paths may be
> carried out as a single path looped at either the air interface or S1
> interface. In case of looping is used care have to be taken that the
> throughput information doesn\'t change due to looping.
>
> \- For BS capable of multi-band operation, communication links shall be
> established in such a way that all operating band(s) are activated during
> the test according to the applicable test configurations in subclause 4.6.
> Performance assessment may be done separately for each operating band.
Figure 9.2.1: Communication link set up for BS immunity measurement
## 9.3 RF electromagnetic field (80 MHz - 1000 MHz, 1400 MHz to 2700 MHz)
The test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 9.3.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the presence of a radio frequency electromagnetic field
disturbance at the enclosure.
### 9.3.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑3 [17]:
> \- for transmitters, receivers and transceivers the following requirements
> shall apply:
>
> \- the test level shall be 3 V/m amplitude modulated to a depth of 80 % by a
> sinusoidal audio signal of 1 kHz;
>
> \- the stepped frequency increments shall be 1 % of the momentary frequency;
>
> \- the test shall be performed over the frequency range 80 MHz - 1 000 MHz
> and 1400 MHz - 2700 MHz;
>
> \- responses in stand-alone receivers or receivers which are part of
> transceivers occurring at discrete frequencies which are narrow band
> responses, shall be disregarded, see subclause 4.3;
>
> \- the frequencies selected during the test shall be recorded in the test
> report.
### 9.3.3 Performance criteria
**Base station:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.1 shall apply.
**Ancillary equipment:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.3 shall apply.
**Repeater:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.5 shall apply.
## 9.4 Electrostatic discharge
The test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the radio
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 9.4.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the event of an electrostatic discharge.
### 9.4.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑2 [18]:
> \- for contact discharge, the equipment shall pass at ±2 kV and ±4 kV;
>
> \- for air discharge shall pass at ±2 kV, ±4 kV and ±8 kV;
>
> \- electrostatic discharge shall be applied to all exposed surfaces of the
> EUT except where the user documentation specially indicates a requirement
> for appropriate protective measures.
>
> NOTE: Ensure that the EUT is fully discharged between each ESD exposure.
### 9.4.3 Performance criteria
**Base station:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.2 shall apply.
**Ancillary equipment:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.4 shall apply.
**Repeater:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.6 shall apply.
## 9.5 Fast transients common mode
The test shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.
This test shall be performed on signal ports, telecommunication ports, control
ports and DC power input/output ports if the cables may be longer than 3 m.
Where this test is not carried out on a port or any other ports because the
manufacturer declares that it is not intended to be used with cables longer
than 3 m, a list of ports which were not tested for this reason shall be
included in the test report.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 9.5.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the event of fast transients present on one of the
input/output ports.
### 9.5.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑4 [19]:
> \- the test level for signal ports, telecommunication ports and control
> ports shall be 0,5 kV open circuit voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 [19];
>
> \- the test level for DC power input/output ports shall be 0.5 kV open
> circuit voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 [19];
>
> \- the test level for AC mains power input ports shall be 1 kV open circuit
> voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 [19].
For AC and DC power input ports the transients shall be applied (in parallel)
to all the conductors in the cable with reference to the cabinet reference
earth (true common mode) and the source impedance shall be 50 Ω.
### 9.5.3 Performance criteria
**Base station:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.2 shall apply.
**Ancillary equipment:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.4 shall apply.
**Repeater:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.6 shall apply.
## 9.6 RF common mode (0,15 MHz - 80 MHz)
The test shall be performed on AC mains power input/output ports.
This test shall be performed on signal ports, telecommunication ports, control
and DC power input/output ports, which may have cables longer than 3 m.
Where this test is not carried out on a port or any other ports because the
manufacturer declares that it is not intended to be used with cables longer
than stated above, a list of ports which were not tested shall be included in
the test report.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
> NOTE: This test can also be performed using the intrusive method, where
> appropriate, see IEC 61000‑4‑6 [20].
### 9.6.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the presence of a radio frequency electromagnetic
disturbance.
### 9.6.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑6 [20]:
> \- the test signal shall be amplitude modulated to a depth of 80 % by a
> sinusoidal audio signal of 1 kHz;
>
> \- the stepped frequency increments shall be 50 kHz in the frequency range
> 150 kHz to 5 MHz and 1% frequency increment of the momentary frequency in
> the frequency range 5 MHz to 80 MHz;
>
> \- the test level shall be severity level 2 as given in IEC 61000‑4‑6 [20]
> corresponding to 3 V rms, at a transfer impedance of 150 Ω;
>
> \- the test shall be performed over the frequency range 150 kHz - 80 MHz;
>
> \- the injection method to be used shall be selected according to the basic
> standard IEC 61000-4-6 [20];
>
> \- responses of stand-alone receivers or receivers which are part of
> transceivers occurring at discrete frequencies which are narrow band
> responses, shall be disregarded, see subclause 4.3;
>
> \- the frequencies of the immunity test signal selected and used during the
> test shall be recorded in the test report.
### 9.6.3 Performance criteria
**Base station:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.1 shall apply.
**Ancillary equipment:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.3 shall apply.
**Repeater:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.5 shall apply.
## 9.7 Voltage dips and interruptions
The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.
These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 9.7.1 Definition
These tests assess the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the event of voltage dips and interruptions present on
the AC mains power input ports.
### 9.7.2 Test method and level
The following requirements shall apply.
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑11 [21].
The test levels shall be:
> \- a voltage dip corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage of 30 %
> for 10 ms;
>
> \- a voltage dip corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage of 60 %
> for 100 ms;
>
> \- a voltage interruption corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage
> of > 95 % for 5 000 ms.
### 9.7.3 Performance criteria
For a voltage dip corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage of 30 %
for 10 ms the performance criteria for transient phenomena shall be applied:
> \- Criteria 6.2 for base station
>
> \- Criteria 6.4 for ancillary equipment
>
> \- Criteria 6.6 for repeater
For a voltage dip corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage of 60 %
for 100 ms and/or a voltage interruption corresponding to a reduction of the
supply voltage of > 95 % for 5 000 ms, the following applies:
> 1\. In the case where the equipment is fitted with or connected to a battery
> back-up, the following performance criteria shall be applied:
>
> \- Criteria 6.2 for base station
>
> \- Criteria 6.4 for ancillary equipment
>
> \- Criteria 6.6 for repeater
>
> 2\. In the case where the equipment is powered solely from the AC mains
> supply (without the use of a parallel battery back-up) volatile user data
> may have been lost and if applicable the communication link need not to be
> maintained and lost functions should be recoverable by user or operator:
>
> \- No unintentional responses shall occur at the end of the test
>
> \- In the event of loss of communications link or in the event of loss of
> user data, this fact shall be recorded in the test report
## 9.8 Surges, common and differential mode
The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.
This test shall be additionally performed on telecommunication ports.
These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 9.8.1 Definition
These tests assess the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the event of surges being present at the AC mains power
input ports and telecommunication ports.
### 9.8.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000-4-5 [22].
The requirements and evaluation of test results given in clause 9.8.2.1
(telecommunication ports, outdoor cables), clause 9.8.2.2 (telecommunication
ports, indoor cables) and clause 9.8.2.3 (AC power ports) shall apply, but no
test shall be required where normal functioning cannot be achieved, because of
the impact of the CDN on the EUT.
#### 9.8.2.1 Test method for telecommunication ports directly connected to
outdoor cables
The test level for telecommunications ports, intended to be directly connected
to the telecommunications network via outdoor cables, shall be 1 kV line to
ground as given in IEC 61000-4-5 [22], however, in telecommunications centres
0,5 kV line to ground shall be used. In this case the total output impedance
of the surge generator shall be in accordance with the basic standard IEC
61000-4-5 [22].
The test generator shall provide the 1,2/50 μs pulse as defined in IEC
61000-4-5 [22].
#### 9.8.2.2 Test method for telecommunication ports connected to indoor
cables
The test level for telecommunication ports, intended to be connected to indoor
cables (longer than 10 m) shall be 0,5 kV line to ground. In this case the
total output impedance of the surge generator shall be in accordance with the
basic standard IEC 61000-4-5 [22].
The test generator shall provide the 1,2/50 μs pulse as defined in IEC
61000-4-5 [22].
#### 9.8.2.3 Test method for AC power ports
The test level for AC power input ports shall be 2 kV line to ground, and 1 kV
line to line, with the output impedance of the surge generator as given in IEC
61000-4-5 [22].
In telecommunication centres 1 kV line to ground and 0,5 kV line to line shall
be used.
The test generator shall provide the 1,2/50 μs pulse as defined in IEC
61000-4-5 [22].
### 9.8.3 Performance criteria
**Base station:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.2 shall apply.
**Ancillary equipment:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.4 shall apply.
**Repeater:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.6 shall apply.
#