# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes a general description of the physical layer of
the E-UTRA radio interface. The present document also describes the document
structure of the 3GPP physical layer specifications, i.e. TS 36.200 series.
The TS 36.200 series specifies the Uu and Un points for the 3G LTE mobile
system, and defines the minimum level of specifications required for basic
connections in terms of mutual connectivity and compatibility.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical channels and modulation\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.212: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Multiplexing and channel coding\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer -- Measurements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.216: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer for relaying operation\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
Definition format
**\ **: \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BPSK Binary Phase Shift Keying
CoMP Coordinated Multi-Point
CP Cyclic Prefix
CQI Channel Quality Indicator
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CSI Channel State Information
eNode-B Evolved Node B
EPDCCH Enhanced Physical Downlink Control Channel
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
LTE Long Term Evolution
MAC Medium Access Control
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service
MBSFN Multicast/Broadcast over Single Frequency Network
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel
PCFICH Physical Control Format Indicator Channel
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PHICH Physical Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel
PMCH Physical Multicast Channel
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
ProSe Proximity Services
PSBCH Physical Sidelink Broadcast Channel
PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control Channel
PSDCH Physical Sidelink Discovery Channel
PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared Channel
PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
QPP Quadratic Permutation Polynomial
QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying
RLC Radio Link Control
RN Relay Node
R-PDCCH Relay Physical Downlink Control Channel
RRC Radio Resource Control
RSSI Received Signal Strength Indicator
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality
SAP Service Access Point
SC-FDMA Single-Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access
TDD Time Division Duplex
TX Diversity Transmit Diversity
UE User Equipment
# 4 General description of LTE Layer 1
## 4.1 Relation to other layers
### 4.1.1 General Protocol Architecture
The radio interface described in this specification covers the interface
between the User Equipment (UE) and the network, and sidelink transmissions
between UEs. The radio interface is composed of the Layer 1, 2 and 3. The TS
36.200 series describes the Layer 1 (Physical Layer) specifications. Layers 2
and 3 are described in the 36.300 series.
{width="5.291666666666667in" height="2.0729166666666665in"}
Figure 1: Radio interface protocol architecture around the physical layer
Figure 1 shows the E-UTRA radio interface protocol architecture around the
physical layer (Layer 1). The physical layer interfaces the Medium Access
Control (MAC) sub-layer of Layer 2 and the Radio Resource Control (RRC) Layer
of Layer 3. The circles between different layer/sub-layers indicate Service
Access Points (SAPs). The physical layer offers a transport channel to MAC.
The transport channel is characterized by how the information is transferred
over the radio interface. MAC offers different logical channels to the Radio
Link Control (RLC) sub-layer of Layer 2. A logical channel is characterized by
the type of information transferred.
### 4.1.2 Service provided to higher layers
The physical layer offers data transport services to higher layers. The access
to these services is through the use of a transport channel via the MAC sub-
layer. The physical layer is expected to perform the following functions in
order to provide the data transport service:
\- Error detection on the transport channel and indication to higher layers
\- FEC encoding/decoding of the transport channel
\- Hybrid ARQ soft-combining
\- Rate matching of the coded transport channel to physical channels
\- Mapping of the coded transport channel onto physical channels
\- Power weighting of physical channels
\- Modulation and demodulation of physical channels
\- Frequency and time synchronisation
\- Radio characteristics measurements and indication to higher layers
\- Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) antenna processing
\- Transmit Diversity (TX diversity)
\- Beamforming
\- RF processing. (Note: RF processing aspects are specified in the TS 36.100
series)
## 4.2 General description of Layer 1
### 4.2.1 Multiple Access
The multiple access scheme for the LTE physical layer is based on Orthogonal
Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) with a cyclic prefix (CP) in the
downlink, and on Single-Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access (SC-FDMA)
with a cyclic prefix in the uplink and sidelink. To support transmission in
paired and unpaired spectrum, two duplex modes are supported: Frequency
Division Duplex (FDD), supporting full duplex and half duplex operation, and
Time Division Duplex (TDD).
The Layer 1 is defined in a bandwidth agnostic way based on resource blocks,
allowing the LTE Layer 1 to adapt to various spectrum allocations. A resource
block spans either 12 sub-carriers with a sub-carrier bandwidth of 15kHz or 24
sub-carriers with a sub-carrier bandwidth of 7.5kHz each over a slot duration
of 0.5ms.
The radio frame structure type 1 is used for FDD (for both full duplex and
half duplex operation) and has a duration of 10ms and consists of 20 slots
with a slot duration of 0.5ms. Two adjacent slots form one sub-frame of length
1ms. The radio frame structure type 2 is used for TDD and consists of two
half-frames with a duration of 5ms each and containing each either 10 slots of
length 0.5ms, or 8 slots of length 0.5ms and three special fields (DwPTS, GP
and UpPTS) which have configurable individual lengths and a total length of
1ms. A sub-frame consists of two adjacent slots, except for sub-frames, which
consist of DwPTS, GP and UpPTS, namely sub-frame 1 and, in some
configurations, sub-frame 6. Both 5ms and 10ms downlink-to-uplink switch-point
periodicity are supported. Further details on the LTE frame structure are
specified in [2]. Adaptation of the uplink-downlink subframe configuration via
Layer 1 signalling is supported.
To support a Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service (MBMS), LTE offers the
possibility to transmit Multicast/Broadcast over a Single Frequency Network
(MBSFN), where a time-synchronized common waveform is transmitted from
multiple cells for a given duration. MBSFN transmission enables highly
efficient MBMS, allowing for over-the-air combining of multi-cell
transmissions in the UE, where the cyclic prefix is utilized to cover the
difference in the propagation delays, which makes the MBSFN transmission
appear to the UE as a transmission from a single large cell. Transmission on a
dedicated carrier for MBSFN with the possibility to use a longer CP with a
sub-carrier bandwidth of 7.5kHz is supported as well as transmission of MBSFN
on a carrier with both MBMS transmissions and point-to-point transmissions
using time division multiplexing. Transmission of PDSCH also in MBSFN
subframes that are not used for MCH is supported.
Transmission with multiple input and multiple output antennas (MIMO) are
supported with configurations in the downlink with up to eight transmit
antennas and eight receive antennas, which allow for multi-layer downlink
transmissions with up to eight streams. Multi-layer uplink transmissions with
up to four streams are supported with configurations in the uplink with up to
four transmit antennas and four receive antennas. Multi-user MIMO, i.e.
allocation of different streams to different users is supported in both UL and
DL.
Coordinated Multi-Point (CoMP) transmission and reception are supported,
including the possibility to configure a UE with multiple Channel State
Information (CSI) feedback processes.
Aggregation of multiple cells is supported in the uplink and downlink with up
to five serving cells, where each serving cell can use a transmission
bandwidth of up to 110 resource blocks and can operate with either frame
structure type 1 or frame structure type 2. Dual connectivity to groups of
serving cells that belong to two different eNode-Bs is also supported.
Sidelink transmissions are defined for ProSe Direct Discovery and ProSe Direct
Communication between UEs. The sidelink transmissions use the same frame
structure as uplink and downlink when the UEs are in network coverage;
however, the sidelink transmissions are restricted to a sub-set of the uplink
resources.
### 4.2.2 Physical channels and modulation
The physical channels defined in the downlink are:
\- the Physical Downlink Shared Channel (PDSCH),
\- the Physical Multicast Channel (PMCH),
\- the Physical Downlink Control Channel (PDCCH),
\- the Enhanced Physical Downlink Control Channel (EPDCCH),
\- the Relay Physical Downlink Control Channel (R-PDCCH),
\- the Physical Broadcast Channel (PBCH),
\- the Physical Control Format Indicator Channel (PCFICH)
\- and the Physical Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel (PHICH).
The physical channels defined in the uplink are:
\- the Physical Random Access Channel (PRACH),
\- the Physical Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH),
\- and the Physical Uplink Control Channel (PUCCH).
The physical channels defined in the sidelink are:
\- the Physical Sidelink Broadcast Channel (PSBCH),
\- the Physical Sidelink Control Channel (PSCCH),
\- the Physical Sidelink Discovery Channel (PSDCH),
\- and the Physical Sidelink Shared Channel (PSSCH).
In addition, signals are defined as reference signals, primary and secondary
synchronization signals, and discovery signals.
The modulation schemes supported are:
\- QPSK, 16QAM and 64QAM in the uplink,
\- QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM and 256QAM in the downlink,
\- QPSK and 16QAM in the sidelink.
### 4.2.3 Channel coding and interleaving
The channel coding scheme for transport blocks in LTE is Turbo Coding with a
coding rate of R=1/3, two 8-state constituent encoders and a contention-free
quadratic permutation polynomial (QPP) turbo code internal interleaver.
Trellis termination is used for the turbo coding. Before the turbo coding,
transport blocks are segmented into byte aligned segments with a maximum
information block size of 6144 bits. Error detection is supported by the use
of 24 bit CRC. Further channel coding schemes for BCH and control information
are specified in [3].
### 4.2.4 Physical layer procedures
There are several Physical layer procedures involved with LTE operation. Such
procedures covered by the physical layer are;
\- Cell search
\- Power control
\- Uplink synchronisation and Uplink timing control
\- Random access related procedures
\- HARQ related procedures
\- Relay related procedures
\- ProSe related procedures
Through the control of physical layer resources in the frequency domain as
well as in the time and power domains, implicit support of interference
coordination is provided in LTE.
### 4.2.5 Physical layer measurements
Radio characteristics are measured by the UE and the eNode-B and reported to
higher layers in the network. These include, e.g. measurements for intra- and
inter-frequency handover, inter RAT handover, timing measurements and
measurements for RRM and in support for positioning.
Measurements for inter-RAT handover are defined in support of handover to GSM,
UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD, CDMA2000 1x RTT, CDMA2000 HRPD and IEEE 802.11.
# 5 Document structure of LTE physical layer specification
## 5.1 Overview
The physical layer specification consists of a general document (TS 36.201),
and five documents (TSs 36.211, 36.212, 36.213, 36.214 and 36.216). The
relation between the physical layer specifications in the context of the
higher layers is shown in Figure 2; TS 36.216 is the physical layer
specification for transmissions between an eNode-B and an RN.
Figure 2: Relation between Physical Layer specifications
## 5.2 TS 36.201: Physical layer -- General description
The scope is to describe:
\- The contents of the Layer 1 documents (TS 36.200 series);
\- Where to find information;
\- A general description of LTE Layer 1.
## 5.3 TS 36.211: Physical channels and modulation
The scope of this specification is to establish the characteristics of the
Layer-1 physical channels, generation of physical layer signals and
modulation, and to specify:
\- Definition of the uplink, downlink and sidelink physical channels;
\- The structure of the physical channels, frame format, physical resource
elements, etc.;
\- Modulation mapping (BPSK, QPSK, etc);
\- Physical shared channel in uplink, downlink and sidelink;
\- Reference signals in uplink, downlink and sidelink;
\- Random access channel;
\- Primary and secondary synchronization signals;
\- Primary and secondary sidelink synchronization signals;
\- OFDM signal generation in downlink;
\- SC-FDMA signal generation in uplink and sidelink;
\- Scrambling, modulation and up conversion;
\- Uplink-downlink and sidelink timing relations;
\- Layer mapping and precoding in downlink, uplink and sidelink.
## 5.4 TS 36.212: Multiplexing and channel coding
The scope of this specification is to describe the transport channel and
control channel data processing, including multiplexing, channel coding and
interleaving, and to specify:
\- Channel coding schemes;
\- Coding of Layer 1 / Layer 2 control information;
\- Interleaving;
\- Rate matching;
## 5.5 TS 36.213: Physical layer procedures
The scope of this specification is to establish the characteristics of the
physical layer procedures, and to specify:
\- Synchronisation procedures, including cell search procedure and timing
synchronisation;
\- Power control procedure;
\- Random access procedure;
\- Physical downlink shared channel related procedures, including CSI feedback
reporting;
\- Physical uplink shared channel related procedures, including UE sounding
and HARQ ACK/NACK detection;
\- Physical shared control channel procedures, including assignment of shared
control channels;
\- Physical multicast channel related procedures;
\- ProSe related procedures.
## 5.6 TS 36.214: Physical layer -- Measurements
The scope of this specification is to establish the characteristics of the
physical layer measurements, and to specify:
\- Measurements to be performed by Layer 1 in UE and E-UTRAN;
\- Reporting of measurement results to higher layers and the network;
\- Handover measurements, idle-mode measurements, etc.
## 5.7 TS 36.216: Physical layer for relaying operation
The scope of this specification is to establish the characteristics of eNB -
RN transmissions, and to specify relay-specific advancements in relation to:
\- Physical Channels and Modulation;
\- Multiplexing and channel coding;
\- Relay Node procedures.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Preferred mathematical notations
The following table contains the preferred mathematical notations used in L1
documentation.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | item | notation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | multiply product | cross sign, e.g. _a_ × _b_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | matrix product | dot sign, e.g. _a_ ⋅ _b_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | scalar product (product of a | dot sign, scalar should precede | | matrix by a scalar) | matrix | | | e.g. {width="0.7777777777777778in" | | | height="0.5in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | matrix dimensioning | number of rows × number of | | | column, e.g.: | | | | | | _R_ × _C_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Kronecker product | _a_ ⊗ _b_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of sets (all elements | curly brackets {}, e.g. | | of same type, not ordered | | | elements) | {a~1~, a~2~, ...,a~p~}, | | | or{width="1.0395833333333333in" | | | height="0.3736111111111111in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of lists (all | round brackets (), e.g. (A, u, | | elements not necessary of same | x) | | type, ordered elements) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of sequences (all | angle brackets, e.g. \ or | | elements) | {width="1.0770833333333334in" | | | height="0.41041666666666665in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of function argument | round brackets, e.g. f(_x_) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of array index | square brackets, e.g. a[_x_] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of matrix or vector | square brackets [], e.g. | | | {width="0.2916666666666667in" | | | height="0.5in"}, | | | {width="0.4722222222222222in" | | | height="0.2361111111111111in"}, | | | or | | | {width="0.5833333333333334in" | | | height="0.5in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Separation of indexes | use a comma : e.g. _N~i~_ ~,_j_ ~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | use of italic for symbols | a symbol should be either in | | | italic or in normal font, but | | | mixing up should be avoided. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of arithmetic | round brackets : e.g. | | expression to force precedence | {width="0.69375in" | | | height="0.2361111111111111in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | necessity of bracketing | When only + and × bracketing is | | arithmetic expressions | not necessary. When the **mod** | | | operator is used explicit | | | bracketing of mod operands and | | | possibly result should be done. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | number type | in a context of non negative | | | integer numbers, some notes | | | should stress when a number is | | | signed, or possibly fractional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | binary **xor** and **and** | respectively use + or ⋅. If no | | | \"mod 2\" is explicitly in the | | | expression some text should | | | stress that the operation is | | | modulo 2. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | matrix or vector transpose | v^T^ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1×1 matrices | implicitly cast to its unique | | | element. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | vector dot product | u^T^⋅v for column vectors, and | | | u⋅v^T^ for line vectors | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | complex conjugate | v^*^ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | matrix or vector Hermitian | v^H^ | | transpose | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | real part and imaginary part of | Re(x) and Im(x) | | complex numbers. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Modulo operation (including | Let $q$ be the integer quotient | | negative value) | of $a$ and $N$, | | | | | | $Z$is integer, $r$is remainder | | | then | | | | | | $\begin{matrix} | | | \left{ q \in Z \m | | | iddle| \right.\ \left{ a = N \t | | | imes q + r \middle| \right.\ \ | | | \end{matrix}$, | | | where$\ q = \left\l | | | floor \frac{a}{N} \right\rfloor$ | | | for all $a$and $N$ | | | | | | (Note that | | | $\left\lfloor \right\rfloor$ is | | | floor operation to round the | | | elements of $$ to the nearest | | | integers towards minus infinity) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#