# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical specification of the services provided by
the physical layer of E-UTRA to upper layers.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[2] Void
[3] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[4] Void
[5] Void
[6] Void
[7] Void
[8] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical channels and modulation\".
[9] Void
[10] Void
[11] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer; Measurements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.303: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Proximity-based services (ProSe)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [3] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[3].
**Carrier frequency:** center frequency of the cell.
**Frequency layer:** set of cells with the same carrier frequency.
**Sidelink: UE to UE interface for** sidelink communication **and** sidelink
discovery**. The sidelink corresponds to the PC5 interface as defined in TS
23.303 [14].**
**Sidelink communication** : AS functionality enabling ProSe Direct
Communication as defined in TS 23.303 [14], between two or more nearby UEs,
using E-UTRA technology but not traversing any network node.
**Sidelink discovery** : AS functionality enabling ProSe Direct Discovery as
defined in TS 23.303 [14], using E-UTRA technology but not traversing any
network node.
**Timing Advance Group:** See the definition in [12].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[3] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [3].
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACK Acknowledgement
ARQ Automatic Repeat Request
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
BCH Broadcast Channel
BLER Block Error Rate
CG Cell Group
CMAS Commercial Mobile Alert System
CP Cyclic Prefix
C-plane Control Plane
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CSI Channel State Information
DC Dual Connectivity
DCCH Dedicated Control Channel
DL Downlink
DRX Discontinuous Reception
DTCH Dedicated Traffic Channel
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
eNB E-UTRAN NodeB
eIMTA Enhanced Interference Management and Traffic Adaptation
EPDCCH Enhanced physical downlink control channel
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FDM Frequency Division Multiplexing
GERAN GSM EDGE Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
HARQ Hybrid ARQ
LTE Long Term Evolution
MAC Medium Access Control
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network
MCCH Multicast Control Channel
MCH Multicast Channel
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MTCH Multicast Traffic Channel
NACK Negative Acknowledgement
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
OFDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access
PBCH Physical broadcast channel
PDCCH Physical downlink control channel
PDSCH Physical downlink shared channel
PHY Physical layer
PMCH Physical multicast channel
PRACH Physical random access channel
PRB Physical Resource Block
ProSe Proximity based Services
PSBCH Physical Sidelink Broadcast CHannel
PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control Channel
PSCell Primary SCell
PSDCH Physical Sidelink Discovery Channel
PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared CHannel
PUCCH Physical uplink control channel
PUSCH Physical uplink shared channel
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
RACH Random Access Channel
RF Radio Frequency
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
SBCCH Sidelink Broadcast Control CHannel
SC-FDMA Single Carrier -- Frequency Division Multiple Access
SCell Secondary Cell
SL-BCH Sidelink Broadcast Channel
SL-DCH Sidelink Discovery Channel
SL-SCH Sidelink Shared Channel
SRS Sounding Reference Symbol
STCH Sidelink Traffic Channel
TAG Timing Advance Group
TB Transport Block
TDD Time Division Duplex
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
U-plane User plane
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Void
## 4.1 Void
## 4.2 Void
# 5 Services and functions of the physical layer
## 5.1 General
The physical layer offers data transport services to higher layers.
The access to these services is through the use of transport channels via the
MAC sub-layer.
A transport block is defined as the data delivered by MAC layer to the
physical layer and vice versa. Transport blocks are delivered once every TTI.
## 5.2 Overview of L1 functions
The physical layer offers data transport services to higher layers. The access
to these services is through the use of a transport channel via the MAC sub-
layer. The physical layer is expected to perform the following functions in
order to provide the data transport service:
> \- Error detection on the transport channel and indication to higher layers
>
> \- FEC encoding/decoding of the transport channel
>
> \- Hybrid ARQ soft-combining
>
> \- Rate matching of the coded transport channel to physical channels
\- Mapping of the coded transport channel onto physical channels
\- Power weighting of physical channels
\- Modulation and demodulation of physical channels
\- Frequency and time synchronisation
\- Radio characteristics measurements and indication to higher layers
\- Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) antenna processing
\- Transmit Diversity (TX diversity)
\- Beamforming
\- RF processing.
L1 functions are modelled for each transport channel in subclauses 6.1, 6.2
and 6.3.
## 5.3 Void
# 6 Model of physical layer of the UE
The E-UTRA physical-layer model captures those characteristics of the E-UTRA
physical-layer that are relevant from the point-of-view of higher layers. More
specifically, the physical-layer model captures:
\- The structure of higher-layer data being passed down to or up from the
physical layer;
\- The means by which higher layers can configure the physical layer;
\- The different indications (error indications, channel-quality indications,
etc.) that are provided by the physical layer to higher layers;
\- Other (non-transport-channel-based) higher-layer peer-to-peer signalling
supported by the physical layer.
## 6.1 Uplink model
### 6.1.1 Uplink Shared Channel
The physical-layer model for Uplink Shared Channel transmission is described
based on the corresponding physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure
6.1.1-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in
blue. It should be noted that, in case PUSCH, the scheduling decision is fully
done at the network side. The uplink transmission control in the UE then
configures the uplink physical-layer processing, based on uplink transport-
format and resource-assignment information received on the downlink.
**\- Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- One transport block of dynamic size delivered to the physical layer once
every TTI.
**\- CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
**\- FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- Physical layer model support of HARQ: in case of Incremental Redundancy,
the corresponding Layer 2 Hybrid-ARQ process controls what redundancy version
is to be used for the physical layer transmission for each TTI.
**\- Interleaving**
\- No control of interleaving by higher layers.
**\- Data modulation**
\- Modulation scheme is decided by MAC Scheduler (QPSK, 16QAM and 64QAM).
**\- Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2-controlled resource assignment.
**\- Multi-antenna processing**
\- MAC Scheduler partly configures mapping from assigned resource blocks to
the available number of antenna ports.
**\- Support of L1 control signalling**
\- Transmission of ACK/NACK and CSI feedback related to DL data transmission
The model of Figure 6.1.1-1 also captures
\- Transport via physical layer of Hybrid-ARQ related information associated
with the PUSCH, to the peer HARQ process at the transmitter side;
\- Transport via physical layer of corresponding HARQ acknowledgements to
PUSCH transmitter side.
If a UE is configured with one or more SCells, the physical-layer-processing
chain in Figure 6.1.1-1 is repeated for every UL Serving Cell.
Figure 6.1.1-1: Physical-layer model for UL-SCH transmission
### 6.1.2 Random-access Channel
The physical-layer model for RACH transmission is characterized by a random
access burst that consists of a cyclic prefix, a preamble, and a guard time
during which nothing is transmitted.
The random access preambles are generated from Zadoff-Chu sequences with zero
correlation zone (ZC-ZCZ), generated from one or several root Zadoff-Chu
sequences.
## 6.2 Downlink model
### 6.2.1 Downlink-Shared Channel
The physical-layer model for Downlink Shared Channel transmission is described
based on the corresponding PDSCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure
6.2.1-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in
blue on the figure.
**\- Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- N (up to two) transport blocks of dynamic size delivered to the physical
layer once every TTI.
**\- CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
**\- FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- Physical layer model support of HARQ: in case of Incremental Redundancy,
the corresponding Layer 2 Hybrid-ARQ process controls what redundancy version
is to be used for the physical layer transmission for each TTI.
**\- Data modulation**
\- Modulation scheme is decided by MAC Scheduler (QPSK, 16QAM, 64 QAM and
256QAM).
**Multi-antenna processing**
\- MAC Scheduler partly configures mapping from modulated code words (for each
stream) to the available number of antenna ports.
**\- Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2-controlled resource assignment.
**\- Support of L1 control signalling**
\- Transmission of scheduler related control signals.
**\- Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
The model of Figure 6.2.1-1 also captures:
\- Transport via physical layer of Hybrid-ARQ related information associated
with the PDSCH, to the peer HARQ process at the receiver side;
\- Transport via physical layer of corresponding HARQ acknowledgements to
PDSCH transmitter side.
If a UE is configured with one or more SCells, the physical-layer-processing
chain in Figure 6.2.1-1 is repeated for every DL Serving Cell.
NOTE: The signalling of transport-format and resource-allocation is not
captured in the physical-layer model. At the transmitter side, this
information can be directly derived from the configuration of the physical
layer. The physical layer then transports this information over the radio
interface to its peer physical layer, presumably multiplexed in one way or
another with the HARQ-related information. On the receiver side, this
information is, in contrast to the HARQ-related information, used directly
within the physical layer for PDSCH demodulation, decoding etc., without
passing through higher layers.
Figure 6.2.1-1: Physical-layer model for DL-SCH transmission
### 6.2.2 Broadcast Channel
The physical-layer model for BCH transmission is characterized by a fixed pre-
defined transport format. The TTI (repetition rate) of the BCH is 40 ms. The
BCH physical-layer model is described based on the corresponding BCH physical-
layer-processing chain, see Figure 6.2.2-1:
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- A single (fixed-size) transport block per TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- No BCH Hybrid ARQ, i.e. no higher-layer control of redundancy version.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Fixed modulation scheme (QPSK), i.e. no higher-layer control.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- Fixed pre-determined transport format and resource allocation, i.e. no
higher-layer control.
**\- Multi-antenna processing**
  * Fixed pre-determined processing, i.e. no higher-layer control.
\- **Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
\- No Hybrid ARQ.
Figure 6.2.2-1: Physical-layer model for BCH transmission
### 6.2.3 Paging Channel
The physical-layer model for PCH transmission is described based on the
corresponding PCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 6.2.3-1.
Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g. in the
sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in blue on
the figure.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- A single transport block per TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- No PCH Hybrid ARQ, i.e. no higher-layer control of redundancy version.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Modulation scheme is decided by MAC Scheduler.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2 controlled resource assignment;
\- Possible support of dynamic transport format and resource allocation.
**\- Multi-antenna processing**
\- MAC Scheduler partly configures mapping from assigned resource blocks to
the available number of antenna ports.
\- **Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
No Hybrid ARQ.
Figure 6.2.3-1: Physical-layer model for PCH transmission
### 6.2.4 Multicast Channel
The physical-layer model for MCH transmission is characterized by the support
for multi-cell reception at the UE (a.k.a. \"MBSFN\" transmission). This
implies that only semi-static configuration of the MCH transport format and
resource assignment is possible. The MCH physical-layer model is described
based on the corresponding MCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure
6.2.4-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in
blue.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- One transport block delivered to physical layer once every TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- No MCH Hybrid ARQ, i.e. no higher-layer control of redundancy version.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Modulation scheme is configured by RRC layer.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2 controlled semi--static resource assignment.
\- **Multi-antenna processing**
\- MAC Scheduler partly configures mapping from assigned resource blocks (for
each stream) to the available number of antenna ports.
\- **Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
\- No Hybrid ARQ.
Figure 6.2.4-1: Physical-layer model for MCH transmission
## 6.3 Sidelink model
### 6.3.1 Sidelink Broadcast Channel
The physical-layer model for Sidelink Broadcast Channel transmission is
characterized by a fixed pre-defined transport format. The TTI (repetition
rate) of the SL-BCH is 40ms if a UE is configured to transmit on SL-BCH. The
SL-BCH physical-layer model is described based on the corresponding SL-BCH
physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 6.3.1-1.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- A single (fixed-size) transport block per TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate matching**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- No SL-BCH Hybrid ARQ, i.e. no higher-layer control of redundancy version.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Fixed modulation scheme (QPSK), i.e. no higher-layer control.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- Fixed pre-determined transport format i.e. no higher-layer control.
\- RRC controlled semi-static resource assignment.
\- **Multi-antenna processing**
\- Single antenna port is used.
\- **Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
\- No Hybrid ARQ.
Figure 6.3.1-1: Physical-layer model for SL-BCH transmission
### 6.3.2 Sidelink Discovery Channel
The physical-layer model for Sidelink Discovery Channel transmission is
characterized by a fixed pre-defined transport format. The SL-DCH physical-
layer model is described based on the corresponding SL-DCH physical-layer-
processing chain, see Figure 6.3.2-1. Processing steps that are relevant for
the physical-layer model, e.g. in the sense that they are configurable by
higher layers, are highlighted in blue. It should be noted that, in case
scheduled resource allocation of SL-DCH, the scheduling decision is fully done
by network side. The sidelink transmission control in the UE configures the
sidelink physical-layer processing, based on sidelink transport-format and
resource-assignment information received on the downlink. In case UE
autonomous resource selection of SL-DCH, the scheduling decision is done by UE
side. The sidelink transmission control in the UE configures the sidelink
physical-layer processing, based on pre-defined sidelink transport-format and
UE randomly selected resource-assignment.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- A single (fixed-size) transport block per TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layer.
\- **FEC and rate matching**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- Support for soft combining, but no support for ACK/NACK feedback.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Fixed modulation scheme (QPSK), i.e. no higher-layer control.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- RRC controlled semi-static resource assignment;
\- **Multi-antenna processing**
\- Single antenna port is used.
Figure 6.3.2-1: Physical-layer model for SL-DCH transmission
### 6.3.3 Sidelink Shared Channel
The physical-layer model for Sidelink Shared Channel transmission is described
based on the corresponding SL-SCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure
6.3.3-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in
blue on the figure. It should be noted that, in case of scheduled resource
allocation, the SL-SCH scheduling decision is done by network side. The
sidelink transmission control in the UE configures the sidelink physical-layer
processing, based on sidelink transport-format and resource-assignment
information received on the downlink. In case of UE autonomous resource
selection, the SL-SCH scheduling decision is done by UE side, and the MAC
scheduler in the UE configures the sidelink physical-layer processing, based
on the sidelink transport-format autonomously decided by the UE and randomly
selected resource-assignment.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- One transport block of dynamic size delivered to the physical layer once
every TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate matching**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- Support for soft combining, but no support for ACK/NACK feedback.
\- **Data modulation**
\- For scheduled resource allocation, modulation scheme is decided by higher
layer signaling from eNB.
\- For UE autonomous resource selection, modulation scheme is decided by MAC
scheduler (QPSK, 16QAM) in transmitter UE.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2-controlled resource assignment.
\- **Multi-antenna processing**
\- Single antenna port is used.
Figure 6.3.3-1: Physical-layer model for SL-SCH transmission
# 7 Void
# 8 Parallel transmission of simultaneous Physical Channels and SRS
This clause describes the requirements from the UE to send and receive on
multiple Physical and Transport Channels and SRS simultaneously depending on
the service capabilities and requirements.
## 8.1 Uplink
The table 8.1-1 describes the possible combinations of physical channels that
can be sent in parallel in the uplink within the same subframe.
Table 8.1-1: Uplink
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | dependent | | | | Combination | Combination | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | _q_ x PUSCH | UL-SCH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | | | | Note 2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | _k_ x PRACH | RACH | Mandatory | Note 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | _k_ x PUCCH | N/A | Mandatory | CSI and | | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | | Requests | | | | | | are | | | | | | provided to | | | | | | Layer 2. | | | | | | Note 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | _q_ x | UL-SCH | Mandatory | Note1, Note | | | PUSCH\ | | for UEs | 2, Note 4 | | | + _k_ x | | supporting | | | | PUCCH | | s | | | | | | imultaneous | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | of PUSCH | | | | | | and PUCCH | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | _k_ x | RACH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | PRACH\ | | for UEs | Note 2, | | | +_(q-k)_ x | UL-SCH | supporting | Note 3, | | | PUSCH | | multiple | Note 4 | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | _k_ x PRACH | RACH | Mandatory | Note 3, | | | + _k_ x | | for UEs | Note 4 | | | PUCCH | | supporting | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | _k_ x | RACH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | PRACH\ | | for UEs | Note 2, | | | +_(q-k)_ x | UL-SCH | supporting | Note 3, | | | PUSCH | | s | Note 4 | | | | | imultaneous | | | | + _k_ x | | t | | | | PUCCH | | ransmission | | | | | | of PUSCH | | | | | | and PUCCH | | | | | | and | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: One | | | | | | PUSCH per | | | | | | UL CC. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: _q_ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | UL CCs | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | _q_ = 1 | | | | | | implies | | | | | | non-CA | | | | | | capable UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | PRACH and | | | | | | PUSCH/PUCCH | | | | | | are from | | | | | | cells in | | | | | | different | | | | | | Timing | | | | | | Advance | | | | | | Groups | | | | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: _k_ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | CGs | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | _k_ = 1 | | | | | | implies | | | | | | non-DC | | | | | | capable UE. | | | | | | _k_ = 2 | | | | | | implies DC | | | | | | capable UE, | | | | | | and one | | | | | | PUCCH and | | | | | | one PRACH | | | | | | per CG. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The table 8.1-2 describes the possible combinations of SRS and physical
channels that can be sent in parallel in uplink in the last symbol within the
same subframe by one UE.
Table 8.1-2: Uplink in combinations with SRS
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory | Comment | | | Channel and | Channel | dependent | | | | SRS | Combination | on UE radio | | | | Combination | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | _q_ x SRS | N/A | Mandatory | Note 2, | | | | | | Note 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | _k_ x | RACH | Mandatory | Note 2, | | | PRACH\ | | for UEs | Note 3, | | | +_(q-k)_ x | | supporting | Note 4, | | | SRS | | multiple | Note 7 | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | _n_ x | UL-SCH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | PUSCH\ | | for UEs | Note 2, | | | + _(q-n)_ x | | supporting | Note 4, | | | SRS | | multiple | Note 5, | | | | | TAGs | Note 6 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | _k_ x PUCCH | N/A | Mandatory | Note 2, | | | | | for UEs | Note 4, | | | + _(q-k)_ | | supporting | Note 6, | | | x SRS | | multiple | Note 7 | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | _n_ x PUSCH | UL-SCH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | + _k_ x | | for UEs | Note 2, | | | PUCCH | | supporting | Note 4, | | | | | s | Note 5, | | | + _(q-n)_ | | imultaneous | Note 6, | | | x SRS | | t | Note 7 | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | of PUSCH | | | | | | and PUCCH | | | | | | and | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | _k_ x | RACH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | PRACH\ | | for UEs | Note 2, | | | + _n_ x | UL-SCH | supporting | Note 3, | | | PUSCH | | multiple | Note 4, | | | | | TAGs | Note 5, | | | + | | | Note 6, | | | _(q-n-k)_ x | | | Note 7 | | | SRS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | _k_ x | RACH | Mandatory | Note 2, | | | PRACH\ | | for UEs | Note 3, | | | + _k_ x | | supporting | Note 4, | | | PUCCH | | multiple | Note 6, | | | | | TAGs | Note 7 | | | + _(q-2_ x | | | | | | _k)_ x SRS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | _k_ x | RACH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | PRACH\ | | for UEs | Note 2, | | | + _n_ x | UL-SCH | supporting | Note 3, | | | PUSCH | | s | Note 4, | | | | | imultaneous | Note 5, | | | + _k_ x | | t | Note 6, | | | PUCCH | | ransmission | Note 7 | | | | | of PUSCH | | | | + | | and PUCCH | | | | _(q-n-k)_ x | | and | | | | SRS | | multiple | | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: One | | | | | | PUSCH per | | | | | | UL CC. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: _q_ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | UL CCs | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | _q_ = 1 | | | | | | implies | | | | | | non-CA | | | | | | capable UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | PRACH and | | | | | | PUSC | | | | | | H/PUCCH/SRS | | | | | | are from | | | | | | cells in | | | | | | different | | | | | | TAGs | | | | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: One | | | | | | SRS per UL | | | | | | CC. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: _n | | | | | | = 1, 2, | | | | | | ..., q- k._ | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 6: If | | | | | | UE is not | | | | | | configured | | | | | | with | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | TAGs, then | | | | | | SRS and | | | | | | PUSCH/PUCCH | | | | | | are not | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | in | | | | | | parallel; | | | | | | otherwise, | | | | | | if UE is | | | | | | configured | | | | | | with | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | TAGs, then | | | | | | SRS and | | | | | | PUSCH/PUCCH | | | | | | are | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | in parallel | | | | | | from | | | | | | different | | | | | | serving | | | | | | cells of | | | | | | the same | | | | | | TAG or | | | | | | different | | | | | | TAGs. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 7: _k_ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | CGs | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | _k_ = 1 | | | | | | implies | | | | | | non-DC | | | | | | capable UE. | | | | | | _k_ = 2 | | | | | | implies DC | | | | | | capable UE, | | | | | | and one | | | | | | PUCCH and | | | | | | one PRACH | | | | | | per CG. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 8.2 Downlink
The table describes the possible combinations of physical channels that can be
received in parallel in the downlink in the same subframe by one UE. In one
subframe, the UE shall be able to receive all TBs according to the indication
on PDCCH.
Table 8.2-1: Downlink \"Reception Types\"
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | \"Reception | Physical | Monitored\ | Associated\ | | Type\" | Channel(s) | RNTI | Transport | | | | | Channel | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A | PBCH | N/A | BCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | PDCCH+PDSCH | SI-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C | PDCCH+PDSCH | P-RNTI | PCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D | PDCCH+PDSCH | RA-RNTI (Note | DL-SCH | | | | 3) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | Temporary | DL-SCH | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 3) (Note 4) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | (PDCCH/EPDCCH) | C-RNTI and | DL-SCH | | | +PDSCH | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D1 | (PDCCH/EPDCCH) | C-RNTI | DL-SCH | | | +PDSCH | | | | | | | | | | (Note 9) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | E | PDCCH/EPDCCH | C-RNTI | N/A | | | (Note 1) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | F | PDCCH | Temporary | **UL-** SCH | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 5) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | PDCCH/EPDCCH | C-RNTI and | **UL-SCH** | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | F1 | PDCCH/EPDCCH | C-RNTI | UL-SCH | | | | | | | | (Note 9) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G | PDCCH | TPC-PUCCH-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | H | PDCCH | TPC-PUSCH-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | I | PDCCH/EPDCCH | S | N/A | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 6) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | J | PDCCH/EPDCCH | S | N/A | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 7) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | K | PDCCH | M-RNTI (Note | N/A | | | | 8) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | L | PMCH | N/A (Note 8) | MCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | M | PDCCH | eIMTA-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | N | PDCCH/EPDCCH | SL-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: PDCCH | | | | | or EPDCCH is | | | | | used to convey | | | | | PDCCH order | | | | | for Random | | | | | Access. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: Void. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | RA-RNTI and | | | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI are | | | | | mutually | | | | | exclusive and | | | | | only | | | | | applicable | | | | | during Random | | | | | Access | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: | | | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI is only | | | | | applicable | | | | | when no valid | | | | | C-RNTI is | | | | | available. | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: | | | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI is only | | | | | applicable | | | | | during | | | | | co | | | | | ntention-based | | | | | Random Access | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | Note 6: | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI is used | | | | | for DL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | release. | | | | | | | | | | Note 7: | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI is used | | | | | for UL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | release. | | | | | | | | | | Note 8: In | | | | | MBSFN | | | | | subframes only | | | | | | | | | | Note 9: DL-SCH | | | | | reception | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to D1, and | | | | | UL-SCH | | | | | transmission | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to F1, are | | | | | only | | | | | applicable to | | | | | SCells. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 8.2-2: Downlink \"Reception Type\" Combinations
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | PCell | PSCell | SCell | Non-serving | | | | | | cell | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1. | | | | | | RRC_IDLE | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1.1 All UEs | A + B + C + | | | | | | D | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | for Random | | | | | | Access | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | is only | | | | | | required, | | | | | | related to | | | | | | D. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1.2 UEs | K + L | | | | | supporting | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2. | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | _CONNECTED | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.1 All UEs | A + B + (D | A + (D or E | (E or D1) + | | | | or E or G | or G or I) | F1 | | | | or I) + (F | + (F or H | | | | | or H or J) | or J) + M | | | | | + M | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | Combination | | | | | | involving | | | | | | EPDCCH is | | | | | | optional | | | | | | and | | | | | | required | | | | | | only for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | EPDCCH. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.2 UEs | A + B + (D | A + (D or E | (E or D1) + | | | supporting | or E or G | or G or I) | F1 | | | FS2 | or I) + (F | + (F or H | | | | | or H or J) | or J) + F + | | | | | + F + M | M | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | For TDD | | | | | | UL/DL | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 0, two | | | | | | PDCCHs or | | | | | | EPDCCHs can | | | | | | be received | | | | | | in the same | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | for UL-SCH | | | | | | in two | | | | | | different | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | subframes. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: | | | | | | Combination | | | | | | involving | | | | | | EPDCCH is | | | | | | optional | | | | | | and | | | | | | required | | | | | | only for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | EPDCCH. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.3 UEs | ((E or G or | ((E or G or | (E + L + K) | (A + B) or | | supporting | I) + L + K) | I) + L + K) | or (D1 + B) | (L + K) | | MBMS | or (A + B + | or (A + B + | + F1 | | | | D) + (F or | D) + (F or | | | | | H or J) + M | H or J) + M | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | Combination | | | | | | involving | | | | | | EPDCCH is | | | | | | optional | | | | | | and | | | | | | required | | | | | | only for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | EPDCCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | when MBMS | | | | | | reception | | | | | | is on PCell | | | | | | and/or any | | | | | | other cell. | | | | | | _r_ is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | DL CCs on | | | | | | which the | | | | | | UE supports | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | reception | | | | | | according | | | | | | to the | | | | | | M | | | | | | BMSInterest | | | | | | Indication. | | | | | | The number | | | | | | of L and | | | | | | the number | | | | | | of K ≤ _r_. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: It | | | | | | is not | | | | | | required to | | | | | | sim | | | | | | ultaneously | | | | | | receive | | | | | | EPDCCH and | | | | | | PMCH on the | | | | | | same cell. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.4 MBMS | ((E or G or | ((E or G or | (E + L + K) | (A + B) or | | UEs | I) + L + K) | I) + L + K) | or (D1 + B) | (L + K) | | supporting | or (A + B + | or (A + B + | + F1 | | | FS2 | D) + 1x(F | D) + 1x(F | | | | | or H or J) | or H or J) | | | | | + F + M | + F + M | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | For TDD | | | | | | UL/DL | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 0, two | | | | | | PDCCHs or | | | | | | EPDCCHs can | | | | | | be received | | | | | | in the same | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | for UL-SCH | | | | | | in two | | | | | | different | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | subframes. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | when MBMS | | | | | | reception | | | | | | is on PCell | | | | | | and/or any | | | | | | other cell. | | | | | | _r_ is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | DL CCs on | | | | | | which the | | | | | | UE supports | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | reception | | | | | | according | | | | | | to the | | | | | | M | | | | | | BMSInterest | | | | | | Indication. | | | | | | The number | | | | | | of L and | | | | | | the number | | | | | | of K ≤ _r_. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: | | | | | | Combination | | | | | | involving | | | | | | EPDCCH is | | | | | | optional | | | | | | and | | | | | | required | | | | | | only for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | EPDCCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: It | | | | | | is not | | | | | | required to | | | | | | sim | | | | | | ultaneously | | | | | | receive | | | | | | EPDCCH and | | | | | | PMCH on the | | | | | | same cell. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.5 UEs | A + B + C + | A + (D or E | (E or D1) + | | | supporting | (D or E or | or G or I) | F1 | | | ETWS and | G or I) + | + (F or H | | | | CMAS | (F or H or | or J) + M | | | | | J) + M | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | Combination | | | | | | involving | | | | | | EPDCCH is | | | | | | optional | | | | | | and | | | | | | required | | | | | | only for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | EPDCCH. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.6 ETWS | A + B + C + | A + (D or E | (E or D1) + | | | and CMAS | (D or E or | or G or I) | F1 | | | UEs | G or I) + | + (F or H | | | | supporting | (F or H or | or J) + F + | | | | FS2 | J) + F + M | M | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | For TDD | | | | | | UL/DL | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 0, two | | | | | | PDCCHs or | | | | | | EPDCCHs can | | | | | | be received | | | | | | in the same | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | for UL-SCH | | | | | | in two | | | | | | different | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | subframes. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: | | | | | | Combination | | | | | | involving | | | | | | EPDCCH is | | | | | | optional | | | | | | and | | | | | | required | | | | | | only for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | EPDCCH. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.7 UEs | A + B + (D | | | | | supporting | or E or G | | | | | sidelink | or I) + (F | | | | | co | or H or J) | | | | | mmunication | + M + N | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | Combination | | | | | | involving | | | | | | EPDCCH is | | | | | | optional | | | | | | and | | | | | | required | | | | | | only for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | EPDCCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | is | | | | | | configured | | | | | | in | | | | | | scheduled | | | | | | resource | | | | | | allocation | | | | | | mode. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: _p_ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | DL CCs | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | The number | | | | | | of D1 is ≤ | | | | | | (_p_ -1). | | | | | | _q_ is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | UL CCs | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | For UE not | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | FS2, the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | F1 is ≤ | | | | | | (_q_ -1). | | | | | | For UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | FS2, the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | F1 is ≤ | | | | | | 2x(_q_ -1). | | | | | | _q_ = _p_ = | | | | | | 1 implies | | | | | | non-CA | | | | | | capable UE. | | | | | | Only 1xE is | | | | | | possible at | | | | | | any | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | over all | | | | | | serving | | | | | | cells. 1xM | | | | | | is included | | | | | | if UE | | | | | | supports | | | | | | eIMTA. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: The | | | | | | UE is only | | | | | | required to | | | | | | receive one | | | | | | PDSCH, | | | | | | pertaining | | | | | | to D or D1, | | | | | | per DL CC. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: If a | | | | | | UE | | | | | | indicating | | | | | | category 0 | | | | | | is | | | | | | scheduled | | | | | | with PDSCH | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | exceeding | | | | | | its | | | | | | processing | | | | | | capability | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | 36.306 | | | | | | [13], the | | | | | | pri | | | | | | oritization | | | | | | between | | | | | | these PDSCH | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | is up to | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE: Any subset of the combinations specified in table 8.2-2 is also
supported.
## 8.3 Sidelink
The table 8.3-1 describes the possible combinations of physical channels that
can be sent in parallel from UE perspective in the sidelink within the same
subframe. Table 8.3-2 describes the possible combinations of physical channels
that can be received in parallel from UE perspective in the sidelink within
the same subframe.
Table 8.3-1: Sidelink transmission
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | dependent | | | | Combination | Combination | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | PSDCH | SL-DCH | Mandatory | The UE | | | | | for UE | supporting | | | | | supporting | sidelink | | | | | sidelink | discovery | | | | | discovery | transmits | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | discovery | | | | | | messages on | | | | | | the camped | | | | | | cell (idle) | | | | | | or PCell | | | | | | ( | | | | | | connected). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | PSBCH | SL-BCH | Mandatory | The UE | | | | | for UE | supporting | | | | | supporting | sidelink | | | | | sidelink | co | | | | | co | mmunication | | | | | mmunication | transmits | | | | | | Mas | | | | | | terInformat | | | | | | ionBlock-SL | | | | | | messages in | | | | | | PSBCH on | | | | | | one | | | | | | pr | | | | | | econfigured | | | | | | frequency. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | PSSCH | SL-SCH | Mandatory | The UE | | | | | for UE | supporting | | | | | supporting | sidelink | | | | | sidelink | co | | | | | co | mmunication | | | | | mmunication | transmits | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | data in | | | | | | PSSCH on | | | | | | one | | | | | | pr | | | | | | econfigured | | | | | | frequency. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | PSCCH | N/A | Mandatory | The UE | | | | | for UE | supporting | | | | | supporting | sidelink | | | | | sidelink | co | | | | | co | mmunication | | | | | mmunication | transmits | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | control | | | | | | information | | | | | | in PSCCH on | | | | | | one | | | | | | pr | | | | | | econfigured | | | | | | frequency. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | Depending | | | | | | on the UE | | | | | | capability, | | | | | | the UE may | | | | | | be able to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | s | | | | | | imultaneous | | | | | | Uplink and | | | | | | Sidelink | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsmissions. | | | | | | If the UE | | | | | | is unable | | | | | | to perform | | | | | | s | | | | | | imultaneous | | | | | | Uplink and | | | | | | Sidelink | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsmissions, | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | prioritises | | | | | | the Uplink | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsmissions. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: | | | | | | Depending | | | | | | on the UE | | | | | | capability, | | | | | | the UE may | | | | | | be able to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | s | | | | | | imultaneous | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | co | | | | | | mmunication | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | (PSBCH or | | | | | | PSSCH or | | | | | | PSCCH) and | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | discovery | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | (PSDCH). If | | | | | | the UE is | | | | | | unable to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | s | | | | | | imultaneous | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | of sidelink | | | | | | co | | | | | | mmunication | | | | | | and | | | | | | discovery, | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | prioritises | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | co | | | | | | mmunication | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsmissions. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 8.3-2: Sidelink reception
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | dependent on | | | | Combination | Combination | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | 1 | PSDCH | SL-DCH | Mandatory | | | | | | for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | discovery | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | 2 | PSBCH | SL-BCH | Mandatory | | | | | | for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | 3 | PSSCH | SL-SCH | Mandatory | | | | | | for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | 4 | PSCCH | N/A | Mandatory | | | | | | for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | NOTE: For | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | co | | | | | | mmunication, | | | | | | the UE shall | | | | | | be able to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | | Downlink and | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | reception. | | | | | | For sidelink | | | | | | discovery, | | | | | | depending on | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | capability, | | | | | | the UE may | | | | | | be able to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | | Downlink and | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | discovery | | | | | | receptions. | | | | | | If the UE is | | | | | | unable to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | | Downlink and | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | discovery | | | | | | receptions, | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | prioritises | | | | | | the Downlink | | | | | | receptions. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: If the | | | | | | configured | | | | | | resources | | | | | | for | | | | | | reception of | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | and sidelink | | | | | | discovery | | | | | | are | | | | | | overlapped, | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | prioritises | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | reception. | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
# 9 Measurements provided by the physical layer
## 9.1 Void
## 9.2 UE Measurements
The detailed UE measurements definition is provided in [11]:
UE measurement: **Reference signal received power (RSRP)** : Reference signal
received power (RSRP) is determined for a considered cell as the linear
average over the power contributions (in [W]) of the resource elements that
carry cell-specific reference signals within the considered measurement
frequency bandwidth. For RSRP determination the cell-specific reference
signals R~0~ and if available R~1~ according to [8] can be used.
If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the reported value shall be in
accordance with [11].
UE measurement: **Sidelink Reference Signal Received Power (S-RSRP)** :
Sidelink Reference Signal Received Power (S-RSRP) is defined as the linear
average over the power contributions (in [W]) of the resource elements that
carry demodulation reference signals associated with PSBCH, within the central
6 PRBs of the applicable subframes.
If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the reported value shall be in
accordance with [11].
UE measurement: **Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ)** : Reference
Signal Received Quality (RSRQ) is defined as the ratio _N_ ×RSRP / (E-UTRA
carrier RSSI), where _N_ is the number of RB's of the E-UTRA carrier RSSI
measurement bandwidth. The measurements in the numerator and denominator shall
be made over the same set of resource blocks.
E-UTRA Carrier Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI), comprises the linear
average of the total received power (in [W]) observed only in OFDM symbols
containing reference symbols for antenna port 0, in the measurement bandwidth,
over _N_ number of resource blocks by the UE from all sources, including co-
channel serving and non-serving cells, adjacent channel interference, thermal
noise etc.
If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the reported value shall be in
accordance with [11].
UE measurement: **MBSFN Reference signal received power (MBSFN RSRP)** : MBSFN
Reference signal received power (MBSFN RSRP) is defined as the linear average
over the power contributions (in [W]) of the resource elements that carry
MBSFN reference signals within the considered measurement frequency bandwidth.
If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the reported value shall be in
accordance with [11].
UE measurement: **MBSFN Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ)** : MBSFN
Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ) is defined as the ratio N× MBSFN
RSRP/(MBSFN carrier RSSI), where N is the number of RBs of the MBSFN carrier
RSSI measurement bandwidth, and where MBSFN Carrier Received Signal Strength
Indicator (MBSFN carrier RSSI), comprises the linear average of the total
received power (in [W]) observed only in OFDM symbols containing reference
symbols for antenna port 4, in the measurement bandwidth, over N number of
resource blocks by the UE from all sources, including co-channel serving and
non-serving cells, adjacent channel interference, thermal noise etc.
The measurements in the numerator and denominator shall be made over the same
set of resource blocks.
If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the reported value shall be in
accordance with [11].
UE measurement: **Multicast channel block error rate (MCH BLER):** Multicast
channel block error rate (MCH BLER) is defined as the ratio between the number
of received MCH transport blocks resulting in a CRC error and the total number
of received MCH transport blocks of an MCH. The MCH BLER estimation shall only
consider MCH transport blocks using the same MCS.
## 9.3 E-UTRAN Measurements
The detailed E-UTRAN measurements definition is provided in [11]:
eNode B measurement: **DL RS TX power** : Downlink reference signal transmit
power is determined for a considered cell as the linear average over the power
contributions (in [W]) of the resource elements that carry cell-specific
reference signals which are transmitted by the eNode B within its operating
system bandwidth.
For DL RS TX power determination the cell-specific reference signals R~0~ and
if available R~1~ according to [8] can be used.
The reference point for the DL RS TX power measurement shall be the TX antenna
connector.
#