# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for signalling transport to be
used across S1 interface. S1 interface is a logical interface between the eNB
and the E-UTRAN core network. The present document describes how the S1-AP
signalling messages are transported over S1.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 2460 (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[3] IETF RFC 791(1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services Field
(DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
[5] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**S1:** interface between an eNB and an EPC, providing an interconnection
point between the EUTRAN and the EPC. It is also considered as a reference
point.
**S1-MME** : Reference point for the control plane protocol between E-UTRAN
and MME.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
EPC
DiffServ Differentiated Service
IP Internet Protocol
MME Mobility Management Entity
PPP Point to Point Protocol
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
# 4 S1 signalling bearer
## 4.1 Functions and protocol stack
S1 signalling bearer provides the following functions:
\- Provision of reliable transfer of S1-AP message over S1-MME interface.
\- Provision of networking and routeing function
\- Provision of redundancy in the signalling network
\- Support for flow control and congestion control
The protocol stack for S1 signalling bearer is shown in figure 4.1 and details
on each protocol are described in the following clauses.
Figure 4.1: S1-MME signalling bearer protocol stack
The transport network layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on top
of IP.
# 5 Data link layer
The support of any suitable data link layer protocol, e.g. PPP, Ethernet, etc.
, shall not be prevented.
# 6 IP layer
The eNB and MME shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 [2]) and/or IPv4 (IETF RFC
791 [3]).
The IP layer of S1-MME only supports point-to-point transmission for
delivering S1-AP message.
The eNB and MME shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as described in
IETF RFC 2474 [4].
# 7 Transport layer
SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [5]) shall be supported as the transport layer of S1-MME
signalling bearer. The Payload Protocol Identifier assigned by IANA to be used
by SCTP for the application layer protocol S1AP is 18.
SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the
Sigtran working group of the IETF for the purpose of transporting various
signalling protocols over IP network.
There shall be only one SCTP association established between one MME and eNB
pair.
The eNB shall establish the SCTP association. The SCTP Destination Port number
value assigned by IANA to be used for S1AP is 36412.
Within the SCTP association established between one MME and eNB pair:
\- a single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the sole use of
S1AP elementary procedures that utilize non UE-associated signalling.
\- At least one pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the sole use
of S1AP elementary procedures that utilize UE-associated signallings. However
a few pairs (i.e. more than one) should be reserved.
\- A single UE-associated signalling shall use one SCTP stream and the stream
should not be changed during the communication of the UE-associated
signalling.
Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing between two
end-points, of which one or both is assigned with multiple IP addresses. SCTP
end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP end-point. **For SCTP
endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from MME or eNB, at any time for an
already established SCTP association, which shall be handled as defined in
IETF RFC 4960 [5] in subclause 5.2.**
The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific mechanism,
initiate higher layer protocols to reduce the signalling traffic at the source
and prioritise certain messages.
#