# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for user data transport protocols
and related signalling protocols to establish user plane transport bearers
over the X2 interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol
User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".
[3] IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services Field
(DS Field) in the Ipv4 and Ipv6 Headers\".
[5] IETF RFC 2460 (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[6] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.401: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Architecture Description\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.425: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); X2 interface user plane protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
below apply. Terms and definitions not defined below can be found in TR 21.905
[1].
**Dual Connectivity** : Defined in TS 36.300 [8].
**E-RAB: D** efined in TS 36.401 [7].
**X2:** logical interface between two eNBs. Whilst logically representing a
point to point link between eNBs, the physical realisation need not be a point
to point link.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DC Dual Connectivity
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
E-RAB E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
IP Internet Protocol
MeNB Master eNB
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PDU Protocol Data Unit
SCG Secondary Cell Group
SeNB Secondary eNB
TEID Tunnel Endpoint Identifier
UDP User Datagram Protocol
# 4 Data link layer
Any data link protocol that fulfils the requirements toward the upper layer
may be used.
# 5 X2 interface user plane protocol
## 5.1 General
The transport layer for data streams over X2 is an IP based Transport. The
following figure shows the transport protocol stacks over X2.
Figure 6.1: Transport network layer for data streams over X2
The GTP-U (TS 29.281 [2]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be supported as the
transport for data streams on the X2 interface. The data link layer is as
specified in clause 4.
There may be zero or one UL data stream and zero or one DL data stream per
E-RAB at the X2 interface.
\- The DL data stream is used for DL data forwarding from the source eNB to
the target eNB.
\- The UL data stream is used for UL data forwarding from the source eNB to
the target eNB.
Each data stream is carried on a dedicated transport bearer.
The identity of a transport bearer signalled in the RNL control plane consists
of the IP address and the TEID of the corresponding GTP tunnel, allocated by
the target eNB (see TS 29.281 [2]).
## 5.2 GTP-U
The GTP-U (TS 29.281 [2]) protocol shall be used over the X2 interface between
two eNBs.
## 5.3 UDP/IP
The path protocol used shall be UDP (IETF RFC 768 [3]).
The UDP port number for GTP-U shall be as defined in TS 29.281 [2].
The eNBs over the X2 interface shall support fragmentation and assembly of GTP
packets at the IP layer.
The eNB shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 [5]) and/or IPv4 (IETF RFC 791 [6]).
There may be one or several IP addresses in the both eNBs. The packet
processing function in the source eNB shall send downstream packets of a given
**E-RAB** to the target eNB IP address (received in X2AP) associated to the DL
transport bearer of that particular **E-RAB**. The packet processing function
in the source eNB shall send upstream packets of a given **E-RAB** to the
target eNB IP address (received in X2AP) associated to the UL transport bearer
of that particular **E-RAB**.
The Transport Layer Address signalled in X2AP messages is a bit string of
either
a) 32 bits in case of IPv4 address according to IETF RFC 791 [6]; or
b) 128 bits in case of IPv6 address according to IETF RFC 2460 [5].
## 5.4 Diffserv code point marking
IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 [4]) shall be
supported. The mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points
shall be configurable by O&M for based on QoS Class Identifier (QCI)/ Label
Characteristics and others E-UTRAN traffic parameters. Traffic categories are
implementation-specific and may be determined from the application parameters.
## 5.5 Dual Connectivity
For the SCG bearer option, user data forwarding may be performed. The
behaviour of the eNB from which user data is forwarded is the same as
specified for the "source eNB", the behaviour of the eNB to which user data is
forwarded is the same as specified for the "target eNB".
For the split bearer option
\- the GTP-U (TS 29.281 [2]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be supported as
the transport for the data stream of PDCP PDUs on the X2 interface. The GTP-U
PDU includes a RAN Container with flow control information as specified in TS
36.425 [9] which is carried in the GTP-U extension header. The transport
bearer is identified by the GTP-U TEID (TS 29.281 [2]) and the IP address of
the MeNB and SeNB respectively. There may be zero or one UL data stream and
there is one DL data stream per E-RAB at the X2 interface:
\- The DL data stream is used for DL data transmission from the MeNB to the
SeNB.
\- The UL data stream is used for UL data transmission from the SeNB to the
MeNB.
\- the packet processing function in the MeNB shall send downstream packets of
a given E-RAB to the SeNB IP address (received in X2AP) associated to the DL
transport bearer of that particular E-RAB. The packet processing function in
the SeNB shall send upstream packets of a given E-RAB to the MeNB IP address
(received in X2AP) associated to the UL transport bearer of that particular
E-RAB.
\- data forwarding may be performed by MeNB providing GTP-U TEID to receive
the DL data forwarded by the SeNB.
#