# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 3GPP TS 36.45x series of
technical specifications that define the SLm interface for the interconnection
of the Evolved Serving Mobile Location Centre (E-SMLC) to the Location
Measurement Unit (LMU) components of the Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio
Access Network (E-UTRAN).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.305: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Architecture description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.457: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); SLm interface layer 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.458: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); SLm interface signalling transport\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.459: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Access (E-UTRA); SLm
interface Application Protocol (SLmAP)\".
[6] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
E-SMLC E-UTRAN Serving Mobile Location Centre
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
EPC Evolved Packet Core
EPS Evolved Packet System
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
IP Internet Protocol
LMU Location Measurement Unit
LTE Long Term Evolution
MME Mobility Management Entity
O&M Operation and Maintenance
QoS Quality of Service
RNL Radio Network Layer
SLm SLm Control Plane Interface
SLmAP SLm Application Protocol
SAP Service Access Point
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
TNL Transport Network Layer
UTDOA Uplink Time Difference of Arrival
## 3.4 Specification notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
Procedure When referring to a procedure in the specification the Procedure
Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters
followed by the word \"procedure\", e.g. Radio Network Layer procedures.
Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is
written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
\"message\", e.g. RADIO LINK SETUP REQUEST message.
# 4 General aspects
## 4.1 E-UTRAN UTDOA architecture
The E-UTRAN is layered into a Radio Network Layer (RNL) and a Transport
Network Layer (TNL). The E-UTRAN architecture, i.e. the E-UTRAN logical nodes
and interfaces between them, are defined as part of the Radio Network Layer.
The overall architecture for UE positioning is described in TS 36.305 [2]. The
E-UTRAN network based positioning architecture consists of a set of LMUs
(either standalone or eNB-integrated LMUs as described in TS 36.305 [2])
contained in the E-UTRAN connected to the E-SMLC in the EPC through the SLm.
This subclause specifies only the architecture of the SLm interface, and shall
not constrain the network architecture of either core or radio access
networks.
The SLm interface is specified at the boundary between the LMUs and the
E-SMLC. Figure 1 depicts the logical division of the SLm interface. From the
SLm perspective, the E-UTRAN access point is an LMU, and the EPC access point
is the E-SMLC.
Figure1 SLm Interface architecture
The E-UTRAN may thus have several SLm access points towards the EPC. As a
minimum, each SLm access point (in E-UTRAN or EPC) shall independently fulfil
the requirements of the relevant SLm specifications (36.x1x series - see
clause 7).
SLm is a logical interface.
There is only one SLm logical interface between an LMU and a given E-SMLC.
However, an LMU can be connected to multiple E-SMLCs using different logical
SLm interfaces.
## 4.2 SLm interface general principles
The general principles for the specification of the SLm interface are as
follows:
\- the SLm interface should be open;
\- the SLm interface shall support the exchange of signalling information
between the LMU and E-SMLC;
\- from a logical standpoint, the SLm is a point-to-point interface between an
LMU within the E-UTRAN and an E-SMLC in the EPC. A point-to-point logical
interface should be feasible even in the absence of a physical direct
connection between the LMU and E-SMLC.
## 4.3 SLm interface specification objectives
The SLm interface specification shall facilitate the following:
\- inter-connection of E-SMLCs with LMUs supplied by different manufacturers;
> \- separation of SLm interface Radio Network functionality and Transport
> Network functionality to facilitate introduction of future technology.
## 4.4 SLm interface capabilities
The SLm interface supports:
\- procedures to establish, maintain and release connections between the
E-SMLC and LMUs;
\- the separation of each LMU on the protocol level for specific signalling
management;
\- location services by transferring location requests from the E-SMLC to
LMUs, and UL RTOA measurements from LMUs to E-SMLC;
## 4.5 SLm interface characteristics
### 4.5.1 Use of SCTP
The SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [7]) is used to support the exchange of SLm
Application Protocol (SLmAP) signalling messages between an LMU and an E-SMLC.
# 5 Functions of the SLm interface protocol
## 5.1 General
The following sections describe the functions to fulfil the SLm interface
capabilities.
## 5.2 SLm link management function
The SLm signalling link management function provides a reliable transfer of
the signalling between LMU and E-SMLC.
## 5.3 SLm interface management function
The error indication function is used by the LMU (respectively the E-SMLC) to
indicate to the E-SMLC (respectively the LMU) that a logical error has
occurred.
The reset procedure is used to initialize the peer entity after node setup and
after a failure event has occurred. This procedure can be initiated by the
E-SMLC or the LMU. The information about the LMU capabilities after a reset is
preserved in the E-SMLC.
The SLm Setup procedure allows the exchange of application level data, e.g.
capability, needed for the LMU and E-SMLC to interoperate correctly on the SLm
interface. This procedure is originated by the LMU only and initiates the
setup of the SLmAP contexts to the E-SMLC.
## 5.4 SLm location function
The location function is used by the E-SMLC to request the LMU to perform UL
RTOA measurements. The LMU reports UL RTOA measurements back to the requesting
E-SMLC.
# 6 SLm interface protocol structure
Editor\'s Note: Protocol Structure following the structure defined in TS
36.305 [2].
## 6.1 General
The network signalling over SLm consists of the SLm Application Protocol
(SLmAP). The SLmAP consists of mechanisms to handle all procedures between the
E-SMLC in the EPC and LMUs in the E-UTRAN.
Over the SLm interface the SLmAP protocol is, e.g., used to:
\- Request LMUs to perform UL RTOA measurements of target UE SRS
transmissions.
\- Transfer of completed UL RTOA measurements from the LMU to the E-SMLC.
## 6.2 SLmAP
Figure 6.1 shows the protocol structure for SLmAP, following the structure
described in TS 36.305 [2].
Figure 6.1: Interface protocol structure for SLmAP
The Transport Network Layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on top
of IP.
# 7 Other SLm interface specifications
Editor\'s Note: Description of the other related specifications.
## 7.1 E-UTRAN SLm interface: layer 1 (3GPP TS 36.457)
3GPP TS 36.457 [3] specifies the physical layer technologies that may be used
to support the SLm interface.
## 7.2 E-UTRAN SLm interface: signalling transport (3GPP TS 36.458)
3GPP TS 36.458 [4] specifies the signalling bearers for the SLmAP for the SLm
interface.
## 7.3 E-UTRAN SLm Interface: SLmAP Specification (3GPP TS 36.459)
3GPP TS 36.459 [5] specifies the SLmAP for radio network control plane
signalling over the SLm interface.
#