# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the work item for LTE Advanced
Contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 27 which was initially approved at TSG
RAN #58 [2]. A revised WID was approved at TSG RAN #59 [3]. The report
provides background, analysis of the requirements, and a list of recommended
changes to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-122020, New WI proposal: LTE Advanced intra-band contiguous Carrier
Aggregation for Band 27, NII Holdings
[3] RP-130173, Revised WID: LTE Advanced intra-band contiguous Carrier
Aggregation in Band 27, NII Holdings
[4] 3GPP TS36.104 (Release 12): \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception."
[5] 3GPP TS 36.101 (Release 12): \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) Radio Transmission and Reception\".
[6] R4-142387, "Introduction of CA performance requirements for Band 27 CA",
Huawei, HiSilicon, 3GPP TSG-RAN WG4 Meeting #70bis, San Jose del Cabo, Mexico,
March 31st -- April 4, 2014.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
# 4 Background
Band 27 is a new FDD LTE band covering 807-824/852-869 MHz. This spectrum has
previously been allocated in Region 2, and in some countries in Region 3.
Because some legacy spectrum allocations in the band are greater than 5 MHz
but not integer multiples of 5 MHz, some operators are interested in Class B
carrier aggregation to enable them to more efficiently utilize their spectrum.
Building on the generic intra-band carrier aggregation work of Band 1, this
work item proposes to start the work on intra-band contiguous carrier
aggregation for Band 27 to support deployment of LTE-advanced. However, this
is the first Class B carrier aggregation work item, so the generic Class B
issues need to be worked.
## 4.1 Task Descriptions
This WI is to specify the band specific core and performance requirements for
contiguous intra-band carrier aggregation in band 27:
1) Specifying the core requirements for BS and UE in RAN4 specifications, and
taking the coexistence with nearby Band 5 and Band 28 into account.
2) Specify band specific RRM requirements in RAN4 if any.
3) Signalling support in RAN2 specifications if any.
4) Performance requirements for BS and UE in RAN4 specifications.
## 4.2 Spectrum and regulatory review
This Work Item is based on the spectrum arrangement as shown in Table 4.2-1.
Table 4.2-1 Frequency arrangements in the band 807-824 / 852-869 MHz
* * *
Frequency arrangement Mobile station transmitter\ Centre gap\ Base station
transmitter\ Duplex separation\ Centre gap usage (MHz) (MHz) (MHz) (MHz)
C1 807-824 28 852-869 45 FDD UL and guard
* * *
The frequency band 807-824 MHz is paired with 852-869 MHz for FDD operation
where the mobile terminals transmit within the lower band and the base
stations transmit within the upper band. These paired spectrum blocks are
designated as Band 27 in 3GPP E-UTRA specifications. The spectrum 824-849 is
designated for the 3GPP Band 5/V uplink.
Band 27 is anticipated to be a major FDD band which has been allocated in
Region 2 and parts of Region 3.
# 5 Band and Channel Arrangements
## 5.1 CA operating bands
The CA operating band for Band 27 is defined in Table 5.1-1.
Table 5.1-1 Intra band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_27 27 807 MHz -- 824 MHz 852 MHz -- 869 MHz FDD
* * *
## 5.2 CA channel bandwidth
Table 5.2-1 defines the supported E-UTRA bandwidths for intra-band contiguous
CA in Band 27.
Table 5.2-1: Supported CC combinations per CA configuration for intra-band
contiguous CA
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | CA | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | N~R | | | | | | | | B_agg~ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | CA | E-UTRA | 6 RB+25 | 15 | 25 | 6 RB+50 | 15 | | Config | Band | RB | RB+25 | RB+25 | RB | RB+50 | | uration | | | RB | RB | | RB | | | | (1.4 | | | (1.4 | | | | | MHz + 5 | (3 MHz | (5 MHz | MHz + | (3 MHz | | | | MHz) | + 5 | + 5 | 10 MHz) | + 10 | | | | | MHz) | MHz) | | MHz) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | CA_27B | 27 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 5.3 CA Bandwidth Class B
The supported bandwidth combinations in Table 5.2-1for intra-band contiguous
CA in Band 27 implies a CA configuration of CA Bandwidth Class B: CA_27B. The
Class B specification in 36.101 is currently incomplete, whence a definition
is required.
For the general definition of CA Bandwidth Class B it is proposed to limit the
aggregated bandwidth to a value larger than 5 MHz in order to limit the number
of bandwidth combinations. This would exclude the 1.4 MHz + 1.4 MHz and 1.4
MHz + 3 MHz bandwidths with aggregated bandwidths close to 3 MHz and 5 MHz,
respectively.
With this limitation, the nominal guard band for Class B (with respect to the
aggregated bandwidth and given by the largest internal guard band of the
aggregated carriers) would be given by
{width="3.2625in" height="0.21736111111111112in"}, (5.3.1)
this in order to get a symmetrical guard band on both sides for the case in
which the carrier bandwidths are unequal.
Now, in the downlink, an additional grid point is punctured into the
subcarrier grid for accommodating the DC in the baseband (not sent). This
means that the guard band for the downlink should be modified to
{width="3.7333333333333334in" height="0.2263888888888889in"}, (5.3.2)
where ∆ _f_ is the subcarrier spacing. For the uplink, the guard band is given
by equation (5.3.1) for all types of transmissions.
For Class B, fall-back operation to non-CA on carriers with a bandwidth of 1.4
MHz can occur, which is not the case for the Class C intra-band combinations
specified to date. This operation requires CA Bandwidth Class A capability for
1.4 MHz, which would be indicated in RRC signalling. For a 1.4 MHz component
carrier, the one-sided guard band is a fraction 0.16/1.4 of the channel
bandwidth rather than 0.05 that applies for the larger bandwidth. Therefore,
the guard band for CA Bandwidth Class A should be modified as follows
{width="2.602777777777778in" height="0.2263888888888889in"} (5.3.3)
for the downlink with a~1~ = 0.16/1.4 for the 1.4 MHz bandwidth and a~1~ =
0.05 for all other channel bandwidths. The last term of equation (5.3.3) is
not present for the uplink.
The definition of CA Bandwidth Class B and the necessary modification for
Class A are shown in Table 5.3-1 along with that of the other classes.
Table 5.3-1: CA bandwidth classes and corresponding nominal guard bands
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CA Bandwidth | Aggregated | Maximum number | Nominal Guard | | Class | Transmission | of CC | Band BW~GB~ | | | Bandwidth | | | | | Configuration | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A | N~RB,agg~ ≤ | 1 | a~1~ | | | 100 | | BW~Channel(1)~ | | | | | [ | | | | | ]{.underline} | | | | | - 0.5∆f~1~ | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | 25 \ For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation _Aggregated Channel Bandwidth_
> , _Aggregated Transmission Bandwidth Configuration_ and _Guard Bands_ are
> defined as follows, see Figure 5.6A-1.
>
> **Figure 5.6A-1. Definition of Aggregated channel bandwidth and aggregated
> channel bandwidth edges**
>
> The _aggregated channel bandwidth,_ **BW~Channel_CA,~** is defined as
>
> BW~Channel_CA~ = F~edge,high~ - F~edge,low~ [MHz].
>
> The lower bandwidth edge F~edge,low~ and the upper bandwidth edge
> F~edge,high~ of the aggregated channel bandwidth are used as frequency
> reference points for transmitter and receiver requirements and are defined
> by
>
> F~edge,low~ = F~C,low~ - F~offset,low~
>
> F~edge,high~ = F~C,high~ + F~offset,high~
>
> The lower and upper frequency offsets depend on the transmission bandwidth
> configurations of the lowest and highest assigned edge component carrier and
> are defined as
>
> F~offset,low~ = (0.18N~RB,low~ + ∆f~1~) /2 + BW~GB~ [MHz]
>
> F~offset,high~ = (0.18N~RB,high~ + ∆f~1~)/2 + BW~GB~ [MHz]
>
> where ∆f~1~ = ∆f for the downlink with ∆f the subcarrier spacing, ∆ f~1~ = 0
> for the uplink, while N~RB,low~ and N~RB,high~ are the transmission
> bandwidth configurations according to Table 5.6-1 for the lowest and highest
> assigned component carrier, respectively. BW~GB~ denotes the _Nominal Guard
> Band_ and is defined in Table 5.6A-1, and the factor 0.18 is the PRB
> bandwidth in MHz.
>
> NOTE: The values of BW~Channel_CA~ for UE and BS are the same if the lowest
> and the highest component carriers are identical.
>
> Aggregated Transmission Bandwidth Configuration is the number of the
> aggregated RBs within the fully allocated Aggregated Channel bandwidth and
> is defined per CA Bandwidth Class (Table 5.6A-1).
Carrier spacing for Class B
The resulting nominal carrier spacing for Class B is the same as that for
Class C:
{width="5.1409722222222225in" height="0.49375in"},
with BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA component carriers with values in MHz. Remark that the
multiplying factor 0.1 of the second term of the numerator still applies for
all bandwidths on the 300 kHz raster.
The definition of the nominal carrier spacing in 36.101 would look as follows
in clean text:
5.7.1A Channel spacing for CA
> For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation bandwidth classes B and C, the
> nominal channel spacing between two adjacent E-UTRA component carriers is
> defined as the following:
>
> {width="5.725in" height="0.55in"}
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA component carriers according to Table 5.6-1 with values in
MHz. The channel spacing for intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation can be
adjusted to any multiple of 300 kHz less than the nominal channel spacing to
optimize performance in a particular deployment scenario.
# 6 E-UTRA RF requirements for UE
## 6.1 Transmitter Characteristics
No changes to Band 27 transmitter characteristics are needed because this is a
single uplink work item.
## 6.2 Receiver Characteristics
### 6.2.1 Reference sensitivity
From the section 7.3.1A in TS36.101 it is known that the reference sensitivity
for intra-band contiguous CA is defined to be met with both downlink component
carrier active and each component carrier shall meet the requirements
specified in clause 7.3.1.To avoid the effect from the uplink signal, the
noise at PA output which is generated by UL allocation should be small enough
to reduce the interference on DL signal when testing REFSENS, so the UL
allocation for CA should be restricted as shown in table 7.3.1A-1 in TS36.101.
For Band 27 single carrier REFSENS defined in TS36.101, the UL allocation is
restricted to 25RB for bandwidth ≥5MHz. So for Band 27 CA, it is preferred to
keep the UL allocation of 25RB to reduce the interference on DL signal, as
shown in Figure 6.2.1.
Figure 6.2.1 UL allocation for CA band 27 when testing REFSENS
Based on the above analysis, the uplink configuration for CA band 27 is shown
in Table 6.2.1.
Table 6.2.1: Intra-band CA uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
CA Band / Aggregated channel bandwidth / NRB / Duplex mode |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Band | 25RB+6RB | 25RB+15RB | 25RB+25RB | 50RB+6RB | 50RB+15RB | Duplex Mode |  |  |  |  |   
CA_27B | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | FDD  
| 25 | 0 | 25 | 0 | 25 | 0 | 25 | 0 | 25 | 0 |   
NOTE 1. The carrier centre frequency of SCC in the UL operating band is configured closer to the DL operating band. NOTE 2. The transmitted power over both PCC and SCC shall be set to PUMAX as defined in clause 6.2.5 in TS36.101. NOTE 3. The UL resource blocks in both PCC and SCC shall be confined within the transmission bandwidth configuration for the channel bandwidth (Table 5.6-1 in TS36.101). NOTE 4. The UL resource blocks in PCC shall be located as close as possible to the downlink operating band, while the UL resource blocks in SCC shall be located as far as possible from the downlink operating band. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.2.2 Maximum input level
The maximum input level is defined as the maximum mean power received at the
UE antenna port, at which the specified relative throughput shall meet or
exceed the minimum requirements for the specified reference measurement
channel over each component carrier. And the purpose of this test is to verify
the dynamic range of a UE front end (including LNA, AGC and mixer). For
Rel-8/9 single carrier UE, the maximum input level of -25 dBm is calculated
as:
Maximum input level = eNB Tx power -- MCL -- Body loss,
in which eNB Tx power is assumed to be 46 dBm, MCL between UE to eNB is 70 dB
and the body loss is 1 dB.
For CA Class B UE (BW~Channel_CA~ ≤ 20MHz, 2 CC), the aggregated bandwidth is
limited to 20MHz, which equals to the maximum bandwidth of single carrier, so
the total Tx power of CA Class B eNB could be assumed to be same as that of
single carrier eNB in order to keep the same PSD. Therefore the maximum input
level of -25dBm could be specified for CA Class B UE, as shown in Table
6.2.2-1.
Table 6.2.2-1: Maximum input level for intra-band contiguous CA
+------------+-------+------------+-----+-----+---+---+---+ | Rx | Units | CA | | | | | | | Parameter | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+-----+-----+---+---+---+ | | | A | B | C | D | E | F | +------------+-------+------------+-----+-----+---+---+---+ | Power in | dBm | | -25 | -22 | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | | ansmission | | | | | | | | | Aggregated | | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | figuration | | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+-----+-----+---+---+---+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ransmitter | | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | | set to 4dB | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L | | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | figuration | | | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | | 36.101 | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7.3.1A-1 | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L | | | | | | | | | as defined | | | | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | | | | 6.2.5. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easurement | | | | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A.3.2: | | | | | | | | | 64QAM, | | | | | | | | | R=3/4 | | | | | | | | | variant | | | | | | | | | with one | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD as | | | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | | 36.101 | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A.5.1. | | | | | | | | | 1/A.5.2.1. | | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+-----+-----+---+---+---+
### 6.2.3 Adjacent Channel Selectivity
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation the downlink SCC shall be
configured at nominal channel spacing to the PCC with the PCC configured
closest to the uplink band. Downlink PCC and SCC are both activated. The UE
shall fulfil the minimum requirement specified in Table 6.2.3-1 for an
adjacent channel interferer on either side of the aggregated downlink signal
at a specified frequency offset and for an interferer power up to -25 dBm. The
throughput of each carrier shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the
reference measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and A.3.2
(with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD for the DL-signal as
described in Annex A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1) with parameters specified in Tables
6.2.3-2 and 6.2.3-3.
Table 6.2.3-1: Adjacent channel selectivity
* * *
                         CA Bandwidth Class
Rx Parameter Units B C D E F ACS dB 27 24
* * *
Table 6.2.3-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 1
+---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | Power per CC | | REFSENS + 14 | REFSENS + 14 | | | | | in Aggregated | | dB | dB | | | | | Transmission | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | **P~ | dBm | Aggregated | Aggregated | | | | | Interferer~** | | power + 25.5 | power + 22.5 | | | | | | | dB | dB | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | **BW~In | MHz | | 5 | | | | | terferer\ ~** | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | F~Interferer~ | MHz | 2.5 + | 2.5 + | | | | | (offset) | | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | / | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -2.5 - | -2.5 - | | | | | | | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter | | | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | | | to 4dB below | | | | | | | | P~CMAX_L~ as | | | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | consists of | | | | | | | | the Reference | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | | | Annex A.3.2 | | | | | | | | with one | | | | | | | | sided dynamic | | | | | | | | OCNG Pattern | | | | | | | | OP.1 FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | as described | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A. | | | | | | | | 5.1.1/A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | | and set-up | | | | | | | | according to | | | | | | | | Annex C.3.1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | | | F~interferer~ | | | | | | | | (offset) is | | | | | | | | relative to | | | | | | | | the center | | | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | | | tested and | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | | adjusted to | | | | | | | | {w | | | | | | | | idth="2.02916 | | | | | | | | 6666666667in" | | | | | | | | height=" | | | | | | | | 0.20694444444 | | | | | | | | 444443in"}MHz | | | | | | | | to be offset | | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | | | raster. | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+
Table 6.2.3-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 2
+---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | Power per CC | dBm | -53.5 | -50.5 | | | | | in Aggregated | | | | | | | | Transmission | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | **P~ | dBm | -25 | | | | | | Interferer~** | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | **BW~In | MHz | 5 | 5 | | | | | terferer\ ~** | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | ** | MHz | 2.5+ | 2.5+ | | | | | F~Interferer~ | | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | | | | | (offset)** | | | | | | | | | | / | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -2.5- | -2.5- | | | | | | | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter | | | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | | | to 24dB below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L as | | | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | consists of | | | | | | | | the Reference | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | | | Annex 3.2 | | | | | | | | with one | | | | | | | | sided dynamic | | | | | | | | OCNG Pattern | | | | | | | | OP.1 FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | as described | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A. | | | | | | | | 5.1.1/A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | | and set-up | | | | | | | | according to | | | | | | | | Annex C.3.1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: 5. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | F~interferer~ | | | | | | | | (offset) is | | | | | | | | relative to | | | | | | | | the center | | | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | | | tested and | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | | adjusted to | | | | | | | | {w | | | | | | | | idth="2.02916 | | | | | | | | 6666666667in" | | | | | | | | height=" | | | | | | | | 0.20694444444 | | | | | | | | 444443in"}MHz | | | | | | | | to be offset | | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | | | raster. | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+
### 6.2.4 Blocking characteristics
#### 6.2.4.1 In-band blocking
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation the downlink SCC shall be
configured at nominal channel spacing to the PCC with the PCC configured
closest to the uplink band. Downlink PCC and SCC are both activated. The
uplink output power shall be set as specified in Table 6.2.4.1-1 with the
uplink configuration set according to Table 7.3.1A-1 of TS 36.101 for the
applicable carrier aggregation configuration. The UE shall fulfil the minimum
requirement in presence of an interfering signal specified in Tables 6.2.4.1-1
and Tables 6.2.4.1-2 being on either side of the aggregated signal.
Table 6.2.4.1-1: In band blocking parameters
+--------------------+-------+--------------------+------+---+---+---+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth Class | | | | | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+------+---+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+------+---+---+---+ | Power per CC in | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | Aggregated | | Bandwidth Class | | | | | | Transmission | | specific value | | | | | | Bandwidth | | below | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+------+---+---+---+ | | | 9 | 12 | | | | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+------+---+---+---+ | ** | MHz | 5 | 5 | | | | | BW~Interferer\ ~**| | | | | | | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+------+---+---+---+ |** F~Ioff | MHz | 7.5 | 7.5 | | | | | set,\ case\ 1\ ~**| | | | | | | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+------+---+---+---+ |** F~Ioff | MHz | 12.5 | 12.5 | | | | | set,\ case\ 2\ ~** | | | | | | | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+------+---+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter shall | | | | | | | | be set to 4dB | | | | | | | | below PCMAX_L or | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L_CA as | | | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | | | subclause 6.2.5A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | consists of the | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | channel specified | | | | | | | | in Annex A.3.2 | | | | | | | | with one sided | | | | | | | | dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern OP.1 | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD as | | | | | | | | described in Annex | | | | | | | | A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | | and set-up | | | | | | | | according to Annex | | | | | | | | C.3.1 | | | | | | | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+------+---+---+---+
Table 6.2.4.1-2: In-band blocking
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | CA | Parameter | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | | c | | | | | | onfiguration | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | P | dBm | -56 | -44 | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | = | ≤ | | | ~Interferer~ | | -F~offset~-- | -F~offset~-- | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | =+F~offset~ | ≥+F~offset~ | | | | | + | + | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_27B | F | MHz | (Note 2) | F~DL_low~ | | | ~Interferer~ | | | -- 15 | | | (Range) | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL_high~ | | | | | | + 15 | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | certain | | | | | | bands, the | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal may | | | | | | not fall | | | | | | inside the | | | | | | UE receive | | | | | | band, but | | | | | | within the | | | | | | first 15 MHz | | | | | | below or | | | | | | above the UE | | | | | | receive band | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | each carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is valid for | | | | | | two | | | | | | frequencies: | | | | | | | | | | | | a. the | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | -F~offset~ - | | | | | | F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | | | b. the | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | +F~offset~ + | | | | | | F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | F~offset~ is | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | offset from | | | | | | the center | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | tested to | | | | | | the edge of | | | | | | aggregated | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~interferer~ | | | | | | (offset) is | | | | | | relative to | | | | | | the center | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | tested and | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | further | | | | | | adjusted to | | | | | | ! | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | th="2.029166 | | | | | | 666666667in" | | | | | | height="0. | | | | | | 206944444444 | | | | | | 44443in"}MHz | | | | | | to be offset | | | | | | from the | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | raster. | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
### 6.2.5 Blocking characteristics
#### 6.2.5.1 Out-of-band blocking
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregations the downlink SCC shall be
configured at nominal channel spacing to the PCC with the PCC configured
closest to the uplink band. Downlink PCC and SCC are both activated. The
uplink output power shall be set as specified in Table 6.2.5.1-1 with the
uplink configuration set according to Table 7.3.1A-1 in TS 36.101 for the
applicable carrier aggregation configuration.
The UE shall fulfil the minimum requirement in presence of an interfering
signal specified in Tables 6.2.5.1-1 and Tables 6.2.5.1-2 being on either side
of the aggregated signal.
Table 6.2.5.1-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters
+----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth Class | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Power per CC in | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | Aggregated | | Bandwidth Class | | | | | | Transmission | | specific value below | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | 9 | 9 | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter shall be | | | | | | | | set to 4dB below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L or | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L_CA as | | | | | | | | defined in subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Reference | | | | | | | | measurement channel | | | | | | | | is specified in | | | | | | | | Annex A.3.2 with one | | | | | | | | sided dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | as described in | | | | | | | | Annex A.5.1.1/A.5.2. | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+
Table 6.2.5.1-2: Out of band blocking
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | P | Units | F | | | | confi | arameter | | requency | | | | guration | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA_27B | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | | | | -60 | -85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
### 6.2.6 Blocking characteristics
#### 6.2.6.1 Narrow band blocking
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation the downlink SCC shall be
configured at nominal channel spacing to the PCC with the PCC configured
closest to the uplink band. Downlink PCC and SCC are both activated. The
uplink output power shall be set as specified in Table 6.2.6.1-1 with the
uplink configuration set according to Table 7.3.1A-1 in TS 36.101for the
applicable carrier aggregation configuration. The UE shall fulfil the minimum
requirement in presence of an interfering signal specified in Table 6.2.6.1-1
being on either side of the aggregated signal.
**Table 6.2.6.1-1** : Narrow-band blocking
+----------------+------+----------------+----------------+---+---+---+ | Parameter | Unit | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +----------------+------+----------------+----------------+---+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +----------------+------+----------------+----------------+---+---+---+ | Power per CC | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | in Aggregated | | Bandwidth | | | | | | Transmission | | Class specific | | | | | | Bandwidth | | value below | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | | +----------------+------+----------------+----------------+---+---+---+ | | | 16 | 16 | | | | +----------------+------+----------------+----------------+---+---+---+ | P~uw~ (CW) | dBm | -55 | -55 | | | | +----------------+------+----------------+----------------+---+---+---+ | F~uw~ (offset | MHz | - F~offset~ | - F~offset~ | | | | | for | | -- 0.2 | -- 0.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | _∆f_ = 15 kHz) | | / | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | + F~offset~ + | + F~offset~ + | | | | | | | 0.2 | 0.2 | | | | +----------------+------+----------------+----------------+---+---+---+ | F~uw~ (offset | MHz | | | | | | | for _* | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |_ ∆f* = 7.5 | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | +----------------+------+----------------+----------------+---+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter | | | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | | | to 4dB below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L or | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L_CA | | | | | | | | as defined in | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | | | Annex A.3.2 | | | | | | | | with one sided | | | | | | | | dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern OP.1 | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD as | | | | | | | | described in | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | A. | | | | | | | | 5.1.1/A.5.2.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | | | F~interferer~ | | | | | | | | (offset) is | | | | | | | | relative to | | | | | | | | the center | | | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | | | tested and | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | | adjusted to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | {width="2.0291 | | | | | | | | 66666666667in" | | | | | | | | height | | | | | | | | ="0.2069444444 | | | | | | | | 4444443in"}MHz | | | | | | | | to be offset | | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | | | raster. | | | | | | | +----------------+------+----------------+----------------+---+---+---+
### 6.2.7 Spurious response
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation the downlink SCC shall be
configured at nominal channel spacing to the PCC with the PCC configured
closest to the uplink band. Downlink PCC and SCC are both activated. The
uplink output power shall be set as specified in Table 6.2.7-1 with the uplink
configuration set according to Table 7.3.1A-1 in TS 36.101 for the applicable
carrier aggregation configuration. The throughput of each carrier shall be ≥
95% of the maximum throughput of the reference measurement channels as
specified in Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and A.3.2 in TS 36.101 (with one sided
dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD for the DL-signal as described in Annex
A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1) with parameters specified in Tables 6.2.7-1 and 6.2.7-2.
Table 6.2.7-1: Spurious response parameters
+----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth Class | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Power per CC in | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | Aggregated | | Bandwidth Class | | | | | | Transmission | | specific value below | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | 9 | 9 | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter shall be | | | | | | | | set to 4dB below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L or | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L_CA as | | | | | | | | defined in subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Reference | | | | | | | | measurement channel | | | | | | | | is specified in | | | | | | | | Annex A.3.2 with one | | | | | | | | sided dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | as described in | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1. | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+
Table 6.2.7-2: Spurious response
+---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Level | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | P~Interferer~ | dBm | -44 | | | | | | (CW) | | | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | F~Interferer~ | MHz | Spurious response frequencies | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+
### 6.2.8 Intermodulation characteristics
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggegation the downlink SCC shall be
configured at nominal channel spacing to the PCC with the PCC configured
closest to the uplink band. Downlink PCC and SCC are both activated. The
uplink output power shall be set as specified in Table 6.2.8 -1 with the
uplink configuration set according to Table 7.3.1A-1 in TS 36.101for the
applicable carrier aggregation configuration. The UE shall fulfil the minimum
requirement in presence of an interfering signal specified in Table 6.2.8 -1
being on either side of the aggregated signal.
Table 6.2.8x -1: Wide band intermodulation
+---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | Rx parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | Power per CC | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | in Aggregated | | Bandwidth | | | | | | Transmission | | Class | | | | | | Bandwidth | | specific | | | | | | Configuration | | value below | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | | | 9 | 12 | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | P~I | dBm | -46 | | | | | | nterferer\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (CW) | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | P~I | dBm | -46 | | | | | | nterferer\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Modulated) | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | BW~I | MHz | 5 | 5 | | | | | nterferer\ 2~ | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | F~I | MHz | -- | -- | | | | | nterferer\ 1~ | | F~offset~-7.5 | F~offset~-7.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Offset) | | / | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | + | + | | | | | | | F~offset~+7.5 | F~offset~+7.5 | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | F~I | MHz | **2*F~Int | | | | | | nterferer\ 2~ | | erferer\ 1~** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Offset) | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter | | | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | | | to 4dB below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L or | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L_CA | | | | | | | | as defined in | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | | | Annex A.3.2 | | | | | | | | with one | | | | | | | | sided dynamic | | | | | | | | OCNG Pattern | | | | | | | | OP.1 FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | as described | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A.5 | | | | | | | | .1.1/A.5.2.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | consists of | | | | | | | | the Reference | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | | | Annex A.3.2 | | | | | | | | with one | | | | | | | | sided dynamic | | | | | | | | OCNG Pattern | | | | | | | | OP.1 FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | as described | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A. | | | | | | | | 5.1.1/A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | | with set-up | | | | | | | | according to | | | | | | | | Annex C.3.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | | | signal is | | | | | | | | 5MHz E-UTRA | | | | | | | | signal as | | | | | | | | described in | | | | | | | | Annex D for | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | ≥5MHz | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+
### 6.2.9 Receiver image - Minimum requirements for CA
Receiver image rejection is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to receive the
E-UTRA signal on one component carrier while it is also configured to receive
an adjacent aggregated carrier. Receiver image rejection ratio is the ratio of
the wanted received power on a sub-carrier being measured to the unwanted
image power received on the same sub-carrier when both sub-carriers are
received with equal power at the UE antenna connector.
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation the UE shall fulfil the minimum
requirement specified in Table 7.10.1A-1 for all values of aggregated input
signal up to --22 dBm.
.
Table 7.10.1A-1: Receiver image rejection
* * *
                             CA bandwidth class
Rx parameter Units A B C D E F Receiver image rejection dB 25 25
* * *
## 6.3 E-UTRA B27 coexistence requirements
No changes to Band 27 coexistence requirements are needed.
# 7 E-UTRA RRM requirements for UE
No change to UE RRM specifications is required.
# 8 E-UTRA RF requirements for BS
The changes needed for the Base Station have the following prerequisites:
> MC and CA UEM and F~offsets~ are defined for 1.4 and 3 MHz channel bandwidth
> carriers at the RF Bandwidth edge in TS 37.104 since 3GPP rel-9. This is
> used as the basis for B27 contiguous LTE CA.
>
> Today TS 37.104 picks up the ACLR requirement through a reference to TS
> 36.104. The ACLR requirement is now copied into TS 37.104 instead and
> adapted to TS 37.104 syntax.
>
> TS 36.104 is only used as a reference for the CA band number.
>
> F~offset~ for CA are FFS in TS 36.104 and can be updated in a later Work
> Item.
## 8.1 Transmitter characteristics
### 8.1.1 Operating bands unwanted emissions
The operating band unwanted emission (UEM) mask as defined in 37series already
allow contiguous operation for narrow carriers, which covers also carrier
aggregation. The UEM masks and the corresponding offsets have been defined
since 3GPP release 9.
There will be no change required to the UEM requirement in TS 36.104.
### 8.1.2 UEM masks and offsets in TS 37.104 for BC1 and BC3
The F~offset~ for BCI and BC3 in TS 37.104 is stated below:
Table 8.1.2-1: Definition of F~offset~ for BC1and BC3 in TS 37.104
* * *
Channel Bandwidth of the Lowest or Highest Carrier: BW~Channel~[MHz]
F~offset~[MHz] 5, 10, 15, 20 BW~Channel~/2 3, 1.4 BW~Channel~/2 + 200 kHz
* * *
#### 8.1.2.1 Example
As an example when 5+1.4 MHz are aggregated we get the nominal channel spacing
from:
{width="5.4875in" height="0.575in"}= 3 MHz
The offset for the 1.4 MHz carrier is 0.2 MHz. The aggregated channel
bandwidth becomes: 2.5+3.0+0.7+0.2 = 6.4 MHz
{width="2.404166666666667in" height="3.1659722222222224in"}\ **Figure
8.1.2.1-1: 5+1.4 MHz contiguous carrier aggregation example using TS 37
offsets.**
### 8.1.3 ACLR
In TS 36.104, Table 6.6.2.1-1, a carrier centre syntax is used to define ACLR
as below:
> _For operation in paired spectrum, the ACLR shall be higher than the value
> specified in Table 6.6.2.1‑1._
>
> **_Table 6.6.2.1-1_** : Base Station ACLR in paired spectrum
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | Channel | BS adjacent | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | bandwidth | channel | adjacent | the | | | of E-UTRA | centre | channel | adjacent | | | lowest | frequency | carrier | channel | | | (highest) | offset | (i | frequency | | | carrier | below the | nformative) | and | | | transmitted | lowest or | | co | | | BW~Channel~ | above the | | rresponding | | | [MHz] | highest | | filter | | | | carrier | | bandwidth | | | | centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | transmitted | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | 1.4, 3.0, | BW~Channel~ | E-UTRA of | Square | 45 dB | | 5, 10, 15, | | same BW | ( | | | 20 | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 2 x | E-UTRA of | Square | 45 dB | | | BW~Channel~ | same BW | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | BW~Channel~ | 3.84 Mcps | RRC (3.84 | 45 dB | | | /2 + 2.5 | UTRA | Mcps) | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | BW~Channel~ | 3.84 Mcps | RRC (3.84 | 45 dB | | | /2 + 7.5 | UTRA | Mcps) | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | BW~Channel~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | BW~Config~ | | | | | | are the | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | and | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | of the | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | lowest | | | | | | (highest) | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | channel | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | RRC filter | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | equivalent | | | | | | to the | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | pulse shape | | | | | | filter | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | TS 25.104 | | | | | | [6], with | | | | | | a chip rate | | | | | | as defined | | | | | | in this | | | | | | table. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
However, ACLR for non-contiguous operation in TS 36 and CACLR in TS 36 and TS
37 use a block edge instead of a carrier centre syntax. This has implications
when ACLR is referenced from TS 37.
The different references used, carrier centre and (sub-) block edge
respectively, have historical reasons rather than technical, but when offsets
from the carrier centre to the edge different than channelbw/2 are used, like
for narrow carriers in TS 37, it turns ACLR partly into an in-band requirement
and that is not correct. Figure 8.1.3-1 illustrates the difference between the
definition of ACLR by using different syntax for CA with narrow carriers and
considering the offset as in TS 37 series.
{width="6.147222222222222in" height="3.7604166666666665in"}
Figure 8.1.3-1a): ACLR requirement by using "carrier centre" syntax
{width="6.254166666666666in" height="3.7604166666666665in"}
Figure 8.1.3-1b): ACLR requirement by using "block edge" syntax
It is proposed to keep the E-UTRA and UTRA ACLR requirements when the
requirement is referenced for narrow carriers, but with a change from carrier-
centre reference to block edge reference.
The reference point can be changed for the legacy carriers without changing
the actual ACLR requirements. The change is backwards compatible and does thus
not change the ACLR requirement for the types of carriers and scenarios within
the scope of TS 36.
The ACLR table can be defined as show in table 3. For 5-20 MHz all TS 36
offsets are BW~CS~/2, so a change to (sub-) block edge as the basis for
requirements is backwards compatible.
Table 8.1.3-1: Proposed modification to Base Station ACLR in paired spectrum
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | Channel | BS adjacent | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | bandwidth | channel | adjacent | the | | | of E-UTRA | centre | channel | adjacent | | | lowest | frequency | carrier | channel | | | (highest) | offset | (i | frequency | | | carrier | below the | nformative) | and | | | transmitted | lower or | | co | | | BW~Channel~ | above the | | rresponding | | | [MHz] | upper edge | | filter | | | | | | bandwidth | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | 1.4, 3.0, | BW | E-UTRA of | Square | 45 dB | | 5, 10, 15, | ~Channel~/2 | same BW | ( | | | 20 | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 1.5 x | E-UTRA of | Square | 45 dB | | | BW~Channel~ | same BW | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 2.5 MHz | 3.84 Mcps | RRC (3.84 | 45 dB | | | | UTRA | Mcps) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 7.5 MHz | 3.84 Mcps | RRC (3.84 | 45 dB | | | | UTRA | Mcps) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | BW~Channel~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | BW~Config~ | | | | | | are the | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | and | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | of the | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | lowest | | | | | | (highest) | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | channel | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | RRC filter | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | equivalent | | | | | | to the | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | pulse shape | | | | | | filter | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | TS 25.104 | | | | | | [6], with | | | | | | a chip rate | | | | | | as defined | | | | | | in this | | | | | | table. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
Today TS 37.104 picks up the ACLR requirement through a reference to TS
36.104. The ACLR requirement with the new syntax in table 8.1.3-1 is now
copied into TS 37.104 instead.
## 8.2 Receiver Characteristics
Void
# 9 E-UTRA demodulation performance for BS and UE
There are no new BS demodulation performance requirements specified for Band
27 intra-band non-contiguous CA. The existing demodulation performance
requirements specified in TS36.104 [4] are applicable for BS supporting Band
27 intra-band non-contiguous CA.
The new 2x5 MHz UE CA demodulation performance requirements with transmission
mode 3 and 2×2 antenna and the new 2x5 MHz UE CA CQI reporting requirements
are specified in TS36.101 [5]. The detailed test parameters and requirements
are given in [6].
# 10 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 10.1 Required changes to TS36.101
Required changes in TS 36.101 are shown in Table 10.1-1.
Table 10.1-1 Required changes in TS 36.101
+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | Section | Requirement | Expected | Note | Status | | | | Changes in | | | | | | TS 36.101 | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | General Part | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 5.5A | Operating | A new row is | | Agreed | | | bands for CA | expected to | | | | | | be added in | | | | | | Table 5.5A-1 | | | | | | to add | | | | | | CA_27B to | | | | | | the | | | | | | supported | | | | | | Intra band | | | | | | CA operating | | | | | | bands. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 5.6A | Channel | Nominal | Class B | Agreed | | | bandwidths | Guard Band | | | | | for CA | for CA | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | Class B in | | | | | | Table 5.6A-1 | | | | | | needs to be | | | | | | defined | | | | | | (Currently | | | | | | FFS) | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 5.6A.1 | Channel | A new row is | | Agreed | | | bandwidths | expected to | | | | | per | be added in | | | | | operating | Table | | | | | band for CA | 5.6A.1-1 for | | | | | | the | | | | | | supported | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | bandwidths | | | | | | of | | | | | | intra-band | | | | | | contiguous | | | | | | B27 CA. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.2.2A | UE Maximum | No plan to | | N/A | | | Output Power | add a row | | | | | for | for CA_27B | | | | | intra-band | in Table | | | | | contiguous | 6.2.2A-1 | | | | | CA | because the | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink only. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.2.3A | UE Maximum | No plan to | | N/A | | | Output power | add a row | | | | | for | for CA_27B | | | | | modulation / | in Table | | | | | channel | 6.2.2A-1 | | | | | bandwidth | because this | | | | | for CA | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.2.4A | UE maximum | No plan to | | N/A | | | output power | add | | | | | with | requirements | | | | | additional | in this WI | | | | | requirements | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.2.5A | UE maximum | No plan to | | N/A | | | output power | add | | | | | with | requirements | | | | | additional | in this WI | | | | | requirements | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.3.2A.1 | Minimum | No plan to | | N/A | | | output power | add | | | | | - Minimum | requirements | | | | | requirement | for 1.4, 3 | | | | | for CA | and 5 MHz in | | | | | | this WI | | | | | | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.3.3A.1 | UE Transmit | No plan to | | N/A | | | OFF power | add | | | | | for CA -- | requirements | | | | | Minimum | for 1.4, 3 | | | | | requirement | and 5 MHz in | | | | | for CA | this WI | | | | | | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.3.5A.1.1 | Power | No plan to | | N/A | | | control for | add | | | | | CA | requirements | | | | | | for Class B | | | | | - Minimum | in this WI | | | | | Requirements | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.5.2A.3.1 | In-band | No plan to | | N/A | | | emissions | add | | | | | | requirements | | | | | - Minimum | for Class B | | | | | Requirements | in this WI | | | | | for CA | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.6.2.1A | Spectrum | No plan to | | N/A | | | emission | add | | | | | mask for CA | requirements | | | | | | for Class B | | | | | | in this WI | | | | | | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.6.2.2A | Additional | No plan to | | N/A | | | Spectrum | add | | | | | Emission | requirements | | | | | Mask for CA | for Class B | | | | | | in this WI | | | | | | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.6.2.3.2A | Minimum | No plan to | | N/A | | | requirement | add | | | | | UTRA for CA | requirements | | | | | | for Class B | | | | | | in this WI | | | | | | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.6.2.3.3A | Minimum | No plan to | | N/A | | | requirements | add | | | | | for CA | requirements | | | | | E-UTRA | for Class B | | | | | | in this WI | | | | | | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.6.3.1A | Spurious | No plan to | | N/A | | | emissions | add | | | | | | requirements | | | | | - Minimum | for Class B | | | | | requirements | in this WI | | | | | for CA | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.6.3.2A | Spurious | No plan to | | N/A | | | emission | add | | | | | band UE | requirements | | | | | co-existence | for CA_27B | | | | | for CA | in Table | | | | | | 6.6.3.2A-1 | | | | | | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.6.3.3A | Additional | No plan to | | N/A | | | spurious | add | | | | | emissions | requirements | | | | | for CA | for CA_27B | | | | | | because this | | | | | | WI is single | | | | | | uplink | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 6.7.1A | Transmit | No plan to | | N/A | | | int | add | | | | | ermodulation | requirements | | | | | | for Class B | | | | | - Minimum | in this WI | | | | | requirement | because this | | | | | for CA | WI is single | | | | | | uplink. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | Rx | | | | | | Cha | | | | | | racteristics | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 7.3.1A | Minimum | A new row is | | Agreed | | | requirements | expected to | | | | | (QPSK) for | be added in | | R4-131917 | | | CA | Table | | | | | | 7.3.1A-1 or | | | | | | a new table | | | | | | created for | | | | | | intra-band | | | | | | CA uplink | | | | | | c | | | | | | onfiguration | | | | | | for | | | | | | reference | | | | | | sensitivity | | | | | | for CA_27B. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 7.4.1A | Maximum | Requirement | Class B | Agreed | | | input level | for Class B | | R4-133366 | | | | to be added | | | | | - Minimum | to Table | | | | | requirements | 7.4.1A-1 | | | | | for CA | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 7.5.1A | Adjacent | Requirement | Class B | Agreed | | | Channel | for Class B | | R4-133365 | | | Selectivity | to be added | | | | | (ACS) | to Table | | | | | | 7.5.1A-1 | | | | | - Minimum | | | | | | requirements | | | | | | for CA | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 7.6.1.1A | In-band | Requirements | Class B | Agreed | | | blocking for | for Class B | | R4-134806 | | | intra-band | are expected | | | | | contiguous | to be added | | | | | CA | to Table | | | | | | 7.6.1.1A-1 | | | | | | and | | | | | | requirements | | | | | | for CA_27B | | | | | | are expected | | | | | | to be added | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | 7.6.1.1A-2. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 7.6.2.1A | Out-of-band | Requirement | Class B | Agreed | | | blocking for | for Class B | | R4-134807 | | | intra-band | to be added | | | | | contiguous | to Table | | | | | CA | 7.6.2.1A-1, | | | | | | and | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | for CA_27B | | | | | | to be added | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | 7.6.2.1A-2. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 7.6.3.1A | Narrow band | Requirement | Class B | Agreed | | | blocking | for Class B | | R4-134808 | | | | to be added | | | | | - Minimum | to Table | | | | | requirements | 7.6.3.1A-1. | | | | | for CA | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 7.7.1A | Spurious | Requirement | Class B | Agreed | | | response | for Class B | | R4-134809 | | | | to be added | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | 7.7.1A-1. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 7.8.1A | Wide band | Requirement | Class B | Agreed | | | int | for Class B | | R4-134810 | | | ermodulation | to be added | | | | | | to Table | | | | | - Minimum | 7.8.1A-1. | | | | | requirements | | | | | | for CA | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 7.10.1A | Receiver | Requirement | Class B | Agreed | | | image | for Class B | | R4-134878 | | | | to be added | | | | | - Minimum | to Table | | | | | requirements | 7.10.1A-1. | | | | | for CA | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | Performance | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 8.2.1.1.1 | Si | No | Class B | | | | ngle-antenna | requirement | | | | | port | for Class B | | | | | performance | is needed. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 8.2.1.3.1 | Minimum | The new 2x5 | Class B | | | | Requirement | MHz | | | | | 2 Tx Antenna | performance | | | | | Port | requirement | | | | | | FDD is | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 8.2.1.3.1-2. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 8.2.1.4.3 | Minimum | No | Class B | | | | Requirement | requirement | | | | | Multi-Layer | for Class B | | | | | Spatial | is needed. | | | | | Multiplexing | | | | | | 4 Tx Antenna | | | | | | Port | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 8.2.1.7 | Carrier | No | Class B | | | | aggregation | requirement | | | | | with power | for Class B | | | | | imbalance | is needed. | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 8.7.1 | Sustained | No | Class B | | | | downlink | requirement | | | | | data rate | for Class B | | | | | provided by | is needed. | | | | | lower layers | | | | | | FDD | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+ | 9.6.1.1 | Additional | The new | Class B | Agreed | | | requirements | 2x5MHz CA | | R4-142387 | | | for carrier | CQI | | | | | aggregation: | reporting | | | | | Periodic | performance | | | | | reporting on | requirement | | | | | multiple | is specified | | | | | cells | in Table | | | | | (C | 9.6.1.1-1 | | | | | ell-Specific | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | Symbols) FDD | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+
## 10.2 Required changes to TS36.104
Required changes in TS 36.104 are shown in Table 10.2-1.
Table 10.2-1 Required changes in TS 36.104
* * *
Section Requirement Expected Changes in TS 36.104 Note Status General Part  
5.5A Operating bands for CA Add Band 27 to Table 5.5-2. Intra-band contiguous
carrier aggregation bands
* * *
## 10.3 Required changes to TS36.133
Required changes in TS 36.133 are shown in Table 10.3-1
Required changes in TS 36.133 are shown in Table 10.3-1
**Table 10.3-1 Required changes in TS 36.133**
+--------------+-----------------+-----------------+------+--------+ | Section | Requirement | Expected | Note | Status | | | | Changes in TS | | | | | | 36.133 | | | +--------------+-----------------+-----------------+------+--------+ | General Part | | | | | +--------------+-----------------+-----------------+------+--------+ | 8.3 | Measurements | Add A.8.16 | | | | | for E-UTRA | E-UTRAN | | | | | carrier | Event-Triggered | | | | | aggregation | Reporting on | | | | | | Deactivated | | | | | | SCell for 5 MHz | | | | | | + 5 MHz | | | | | | bandwidth | | | +--------------+-----------------+-----------------+------+--------+ | 9.1.11 | Carrier | Add A.9.1.20 | | | | | aggregation | FDD RSRP for | | | | | measurement | E-UTRAN Carrier | | | | | accuracy | Aggregation for | | | | | | 5 MHz + 5 MHz | | | | | | bandwidth | | | +--------------+-----------------+-----------------+------+--------+ | 9.1.11 | Carrier | A.9.1.21 TDD | | | | | aggregation | RSRP for | | | | | measurement | E-UTRAN Carrier | | | | | accuracy | Aggregation for | | | | | | 5 MHz + 5 | | | | | | | | | | | | MHz bandwidth | | | +--------------+-----------------+-----------------+------+--------+ | 9.1.11 | Carrier | A.9.2.17 FDD | | | | | aggregation | RSRQ for | | | | | measurement | E-UTRAN Carrier | | | | | accuracy | Aggregation for | | | | | | 5 MHz + 5 MHz | | | | | | bandwidth | | | +--------------+-----------------+-----------------+------+--------+ | 9.1.11 | Carrier | A.9.2.18 TDD | | | | | aggregation | RSRQ for | | | | | measurement | E-UTRAN Carrier | | | | | accuracy | Aggregation for | | | | | | 5 MHz + 5 MHz | | | | | | bandwidth | | | +--------------+-----------------+-----------------+------+--------+ | 8.3 | Measurements | A.8.16. E-UTRAN | | | | | for E-UTRA | Event-Triggered | | | | | carrier | Reporting on | | | | | aggregation | Deactivated | | | | | | SCell with | | | | | | PCell | | | | | | Interruption | | | | | | for 5 MHz + 5 | | | | | | MHz bandwidth | | | +--------------+-----------------+-----------------+------+--------+ | 8.4 | OTDOA RSTD | A.8.17 E-UTRAN | | | | | Measurements | RSTD | | | | | for E-UTRAN | Measurement | | | | | carrier | Reporting Test | | | | | aggregation | Case for 5 + 5 | | | | | | MHz Bandwidth | | | +--------------+-----------------+-----------------+------+--------+ | 9.1.12 | Reference | A.9.8 E-UTRAN | | | | | Signal Time | RSTD | | | | | Difference | Measurement | | | | | (RSTD) | Accuracy in | | | | | Measurement | Carrier | | | | | Accuracy | Aggregation for | | | | | Requirements | 5 + 5MHz | | | | | for Carrier | bandwidth | | | | | Aggregation | | | | +--------------+-----------------+-----------------+------+--------+
## 10.4 Required changes to TS36.141
Required changes in TS 36.141 are shown in Table 10.4-1.
Table 10.4-1 Required changes in TS 36.141
* * *
Section Requirement Expected Changes in TS 36.141 Note Status General Part  
5.5 Operating bands for CA Add Band 27 to Table 5.5-2. Intra-band contiguous
carrier aggregation bands
* * *
## 10.5 Required changes to TS36.307
Required changes in TS 36.307 are shown in Table 10.5-1.
Table 10.5-1 Required changes in TS 36.307
* * *
Section Requirement Expected Changes in TS 36.307 Note Status 8 Band 27
independent of release Expect to add some changes to 36.307 Rel-10 to provide
the appropriate pointers to the Rel-11 spec to enable backdating of band 27 CA
to Rel-10.
* * *
## 10.6 Required changes to TS37.104
Required changes in TS 37.104 are shown in Table 10.6-1.
**Table 10.6-1: Required changes in TS 37.104**
* * *
**Section** **Requirement** **Expected Changes in TS 37.104** **Note**
**Status** **General Part**  
6.6.4.1 ACLR for E_UTRA Today TS 37.104 picks up the ACLR requirement through
a reference to TS 36.104. The ACLR requirement is now copied into TS 37.104
instead and adapted to TS 37.104 syntax.
* * *
## 10.7 Required changes to TS37.141
Required changes in TS 37.141 are shown in Table 10.7-1.
**Table 10.7-1: Required changes in TS 37.141**
* * *
**Section** **Requirement** **Expected Changes in TS 37.141** **Note**
**Status** **General Part**  
6.6.4.1 ACLR for E_UTRA Today TS 37.104 picks up the ACLR requirement through
a reference to TS 36.104. The ACLR requirement is now copied into TS 37.104
instead and adapted to TS 37.104 syntax.37.141 also needs to include the ACLR
requirements.
* * *
#