# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the work item for LTE Advanced
intra-band non-contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 42, which was approved
at TSG RAN #62 [2]. The report provides background, analysis of the
requirements, and a list of recommended changes to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-131733: \" New WI Proposal on Band 42 intra-band non-contiguous CA \".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
4.1 Task description
The purpose and objectives of this work item are:
● Specify the band specific RF requirements for Band 42 intra-band non-
contiguous CA
● Finalize the requirements with single UL and two DL with bandwidth
combinations:
Table 4.1-1bandwidth combinations
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set  
E-UTRA CA configuration E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz
CA_42A-42A 42 Yes Yes Yes Yes
* * *
● Add conformance tests in RAN5 specifications (to follow)
# 5 Operating bands and channel bandwidths
## 5.1 CA operating bands
CA_42A-42A is defined to operate in the entire frequency range of Band 42, as
defined in Table 5.1-1.
Table 5.1-1: Intra-band non-contiguous CA operating band definition in Band 42
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_42-42 42 3400 MHz -- 3600 MHz 3400 MHz -- 3600 MHz TDD
* * *
## 5.2 CA channel bandwidth
The supported E-UTRA bandwidths for CA_42A-42A are shown in Table 5.2-1.
Table 5.2-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets defined
for non-contiguous intra-band CA in Band 42
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
E-UTRACA configuration Component carriers in order of increasing carrier
frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                        Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_42A-42A 5, 10, 15, 20 5, 10, 15, 20 40 0
* * *
# 6 E-UTRA RF requirements for UE
## 6.1 Transmitter Characteristics
Since the proposed configurations are DL CA only and single UL CC is used, the
legacy transmitter requirements can be reused.
## 6.2 Receiver Characteristics
Band 42 is TDD band and there is no simultaneous downlink and uplink
transmission. Hence the uplink configuration will have no impact to the
reference sensitivity, i.e. the ΔR~IBNC~ = 0 for CA_42A-42A.
# 7 E-UTRA RF requirements for BS
## 7.1 Co-existence studies
The 2nd and 3rd order harmonics and IMD products caused in the BS by
transmitting of Band 42 non-contiguous DL carriers can be calculated as shown
in Table 7.1-1 below:
Table 7.1-1: Band 42 non-contiguous DL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f-low f-high DL frequency (MHz) 3400 3600 2nd harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 6800 7200 3rd harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 10200
10800 2nd order IMD products (f-low -- f-high) (f-high -- f-low) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) -200 200 3rd order IMD products (2*f-low --f-high) (2*f-high
--f-low) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3200 3800
* * *
It can be seen from Table 7.1-1 that the 2nd and 3rd harmonics as well as the
2nd IMD products of BS transmitting non-contiguous carriers in Band 42 do not
fall into the BS receive band of any operating band, while the 3rd IMD
products of BS supporting non-contiguous carrier aggregation of Band 42 may
fall into the BS receive band of Bands 42 and 43\. As stated in 36- and
37-series BS specifications, TDD base stations deployed in the same
geographical area, that are synchronized and use the same or adjacent
operating bands can transmit without additional co-existence requirements. And
for unsynchronized base stations, special co-existence requirements may apply
that are not covered by the 3GPP specifications. Hence no coexistence issue is
foreseen for Band 42 non-contiguous transmission.
# 8 E-UTRA RRM requirements for UE
No change to UE RRM specifications is required.
# 9 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 9.1 Required changes to TS36.101
Required changes to TS 36.101 are shown in Table 9.1-1.
Table 9.1-1: Required changes to TS 36.101
* * *
Clause Requirement Required changes to TS 36.101 5.5A Operating bands for CA A
new row is to be added to Table 5.5A-3 in which requirement of CA_42A-42A
operating band is provided. 5.6A.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band for
CA A new row is to be added to Table 5.6A.1-3 in which requirement of
CA_42A-42A supported E-UTRA bandwidths is provided. 7.3.1A Minimum
requirements (QPSK) for CA A new row is to be added to Table 7.3.1A-3 in which
requirement of CA_42A-42A uplink configuration for reference sensitivity is
provided.
* * *
## 9.2 Required changes to TS36.104
Required changes to TS 36.104 are shown in Table 9.2-1.
Table 9.2-1: Required changes to TS 36.104
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes to TS 36.104 5.5 Operating bands A new row
is to be added to Table 5.5-4 in which requirement of CA_42-42 carrier
aggregation band is provided.
* * *
## 9.3 Required changes to TS36.141
Required changes to TS 36.141 are shown in Table 9.3-1.
Table 9.3-1: Required changes to TS 36.141
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes to TS 36.141 5.5 Operating bands A new row
is to be added to Table 5.5-4 in which requirement of CA_42-42 carrier
aggregation band is provided.
* * *
## 9.4 Required changes to TS36.307
Required changes to TS 36.307 are shown in Table 9.4-1.
Table 9.4-1: Required changes to TS 36.307
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes to TS 36.307 TBD CA configuration
CA_42A-42A Independent of Release A chapter is to be added in which CA_42A-42A
requirement on User Equipments supporting a release-independent frequency band
is provided for Rel-11 upwards.
* * *
## 9.5 Required changes to TS37.104
No change is required to TS 37.104.
## 9.6 Required changes to TS37.141
No change is required to TS 37.141.
#