# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report for the _LTE Advanced Intra-band
Non-contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 4_ work item, which was approved at
TSG RAN #56 [9].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.307: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a release-independent
frequency band\".
[7] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[8] 3GPP TS 37.141: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[9] RP-120593: \"WID LTE Advanced intra-band non-contiguous Carrier
Aggregation for Band 4,\" T-Mobile USA.
[10] RP-131135: \"Revised WID: LTE Advanced intra-band non-contiguous Carrier
Aggregation in Band 4\" T-Mobile USA.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
f_high The highest frequency
f_low The lowest frequency
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
W~gap~ Sub-block gap size
ΔR~IBNC~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for intra-
band non-contiguous CA operation
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CA_4-4 Intra-band non-contiguous CA in Band 4
CA_4A-4A Intra-band non-contiguous CA in Band 4
DL Downlink
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
IMD Intermodulation
PCC Primary Component Carrier
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity power level
UL Uplink
# 4 Background
The work item on intra-band non-contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 4
(LTE_CA_NC_B4) was first approved in RAN #56 [9]. Its scope includes both DL
and UL carrier aggregation with different timescales for 1 UL and 2 UL. The
scope was later revised to 1 UL only in RAN #60. The last version can be found
in [10].
## 4.1 Task description
The purpose and objectives of this work item are:
● Specify the band specific RF requirements for band 4 intra-band non-
contiguous carrier aggregation.
● CA_4A-4A configuration will consist of aggregating DL and UL channel
bandwidths of 5 MHz, 10 MHz, 15 MHz, and 20 MHz per component carrier. Up to
two DL component carriers and one UL component carrier are aggregated
simultaneously. All bandwidth combinations are supported by this WI.
● Add the performance requirements for this band combination in the relevant
specifications.
● Add the conformance testing in RAN5 specifications (to follow).
# 5 Band and channel arrangement
## 5.1 CA operating bands
CA_4A-4A is defined to operate in the entire frequency range of Band 4, as
defined in Table 5.1-1.
Table 5.1-1: Intra-band non-contiguous CA operating band definition in Band 4
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_4-4 4 1710 MHz -- 1755 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz FDD
* * *
## 5.2 CA channel bandwidth
The supported E-UTRA bandwidths for CA_4A-4A are shown in Table 5.2-1.
Table 5.2-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths for intra-band non-contiguous CA in
Band 4
* * *
CA operating band / channel bandwidth  
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Bands 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz CA_4A-4A
4 Yes Yes Yes Yes
* * *
# 6 E-UTRA RF requirements for UE
## 6.1 Transmitter characteristics
### 6.1.1 UL harmonics and IMD
CA_4 operates at 1710\~1755 MHz for UL and 2110\~2155 MHz for DL. Assuming UE
transmitting in the whole range of 1710\~1755 MHz, the 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order
of harmonics, 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 5^th^, and 7^th^ order IMD are calculated and
shown in the table 6.1.1.
Table 6.1.1-1: CA_4 UL harmonics and IMD
* * *
Harmonics and IMD Frequency range in MHz Falling into RX band? 2^nd^ harmonics
3420\~ 3510 No 3^rd^ harmonics 5130\~ 5265 No 2^nd^ order IMD -45 \~ 45 No
3^rd^ order IMD (2f1-f2) 1665 \~ 1800 No 5^th^ order IMD (3f1-2f2) 1620 \~
1845 No 5^th^ order IMD (4f1-f2) 5085 \~ 5310 No 7^th^ order IMD (4f1-3f2)
1575 \~ 1890 No 7^th^ order IMD (5f1-2f2) 5040 \~ 5355 No
* * *
The UE RX band is 2110\~2155 MHz. From the above table it can be seen that the
2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and the 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 5^th^, and 7^th^ order
IMD do not overlap with the UE RX band. So, there is no harmonics and IMD
issue for intra-band non-contiguous CA_4 UE which supports 2UL.
There is no harmonics and IMD issue for intra-band non-contiguous CA_4 UE
which supports 2UL.
## 6.2 Receiver characteristics
### 6.2.1 REFSENS test
Duplex gap for band 4 is 355 MHz which is also the smallest separation
distance of own PCC UL and SCC DL.
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="0.2847222222222222in"}
Figure 6.2.1-1 duplex gap of band 4
It is anticipated that this distance is large enough to enable full UL
allocation operation during the REFSENS test with one UL configured. Following
intra-band non-contiguous CA uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
for\ CA_4A-4A when one UL is being configured is proposed to be specified.
Table 6.2.1-1: Intra-band non-contiguous CA uplink configuration\ for
reference sensitivity for CA_4A-4A
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | Ag | Wgap / | PCC | ΔR~IBNC~ | Duplex | | | gregated | [MHz] | al | (dB) | mode | | confi | channel | | location | | | | guration | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | PCC+SCC) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | C | 25RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 25^1^ | 0.0 | FDD | | A_4A-4A | 25RB | 35.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 25RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 25^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 50RB | 30.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 25RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 25^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 75RB | 25.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 25RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 25^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 100RB | 20.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 50RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 50^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 25RB | 30.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 50RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 50^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 50RB | 25.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 50RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 50^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 75RB | 20.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 50RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 50^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 100RB | 15.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 75RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 75^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 25RB | 25.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 75RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 75^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 50RB | 20.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 75RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 75^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 75RB | 15.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 75RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 75^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 100RB | 10.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 100RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 100^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 25RB | 20.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 100RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 100^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 50RB | 15.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 100RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 100^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 75RB | 10.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 100RB + | W~gap~ ≤ | 100^1^ | 0.0 | | | | 100RB | 5.0 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | ^1^ | | | | | | | refers | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | as close | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | possible | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | band but | | | | | | | confined | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | mission. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | W~gap~ | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-block | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | the two | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | -blocks. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | of PCC | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | band is | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | closer | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
# 7 E-UTRA RRM requirements for UE
It is concluded that no change to UE RRM specifications is required.
# 8 E-UTRA RF requirements for BS
## 8.1 Co-existence studies
Table 8.1-1 shows harmonics frequency limits and Table 8.1-2 intermodulation
products frequency limits for CA of Band 4, respectively.
Table 8.1-1: DL harmonics frequency limits for CA of Band 4
* * *
BS DL carriers f_low f_high DL frequency (MHz) 2110 2155 2^nd^ order harmonics
frequency range (MHz) 4220 to 4310  
3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 6330 to 6465
* * *
As shown in Table 8.1-1, no second and no third harmonics will fall to any
3GPP UL frequencies.
Table 8.1-2: DL intermodulation products frequency limits for CA of Band 4
* * *
BS DL carriers f_low f_high DL frequency (MHz) 2110 2155 2^nd^ order IMD
products f_low - f_high f_high - f_low IMD frequency range (MHz) -45 to 45  
3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f_low -- f_high 2* f_high -- f_low IMD
frequency range (MHz) 2065 to 2200
* * *
As shown in Table 8.1-2, no second and no third IMD products will fall to any
3GPP UL frequencies.
# 9 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 9.1 Required changes to TS 36.101
Required changes to TS 36.101 [2] are shown in Table 9.1-1.
Table 9.1-1: Required changes to TS 36.101 [2]
* * *
Clause Requirement Required changes to TS 36.101 5.5A Operating bands for CA A
new row is to be added to Table 5.5A-3 in which requirement of CA_4A-4A
operating band is provided. 5.6A.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band for
CA A new row is to be added to Table 5.6A.1-3 in which requirement of CA_4A-4A
supported E-UTRA bandwidths is provided. 7.3.1A Minimum requirements (QPSK)
for CA A new row is to be added to Table 7.3.1A-3 in which requirement of
CA_4A-4A uplink configuration for reference sensitivity is provided.
* * *
## 9.2 Required changes to TS 36.104
Required changes to TS 36.104 [3]are shown in Table 9.2-1.
Table 9.2-1: Required changes to TS 36.104 [3]
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes to TS 36.104 5.5 Operating bands A new row
is to be added to Table 5.5-4 in which requirement of CA_4A-4A carrier
aggregation band is provided.
* * *
## 9.3 Required changes to TS 36.133
No change is required to TS 36.133 [4].
## 9.4 Required changes to TS 36.141
Required changes to TS 36.141 [5] are shown in Table 9.4-1.
Table 9.4-1: Required changes to TS 36.141 [5]
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes to TS 36.141 5.5 Operating bands A new row
is to be added to Table 5.5-4 in which requirement of CA_4A-4A carrier
aggregation band is provided.
* * *
## 9.5 Required changes to TS 36.307
Required changes to TS 36.307 [6] are shown in Table 9.5-1.
Table 9.5-1: Required changes to TS 36.307 [6]
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes to TS 36.307 TBD CA configuration CA_4A-4A
Independent of Release A chapter is to be added in which CA_4A-4A requirement
on User Equipments supporting a release-independent frequency band is provided
for Rel-11 upwards.
* * *
## 9.6 Required changes to TS 37.104
No change is required to TS 37.104 [7].
## 9.7 Required changes to TS 37.141
No change is required to TS 37.141 [8].
#