# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the LTE Advanced Intra-band Non-
contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 7 work item which was approved at TSG
RAN #57 [2]. The objective of this work item is to provide specification
support for intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation in LTE FDD Band 7.
The report provides motivation, requirements and a list of recommended changes
to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.307: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a release-independent
frequency band\".
[7] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[8] 3GPP TS 37.141: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[9] RP-121988, \"New WI proposal LTE Advanced Intra-band, Non-contiguous
Carrier Aggregation for Band 7\".
[10] RP-130389, \"Updated WI description for LTE Advanced intra-band non-
contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 7\".
[11] RP-151462, \"New WID: Additional bandwidth combination set for LTE
Advanced intra-band non-contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 7\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
f_high The highest frequency
f_low The lowest frequency
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
W~gap~ Sub-block gap size
ΔR~IBNC~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for intra-
band non-contiguous CA operation
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CA_7-7 Intra-band non-contiguous CA in Band 7
CA_7A-7A Intra-band non-contiguous CA in Band 7
DL Downlink
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
IMD Intermodulation
PCC Primary Component Carrier
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity power level
UL Uplink
# 4 Background
The work item on intra-band non-contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 7
(LTE_CA_NC_B7) was first approved in RAN #58 [9]. Its scope includes DL
carrier aggregation with 1 UL. The WID was later updated in [10].
## 4.1 Task description
The purpose and objectives of this work item are:
\- Specify the carrier aggregation configuration specific RF requirements for
band 7 intra-band non-contiguous CA i.e. CA_7A-7A
\- Finalise the DL non-contiguous intraband CA requirements for the following
configurations, assuming one component carrier per sub-block and 1 UL CC (see
section 10 in [9]):
\- 10 MHz + 10 MHz
\- 20 MHz + 20 MHz
\- 5 MHz + 15 MHz
\- 10 MHz + 15 MHz
\- 15 MHz + 15 MHz
\- 15 MHz + 20 MHz
\- Add the performance requirements for this band combination in the relevant
specifications
\- Add the conformance testing in RAN5 specifications (to follow).
# 5 Bands and channel bandwidths
## 5.1 CA Operating bands and channel bandwidths
CA_7A-7A is defined to operate in the entire frequency range of Band 7, as
defined in Table 5.1-1.
Table 5.1-1: Intra-band non-contiguous CA operating band definition in Band 7
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_7-7 7 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD
* * *
## 5.2 CA channel bandwidths
The supported E-UTRA bandwidths for CA_7A-7A are shown in Table 5.2-1.
Table 5.2-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths for intra-band non-contiguous CA in
Band 7
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | E-UTRA CA | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | / Bandwidth | | | | | | combination | | | | | | set | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | E-UTRA | Component | Maximum | Bandwidth | | | | carriers in | aggregated\ | combination | | | CA | order of | bandwidth | set | | | configuration | increasing | [MHz] | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | Allowed | Allowed | | | | | channel | channel | | | | | bandwidths | bandwidths | | | | | for carrier | for carrier | | | | | [MHz] | [MHz] | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | CA_7A-7A | 5 | 15 | 40 | 0 | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | 10 | 10, 15 | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | 15 | 15, 20 | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | 20 | 20 | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | 5, 10, 15, 20 | 5, 10, 15, 20 | 40 | 1 | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+
# 6 E-UTRA RF requirements for UE
## 6.1 Transmitter characteristics
### 6.1.1 UL harmonics and IMD
CA_7 operates at 2500\~2570 MHz for UL and 2620\~2690 MHz for DL. Assuming UE
transmitting in the whole range of 2500\~2570 MHz, the 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order
of harmonics, 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 5^th^, and 7^th^ order IMD are calculated and
shown in the Table 6.1.1-1.
Table 6.1.1-1: CA_7 UL harmonics and IMD
* * *
Harmonics and IMD Frequency range in MHz Falling into RX band? 2^nd^ harmonics
5000\~ 5140 No 3^rd^ harmonics 7500\~ 7710 No 2^nd^ order IMD (f1-f2) -70 \~
70 No 3^rd^ order IMD (2f1-f2) 2430 \~ 2640 Yes 5^th^ order IMD (3f1-2f2) 2360
\~ 2710 Yes 5^th^ order IMD (4f1-f2) 7430 \~ 7780 No 7^th^ order IMD (4f1-3f2)
2290 \~ 2780 Yes 7^th^ order IMD (5f1-2f2) 7360 \~ 7850 No
* * *
The UE RX band is 2620\~2690 MHz. From the above table, it can be seen that
the 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics do not fall into the UE receive band.
However, the 3^rd^, 5^th^, and 7^th^ order IMD components overlap with the UE
RX band. So, there are certain IMD issues for intra-band non-contiguous CA_7
UE. However, note that, for CA specific intermodulation products, more than
one aggregated carrier is required.
There is no harmonics and IMD issue for intra-band non-contiguous CA_7 UE
which supports 1UL.
## 6.2 Receiver characteristics
### 6.2.1 REFSENS test
Duplex gap for band 7 is 50 MHz which is also the smallest separation distance
of own PCC UL and SCC DL.
It is anticipated that this distance is larger compared to the case, e.g. band
25, thus it is enough to enable full UL allocation operation in some Wgap
values during the REFSENS test with one UL configured.
Following intra-band non-contiguous CA uplink configuration for reference
sensitivity for CA_7A-7A when one UL is being configured is proposed to be
specified.
Table 6.2.1-1: Intra-band non-contiguous CA uplink configuration\ for
reference sensitivity for CA_7A-7A
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | Ag | Wgap / | PCC | ΔR~IBNC~ | Duplex | | confi | gregated | [MHz] | al | (dB) | mode | | guration | channel | | location | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | PCC+SCC) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | 2 | 0\ 20.
Co-location of Band 7 transmitter and Band 38 transceivers implies FDD/TDD co-
location on adjacent frequencies which requires the use of certain site-
engineering solutions to avoid mutual interference.
Operating band 7 and Operating band 41 have to large extent overlapping
frequencies.
# 8 E-UTRA RRM requirements for UE
It is concluded that no change to UE RRM specifications is required.
# 9 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 9.1 Required changes to TS36.101
Required changes to TS 36.101 are shown in Table 9.1-1.
Table 9.1-1: Required changes to TS 36.101
* * *
Section Requirement Required changes to TS 36.101 5.5A Operating bands for CA
A new row is to be added to Table 5.5A-3 in which requirement of CA_7A-7A
operating band is provided. 5.6A.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band for
CA A new row is to be added to Table 5.6A.1-3 in which requirement of CA_7A-7A
supported E-UTRA bandwidths is provided. 7.3.1A Minimum requirements (QPSK)
for CA A new row is to be added to Table 7.3.1A-3 in which requirement of
CA_7A-7A uplink configuration for reference sensitivity is provided.
* * *
## 9.2 Required changes to TS36.104
Required changes to TS 36.104 are shown in Table 9.2-1.
Table 9.2-1: Required changes to TS 36.104
* * *
Section Requirement Required Changes to TS 36.104 5.5 Operating bands A new
row is to be added to Table 5.5-4 in which requirement of CA_7A-7A carrier
aggregation band is provided.
* * *
## 9.3 Required changes to TS36.133
No change is required to TS 36.133.
## 9.4 Required changes to TS36.141
Required changes to TS 36.141 are shown in Table 9.4-1.
Table 9.4-1: Required changes to TS 36.141
* * *
Section Requirement Required Changes to TS 36.141 5.5 Operating bands A new
row is to be added to Table 5.5-4 in which requirement of CA_7A-7A carrier
aggregation band is provided.
* * *
## 9.5 Required changes to TS36.307
Required changes to TS 36.307 are shown in Table 9.5-1.
Table 9.5-1: Required changes to TS 36.307
* * *
Section Requirement Required Changes to TS 36.307 TBD CA configuration
CA_7A-7A Independent of Release A chapter is to be added in which CA_7A-7A
requirement on User Equipment supporting a release-independent frequency band
is provided for Rel-11 upwards.
* * *
## 9.6 Required changes to TS37.104
No change is required to TS 37.104.
## 9.7 Required changes to TS37.141
No change is required to TS 37.141.
#