# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the LTE Advanced intra-band non-
contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 41 for 3 DL work item which was
approved at TSG RAN #62 [2]. The objective of this work item is to provide
specification support for intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation in LTE
TDD Band 41 for 3DL.
The present document provides motivation, requirements and a list of
recommended changes to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-131694: \"New WID:LTE Advanced intra-band Non-contiguous Carrier
Aggregation in Band 41".
[3] R4-140268: \"36833-6-41-skeleton\".
[4] R4-140269: \"TP for TR 36.833-6-41: Work plan on LTE Advanced intra-band
contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 41 for 3DL\".
[5] R4-140270: \"TP for TR 36.833-6-41: Work plan on LTE Advanced intra-band
contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 41 for 3DL\".
[6] R4-141402: \"TP on introducing channel bandwidth combination tables for
3DL non-contiguous CA in band 41\".
[7] R4-142448: \"TP for TR 36.833-6-41: Reference sensitivity power level\".
[8] R4-142546: \"TP for TR 36.833-6-41: Specific BS RF requirements for LTE
Advanced Non-Contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 41 for 3DL\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management.
[11] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.307: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a release-independent
frequency band\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Task description
The present document presents scenarios for 3 CC downlink non-contiguous
intra-band carrier aggregation for Band 41. To meet the market requirements of
operators, bandwidth demands are increasing constantly. As such, to meet the
market requirements of operators, especially in markets where contiguous
spectrum is less available to an operator, other schemes are needed. Two CC
carrier aggregation has been a successful mechanism to provide this additional
bandwidth in some cases. However, there are still market requirements which
require even higher bandwidth and greater flexibility. The next logical step
in downlink carrier aggregation is to aggregate 3 CCs on the downlink. This
work item proposes 3 CC intra-band non-contiguous DL CA with no changes to the
UL.
The WID for this work item was approved at RAN#62, December 2013, in RP-131694
[2].
The purpose and objectives of this work item are:
\- Building on the LTE intra-band 2-CC CA work completed for Band 41, specify
the core RF requirements for 3-CC non-contiguous DL intra-band CA in Band 41.
The aggregation scenarios to be specified as 2-contiguous CCs and 1 non-
contiguous CC, with a single sub-block gap, see Tables 2 and 3 in [2].
\- Add a bandwidth combination set to CA_41A-41A, see Table 1 in [2].
\- Modify CA_41C bandwidth combination set 0 to include 5 MHz in TS 36.101
Table 5.6A.1-1.
## 4.2 Operating scenarios
Void.
# 5 Study of E-UTRA requirements
## 5.1 Operating bands and channel bandwidths
### 5.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Void.
### 5.1.2 Channel bandwidths for CA
Tables 5.2.1-1 and 5.2.1-1 below show the CA bandwidth configuration sets
needed for 3CC DL non-contiguous CA in Band 41. There are two combinations of
41C - 41A with each combination indicating which side (lower or higher) the
single-CC 41A is located on. One column indicates the bandwidths for 41A and
the other column indicates the aggregated BW of 41C.
Table 5.2.1-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets defined
for intra-band contiguous CA
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | E-UTRA CA | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | / Bandwidth | | | | | | combination | | | | | | set | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | E-UTRA CA | Component | Maximum | Bandwidth | | | configuration | carriers in | aggregated\ | combination | | | | order of | bandwidth | set | | | | increasing | [MHz] | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | | Allowed | Allowed | | | | | channel | channel | | | | | bandwidths | bandwidths | | | | | for carrier | for carrier | | | | | [MHz] | [MHz] | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | | .. | .. | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | | .. | .. | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | CA_41C | 10 | 20 | 40 | 0 | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | | 15 | 15, 20 | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | | 20 | 10, 15, 20 | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | | 5, 10 | 20 | 40 | 1 | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | | 15 | 15, 20 | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | | 20 | 5, 10, 15, 20 | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | CA | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | refers to an | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band and a CA | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | class | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table 5.6A-1 | | | | | | in TS 36.101 | | | | | | (the indexing | | | | | | letter). | | | | | | Absence of a | | | | | | CA bandwidth | | | | | | class for an | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band implies | | | | | | support of | | | | | | all classes. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | the supported | | | | | | CC bandwidth | | | | | | combinations, | | | | | | the CC | | | | | | downlink and | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | bandwidths | | | | | | are equal. | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+----+
Table 5.2.1-2: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets defined
for non-contiguous intra-band CA
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
E-UTRA CA configuration Sub-blocks in order of increasing carrier frequency
Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                        Allowed bandwidths for sub-block \[MHz\]              Allowed bandwidths for sub-block \[MHz\]
... ... ... ... ...
CA_41A-41A 10, 15, 20 10, 15, 20 40 0
                                                        5, 10, 15, 20                                         5, 10, 15, 20                              40                          1
CA_41A-41C 5, 10, 15, 20 See Table 5.2A.1-1 in TS 36.101 [13] 60 0
CA_41C-41A See Table 5.2A.1-1 in TS 36.101 [13] 5, 10, 15, 20 60 0
* * *
## 5.2 VOID
## 5.3 Specific UE RF requirements
### 5.3.1 Maximum input level
The 3-DL non-contiguous CA in band 41 consists of adding together the already-
existing 2-CC CA_41C with a single B41 carrier therefore no new requirements
are needed, however test configurations need to be defined to TS 36.101 as
follows:
##### _\"7.4.1A Minimum requirements for CA_ {#a-minimum-requirements-for-ca
.H6}
> _For combinations of intra-band contiguous and intra-band non-contiguous
> carrier aggregation with three downlink carriers assigned to one E-UTRA
> band, the requirement is defined with the uplink configuration in accordance
> with Table 7.3.1A-3. For this uplink configuration, the UE shall meet the
> maximum input-level requirements for intra-band contiguous carrier
> aggregation of two downlink carriers and for the remaining component carrier
> the requirements specified in subclause 7.4.1. The three downlink carriers
> shall be active throughout the tests.\"_
### 5.3.2 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
The 3-DL non-contiguous CA in band 41 consists of adding together the already-
existing 2-CC CA_41C with a single B41 carrier therefore no new requirements
are needed, however test configurations need to be defined to TS 36.101 as
follows:
##### _\"7.5.1A Minimum requirements for CA_ {#a-minimum-requirements-for-ca-1
.H6}
> _For combinations of intra-band contiguous and intra-band non-contiguous
> carrier aggregation with three downlink carriers assigned to one E-UTRA
> band, the requirement is defined with the uplink configuration in accordance
> with Table 7.3.1A-3. For this uplink configuration, the UE shall meet the
> adjacent channel selectivity requirements for intra-band contiguous carrier
> aggregation of two downlink carriers and for the remaining component carrier
> the requirements specified in subclause 7.5.1 subject to in-gap and out-of-
> gap interferers. The three downlink carriers shall be active throughout the
> tests. The interferer power is set to the larger value between those
> specified in subclause 7.5.1 and 7.5.1A. The power level of the carrier(s)
> other than the carrier(s) that the interfering signal is located with
> respect to is increased so as to keep the ACS level specified in subclause
> 7.5.1 or 7.5.1A.\"_
### 5.3.3 VOID
### 5.3.4 VOID
### 5.3.5 Reference sensitivity power level
Clause 7.3.1A in TS 36.101 deals with the reference sensitivity requirements
for CA. In general TDD intra-band CA does not change the UE reference
sensitivity requirement for CA, and as Band 41 does not introduce any new
requirements that impact CA aspects of reference sensitivity, no changes need
to be made to the existing CA requirements.
However the following changes are required in the definition of the uplink
configuration to support reference sensitivity testing:
\- Add N/A for 100RB+25RB of CA_41C into Table 7.3.1A-1 in accordance with
modifying the bandwidth combination set 1 of 5 MHz + 20 MHz with no changes to
the UL.
\- Add a row in Table 7.3.1A-3 for CA41A-41C and CA41C-CA41 to describe the UL
allocation that shall be used for the case of a UE that supports 3-CC DL
intra-band non- contiguous CA for Band 41
These changes are shown in the following tables.
Table 5.3.5-1: Intra-band CA uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
CA configuration / CC combination / NRB_agg / Duplex mode |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA configuration | 100RB+25RB | 100RB+50RB | 75RB+75RB | 100RB+75RB | 100RB+100RB | Duplex Mode |  |  |  |  |   
| PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC |   
CA_41C | N/A | N/A | 100 | 50 | 75 | 75 | 100 | 75 | 100 | 100 | TDD  
NOTE 1: The carrier centre frequency of SCC in the UL operating band is configured closer to the DL operating band. NOTE 2: The transmitted power over both PCC and SCC shall be set to PUMAX as defined in subclause 6.2.5A in TS 36.101. NOTE 3: The UL resource blocks in both PCC and SCC shall be confined within the transmission bandwidth configuration for the channel bandwidth (Table 5.6-1 in TS 36.101). NOTE 4: The UL resource blocks in PCC shall be located as close as possible to the downlink operating band, while the UL resource blocks in SCC shall be located as far as possible from the downlink operating band. NOTE 5: In case a CA configuration consists of CC channel bandwidths which are unequal in bandwidth the PCC channel bandwidth shall be the larger one for reference sensitivity test. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 5.3.5-2: Intra-band non-contiguous CA uplink configuration for reference
sensitivity
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | Ag | W~gap~ / | UL PCC | ΔR~IBNC~ | Duplex | | confi | gregated | [MHz] | al | (dB) | mode | | guration | channel | | location | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | PCC+SCC) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA\ | NOTE 6 | NOTE 7 | NOTE 12 | 0.0 | TDD | | _41A-41C | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA\ | NOTE 6 | NOTE 7 | NOTE 12 | 0.0 | TDD | | _41C-41A | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | ^1^ | | | | | | | refers | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | as close | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | possible | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | band but | | | | | | | confined | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | mission. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | W~gap~ | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-block | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | the two | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | -blocks. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | of PCC | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | band is | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | closer | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | ^4^ | | | | | | | refers | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | RB~st | | | | | | | art~=33. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | | TDD CA | | | | | | | config | | | | | | | urations | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | include | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tra-band | | | | | | | non-co | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | ponents, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | only in | | | | | | | sync | | | | | | | hronized | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | peration | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | omponent | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | arriers. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | All | | | | | | | comb | | | | | | | inations | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | ndwidths | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | | 5.6A.1-3 | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | 36.101. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: | | | | | | | All | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-block | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | sizes. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 8: | | | | | | | The PCC | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | is same | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | Tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | N~RB~ as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | | 5.6-1 in | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | 36.101. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 9: | | | | | | | ^9^ | | | | | | | refers | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | RB~st | | | | | | | art~=25. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 10: | | | | | | | ^10^ | | | | | | | refers | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | RB~st | | | | | | | art~=35. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 11: | | | | | | | ^11^ | | | | | | | refers | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | RB~st | | | | | | | art~=50. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 12: | | | | | | | The PCC | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | which is | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | on CA | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | Class A | | | | | | | is same | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | Tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | N~RB~ as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | | 5.6-1 in | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | 36.101. | | | | | | | The PCC | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | which is | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | on CA | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | Class C | | | | | | | is same | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | Ag | | | | | | | gregated | | | | | | | Tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | Confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | N~ | | | | | | | RB_agg~ | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | | 7.3.1A-1 | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | S 36.101 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 13: | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | comb | | | | | | | inations | | | | | | | of TDD | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tra-band | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | non-co | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | aggr | | | | | | | egation, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | verified | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | plink(s) | | | | | | | active | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-block | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | pporting | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | largest | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | carr | | | | | | | iers.PCC | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | always | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | tivated. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The test conditions for REFSENS also need to be defined in TS 36.101 as
follows:
##### _\"7.3.1A Minimum requirements (QPSK) for CA_ {#a-minimum-requirements-
qpsk-for-ca .H6}
> _For combinations of intra-band contiguous and intra-band non-contiguous
> carrier aggregation with three downlink carriers assigned to one E-UTRA
> band, the requirement is defined with the uplink configuration in accordance
> with Table 7.3.1A-3. For this uplink configuration, the UE shall meet the
> reference sensitivity requirements for intra-band contiguous carrier
> aggregation of two downlink carriers and for the remaining component carrier
> the requirements specified in subclause 7.3.1. The three downlink carriers
> shall be active throughout the tests. Unless given by Table 7.3.1-3, the
> reference sensitivity requirements shall be verified with the network
> signalling value NS_01 (Table 6.2.4-1) configured\"._
### 5.3.6 Blocking characteristics
#### 5.3.6.1 In-band blocking
The 3-DL non-contiguous CA in band 41 consists of adding together the already-
existing 2-CC CA_41C with a single B41 carrier therefore no new requirements
are needed, however test configurations need to be defined to TS 36.101 as
follows:
##### _\"7.6.1.1A Minimum requirements for CA_ {#a-minimum-requirements-for-
ca-2 .H6}
> _For combinations of intra-band contiguous and intra-band non-contiguous
> carrier aggregation with three downlink carriers assigned to one E-UTRA
> band, the requirement is defined with the uplink configuration in accordance
> with Table 7.3.1A-3. For this uplink configuration, the UE shall meet the
> in-band blocking requirements for intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation
> of two downlink carriers and for the remaining component carrier the
> requirements specified in subclause 7.6.1.1 subject to in-gap and out-of-gap
> interferers. The three downlink carriers shall be active throughout the
> tests.\"_
#### 5.3.6.2 Out-of-band blocking
The 3-DL non-contiguous CA in band 41 consists of adding together the already-
existing 2-CC CA_41C with a single B41 carrier therefore no new requirements
are needed, however test configurations need to be defined to TS 36.101 as
follows:
##### _\"7.6.2.1A Minimum requirements for CA_ {#a-minimum-requirements-for-
ca-3 .H6}
> _For combinations of intra-band contiguous and intra-band non-contiguous
> carrier aggregation with three downlink carriers assigned to one E-UTRA
> band, the requirement is defined with the uplink configuration in accordance
> with Table 7.3.1A-3. For this uplink configuration, the UE shall meet the
> out-of-band blocking requirements for intra-band contiguous carrier
> aggregation of two downlink carriers and for the remaining component carrier
> the requirements specified in subclause 7.6.2.1 subject to in-gap and out-
> of-gap interferers. The three downlink carriers shall be active throughout
> the tests.\"_
#### 5.3.6.3 Narrow-band blocking
The 3-DL non-contiguous CA in band 41 consists of adding together the already-
existing 2-CC CA_41C with a single B41 carrier therefore no new requirements
are needed, however test configurations need to be defined to TS 36.101 as
follows:
##### _\"7.6.3.1A Minimum requirements for CA_ {#a-minimum-requirements-for-
ca-4 .H6}
> _For combinations of intra-band contiguous and intra-band non-contiguous
> carrier aggregation with three downlink carriers assigned to one E-UTRA
> band, the requirement is defined with the uplink configuration in accordance
> with Table 7.3.1A-3. For this uplink configuration, the UE shall meet the
> narrow-band blocking requirements for intra-band contiguous carrier
> aggregation of two downlink carriers and for the remaining component carrier
> the requirements specified in subclause 7.6.2.1 subject to in-gap and out-
> of-gap interferers. The three downlink carriers shall be active throughout
> the tests.\"_
### 5.3.7 Spurious response
The 3-DL non-contiguous CA in band 41 consists of adding together the already-
existing 2-CC CA_41C with a single B41 carrier therefore no new requirements
are needed, however test configurations need to be defined to TS 36.101 as
follows:
##### _\"7.7.1A Minimum requirements for CA_ {#a-minimum-requirements-for-ca-5
.H6}
> _For combinations of intra-band contiguous and intra-band non-contiguous
> carrier aggregation with three downlink carriers assigned to one E-UTRA
> band, the requirement is defined with the uplink configuration in accordance
> with Table 7.3.1A-3. For this uplink configuration, the UE shall meet the
> spurious response requirements for intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation
> of two downlink carriers and for the remaining component carrier the
> requirements specified in subclause 7.7.1 subject to in-gap and out-of-gap
> interferers. The three downlink carriers shall be active throughout the
> tests.\"_
### 5.3.8 Intermodulation characteristics
The 3-DL non-contiguous CA in band 41 consists of adding together the already-
existing 2-CC CA_41C with a single B41 carrier therefore no new requirements
are needed, however test configurations need to be defined to TS 36.101 as
follows:
##### _\"7.8.1A Minimum requirements for CA_ {#a-minimum-requirements-for-ca-6
.H6}
> _For combinations of intra-band contiguous and intra-band non-contiguous
> carrier aggregation with three downlink carriers assigned to one E-UTRA
> band, the requirement is defined with the uplink configuration in accordance
> with Table 7.3.1A-3. For this uplink configuration, the UE shall meet the
> wide-band intermodulation requirements for intra-band contiguous carrier
> aggregation of two downlink carriers and for the remaining component carrier
> the requirements specified in subclause 7.8.1 subject to in-gap and out-of-
> gap interferers. The three downlink carriers shall be active throughout the
> tests.\"_
## 5.4 Specific BS RF requirements
The current requirements specified in TS 36.104 and TS 36.141 for BS capable
of multi-carrier and/or CA operation in contiguous and non-contiguous spectrum
in single band are agnostic to the number of CC in each of the two sub-blocks
within the operating band supported by the BS in intra-band non-contiguous CA
operation, and thus can be applied for 3-CC non-contiguous intra-band DL CA in
Band 41. Hence no change in the BS requirements is needed.
However, the acronym \'CA_41-41\' in the Table 5.5-4 in TS 36.104 and TS
36.141 may be mis-interpreted that two CC instead of two sub-blocks are
supported within each operating band. This should be clarified in the BS
specifications as shown below.
Table 5.5-4. Intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation bands (with two
sub-blocks)
* * *
CA Band E-UTRA operating band
CA_3-3 3 CA_4-4 4 CA_7-7 7 CA_23-23 23 CA_25-25 25 CA_41-41 41
* * *
### 5.4.1 Co-existence studies for BS
The 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and IMD products caused in the BS by
transmitting of contiguous or non-contiguous Band 41 DL carriers can be
calculated as shown in Table 5.4.1-1 below:
Table 5.4.1-1: Band 41 DL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f-low f-high DL frequency (MHz) 2496 2690
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 4992 5380 3^rd^ harmonics frequency
limits (MHz) 7488 8070
2^nd^ order IMD products (f-low -- f-high) (f-high -- f-low) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) -194 194
3^rd^ order IMD products (2*f-low -- f-high) (2*f-high -- f-low) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 2302 2884
3^rd^ order IMD products (with maximum channel bandwidth for contiguous CA)
(f-low -- BWmax) (f-high + BWmax) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2436 2750
* * *
It can be seen from Table 5.4.1-1 that the 3^rd^ order IMD products of BS
transmitting contiguous or non-contiguous carriers in Band 41 may fall into
the BS receive band of Bands 7, 30, 38, 40 and 41. Note that for contiguous
CA, the calculation in Table 5.4.1-1 (except the last row) assumes the BS is
transmitting with the whole 194 MHz DL frequency of Band 41. If the BS is only
transmitting an up to 60 MHz DL in Band 41 as stated in the WIDS, then the
3^rd^ IMD products will not fall into the BS receive band of the Band 30 or 40
as shown in the last row in Table 5.4.1-1.
Note that Bands 7 and 38 are not intended for use in the same geographical
area as Band 41, and the 3^rd^ IMD products caused by BS supporting CA of Band
41 will not cause BS receiver desensitization with synchronized Band 40 or 41
TDD operations. Therefore, the focus here will be on the IMD falling into Band
30.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the harmonics and IMD interference generated within the Band 30
receiver would be well below the receiver noise floor eliminating the
possibility of receiver desensitization, provided that Band 41 BS transmitters
do not share the same antenna with Band 30 BS receiver.
On the other hand, it is recommended that Band 41 BS transmitters should not
share the same antenna with Band 30 BS receiver in order to prevent BS
receiver desensitization, unless the antenna path meets very stringent 3^rd^
order PIM specification so that the PIM will not cause Band 30 BS receiver
desensitization.
## 5.5 Specific UE RRM requirements
Void.
# 6 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 6.1 Required changes to TS 36.101
Required changes in UE RF specification TS 36.101 are shown in Table 6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: Required changes in TS 36.101
* * *
Clause Requirement Required changes in TS 36.101 5.6A.1 Channel bandwidths per
operating band for CA Introducing channel bandwidth combination of B41 NC 3C
to Table 5.6A.1-3 7.3.1A Intra-band non-contiguous CA uplink configuration for
reference sensitivity Introducing uplink configuration for reference
sensitivity of B41 NC 3C Table 7.3.1A-3
* * *
## 6.2 Required changes to TS 36.104
Required changes in BS RF specification TS 36.104 are shown in Table 6.2-1.
Table 6.2-1: Required changes in TS 36.104
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.104 5.5 Operating bands
Introducing and clarifying Intra-band non-contiguous 3 carrier aggregation
bands
* * *
## 6.3 Required changes to TS 36.133
Required changes in RRM specification TS 36.133 are shown in Table 6.3-1.
Table 6.3-1: Required changes in TS 36.133
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.133 8.3.1 Measurements for E-UTRA
carrier aggregation Expanding carrier aggregation configuration up to three
downlink CCs
* * *
## 6.4 Required changes to TS 36.141
Required changes in BS test specification TS 36.141 are shown in Table 6.4-1.
Table 6.4-1: Required changes in TS 36.141
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.141 5.5 Operating bands
Introducing and clarifying Intra-band non-contiguous 3 carrier aggregation
bands
* * *
## 6.5 Required changes to TS 36.307
Required changes in TS 36.307 are shown in Table 6.5-1.
Table 6.5-1: Required changes in TS 36.307
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.307 TBD Band 41 independent of
release \'Expect to add some changes to 36.307 Rel-11 to provide the
appropriate pointers to the Rel-12 specs to enable backdating of band 41 NC CA
with 3CC to Rel-11
* * *
# 7 Project plan
## 7.1 Schedule and Work Task Status
To facilitate the discussion and simulation work, the work plan is proposed as
follows:
\- RAN4#70 (February 2014):
\- Approve skeleton TR
\- Approve project work plan
\- Identify specification changes
\- RAN4#70bis (March 2014):
\- Determine bandwidth combinations
\- Determine Tx and Rx requirements
\- RAN4#71 (May 2014):
\- Review proposed core CR\'s
\- Resolve any remaining open issues
\- Begin performance work
\- RAN#64 (Jun 2014):
\- Approve core CR\'s
\- Close Core WI
\- RAN4#72 (August 2014):
\- Complete performance CR\'s
\- RAN#65 (September 2014):
\- Approve Performance CR\'s
\- Close performance WI
#