# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document was approved at TSG RAN #61 [2]. The objective of this
work item is to provide specification support for intra-band contiguous
carrier aggregation in LTE TDD Band 41 for 3DL.
The present document provides motivation, requirements and a list of
recommended changes to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21 912 (V3.1.0): \"Example 2, using fixed text\".
[4] RP-131244: \"RP-131244 New WID - LTE Advanced intra-band contiguous
Carrier Aggregation in Band 41 for 3DL\".
[5] R4-134629: \"Specification changes needed for 3CC Intraband contiguous CA
in Band 41\".
[6] R4-135696: \"Text Proposal for TR 36.833-5-41: **Work Plan for LTE
Advanced intra-band contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 41 for 3DL\".**
[7] R4-135697: \"Reference sensitivity for 3CC Intraband contiguous CA in Band
41\".
[8] R4-135415: \"TP on introducing channel bandwidth combination table for 3DL
CA in band 41\".
[9] R4-140076: \"TP on TR 36.833-5-41: Maximum input level for 3DL CA in band
41\".
[10] R4-140025: \"TP for TR 36.833-5-41: nominal channel spacing for Class
D\".
[11] R4-140030: \"TP for TR 36.833-5-41: nominal guard band for Class D\".
[12] R4-140871: \"TP for TR 36.833-5-41: Out-of-band Blocking\".
[13] R4-140887: \"TP for TR 36.833-5-41: Narrow-band Blocking\".
[14] R4-140910: \"TP for TR 36.833-5-41: Rx Image\".
[15] R4-141172: \"TP for TR 36.833-5-41: ACS\".
[16] R4-141173: \"TP for TR 36.833-5-41: Spurious Response\".
[17] R4-141174: \"TP for TR 36.833-5-41: Intermods\".
[18] R4-141255: \"TP for TR 36.833-5-41: Blocking Min Requirements\".
[19] R4-141948: \"TP for TR 36.833-5-41: Specific BS RF requirements for LTE
Advanced Carrier Aggregation in Band 41 for 3DL\".
[20] R4-142731: \"TP for 36.833-5-41: Correction to CA BW Class D\".
[21] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[22] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management.
[23] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[24] 3GPP TS 36.307: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a release-independent
frequency band\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
This work item presents scenarios for 3 CC downlink intra-band contiguous
carrier aggregation. Two CC carrier aggregation has been a successful
mechanism to provide additional bandwidth in some cases. However, there are
still market requirements which require even higher bandwidth. The next
logical step in carrier aggregation is to aggregate 3 CCs on the downlink.
This work item proposes 3 CC intraband contiguous CA in Band 41. This work
item essentially adds a 3^rd^ DL 10/15/20 MHz component carrier to the
previously-approved 2-CC intra-band contiguous CA in Band 41. A 3^rd^ UL CC is
beyond the scope of this WID. The bandwidth options of the additional CC will
be the same range of bandwidths in the approved 2-CC B41 CA (10/15/20 MHz).
The WID for this work item was approved at RAN#61, September 2013, in
RP-131244 [2].
## 4.1 Operating scenarios
Void.
# 5 Study of E-UTRA requirements
## 5.1 Operating bands and channel bandwidths
### 5.1.1 Operating bands for CA
### 5.1.2 Channel bandwidths for CA
Table 5.1.2-1 defines the supported E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth
combination set for 3DL contiguous CA in Band 41. 20 MHz, 15 MHz and 10 MHz
component carrier channel bandwidths are proposed to be supported for Band 41
carrier aggregation.
Table 5.1.2-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets
defined\ for intra-band contiguous CA
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----+---+ | E-UTRA CA | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | | / Bandwidth | | | | | | | combination | | | | | | | set | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----+---+ | E-UTRA CA | Component | Maximum | Bandwidth | | | | co | carriers in | aggregated\ | combination | | | | nfiguration | order of | bandwidth | set | | | | | increasing | [MHz] | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | frequency | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----+---+ | | Allowed | Allowed | Allowed | | | | | channel | channel | channel | | | | | bandwidths | bandwidths | bandwidths | | | | | for carrier | for carrier | for carrier | | | | | [MHz] | [MHz] | [MHz] | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----+---+ | CA_41D | 10 | 20 | 15 | 60 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | 10 | 15, 20 | 20 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----+---+ | | 15 | 20 | 10 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----+---+ | | 15 | 20 | 15 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----+---+ | | 15 | 10, 15, 20 | 20 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----+---+ | | 20 | 15, 20 | 10 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----+---+ | | 20 | 10, 15, 20 | 15 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----+---+ | | 20 | 10, 15, 20 | 20 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----+---+
### 5.1.3 Channel spacing
#### 5.1.3.1 Channel spacing for intra-band contiguous CA with two or more CCs
For backwards compatibility with 2DL, the channel spacing needs to be
specified between adjacent component carriers for 3DL intra-band contiguous
CA. The same formula as for 2DL can be reused for nominal channel spacing. The
current specifications need minor modifications to specify the applicability
of the nominal channel spacing between adjacent carriers and also to include
class D. In addition, the formula can be generalized for all bandwidth classes
with two or more component carriers.
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation with two or more component
carriers, the nominal channel spacing between two adjacent E-UTRA component
carriers is defined as the following:
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the
adjacent E-UTRA component carriers according to Table 5.6-1 in TS 36.101 with
values in MHz. The channel spacing for intra-band contiguous carrier
aggregation can be adjusted to any multiple of 300 kHz less than the nominal
channel spacing to optimize performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 5.1.4 Nominal guard band
When 2DL intra-band contiguous CA was introduced, the nominal guard band was
specified as 5% of the maximum channel bandwidth of the two CCs. The guard
band is the same at both edges of the aggregated bandwidth and is equal or
larger to the guard band of each CC in a single carrier configuration. For 3DL
intra-band contiguous CA, the same symmetry principle should be kept. The
second step is to decide how to specify a symmetric nominal guard band.
In order to:
\- define symmetric guard bands at both edges of the aggregated bandwidth; and
\- ensure that the guard band for 3CCs is not less than for the 2CCs case;
\- account for the increase on the aggregated bandwidth.
The nominal guard band should be specified taking into account the maximum of
the channel bandwidth of all the CCs. This is to define the nominal guard band
as 0.05 _max_(BW~Channel(1)~, BW~Channel(2)~, BW~Channel(3)~).
Table 5.1.4-1 includes the nominal guard band for Class D.
Table 5.1.4-1: CA bandwidth classes and corresponding nominal guard bands
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CA Bandwidth | Aggregated | Maximum number | Nominal Guard | | Class | Transmission | of contiguous | Band BW~GB~ | | | Bandwidth | CC | | | | Configuration | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ... | ... | ... | ... | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D | 200 \< | 3 | 0.05 | | | N~RB,agg~ ≤ | | _max_(BW | | | 300 | | ~Channel(1)~,B | | | | | W~Channel(2),~ | | | | | B | | | | | W~Channel(3)~) | | | | | - 0.5∆f~1~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ... | ... | ... | ... | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | BW~ | | | | | Channel(_j_)~, | | | | | j = 1, 2, 3, | | | | | is the channel | | | | | bandwidth of | | | | | an E-UTRA | | | | | component | | | | | carrier | | | | | according to | | | | | Table 5.6-1 | | | | | and ∆f~1~ = ∆f | | | | | for the | | | | | downlink with | | | | | ∆f the | | | | | subcarrier | | | | | spacing while | | | | | ∆f~1~ = 0 for | | | | | the uplink. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: a~1~ = | | | | | 0.16/1.4 for | | | | | BW~Channel(1)~ | | | | | = 1.4 MHz | | | | | whereas a~1~ = | | | | | 0.05 for all | | | | | other channel | | | | | bandwidths. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 5.2 Specific UE RF requirements
### 5.2.1 Reference sensitivity power level
Band 41 REFSENS was first studied based on the assumption of using a split,
overlapping filter architecture to minimize filter insertion loss and achieve
optimal performance. The dual filter architecture used an overlap of 20 MHz,
with a narrow lower sub-band filter (74 MHz) and a wide upper sub-band filter
(140 MHz). This resulted in Band 41 REFSENS relaxation of 1dB relative to the
most stringent requirements for bands like Band 1, 4, 38, etc. Yet, during the
study of 2CC intra-band contiguous CA in Band 41, it was found that the dual
filter architecture was not suitable for supporting CA without restrictions on
aggregation in the overlap region. Thus, to enable maximum flexibility of
supporting carrier aggregation, such as non-contiguous carrier aggregation or
higher orders of CC aggregation, single filter architecture was proposed and
its implication on Band 41 REFSEN was revisited. In consideration of higher
filter insertion loss of single filter over dual filter architecture, Band 41
REFSENS was further relaxed by 1 dB, allowing a 2 dB relaxation across the
whole band.
In general, TDD intra-band carrier aggregation generally does not change the
UE reference sensitivity requirement for CA. As 3DL intra-band contiguous CA
in Band 41 does not introduce any new requirements impacting CA aspects of
reference sensitivity and single filter architecture suitable for high order
of aggregation has already been accommodated in Band 41 reference sensitivity,
no changes need to be made to Band 41 REFSENS to support 3DL CA in Band 41.
Since wider baseband bandwidth is needed to accommodate wider bandwidth up to
60 MHz for 3CC CA, the performance of edge carriers may be degraded due to the
droop of baseband filter. However, as REFSENs is measured with full DL
allocation, the overall REFSEN of 3CC CA may still be maintained despite of
degradation at the edge.
### 5.2.2 Maximum input level
The maximum input level for 3DL intra-band contiguous CA is defined to keep
the same receive spectral power density as single and dual carrier
requirement, so -20.2 dBm (-25 dBm per CC) is proposed for CA bandwidth class
D. Following table is proposed in TS 36.101.
Table 5.2.2-1: Maximum input level for intra-band contiguous CA
+---------+-------+---------+---+---------+---------+---+---+ | Rx | Units | CA | | | | | | | Pa | | Ba | | | | | | | rameter | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | | +---------+-------+---------+---+---------+---------+---+---+ | | | A | B | C | D | E | F | +---------+-------+---------+---+---------+---------+---+---+ | Power | dBm | | | -25 | -25 | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Trans | | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | | Agg | | | | | | | | | regated | | | | | | | | | Ba | | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | | Config | | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | +---------+-------+---------+---+---------+---------+---+---+ | Power | dBm | | | -25 + | -25 + | | | | in each | | | | 10lo | 10lo | | | | other | | | | g(NRB,c | g(NRB,c | | | | CC | | | | /NR | /NR | | | | | | | | B,large | B,large | | | | | | | | st_BW) | st_BW) | | | +---------+-------+---------+---+---------+---------+---+---+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | | | smitter | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be set | | | | | | | | | to 4dB | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | CMAX_L | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | PCMAX | | | | | | | | | _L_CA | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | ference | | | | | | | | | meas | | | | | | | | | urement | | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A.3.2: | | | | | | | | | 64QAM, | | | | | | | | | R=3/4 | | | | | | | | | variant | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | scribed | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A. | | | | | | | | | 5.1.1/A | | | | | | | | | .5.2.1. | | | | | | | | +---------+-------+---------+---+---------+---------+---+---+
### 5.2.3 Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS)
To account for the added difficulty of the baseband filter impact on ACS when
the aggregated bandwidth is wider, the ACS requirements are scaled for the
number of component carriers. The relaxation can be revisited if the approach
of scaling up the wanted CC power according to increased BW is shown to be not
justified.
Table 5.2.3-1: Adjacent channel selectivity
* * *
                         CA Bandwidth Class
Rx Parameter Units B C D E F ACS dB 27 24 22.2
* * *
Table 5.2.3-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 1
+------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | Rx | Units | CA | | | | | | Parameter | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | Power per | | REFSENS + | REFSENS + | REFSENS + | | | | CC in | | 14 dB | 14 dB | 14 dB | | | | Aggregated | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | ansmission | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | figuration | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | **P~Int | dBm | Aggregated | Aggregated | Aggregated | | | | erferer~** | | power + | power + | power + | | | | | | 25.5 dB | 22.5 dB | 20.7 dB | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | **BW~Inter | MHz | 5 | 5 | 5 | | | | ferer\ ~** | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | **F~I | MHz | 2.5 + | 2.5 + | 2.5 + | | | | nterferer~ | | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | | | | (offset)** | | | | | | | | | | / | / | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -2.5 - | -2.5 - | -2.5 - | | | | | | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmitter | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | | 4 dB below | | | | | | | | P~CMAX_L~ | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | PC | | | | | | | | MAX_L_CA | | | | | | | | as defined | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | consists | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | easurement | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A.3.2 with | | | | | | | | one sided | | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD as | | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A.5.1 | | | | | | | | .1/A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | | and set-up | | | | | | | | according | | | | | | | | to Annex | | | | | | | | C.3.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | F~i | | | | | | | | nterferer~ | | | | | | | | (offset) | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | relative | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | | | tested and | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | | adjusted | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | $\left\lf | | | | | | | | loor F_{\t | | | | | | | | ext{interf | | | | | | | | erer}}/0\t | | | | | | | | ext{.}\tex | | | | | | | | t{015} + 0 | | | | | | | | \text{.}5 | | | | | | | | \right\rfl | | | | | | | | oor 0\text | | | | | | | | {.}\text{0 | | | | | | | | 15} + 0\te | | | | | | | | xt{.}\text | | | | | | | | {0075}$MHz | | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ub-carrier | | | | | | | | raster. | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+
Table 5.2.3-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 2
+------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | Rx | Units | CA | | | | | | Parameter | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | Power per | dBm | -50.5 | -47.5 | -43.9 | | | | CC in | | +10lo | +10log10 | +10log10 | | | | Aggregated | | g10(NRB,c/ | (NRB,c/NRB | (NRB,c/NRB | | | | Tr | | NRB agg) | agg) | agg) | | | | ansmission | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | figuration | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | **P~Int | dBm | -25 | | | | | | erferer~** | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | **BW~Inter | MHz | 5 | 5 | 5 | | | | ferer\ ~** | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | **F~I | MHz | 2.5+ | 2.5+ | 2.5+ | | | | nterferer~ | | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | | | | (offset)** | | | | | | | | | | / | / | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -2.5- | -2.5- | -2.5- | | | | | | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmitter | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | | 24dB below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | PC | | | | | | | | MAX_L_CA | | | | | | | | as defined | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | consists | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | easurement | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | 3.2 with | | | | | | | | one sided | | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD as | | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A.5.1 | | | | | | | | .1/A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | | and set-up | | | | | | | | according | | | | | | | | to Annex | | | | | | | | C.3.1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: 5. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | F~i | | | | | | | | nterferer~ | | | | | | | | (offset) | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | relative | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | | | tested and | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | | adjusted | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | $\left\lf | | | | | | | | loor F_{\t | | | | | | | | ext{interf | | | | | | | | erer}}/0\t | | | | | | | | ext{.}\tex | | | | | | | | t{015} + 0 | | | | | | | | \text{.}5 | | | | | | | | \right\rfl | | | | | | | | oor 0\text | | | | | | | | {.}\text{0 | | | | | | | | 15} + 0\te | | | | | | | | xt{.}\text | | | | | | | | {0075}$MHz | | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ub-carrier | | | | | | | | raster. | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+
### 5.2.4 Blocking characteristics
#### 5.2.4.1 In-band blocking
To account for the added difficulty of the baseband filter impact on in-band
blocking when the aggregated bandwidth is wider, the in-band blocking
requirements are scaled for the number of component carriers. The relaxation
can be revisited if the approach of scaling up the wanted CC power according
to increased BW is shown to be not justified.
Table 5.2.4.1-1: In band blocking parameters
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | Power per CC in | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | Aggregated | | Bandwidth Class | | | | | | Transmission | | specific value | | | | | | Bandwidth | | below | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | | | 9 | 12 | 13.8 | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | **B | MHz | 5 | 5 | 5 | | | | W~Interferer\ ~** | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | **F~Ioffs | MHz | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | | | | et,\ case\ 1\ ~** | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | **F~Ioffs | MHz | 12.5 | 12.5 | 12.5 | | | | et,\ case\ 2\ ~** | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter shall | | | | | | | | be set to 4dB | | | | | | | | below PCMAX_L or | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L_CA as | | | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | | | subclause 6.2.5A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | consists of the | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | channel specified | | | | | | | | in Annex A.3.2 | | | | | | | | with one sided | | | | | | | | dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern OP.1 | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD as | | | | | | | | described in | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | | and set-up | | | | | | | | according to | | | | | | | | Annex C.3.1 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+
Table 5.2.4.1-2: In-band blocking
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | CA | Parameter | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | | c | | | | | | onfiguration | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | P | dBm | -56 | -44 | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | = | ≤ | | | ~Interferer~ | | -F~offset~-- | -F~offset~-- | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | =+F~offset~ | ≥+F~offset~ | | | | | + | + | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_1C, | F | MHz | (Note 2) | F~DL_low~ | | [CA_3C,] | ~Interferer~ | | | -- 15 | | {.underline} | (Range) | | | | | CA_7C, | | | | to | | CA_23B, | | | | | | CA_27B, | | | | F~DL_high~ | | CA_38C, | | | | + 15 | | CA_40C, | | | | | | CA_41C, | | | | | | CA_41D | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | certain | | | | | | bands, the | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal may | | | | | | not fall | | | | | | inside the | | | | | | UE receive | | | | | | band, but | | | | | | within the | | | | | | first 15 MHz | | | | | | below or | | | | | | above the UE | | | | | | receive band | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | each carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is valid for | | | | | | two | | | | | | frequencies: | | | | | | | | | | | | a. the | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | -F~offset~ - | | | | | | F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | | | b. the | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | +F~offset~ + | | | | | | F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | F~offset~ is | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | offset from | | | | | | the center | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | tested to | | | | | | the edge of | | | | | | aggregated | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~interferer~ | | | | | | (offset) is | | | | | | relative to | | | | | | the center | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | tested and | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | further | | | | | | adjusted to | | | | | | $\left\lf | | | | | | loor F_{\tex | | | | | | t{interferer | | | | | | }}/0\text{.} | | | | | | \text{015} + | | | | | | 0\text{.}5 | | | | | | \right\rfloo | | | | | | r 0\text{.}\ | | | | | | text{015} + | | | | | | 0\text{.}\te | | | | | | xt{0075}$MHz | | | | | | to be offset | | | | | | from the | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | raster. | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
#### 5.2.4.2 Out-of-band blocking
Table 5.2.4.2-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters
+----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth Class | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Power per CC in | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | Aggregated | | Bandwidth Class | | | | | | Transmission | | specific value below | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | 9 | 9 | 9 | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter shall be | | | | | | | | set to 4dB below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L or | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L_CA as | | | | | | | | defined in subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Reference | | | | | | | | measurement channel | | | | | | | | is specified in | | | | | | | | Annex A.3.2 with one | | | | | | | | sided dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | as described in | | | | | | | | Annex A.5.1.1/A.5.2. | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+
Table 5.2.4.2-2: Out of band blocking
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | P | Units | F | | | | confi | arameter | | requency | | | | guration | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA_1C, | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | [CA_ | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | 3C]{.und | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | erline}, | | | | | | | CA_7C, | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | CA_23B, | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | CA_27B, | | | -60 | -85 | | | CA_38C, | | | | | | | CA_40C, | | | | | | | CA_41C, | | | | | | | CA_41D | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 5.2.4.3 Narrow-band blocking
Table 5.2.4.3-1: Narrow-band blocking
+------------+------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | Parameter | Unit | CA | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +------------+------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +------------+------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | Power per | dBm | REFSENS + | | | | | | CC in | | CA | | | | | | Aggregated | | Bandwidth | | | | | | Tr | | Class | | | | | | ansmission | | specific | | | | | | Bandwidth | | value | | | | | | Con | | below | | | | | | figuration | | | | | | | +------------+------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | | | 16 | 16 | 16 | | | +------------+------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | P~uw~ (CW) | dBm | -55 | -55 | -55 | | | +------------+------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | F~uw~ | MHz | - | - | - | | | | (offset | | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | | | | for | | -- 0.2 | -- 0.2 | -- 0.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | _∆f_ = 15 | | / | / | / | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | + | + | + | | | | | | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | F~offset~ | | | | | | + 0.2 | + 0.2 | + 0.2 | | | +------------+------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | F~uw~ | MHz | | | | | | | (offset | | | | | | | | for _* | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |_ ∆f* = 7.5 | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | +------------+------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmitter | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | set to 4dB | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | PC | | | | | | | | MAX_L_CA | | | | | | | | as defined | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | easurement | | | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A.3.2 with | | | | | | | | one sided | | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD as | | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A.5.1. | | | | | | | | 1/A.5.2.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | F~i | | | | | | | | nterferer~ | | | | | | | | (offset) | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | relative | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | | | tested and | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | | adjusted | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | $\left\lfl | | | | | | | | oor F_{\te | | | | | | | | xt{interfe | | | | | | | | rer}}/0\te | | | | | | | | xt{.}\text | | | | | | | | {015\ } + | | | | | | | | \text{\ 0} | | | | | | | | \text{.}5 | | | | | | | | \right\rfl | | | | | | | | oor 0\text | | | | | | | | {.}\text{0 | | | | | | | | 15} + 0\te | | | | | | | | xt{.}\text | | | | | | | | {0075}$MHz | | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ub-carrier | | | | | | | | raster. | | | | | | | +------------+------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+
### 5.2.5 Spurious response
Table 5.2.5-1: Spurious response parameters
+----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth Class | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Power per CC in | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | Aggregated | | Bandwidth Class | | | | | | Transmission | | specific value below | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | 9 | 9 | 9 | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter shall be | | | | | | | | set to 4dB below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L or | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L_CA as | | | | | | | | defined in subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Reference | | | | | | | | measurement channel | | | | | | | | is specified in | | | | | | | | Annex A.3.2 with one | | | | | | | | sided dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | as described in | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1. | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+
### 5.2.6 Intermodulation characteristics
To account for the added difficulty of the baseband filter impact on
intermodulation response when the aggregated bandwidth is wider, the
intermodulation requirements are scaled for the number of component carriers.
The relaxation can be revisited if the approach of scaling up the wanted CC
power according to increased BW is shown to be not justified.
Table 5.2.6-1: Wide band intermodulation
+------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | Rx | Units | CA | | | | | | parameter | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | Power per | dBm | REFSENS + | | | | | | CC in | | CA | | | | | | Aggregated | | Bandwidth | | | | | | Tr | | Class | | | | | | ansmission | | specific | | | | | | Bandwidth | | value | | | | | | Con | | below | | | | | | figuration | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | | | 9 | 12 | 13.8 | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | P~Inte | dBm | -46 | | | | | | rferer\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (CW) | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | P~Inte | dBm | -46 | | | | | | rferer\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Modulated) | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | BW~Inte | MHz | 5 | 5 | 5 | | | | rferer\ 2~ | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | F~Inte | MHz | --F~o | --F~o | --F~o | | | | rferer\ 1~ | | ffset~-7.5 | ffset~-7.5 | ffset~-7.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | (Offset) | | / | / | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | + | + | + | | | | | | F~o | F~o | F~o | | | | | | ffset~+7.5 | ffset~+7.5 | ffset~+7.5 | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | F~Inte | MHz | **2 | | | | | | rferer\ 2~ | | *F~Interf | | | | | | | | erer\ 1~** | | | | | | (Offset) | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmitter | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | set to 4dB | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | PC | | | | | | | | MAX_L_CA | | | | | | | | as defined | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | easurement | | | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A.3.2 with | | | | | | | | one sided | | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD as | | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A.5.1. | | | | | | | | 1/A.5.2.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | consists | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | easurement | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A.3.2 with | | | | | | | | one sided | | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD as | | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A.5.1 | | | | | | | | .1/A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | set-up | | | | | | | | according | | | | | | | | to Annex | | | | | | | | C.3.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | nterfering | | | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | | | signal is | | | | | | | | 5MHz | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | signal as | | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | | in Annex D | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | ≥5MHz | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+
### 5.2.7 Receiver image
Table 5.2.7-1: Receiver image rejection
* * *
                             CA bandwidth class
Rx parameter Units A B C D E F Receiver image rejection dB 25 25 25
* * *
## 5.3 Specific BS RF requirements
The current requirements specified in TS 36.104 and TS 36.141 for BS capable
of multi-carrier and/or CA operation in contiguous spectrum in single band are
agnostic to the number of CC supported by the BS in intra-band contiguous CA
operation, and thus can be applied for 3-CC contiguous intra-band DL CA in
Band 41. Hence no change in the BS specifications is required.
## 5.4 Specific UE RRM requirements
The RRM requirements for carrier aggregations, as specified in the
specification TS 36.133, are agnostic to specific CA combinations. Therefore,
no change to RRM requirements in the TS 36.133 specific for Band 41 3DL is
required.
# 6 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 6.1 Required changes to TS36.101
Required changes in UE RF specification TS 36.101 are shown in Table 6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: Required changes in TS 36.101
* * *
Section Requirement Required changes in TS 36.101 5.6A Channel BW for CA BW
class D not defined in Table 5.6A-1. Need to agree on proper definition of
Class D 5.6A.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA info for CA-B41D
not included in Table 5.6A.1-1. Table will need to be modified (or totally
different table) to accommodate 3 channels. 5.7.1A Channel spacing for CA only
defined for Class C .. Need to define for D. Table 7.3.1A-1 REFSENS Need to
define for CA_41D 7.4.1A Max input level Minimum requirements for CA Need to
define for CA_41D 7.5.1A ACS Min requirements for CA Need to define for CA_41D
7.6.1.1A Blocking Min requirements for CA Need to define for CA_41D 7.6.2 Out-
of-band blocking Need to define for CA_41D 7.6.3 Narrow band blocking Need to
define for CA_41D 7.7.1 Spurious response Need to define for CA_41D 7.7.1
Spurious response Need to define for CA_41D 7.8 Intermods Need to define for
CA_41D 7.10 Rx Image Need to define for CA_41D
* * *
## 6.2 Required changes to TS 36.104
No changes required in TS 36.104.
## 6.3 Required changes to TS 36.133
No changes required in TS 36.133.
## 6.4 Required changes to TS 36.141
No changes required in TS 36.141.
## 6.5 Required changes to TS 36.307
Required changes in TS 36.307 are shown in Table 6.5-1.
Table 6.5-1: Required changes in TS 36.307
* * *
Section Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.307 TBD Band 41 independent of
release \'Expect to add some changes to 36.307 Rel-10/11 to provide the
appropriate pointers to the Rel12 spec to enable backdating of band 41 CA with
3CC to Rel-10/11
* * *
# 7 Project Plan
## 7.1 Schedule and Work Task Status
October 2013 -- RAN4#68bis
\- Approve skeleton TR
\- Present Band Class D Requirements
\- Complete TR starter text for 36.101 clause 5
\- Approve project work plan
\- Identify testing specification changes:
\- Testing 60 MHz aggregated BW
November 2013 -- RAN4#69
\- Determine REFSENS
February 2014 -- RAN4#70
\- Complete TR requirements for UE Class D for:
\- ACS (7.5.1.A)
\- Blocking (7.6)
\- Remaining clause 7
March 2014 -- RAN4#70 bis
\- Review proposed CR\'s
May 2014 -- RAN4#71
\- Resolve any remaining open issues
\- Begin performance work
June 2014 -- RAN#64
\- Approve CR\'s
\- Close Core WI
August 2014 -- RAN4#72
\- Continue performance aspects.
November 2014 -- RAN4#73
\- Complete performance CR\'s
December 2014 -- RAN#65
\- Approve Performance CR\'s
Close performance WI
#