# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the LTE Advanced Intra-band Non-
contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 25 work item which was approved at TSG
RAN #53 [2]. The objective of this work item is to provide specification
support for intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation in LTE FDD Band 25.
The report provides motivation, requirements and a list of recommended changes
to the specifications.
An additional technical report is also included for additional bandwidth
combinations for intra-band non-contiguous CA in Band 25 work item which was
approved at TSG RAN#63[3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
> [2] RP-111242: \"New WID for Intra-band, Non-contiguous CA for Band 25 for
> LTE\". (revised to RP-130179 at RAN#59 March 2013))
[3] RP-140452: \" New WID: Additional bandwidth combinations for LTE Advanced
intra-band non-contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 25 \".
# 3 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Task description
The purpose of the WI approved at TSG RAN #53 [2] is:
● Specify the band-combination specific RF requirements for band 25 intra-band
non-contiguous CA.
● Finalise the DL with 5 MHz and 10 MHz transmission bandwidths per component
carrier (up to 2CC) (see clause 10).
● Add the performance requirements for this band combination in the relevant
specifications.
The purpose of the WI approved at TSG RAN #63 [3] is:
  * Specify the band specific RF requirements for the new bandwidth > combination set for Band 25 intra-band non-contiguous CA, as > described below:
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
E-UTRACA configuration Component carriers in order of increasing carrier
frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                        Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_25A-25A 5, 10, 15, 20 5, 10, 15, 20 40 1
* * *
  * Add conformance tests in RAN5 specifications (to follow)
# 5 Study of E-UTRA requirements
## 5.1 Operating bands and channel bandwidths
### 5.1.1 Operating bands for CA
E-UTRA CA for Band 25 is defined to operate in the entire Band 25 range, as
defined in Table 5.1.1-1.
Table 5.1.1-1 Intra band CA operating band definition for Band 25
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
FUL_low -- FUL_high FDL_low -- FDL_high  
CA_25A-25A 25 1850 MHz -- 1915 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1995 MHz FDD
* * *
### 5.1.2 Channel bandwidths for CA
Table 5.1.2-1 defines the supported E-UTRA bandwidths for intra-band non-
contiguous CA in Band 25.
Table 5.1.2-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths for intra-band non-contiguous CA in
Band 25
* * *
CA operating band / channel bandwidth  
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Bands 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz
CA_25A-25A (Note) 25 Yes Yes Yes Yes NOTE: Combinations of component carriers
with unequal channel bandwidth should also be considered. The maximum number
of CCs for combination is two.
* * *
Combinations of component carriers with unequal channel bandwidth should also
be considered for Band 25.
## 5.2 Supporting intra-band CA with 1 CC UL
It is proposed to support the case of a UE capable of 2 CC on the DL and 1 CC
on the UL
### 5.2.1 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/2 DL
The 2nd and 3rd order harmonics and IMD products caused in the BS by
transmitting of Band 25 non-contiguous DL carriers can be calculated as shown
in Table 5.2.1-1 below:
Table 5.2.1-1: Band 25 non-contiguous DL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f-low f-high DL frequency (MHz) 1930 1995 2nd harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 3860 3990 3rd harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 5790
5985 2nd order IMD products (f-low -- f-high) (f-high -- f-low) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) -65 65 3rd order IMD products (2*f-low --f-high) (2*f-high
--f-low) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1865 2060
* * *
It can be seen from Table 5.2.1-1 that the 2nd and 3rd harmonics as well as
the 2nd IMD products of BS transmitting non-contiguous carriers in Band 25 do
not fall into the BS receive band of any operating band, while the 3rd IMD
products of BS supporting non-contiguous carrier aggregation of Band 25 may
fall into the BS receive band of Bands 1, 2, 23, 25, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37 and
39. Note that the calculation in Table 5.2.1-1 assumes the BS is transmitting
with the whole 65 MHz DL frequency of Band 25.
Assume that the 2 non-contiguous CC transmitted by the Band 25 BS are a and b
MHz channel bandwidth and c and d MHz from the edges of Band 25 DL frequency
band as shown in Figure 5.2.1-1 below:
Figure 5.2.1-1: Non-contiguous CC transmitted by the Band 25 BS
And the corresponding BS receive blocks are as shown in Figure 5.2.1-2 below:
Figure 5.2.1-2: Non-contiguous CC received by the Band 25 BS
Then the 3rd order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of the 2 CC
can be calculated as shown in Table 5.2.1-2 below:
Table 5.2.1-2: Band 25 BS DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
3rd order IMD products IMD frequency limits (MHz) (2*f1-low -- f2-high) 1865 +
2*_c_ \+ _d_ (2*f1-high -- f2-low) 1865 + 2*_c_ \+ _d_ \+ 2*_a_ \+ _b_
(2*f2-low -- f1-high) 2060 -- 2*_d_ \-- _c_ \-- 2*_b_ \-- _a_ (2*f2-high --
f1-low) 2060 -- 2*_d_ \-- _c_ (f1-low -- f2-high + f2-low) 1930 + _c_ \-- _b_
(f1-high + f2-high -- f2-low) 1930 + _c_ \+ _b_ \+ _a_ (f2-low -- f1-high +
f1-low) 1995 -- _d_ \-- _a_ \-- _b_ (f2-high + f1-high -- f1-low) 1995 -- _d_
\+ _a_
* * *
Comparing the IMD frequency limits in Table 5.2.1-2 with the BS receive blocks
in Figure 5.2.1-2, it can be deduced that the 3rd order IMD products caused in
the BS by transmitting of the 2 CC will only fall into the BS own receive
blocks of Band 25 under one of the transmit configurations shown in Table
5.2.1-3 below (note that a and b can only be 5 or 10 as stated in the WIDS):
Table 5.2.1-3: Band 25 BS transmit configurations with 3^rd^ IMD within Band
25 BS own receive blocks
* * *
1st CC channel bandwidth (a MHz) 2nd CC channel bandwidth (b MHz) 1st and 2nd
CC position (c and d MHz) 5 5 15 \< _c_ \+ _d_ \< 25 10 5 10 \< _c_ \+ _d_ \<
25 5 10 10 \< _c_ \+ _d_ \< 25 10 10 5 \< _c_ \+ _d_ \< 25
* * *
Note that Bands 1, 33, 34 and 39 are not intended for use in the same
geographical area as Band 25. Moreover, co-location of Band 25 transmitter and
Band 35, 36 or 37 transceiver implies FDD/TDD co-location on adjacent
frequencies which requires the use of certain site-engineering solutions to
avoid mutual interference. Consequently, the focus here will be on the 3rd
order IMD products falling into Bands 2, 23 and 25.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the Band 25 BS transmit filter and the Band 2, 23 or 25 BS
receive filter would not be able to provide substantial attenuation to reduce
the IMD interference generated within the Band 2, 23 or 25 BS receive band to
well below the receiver noise floor to prevent receiver desensitization, as
there is not a large frequency gap between Band 25 DL and Band 2, 23 or 25 UL.
Therefore, it is recommended that Band 25 BS transmitters supporting non-
contiguous CA should not share the same antenna with other Band 2, 23 or 25 BS
receiver, or the own Band 25 BS receiver if the BS transmit configurations
shown in Table 5.2.1-3 are used, in order to not to cause Band 2, 23 or 25 BS
receiver desensitization. Note that antenna sharing may be allowed as the
state-of-the-art continues to evolve in the future.
## 5.3 Specific UE RF requirements
The specific UE RF requirements for 5MHz and 10MHz bandwidth combinations in
the WI [2] were developed as part of the Rel-11 LTE_CA_enh work item and are
contained in the technical report for that work item, TR 36.823. The specific
UE RF requirements for additional 15MHz and 20MHz bandwidth combinations in
the WI [3] are documented in Clause 5.3.1.
5.3.1 Reference sensitivity power level
The duplex gap of band 25 is 15 MHz which is the smallest frequency separation
between PCC UL and SCC DL for non-contiguous CA. When the carrier center
frequency of PCC in the UL operating band is configured closer to the DL
operating band, additional relaxation applies for SCC DL. In this case, the
following intra-band non-contiguous CA uplink configuration for REFSENS is
proposed. When PCC UL is allocated at the lower part of UL operating band, SCC
DL is located further than the normal TX--RX frequency separation. In this
case, the same reference sensitivity as single carrier applies for both PCC DL
and SCC DL.
Table 2-1: Intra-band non-contiguous CA uplink configuration for reference
sensitivity
* * *
CA configuration Aggregated channel bandwidth (PCC+SCC) Wgap / [MHz] UL PCC
allocation ΔR~IBNC~ (dB) Duplex mode CA_25A-25A 25RB+25RB 30 \< W~gap~ ≤ 55
10^1^ 5.0 FDD 0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 30 25^1^ 0.0  
25RB+50RB 25 \< W~gap~ ≤ 50 10^1^ 4.5  
0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 25 25^1^ 0.0  
25RB+75RB 20 \< W~gap~ ≤ 45 10^1^ 4.3  
0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 20 25^1^ 0  
25RB+100RB 15 \< W~gap~ ≤ 40 10^1^ 4.1  
0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 15 25^1^ 0  
50RB+25RB 15 \< W~gap~ ≤ 50 10^4^ 5.5  
0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 15 32^1^ 0.0  
50RB+50RB 10 \< W~gap~ ≤ 45 10^4^ 5.0  
0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 10 32^1^ 0.0  
50RB+75RB 5 \< W~gap~ ≤ 40 10^4^ 4.5  
0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 5 32^1^ 0  
50RB+100RB 0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 35 10^4^ 4.2  
75RB+25RB 10 \< W~gap~ ≤ 45 10^5^ 7.6  
0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 10 32^1^ 0  
75RB+50RB 5 \< W~gap~ ≤ 40 10^5^ 6.7  
0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 5 32^1^ 0  
75RB+75RB 0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 35 10^5^ 5.6  
75RB+100RB 0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 30 10^5^ 4.8  
100RB+25RB 0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 40 12^6^ 8  
100RB+50RB 0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 35 12^6^ 6.7  
100RB+75RB 0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 30 12^6^ 6.1  
100RB+100RB 0 \< W~gap~ ≤ 25 12^6^ 5.7  
NOTE 1: ^1^ refers to the UL resource blocks shall be located as close as
possible to the downlink operating band but confined within the transmission.  
NOTE 2: W~gap~ is the sub-block gap between the two sub-blocks.  
NOTE 3: The carrier center frequency of PCC in the UL operating band is
configured closer to the DL operating band.  
NOTE 4: ^4^ refers to the UL resource blocks shall be located at RB~start~=
33.  
NOTE 5: ^5^ refers to the UL resource blocks shall be located at RB~start~=
44.  
NOTE 6: ^6^ refers to the UL resource blocks shall be located at RB~start~=
62.
* * *
## 5.4 Specific BS RF requirements
The specific BS RF requirements were developed as part of the Rel-11
LTE_CA_enh work item and are contained in the technical report for that work
item, TR 36.823.
## 5.5 Specific UE RRM requirements
A study of the existing technical specifications was conducted. The study
concluded that no impact to UE RRM specifications is required.
# 6 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 6.1 Required changes to TS 36.101
Required changes in UE RF specification TS 36.101 are shown in Table 6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: Required changes in TS 36.101
* * *
Clause Requirement Required changes in TS 36.101 5.5A Operating bands for CA A
new row is expected to be added in Table 5.5A-1 to add CA_25 to the supported
intra-band CA operating bands. 5.6A.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band
for CA A new row is expected to be added in Table 5.6A.1-1. for the supported
E-UTRA bandwidths of intra-band contiguous B25 CA. 5.6A-1 Supported CC
combinations Add new table: Table 5.6A.1-3: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA
configuration for intra-band non-contiguous CA 6.2.2A UE Maximum Output Power
for intra-band non-contiguous CA A new Table 6.6.6A-2 is expected to be added
to specify CA UE class for intra-band NC CA. It's proposed to evaluate the
appropriate UE maximum output power requirement for intra-band non-contiguous
B25 CA. 6.2.4A UE Maximum Output Power with additional requirements for CA
It's proposed to evaluate the appropriate A-MPR requirement for intra-band
non-contiguous Band 25 CA with 1 CCs on the UL. 6.6.3.2A Spurious emission
band UE co-existence for CA A new row is expected to be added to table
6.6.3.2A-1 for B25 intra-band non-contiguous CA 7.3.1A Minimum requirements
(QPSK) for CA A new row is expected to be added in Table 7.3.1A-1 for intra-
band CA uplink configuration for reference sensitivity. 7.6.1.1A In-band
blocking for intra-band non-contiguous CA Appropriate changes are expected in
Table 7.6.1.1A-2. It's proposed to evaluate whether the existing CA blocking
requirements are valid for CA_25A-25A or not. 7.6.2.1A Out-of-band blocking
for intra-band non-contiguous CA Appropriate changes are expected in Table
7.6.2.1A-2. It's proposed to evaluate whether the existing CA out-of-band
blocking requirements are valid for CA_25A-25A or not.
* * *
## 6.2 Required changes to TS 36.104
Required changes in BS RF specification TS 36.104 are shown in Table 6.2-1.
Table 6.2-1: Required changes in TS 36.104
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.104 5.5 Operating bands A new row
is expected to be added in Table 5.5-4 to support B25 intra-band non-
contiguous carrier aggregation configuration.
* * *
## 6.3 Required changes to TS 36.133
No changes required in TS 36.133.
## 6.4 Required changes to TS 36.141
Required changes in BS test specification TS 36.141 are shown in Table 6.4-1.
Table 6.4-1: Required changes in TS 36.141
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.141 5.5 Operating bands A new row
is expected to be added in Table 5.5-4 to support B25 intra-band non-
contiguous carrier aggregation configuration.
* * *
## 6.5 Required changes to TS 36.307
Required changes in TS 36.307 are shown in Table 6.5-1.
Table 6.5-1: Required changes in TS 36.307
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.307 TBD Band 25 independent of
release Expect to add some changes to 36.307 Rel-10 to provide the appropriate
pointers to the Rel-11 spec to enable backdating of band 25 CA to Rel-10.
* * *
## 6.6 Required changes to TS 37.104
No changes required in TS 37.104.
## 6.7 Required changes to TS 37.141
Required changes in TS 37.141 are shown in Table 6.7-1.
Table 6.7-1: Required changes in TS 37.141
* * *
Clause Requirement Required changes in TS 37.141 4.4 Operating bands and band
categories A new table is expected to be added Table 4.4-5 to support B25
intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation configuration.
* * *
#