# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the work item for \"LTE-Advanced
Intra-band Contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 3\" which was approved at
TSG RAN #57 [3] (revised to [17]).\ The report provides background, analysis
of the requirements, and a list of recommended changes to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-R-REC-M.1036-3, \"RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1036-3\"
[3] RP-121352: \"WID on LTE-Advanced Intra-band Contiguous Carrier Aggregation
in Band 3\", China Unicom (revised to [17]).
[4] R4-125584: \"Operating bands and bandwidths for LTE_CA_C_B3\".
[5] R4-125612: \"TP of SEM for LTE_CA_C_B3\".
[6] R4-125567: \"Work plan for LTE_CA_C_B3\".
[7] R4-125579: \"Expected changes to E-UTRA specifications for introducing CA
in Band 3\".
[8] R4-125588: \"TP of blocking requirements for LTE_CA _C_B3\".
[9] R4-125595: \"TP of UE maximum output power LTE_CA_C_B3\".
[10] R4-125603: \"TP of UE reference sensitivity for LTE_CA_C_B3\".
[11] R4-125617: \"TP of RRM requirements for LTE_CA_C_B3\".
[12] R4-125644: \"TP of BS RF requirements for LTE_CA_C_B3\".
[13] R4-125646: \"TP of UE and BS demodulation performance for LTE_CA_C_B3\".
[14] R4-126516: \"Spectrum and regulation review for LTE_CA_C_B3.\"
[15] R4-130416: \"TP of background & task for LTE_CA_C_B3\"
[16] R4-130324: \"MPR for CA in Band 3 for transmission with contiguous RBs\"
[17] RP-131184: \"Revised WID for LTE Advanced intra-band contiguous Carrier
Aggregation in Band 3\", China Unicom (revision of [3]).
[18] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[19] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".[20] 3GPP TS 36.133:
\"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Requirements for
support of radio resource management\".
[21] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[22] 3GPP TS 36.307: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a release-independent
frequency band\".
[23] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[24] 3GPP TS 37.141: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply.
# 4 Background
Band 3 is a major FDD band which has been allocated globally. Some operators
have been granted with more than 20MHz bandwidth.
Building on the generic intra-band carrier aggregation work based on Band 1,
this work item proposes to start the work on intra-band contiguous carrier
aggregation for Band 3 to support deployment of LTE-Advanced.
**The output of this work item should also consider regional regulation
requirements for the BS.**
## 4.1 Task description
This WI is to specify the band specific core and performance requirements for
intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation in band 3:
a. Specifying the core requirements for BS and UE in RAN4 specifications, and
taking the coexistence with adjacent Band 39 into account.
b. Specifying band specific RRM requirements in RAN4 if any.
c. Specifying performance requirements for BS and UE in RAN4 specifications.
d. Specifying conformance testing in RAN5 specifications (to be captured by a
separate work item at a later stage).
## 4.2 Spectrum and regulatory review
This Work Item [3], revised to [17], is based on the spectrum arrangement as
shown in Table 4.2-1 [2].
Table 4.2-1: Frequency arrangements in the band 1710-1880 MHz
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Mobile | Centre gap\ | Base | Duplex | Un-paired | | station | (MHz) | station | separation\ | spectrum\ | | | | | (MHz) | (e.g. for | | t | | t | | TDD)\ | | ransmitter\ | | ransmitter\ | | (MHz) | | (MHz) | | (MHz) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1710-1785 | 20 | 1805-1880 | 95 | None | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The frequency band 1710-1785 MHz is paired with 1805-1880 MHz for FDD
operation with the mobile transmit within the lower band and base transmit
within the upper band. This paired spectrum blocks are designated as Band 3 in
the 3GPP E-UTRA specifications.
Band 3 is a major FDD band which has been allocated in region 1 and Region 3.\
Some operators have been granted with more than 20 MHz bandwidth.
# 5 Band and channel bandwidth arrangement
## 5.1 CA operating bands
The CA operating band for Band 3 is defined in Table 5.1-1.
**Table 5.1-1:** Intra band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
FUL_low -- FUL_high FDL_low -- FDL_high  
CA_3 3 1710MHz -- 1785MHz 1805MHz -- 1880MHz FDD
* * *
## 5.2 CA channel bandwidth
Table 5.2-1 defines the supported E-UTRA bandwidths for intra-band contiguous
CA in Band 3.\ 20 MHz, 15MHz, 10MHz and 5 MHz component carrier channel
bandwidths are proposed to be supported in Band 3 contiguous CA.
Table 5.2-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA operating band for intra-band
contiguous CA
* * *
CA operating band / channel bandwidth
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Bands 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz
CA_3C 3 Yes Yes Yes Yes
NOTE 1: Combinations of component carriers with unequal channel bandwidth
should be considered.\  
The maximum number of CCs for combination is two.
* * *
# 6 E-UTRA RF requirements for UE
## 6.1 Transmitter characteristics
### 6.1.1 UE maximum output power
3GPP TS 36.101 [18] clause 6.2.2 specifies the UE maximum output power
requirements for Band 3 UE.\ In LTE_CA_C_B3 WI it is proposed to reuse the
result in 3GPP TS 36.101 [18] Table 6.6.2-1 and a row is required to be added
into Table 6.2.2A-1 as follows.
**Table 6.1.1** -1: CA UE Power Class
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **[ |**[ | ** | **[ | ** |**[ | ** | **[ | ** | | EUTRA | Class | [Tole | Class | [Tole | Class | [Tole | Class | [Tole | | ]{.un | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | derli | ]{.un | ]{.un | ]{.un | ]{.un | ]{.un | ]{.un | ]{.un | ]{.un | | ne}** | derli | derli | derli | derli | derli | derli | derli | derli | | | ne}**| ne}** | ne}**| ne}** | ne}**| ne}** | ne}**| ne}** | | [**| | | | | | | | | | band | [** | [**| [** | [**| [** | [**| [** | [**| |**]{. | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | | under | **]{. |**]{. | **]{. |**]{. | **]{. |**]{. | **]{. |**]{. | | line} | under | under | under | under | under | under | under | under | | | line} | line} | line} | line} | line} | line} | line} | line} | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | [CA_ | []{. | []{. | []{. | []{. | [ | [+ | []{. | []{. | | 3C]{. | under | under | under | under | 23]{. | 2/-2^ | under | under | | under | line} | line} | line} | line} | under | 2^]{. | line} | line} | | line} | | | | | line} | under | | | | | | | | | | line} | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | | | toler | | | | | | | | | | ances | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | | | nds.\ | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | 5 or | | | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | exp | | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | | to\ | | | | | | | | | | dec | | | | | | | | | | rease | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | | addit | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | FFS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | | (TS | | | | | | | | | | 36 | | | | | | | | | | .101, | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | + 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz\ | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | | -- 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | | | | UL_h | | | | | | | | | | igh~, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | laxed | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | redu | | | | | | | | | | cing\ | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | 1.5 | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | P~P | | | | | | | | | | owerC | | | | | | | | | | lass~ | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | aking | | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | intra | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | conti | | | | | | | | | | guous | | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | | to\ | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | total | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | | | comp | | | | | | | | | | onent | | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | | (per | | | | | | | | | | UE). | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 6.1.2 UE maximum output power for modulation / channel bandwidth for CA
For intra-band contiguous CA the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the
maximum output power due to higher order modulation and contiguously
aggregated transmit bandwidth configuration (resource blocks) is specified in
Table 6.1.2-1. In case the modulation format is different on different
component carriers then the MPR is determined by the rules applied to higher
order of those modulations.
Table 6.1.2-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for Power Class 3
* * *
Modulation CA bandwidth Class C MPR (dB)  
25 RB + 100 RB 50 RB + 100 RB 75 RB + 75 RB 75 RB / 100 RB 100 RB + 100 RB  
QPSK > 8 and ≤ 25 > 12 and ≤ 50 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 18 and ≤ 100 ≤ 1
QPSK > 25 > 50 > 75 > 75 > 100 ≤ 2 16 QAM ≤ 8 ≤ 12 ≤ 16 ≤ 16 ≤ 18 ≤ 1 16 QAM >
8 and ≤ 25 > 12 and ≤ 50 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 18 and ≤ 100 ≤ 2 16 QAM
> 25 > 50 > 75 > 75 > 100 ≤ 3
* * *
### 6.1.3 Spectrum emission mask minimum requirement
For CA Bandwidth Class C, the power of any UE emission shall not exceed the
levels specified in Table 6.1.3-1 for the specified aggregated channel
bandwidth. For frequencies greater than F~OOB~ as specified in Table 6.1.3-1
the spurious requirements in clause 6.1.2 are applicable.
Table 6.1.3-1: General E-UTRA CA spectrum emission mask for Bandwidth Class C
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | S | | | | | | | | pectrum | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | dBm]/B | | | | | | | | W~Chann | | | | | | | | el_CA~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Δf~OOB~ | 25R | 50R | 75 | 75R | 100R | Meas | | | B+100RB | B+100RB | RB+75RB | B+100RB | B+100RB | urement | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | (24 | (2 | (30MHz) | (34 | (3 | ba | | | .95MHz) | 9.9MHz) | | .85MHz) | 9.8MHz) | ndwidth | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ± 0-1 | -22 | -22.5 | -22.5 | -23.5 | -24 | 30 kHz | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ± 1-5 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | 1 MHz | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ± | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 5-24.95 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ± | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 24. | | | | | | | | 95-29.9 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ± | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 29. | | | | | | | | 9-29.95 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ± | | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 2 | | | | | | | | 9.95-30 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ± | | -25 | -25 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 3 | | | | | | | | 0-34.85 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ± | | -25 | -25 | -25 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 34. | | | | | | | | 85-34.9 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ± | | | -25 | -25 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 34.9-35 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ± | | | | -25 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 35-39.8 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ± | | | | -25 | -25 | 1 MHz | | 39. | | | | | | | | 8-39.85 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ± | | | | | -25 | 1 MHz | | 39. | | | | | | | | 85-44.8 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 6.2 Receiver characteristics
### 6.2.1 UE reference sensitivity
From clause 7.3.1A in TS 36.101 [18] it is known that the reference
sensitivity for CA is defined to be met with both downlink component carrier
active and each component carrier shall meet the requirements specified in
clause 7.3.1. To avoid the effect from the uplink signal, the noise at PA
output which is generated by UL allocation should be small enough to reduce
the interference on DL signal when testing REFSENS, so the UL allocation for
CA should be restricted as shown in table 7.3.1A-1 in TS 36.101 [18].
In order to establish the UL allocation for CA band 3, the way how to
establish the UL allocation for CA band 1 is recalled in the following figure
6.2.1-1.
Figure 6.2.1-1: UL allocation for CA band 1 in TS 36.101 [18] when testing
REFSENS
From above figure 6.2.1-1, it can be seen that the UL allocation should be
restricted to 130RBs when testing REFSENS for CA band 1. It means when UL
allocation is 130RB, the effect of UL signal on DL signal is so slight that
can be ignored when testing REFSENS, no matter 100RB+100RB combinations or
75RB+75RB combinations.\ For band 7, the UL/DL spacing is 120MHz according to
TS 36.101, which is smaller than 190MHz for band 1.\ When testing REFSENS in
TS 36.101 R8, the UL allocation is also restricted to 50RB rather than 100RB
for 20MHz.so, for CA, it is preferred that keeping the UL allocation 50RB for
reducing the interference on DL signal.\ In order to compare with CA band1,
the following figure 6.2.1-2 is also given for CA band 3.
Figure 6.2.1-2 UL allocation for CA band 3 in TS 36.101 [18] when testing
REFSENS
Based on the above analysis, it is proposed that the uplink configuration for
CA band 3 when testing REFSENS is shown in table 6.2.1-1.
In addition, in order to avoid the confusion of UL allocation in PCC and SCC,
the Note 4 is added in the following Table 6.2.1-1.
Table 6.2.1-1: Intra-band CA uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
CA Band / Aggregated channel bandwidth / NRB / Duplex mode |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Band | 100RB+25RB | 100RB+75RB | 100RB+50RB | 75RB+75RB | 100RB+100RB | Duplex Mode |  |  |  |  |   
CA_3C | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | FDD  
| 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | n/a | n/a | 50 | 0 |   
NOTE 1: The carrier centre frequency of SCC in the UL operating band is
configured closer to the DL operating band. NOTE 2: The transmitted power over
both PCC and SCC shall be set to PUMAX as defined in clause 6.2.5 in TS
36.101. NOTE 3: The UL resource blocks in both PCC and SCC shall be confined
within the transmission bandwidth  
configuration for the channel bandwidth (Table 5.6-1 in TS 36.101). NOTE 4:
The UL resource blocks in PCC shall be located as close as possible to the
downlink operating band,  
while the UL resource blocks in SCC shall be located as far as possible from the downlink operating band. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.2.2 In-band blocking
Clause 7.6.1.1A in TS 36.101 [18] specifies the in-band blocking requirements
for CA. There are no special blocking requirements for Band 3 relative to the
other bands, so no changes need to be made to the existing requirements for
CA.
All that is required is to modify in TS 36.101 [18] Table 7.6.1.1A-2 to
indicate that the same requirement that is applied to Band 1 and Band 40 CA
also applies to Band 3 CA, as shown in the following Table 6.2.2-1.
Table 6.2.2-1: In-band blocking
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | CA operating | Parameter | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | | band | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | [] | P | dBm | -56 | -44 | | {.underline} | ~Interferer~ | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | [] | F | MHz | = | ≤ | | {.underline} | ~Interferer~ | | -F~offset~-- | -F~offset~-- | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | =+F~offset~ | ≥+F~offset~ | | | | | + | + | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_1C, | F | MHz | (Note 2) | F~DL_low~ | | CA_40C, | ~Interferer~ | | | -- 15 | | CA_7C, | (Range) | | | | | CA_3C | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL_high~ | | | | | | + 15 | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | certain | | | | | | bands, the | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal may | | | | | | not fall | | | | | | inside the\ | | | | | | UE receive | | | | | | band, but | | | | | | within the | | | | | | first 15 MHz | | | | | | below or | | | | | | above the UE | | | | | | receive band | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | each carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is valid for | | | | | | two | | | | | | frequencies: | | | | | | | | | | | | > a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > -BW/2 - | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > +BW/2 + | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | F~offset~ is | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | offset from | | | | | | the center | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | tested\ | | | | | | to the edge | | | | | | of | | | | | | aggregated | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~interferer~ | | | | | | (offset) is | | | | | | relative to | | | | | | the center | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | tested\ | | | | | | and shall be | | | | | | further | | | | | | adjusted to | | | | | | $\left\lf | | | | | | loor F_{\tex | | | | | | t{interferer | | | | | | }}/0\text{.} | | | | | | \text{015} + | | | | | | 0\text{.}5 | | | | | | \right\rfloo | | | | | | r 0\text{.}\ | | | | | | text{015} + | | | | | | 0\text{.}\te | | | | | | xt{0075}$MHz | | | | | | to be | | | | | | offset\ | | | | | | from the | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | raster. | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
### 6.2.3 Out-of-band blocking
Clause 7.6.2.1A in TS 36.101 [18] specifies the out-of-band blocking
requirements for CA. There are no special blocking requirements for Band 3
relative to the other bands, so no changes need to be made to the existing
requirements for CA.
All that is required is to modify in TS 36.101 [18] Table 7.6.2.1A-2 to
indicate that the same requirement that is applied to Band 1 and Band 40 CA
also applies to Band 7 CA, as shown in the following table 6.2.3-1.
Table 6.2.3-1: Out of band blocking
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | P | Units | F | | | | o | arameter | | requency | | | | perating | | | | | | | band | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | []{.un | | | range 1 | range 2 | range 3 | | derline} | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | []{.un | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | derline} | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA_1C, | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | CA_40C, | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | CA_7C, | | | | | | | CA_3C | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | | | | -60 | -85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | []{.un | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | derline} | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
# 7 E-UTRA RRM requirements for UE
A study of the existing technical specifications was conducted. The study
concluded that no impact to UE RRM specifications is required.
# 8 E-UTRA RF requirements for BS
## 8.1 Transmitter characteristics
CA_3 could refer to use the requirements of BS Transmitter characteristics in
the current TS 36.104 [19].
## 8.2 Receiver characteristics
CA_3 could refer to use the requirements of BS Receiver characteristics in
current the TS 36.104 [19].
# 9 E-UTRA demodulation performance for BS and UE
A study of the UE and BS demodulation performance requirements in clause 8 of
TS 36.101 [18] and TS 36.104 [19] was conducted. Since the demodulation
performance requirements in both specifications are band agnostic, and there
is no specific UE and BS demodulation performance required for Band 3
contiguous CA, it is concluded that there is no change to the demodulation
performance needed to introduce support for Band 3 contiguous CA.
# 10 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 10.1 Required changes to TS 36.101
Expected changes in TS 36.101 [18] are shown in Table 10.1-1.
Table 10.1-1: Expected changes in TS 36.101 [18]
* * *
Clause Requirement Expected Changes in TS 36.101 5.5A Operating bands for CA A
new row is expected to be added in Table 5.5A-1 to add CA_3 to the supported
Intra band CA operating bands. 5.6A.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band
for CA A new row is expected to be added in Table 5.6A.1-1 for the supported
E-UTRA bandwidths of intra-band contiguous B3 CA. 6.2.2A UE Maximum Output
Power for intra-band contiguous CA A new row is expected to be added in Table
6.2.2A-1. It's proposed to evaluate the appropriate UE maximum output power
requirement for intra-band contiguous B3 CA. 6.2.4A UE Maximum Output Power
with additional requirements for CA It is proposed to evaluate the appropriate
A-MPR requirement for intra-band contiguous Band 3 CA. 6.6.3.2A Spurious
emission band UE co-existence for CA A new row is expected to be added in
Table 6.6.3.2A-1 for spurious emission of intra-band contiguous Band 3 CA co-
existence with other Band. 7.3.1A Minimum requirements (QPSK) for CA A new row
is expected to be added in Table 7.3.1A-1 for intra-band CA uplink
configuration for reference sensitivity. 7.6.1.1A In-band blocking for intra-
band contiguous CA Appropriate changes are expected in Table 7.6.1.1A-2. It is
proposed to evaluate whether the existing CA_1C in-band blocking requirement
is valid for CA_3C or not. 7.6.2.1A Out-of-band blocking for intra-band
contiguous CA Appropriate changes are expected in Table 7.6.2.1A-2. It is
proposed to evaluate whether the existing CA_1C out-of-band blocking
requirement is valid for CA_3C or not.
* * *
## 10.2 Required changes to TS 36.104
Foreseen changes in TS 36.104 [19] are shown in Table 10.2-1.
Table 10.2-1: Expected changes in TS 36.104 [19]
* * *
Clause Requirement Expected Changes in TS 36.104
5.5 Operating bands A new row is expected to be added in Table 5.5-2 to
support\ Band 3 intra-band contiguous CA configuration.
* * *
## 10.3 Required changes to TS 36.133
No foreseen changes in TS 36.133 [20].
## 10.4 Required changes to TS 36.141
Foreseen changes in TS 36.141 [21] are shown in Table 10.4-1.
Table 10.4-1: Expected changes in TS 36.141 [21]
* * *
Clause Requirement Expected Changes in TS 36.141
5.5 Operating bands A new row is expected to be added in Table 5.5-2 to
support\ Band 3 intra-band contiguous CA configuration.
* * *
## 10.5 Required changes to TS 36.307
Foreseen changes in TS 36.307 [22]are shown in Table 10.5-1.
Table 10.5-1: Expected changes in TS 36.307 [22]
* * *
Clause Requirement Expected Changes in TS 36.307
X Band 3 independent of release Expect to add some changes to 36.307 Rel-10
and Rel-11 to\ provide the appropriate pointers to the Rel-12 spec to enable\
backdating of band 3 CA to Rel-10 and Rel-11.
* * *
## 10.6 Required changes to TS 37.104
[23] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
Editor\'s Note: Text to be added
## 10.7 Required changes to TS 37.141
[24] 3GPP TS 37.141: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
Editor\'s Note: Text to be added
# 11 Project plan
1\. By end of RAN4 #64bis in Santa Rosa (Oct 2012): to provide and approve
skeleton TR.
2\. By end of RAN4 #66 in Malta (Jan 2013): to reach agreement of the UE Tx
and UE Rx requirements
3\. By end of RAN4 #66bis in Chicago (Apr 2013): to clean up the rests of the
Tx and Rx requirements
● All the requirements are captured in Technical Report.
4\. By end of RAN4 #68 in Barcelona (Aug 2013): to have all the CRs agreed
● All CRs to be presented in RAN #61 for approval.
● Technical reports presented to RAN #61 for final approval.
#