# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the work item on LTE-Advanced
Intra-band Contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 42 which was approved at TSG
RAN #62 [3]. The report provides background, analysis of the requirements, and
a list of recommended changes to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
  1. 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
  2. ITU-R-REC-M.1036-3, \"RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1036-3\"
  3. RP-132029, \"New WI: LTE Advanced intra-band contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 42\"
  4. TR 37.801, UMTS-LTE 3500 MHz Work Item Technical Report
  5. The emerging ecosystem for LTE TDD networks at 3.5/3.6 GHz, GTI
  6. ECC Decision (11)06, Harmonised frequency arrangements for mobile/fixed communications networks (MFCN) operating in the bands 3400-3600 MHz and 3600-3800 MHz
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Task description
The objectives of this work item are as follows:
  * Specify the specific RF requirements for band 42 intra-band contiguous CA up to 2CC in uplink and downlink.
  * Define transmission bandwidth combinations of 5+20MHz, 10+20MHz, 15+20MHz and 20+20MHz to support carrier aggregation in contiguous spectrum block of 25MHz, 30MHz, 35MHz and 40MHz.
  * Add the performance requirements for this band in the relevant specifications.
This WI is seen as complementary to the generic one (Carrier Aggregation for
LTE) where band specific tasks are treated.
## 4.2 Review on 3.5GHz spectrum
3GPP has specified two arrangements for the frequency band 3.4GHz-3.6GHz, Band
42 and Band 22/XXII following the decision of using this band for IMT in ITU.
Regional band planning or re-farming considerations for this band have made
significant progress in the world in recent years.
\- Some regulators have finished the planning of the band e.g. in Europe.
\- Regulators have speed up the planning of this band and it is expected to
finish the planning soon, e.g. in Japan and China
\- Previously this band has also been widely allocated for fixed wireless
services in many regions and the operators have rolled out FDD pre-WiMax and
TDD Mobile Wimax networks. Many of these operators would like to migrate their
legacy network in Band 42 to TD-LTE.
A review of the situation of this spectrum has already been given in [4]. The
following will give a summary and update on the latest progress on 3.4-3.8GHz
[5, 6].
  * **Region 1**
In Europe, ECC has approved the preferred frequency arrangement (TDD) and the
alternative frequency arrangement (FDD) for 3.4-3.6GHz band as shown in figure
4.2-1 and 4.2-2.
Figure 4.2-1 Preferred Frequency arrangement for the 3400-3600 MHz band based
on TDD
{width="6.483333333333333in" height="0.9in"}
Figure 4.2-2 Alternative Frequency arrangement for the 3400-3600MHz band based
on FDD
  * **Region 2**
The United States has issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Order (NPRM)
about allowing the shared of spectrum with incumbents within 3550-3650Mz and
also to add the adjacent 3650-3700MHz .The Commission indicated that small
cells may play an important role in terms of spectrum usage.
In Latin America, 3400-3600MHz already has been licensed for fixed wireless
access in some countries with technology neutrality. In Argentina, Mexico and
Peru, the band 3400-3600MHz is allocated based on blocks of 25MHz while they
have been acquired in pairs by operators, see Figure 4.2-3. The result is 4
paired allocations with 100MHz offset between the low and high band
{width="5.770138888888889in" height="1.1736111111111112in"}
Figure 4.2-3: 3.5G spectrum blocks in Argentina, Mexico and Peru
  * **Region 3**
In China, co-existence study and field test have been carried out to evaluate
the compatibility between LTE TDD and fixed satellite services. It is thought
that current sharing study between TD-LTE and satellite is enough. It is
feasible for LTE TDD to operate and coexist with satellite within band 42. Co-
existence issue in very limited cases will be handled by the approach of
geographic separation. It is anticipated that the planning for this band will
be speed up in 2014.
In Japan, introduction of LTE-Advanced systems to 3400-3600MHz band was
studied during 2012-2013. The technical requirements such as the coexistence
with the incumbent systems (satellite, and microwave links) were concluded and
the draft radio regulations were prepared for both TDD and FDD band options.
While band option is not yet determined, the final decision is expected where
using TDD (Band 42) is one of the options.
In South Korea although some of the capacity in the 3.5-3.7GHz range is used
for fixed satellite services, the government plans to release at least 160MHz
of capacity at 3.5GHz for mobile broadband services by 2018 as part of its
Mobile Gwanggaeto Plan. Both TDD (200MHz) and FDD (2x80MHz) options in
3400-3600MHz are considered to meet the capacity target.
The estimation in [5] shows that more than 300 operators own 3.5GHz spectrum
providing BWA service using Wimax technology. Many of them are now seeking for
migration their network to LTE.
All this information shows that there is a clear market demand to improve the
standard in 3.5GHz so as to build a global ecosystem in this band.
# 5 Band and channel bandwidth arrangement
## 5.1 CA Operating bands
The CA operating band for Band 42 is defined in Table 5.1-1.
Table 5.1-1 Intra band CA operating bands for Band 42
* * *
**E-UTRA CA Band** **E-UTRA Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink
(DL) operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**F~UL~_low -- F~UL~_high** **F~DL~_low -- F~DL~_high**  
CA_42 42 3400MHz -- 3600MHz 3400MHz -- 3600MHz TDD
* * *
## 5.2 CA channel bandwidth
Table 5.2-1 defines the supported E-UTRA bandwidths for intra-band contiguous
CA in Band 42 where 5MHz, 10MHz, 15MHz and 20 MHz channel bandwidths are
proposed so that it can support carrier aggregation in contiguous spectrum
block ranging from 25 to 40MHz.
Table 5.2-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets defined
for intra-band contiguous CA in Band 42
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
E-UTRA CA configuration Component carriers in order of increasing carrier
frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                        Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_42C 5, 10, 15, 20 20 40 0
                                                        20                                                            5, 10, 15
* * *
# 6 E-UTRA RF requirements for UE
## 6.1 Transmitter characteristics
The transmitter requirements in Table 6.1-1 are specific to CA bands and the
supported channel bandwidths. They are usually thought to be potentially
relevant when discussing specific intra-band CA work.
Table 6.1-1: requirement list specific to CA band and bandwidth combinations
* * *
Section No. Requirements 6.2.2A UE maximum output power for CA 6.2.3A UE
Maximum Output power for modulation / channel bandwidth for CA 6.2.4A UE
maximum output power with additional requirements for CA 6.3.2A UE Minimum
output power for CA 6.3.3A UE Transmit OFF power for CA 6.6.2.1A Spectrum
emission mask for CA 6.6.3.2A Spurious emission band UE co-existence for CA
6.6.3.3A Spurious emission band UE co-existence for CA
* * *
  * **[UE maximum output power for CA in Band 42]{.underline}**
For CA Bandwidth Class C in Band 42, the maximum output power shall not exceed
23dBm with +/-2 dB tolerance which is the same as that for a non-CA UE in Band
42. A New entry will be introduced for Table 6.2.2A-1 in 36.101 as in Table
6.1-2 below.
Table 6.1-2: CA UE Power Class
* * *
EUTRA band Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 3
(dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) CA_42C 23 +2/-2
* * *
  * **[UE Maximum Output power for modulation / channel bandwidth for CA]{.underline}**
Maximum power reduction requirements are needed to support contiguously
aggregated transmit bandwidth configuration. The channel bandwidth
combinations 5+20MHz, 10+20MHz, 15+20MHz and 20+20MHz have been approved for
CA_Band 42C. MPR requirements for supporting of these channel bandwidth
combinations have been fully accommodated by the current requirements in
36.101 Section 6.23A and thus no changes are needed.
  * **[UE maximum output power with additional requirements for CA]{.underline}**
This requirement is intended for specific deployment scenario or specific
regions that have additional emission requirements and need to be satisfied by
additional power reduction requirement.
Regarding band 42, the co-existence issue with adjacent Band 43 will be
different depending on different deployment scenario,
  * For synchronized operation between Band 42/43, there is no need to define additional A-MPR.
  * For unsynchronized operation between Band 42/43, either A-MPR or RB restrictions will be needed to address the co-existence issue.
A NS signalling CA_NS_x will be reserved to define the required A-MPR for Band
42/43 unsynchronized operation in some country. It will be addressed as a
separate discussion as it is not specific to CA_Band 42C.
Required changes are shown in Table 6.1-3 below. A New section 6.2.4A.8 will
be defined in 36.101 to accommodate this new requirement.
Table 6.1-3: Contiguous Allocation A-MPR for CA_NS_08
+-----------------+-----------+----------------+-----------------+ | CA_42C: | RB~Start~ | L~CRB~ [RBs] | A-MPR for QPSK | | CA_NS_08 | | | and | | | | | 16-QAM[dB] | +-----------------+-----------+----------------+-----------------+ | 100RB/100RB | - | - | TBD | +-----------------+-----------+----------------+-----------------+ | | - | - | TBD | +-----------------+-----------+----------------+-----------------+ | 75 RB / 100 RB | - | - | TBD | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 100 RB / 75 RB | | | | +-----------------+-----------+----------------+-----------------+ | 50 RB / 100 RB | - | - | TBD | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 100 RB / 50 RB | | | | +-----------------+-----------+----------------+-----------------+ | 25 RB / 100 RB | - | - | TBD | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 100 RB / 25 RB | | | | +-----------------+-----------+----------------+-----------------+
  * **[UE Minimum output power for CA]{.underline}**
The minimum output power for CA is defined as the mean power in one sub-frame
(1 ms) for each component carrier. Currently, there have been requirements for
5MHz/10MHz/15MHz/20MHz component carriers. No additional requirements are
needed for 36.101 Section 6.32A since no new component carriers are introduced
due to CA_Band 42C.
  * **[UE Transmit OFF power for CA]{.underline}**
UE transmitter OFF power for CA is defined as the mean power per component
carrier when the transmitter is OFF on both component carriers. No additional
requirements are needed for 36.101 Section 6.33A since no new component
carriers are introduced due to CA_Band 42C.
  * **[Spectrum emission mask for CA]{.underline}**
Spectrum emission mask has been specified for 5+20MHz, 10+20MHz, 15+20MHz and
20+20MHz channel bandwidth combinations for intra-band contiguous CA. No
additional requirements are needed for 36.101 Section 6.6.2.1 since no new
bandwidth combinations are introduced due to CA_Band 42C.
  * **[Spurious emission band UE co-existence for CA]{.underline}**
The same spurious emission requirements for Band 42 in non-CA case will be
reused for CA_Band 42C. The new requirement is shown in Table 6.1-4.
Table 6.1-4: UE co-existence Requirements for CA_Band42C
* * *
E-UTRA CA Configuration Spurious emission  
Protected band Frequency range (MHz) Maximum Level (dBm) MBW (MHz) Note  
CA_42C E-UTRA Band 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, 28,
31, 33, 34, 38, 40, 41, 44 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1
* * *
  * **[Spurious emission band UE co-existence for CA]{.underline}**
Band 42 CA UE shall meet [-50dBm/MHz] emission requirements when CA_NS_08 is
signalled in the cell. The new requirement is shown in Table 6.1-5.
Table 6.1-5: Additional requirements for CA_Band 42C
* * *
Protected band Frequency range (MHz) Maximum Level (dBm) MBW (MHz)  
Band 43 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ [-50] 1 NOTE 1: The requirements are defined
for unsynchronized operation between Band 42/43.
* * *
## 6.2 Receiver characteristics
Three subclauses in TS 36.101 (Rel-12) shall be updated for UE supporting
intra-band contiguous CA in Band 42, and these subclauses cover the following
aspects:
\- Reference sensitivity
\- In-band blocking
\- Out-of-band blocking
Because CA Band 42 is a TDD band, there is no restriction on the uplink RB
allocations when defining the UE receiver characteristics and the uplink
configuration shall be specified with full RB allocation for both PCC and SCC
for all supported CC combinations.
# 7 E-UTRA RRM requirements
There are no additional measurement procedures or performance requirements
specifically for CA in Band 42.
# 8 E-UTRA RF requirements for BS
A study of the existing BS technical specifications, including MSR, was
conducted. The study concluded that no impact to BS RF specifications is
required. Support of Band 42 CA in the BS specifications can be accommodated
solely by a new entry for CA_42 in Table 5.5-2 in TS 36.104 and a new entry
for CA_42 in Table 5.5-2 in TS 36.141. These changes are identified in Section
9.2 and 9.4.
# 9 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 9.1 Required changes to TS36.101
Required changes for CA_42C in UE RF specification TS 36.101 are shown in
Table 9.1-1.
Table 9.1-1: Required changes in TS 36.101
+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Section | Requirement | Required changes in TS | | | | 36.101 | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.5A | Operating bands for CA | Add a new row for CA_42C | | | | in Table 5.5A-1. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.6A.1 | Channel bandwidths per | Add a new row in Table | | | operating band for CA | 5.6A.1-1 for the supported | | | | E-UTRA bandwidths of | | | | CA_42C. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.2.2A | UE Maximum Output Power | Add a new row for CA_42C | | | for intra-band contiguous | in Table 6.2.2A-1. | | | CA | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.2.4A | UE Maximum Output Power | CA_NS_08 are reserved | | | with additional | for future A-MPR | | | requirements for CA | definition to protect | | | | unsynchronized Band 43. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.6.3A | Additional spurious | Add a new entry in Table | | | emission for CA_42C | 6.6.3.2A-1 to define | | | | co-existence requirements | | | | for CA_Band 42C. | | | | | | | | Add a new section | | | | 6.6.3.3A.7 to define | | | | co-existence requirements | | | | and the applicable | | | | conditions for protection | | | | of unsynchronized Band 43. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.3.1A | Minimum requirements | Add a new entry in Table | | | (QPSK) for CA | 7.3.1A-1 for intra-band CA | | | | uplink configuration for | | | | reference sensitivity of | | | | CA_42C. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.6.1.1A | In-band blocking for | Add CA_42C in Table | | | intra-band contiguous CA | 7.6.1.1A-2. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.6.2.1A | Out-of-band blocking for | Add CA_42C in Table | | | intra-band contiguous CA | 7.6.2.1A-2. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
## 9.2 Required changes to TS36.104
Required changes to BS RF specification TS 36.104 are shown in Table 9.2-1.
Table 9.2-1: Required changes in TS 36.104
* * *
**Section** **Requirement** **Required Changes in TS 36.104** 5.5 Operating
bands A new row in Table 5.5-2 to define B42 intra-band contiguous carrier
aggregation configuration.
* * *
## 9.3 Required changes to TS36.133
No changes required in TS 36.133.
## 9.4 Required changes to TS36.141
Required changes to BS RF specification TS 36.141 are shown in Table 9.4-1.
Table 9.4-1: Required changes in TS 36.141
* * *
**Section** **Requirement** **Required Changes in TS 36.141** 5.5 Operating
bands A new row in Table 5.5-2 to define B42 intra-band contiguous carrier
aggregation configuration.
* * *
## 9.5 Required changes to TS36.307
Required changes in TS 36.307 are shown in Table 9.5-1.
Table 9.5-1: Required changes in TS 36.307
* * *
**Section** **Requirement** **Required Changes in TS 36.307** X CA
configuration CA_42C Independent of Release Add some changes to 36.307 Rel-10,
Rel-11 and Rel-12 to provide the appropriate pointers to the Rel-13
specifications to enable backdating of CA_42 to Rel-10, Rel-11 and Rel-12.
* * *
## 9.6 Required changes to TS37.104
No changes required in TS 37.104.
## 9.7 Required changes to TS37.141
No changes required in TS 37.141.
#