# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for REL-12 2UL non-contiguous
intra-band CA framework WI and it contains both the UE and BS studies.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Specification set\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21 912 \"Example 2, using fixed text\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.521-1: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Conformance testing\".
[6] R4-122735, \"Non-contiguous intraband CA terminology and unwanted emission
and ACLR discussion, Nokia Corporation
[7] R4-122522, \"ACLR for non-contiguous intra-band CA\", ZTE
[8] R4-114901, \"Non-contiguous intra-band CA UE RF aspects\", Nokia
corporation
[9] R4-125608, \"Transmit intermodulation for NC intra-band CA\", Ericsson,
ST-Ericsson
[10] R4-123807, \"Transmit intermodulation for non-contiguous intra-band CA\",
ZTE
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Composite spectrum emission mask:** Emission mask requirement for intraband
non-contiguous carrier aggregation which is a combination of individual sub-
block spectrum emissions masks.
**Composite spurious emission requirement:** Spurious emission requirement for
intraband non-contiguous carrier aggregation which is a combination of
individual sub-block spurious emission requirements.
**Intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation:** Non-contiguous carriers
aggregated in the same operating band.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
N~RB_alloc~ Total number of simultaneously transmitted resource blocks in
Channel bandwidth or Aggregated Channel Bandwidth.
RB~start~ Indicates the lowest RB index of transmitted resource blocks.
W~gap~ Sub-block gap size
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent channel leakage ration
CC Component carrier
CW Continuous wave
IMD Inter modulation distortion
MPR Maximum power reduction
MSD Maximum sensitivity degradation
OOB Out of band
PA Power amplifier
PCC Primary component carrier
PSD Power spectral density
REFSENS Reference sensitivity
RB Resource block
SCC Secondary component carrier
SEM Spectrum emission mask
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
RAN4 framework requirements for non-contiguous intra-band CA with 1 UL are
defined in Release 11 under the LTE CA enhancement WID. The framework
requirements for non-contiguous intra-band CA with 2ULs have been postponed to
release 12. RAN4 framework requirements are utilized when developing different
band specific requirements based on the work done for the framework
requirements. After deploying 2 DL CA with 1 UL on the field CA deployments
are expected to move towards 2UL deployments
## 4.2 Work item objective
The objective is to enhance carrier aggregation requirements. The detailed
objectives include:
Introduce RAN4 frame-work for non-contiguous intra-band CA for 2 UL
requirements based on work done in REL-11 CA Enhancement WI. Use CA_4A_4A as
an example CA configuration as that band specific WI contains non-contiguous
UL aggregation scenario. For some of the requirements, which are affected by
the 2 UL operation the study can be extended to cover also generic frequency
arrangements.
# 5 UE Transmitter RF aspects
## 5.1 Reference transmitter architecture
Transmitter architecture presented in Figure 5.1-1 will be used when
specifying the non-contiguous intraband CA transmitter characteristic, for
example required MPR to meet the emission requirements.
{width="5.7347222222222225in" height="3.5243055555555554in"}
Figure 5.1-1: Non-contiguous intraband CA reference transmitter architecture
## 5.2 Unwanted emissions
Composite emission requirement is the emission requirement for non-contiguous
intraband CA transmission when the transmission consists of multiple sub-
blocks. Composite emission requirement is derived with following procedure:
▪ As a basis Individual sub-blocks will follow single E-UTRA carrier SEM (and
spurious emission requirements).
▪ When spurious emission domain of CC1 falls into OOB domain of CC2 or vice
versa it is not taken into account (in practice always lower than SEM).
▪ If two SEMs overlap then the SEM which allows higher PSD for emissions is
selected.
▪ If SEM or spurious emission requirement of CC1 overlaps the channel
bandwidth of CC2 or vice versa it is not taken into account.
As an example composite emission requirement is determined for various
signals. Results are presented in a form as in Figure 5.2-1 where first
applicable SEM and spurious emission requirements for both CC\'s are drawn.
SEM\'s are drawn in black and spurious emission requirements in blue and both
are associated with a number which indicates to which CC they are applicable.
Then in the lower figure the composite emission requirement is derived
following the rules listed above.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.6708333333333334in"}
Figure 5.2-1: Derivation of composite emission requirement
In the Figure 5.2-2 same study is repeated for cases where the sub-block gap
size is varied. Following cases where examined:
▪ Sub-block gap bandwidth = OOB domain bandwidth of CC1 + OOB domain bandwidth
of CC2 (Figure 5.2-1)
▪ Sub-block gap bandwidth > OOB domain bandwidth of CC1 + OOB domain bandwidth
of CC2
▪ Sub-block gap bandwidth \ 3
                *F~CHS~* = *F~DUP~*/N            *F~CHS~* = *F~DUP~*/(N-1)
                *F~CHS~* = *F~DUP~*/(N-1)        *...*
                ...                              *F~CHS~* = *F~DUP~*/2
                *F~CHS~* = *F~DUP~*/2            *F~CHS~* = *F~DUP~*
* * *
For practical situation where both component carriers have finite channel
bandwidth, a generic model as shown in Figure 5.5-3 is used for self-
interference analysis.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="2.113888888888889in"}
Figure 5.5-3: A generic intra-band non-contiguous CA model for UE self-
interference analysis
The parameters as noted in Figure 5.5-3 can all be self-explained without
further text description. Following the analogy of two-tone intermodulation
analysis as described above, it can be seen that _f~U1L~_ and _f~U2H~_ will
define the intermodulation products upper frequency boundary _f~IMD3RH~_ , and
_f~U1H~_ and _f~U2L~_ will define the lower frequency boundary _f~IMD3RL~_ ,
as illustrated in Figure 5.5-4 (3^rd^ order IMD in this example). From Figure
5.5-3 and Figure 5.5-4, it can be seen that for 3^rd^ order intermodulation
component to overlap with _DLCC1_ , the following criteria has to be met,
2×(F~BW~ - (c+d)) > F~DUP~ and 2×(F~BW~ - (c+d) - (a+b)) \ F~DUP~ - b and F~BW~ - (c+d) - (a+b) \ 5 | _(F~DUP~_ /(N+1)) - | (_a_ +_b_) - (_b_ /N) \ M~N~= -0.125 N~RB_alloc~ + 18.25 ; 2 ≤ N ≤ 50
>
> -0.0333 N~RB_alloc~ + 13.67 ; 50 \< N ≤ 200
Where N~RB_alloc~ is the number of allocated resource blocks.
MPR definition above is taken as a baseline which is further refined during
the WI and is used when receiver requirements are discussed until this rule is
replaced with more appropriate one.
## 6.2 REFSENS
It was agreed in RAN4#70 that non-contiguous uplink intraband CA REFSENS is
specified with following principles.
**Proposal 1: For dual uplink intra-band non-contiguous CA, REFSENS is defined
to be met when both downlink component carriers and both uplink component
carriers are active.**
**Proposal 2:** **Band specific** **MSD value for any dual uplink non-
contiguous intraband CA configuration with ULs in different sub-blocks is
specified in 36.101 to define the requirement REFSENS**
**Proposal 3: When we identify any CA configuration for non-contiguous
intraband CA having MSD not be 0 dB, the applicability of the agreement for 2
UL interband CA A2 and A4 is such that second requirement for REFSENS for 2 UL
interband CA is discussed also for non-contiguous intraband CA.**
**Proposal 4: MSD for CA_4A-4A is 0 dB (pending that tentative MPR mask is
applied)**
**Proposal 5: For dual uplink intra-band non-contiguous CA TDD bands the MSD
is 0 dB.**
## 6.3 RF receiver characteristics for selectivity and blocking
In general, core requirements should be specified in TS 36.101 for all
receiver characteristics with two uplinks active. However, much of the core RF
performance for uplink intra-band CA would be implicitly verified by the non-
CA and the existing downlink inter-band CA cases so there is room for
significant reduction of the number of tests for the conformance test
specification TS 36.521-1.
## 6.3.1 UL configuration
Verification of the receiver RF performance for non-CA operation and CA with
one UL active (non-CA in the uplink) are made with the uplink power set at
\- P~UMAX~ (should be P~UMAX,c~) for reference sensitivity;
\- P~CMAX_L~ - 4 dBm (should be P~CMAX_L,c~ - 4 dBm) for remaining tests.
For uplink intra-band CA the total UE output power is bounded by P~CMAX~
(capped at P~powerclass~ if not at lower power) and the component carriers by
P~CMAX,c~ with its lower limit P~CMAX_L,c~. The core requirements apply for
the two uplinks set at equal transmitter power density. The allocations on the
two uplinks can vary depending on the band and the sub-block gap. However, for
simplicity of specification, the power of each uplink is set at a certain
back-off from the maximum configured power of each uplink such that the
maximum power (not density) is capped by the same value.
The aim is not to tighten the Rel-8 requirements, whence it appears most
straightforward to set the uplink power for each serving cell _c_ to:
P~CMAX_L,c~ - 7 dBm
for verification of all requirements for uplink intra-band CA except for
reference sensitivity. This means that each of the two uplinks are bounded at
P~Powerclass~ - 7 dBm = +16 dBm and the total power can never exceed
P~Powerclass~ - 4dBm = +19 dBm consistent with the maximum uplink power for
non-CA operation in the uplink. Testing is also simplified since there is a
well-defined power target for each uplink.
The wanted downlink signal levels for uplink inter-band CA tests should be the
same as for non-CA operations. The receiver requirements are always verified
with some allowed desensitization (a power offset relative to the reference
sensitivity) that is test- and bandwidth specific.
## 6.3.2 Requirements for in-band blocking, selectivity and intermodulation
For verification of the ACS, narrow-band blocking, in-band blocking and
wideband intermodulation requirements the power levels of the two uplinks
should be set at:
P~CMAX_L,c~ - 7 dBm.
The effect on ACS of cross-modulation is increased with two uplinks active.
However, the power levels of the uplinks are reduced compared to the non-CA
case so the existing requirements for ACS for non-CA operation should be
retained for uplink intra-band CA with the wanted downlink signal levels kept
unchanged.
## 6.3.3 Requirements for out-of-band blocking
For verification of the out-of-band blocking requirements, the power levels of
the two uplinks should be set at:
P~CMAX_L,c~ - 7 dBm
The power levels of the uplinks are reduced compared to the non-CA case so the
existing requirements for out-of-band for non-CA operation could be retained
for uplink intra-band CA with the wanted downlink signal levels kept
unchanged.
The number of spurious responses may increase for two uplinks if the non-CA
uplink power is retained, but for a reduced power for each uplink, the number
of spurious responses should be kept the same as for the downlink intra-band
CA case (2DL/1UL with the single uplink 4 dB below the maximum power).
For Table 7.6.2.1-2 in TS 36.101 frequency range 1, 2 and 3, up to
$\text{max}\left( \text{24},6 \cdot \left\lceil N_{\text{RB}} \cdot 6
\right\rceil \right)$exceptions _per assigned E-UTRA channel_ per sub-block of
the E-UTRA CA configuration are allowed for spurious response frequencies when
measured using a 1MHz step size. For these exceptions the requirements of
subclause 7.7 spurious response are applicable.
## 6.3.4 Requirements for receiver spurious emissions and receiver image
The receiver spurious emissions follow the ITU-R requirements and are verified
with no RB allocations (0 RB) in neither the DL nor the UL (PDCCH is sent).
The requirement applies for any narrowband (CW) emissions from receivers
without any specific information on the UL transmissions. Hence there is no
need to verify this requirement specifically for 2UL intra-band CA.
The receiver-image requirement is verified by a base-band test (power
imbalance), whence it is no need to verify this explicitly for 2UL intra-band
CA.
# 7 eNodeB RF aspects
2UL non-contiguous intra-band CA Work Item will be agnostic to BS
implementation that supports Carrier Aggregation. Intra-band non-contiguous
operation for both UL and DL was introduced in BS specifications during the
finalization of the Carrier Aggregation Enhancements Work Item. Therefore,
existing BS requirements and test configurations will remain unchanged.
# 8 RRM aspects
Impact on 2UL non-contiguous intra-band CA Work Item will be limited
concerning changes to RRM requirements. Requirements on UE capabilities for
support of E-UTRA carrier aggregation needs to include also 2DL and 2UL non-
contiguous inter-band carrier aggregation. Besides this the existing
requirements will remain unchanged.
###### ### Annex A: Void
#