# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
At the 3GPP TSG RAN #61 meeting, the Study Item description on \"Study on
Smart Congestion Mitigation in E-UTRAN\" was approved [2]. This study covers
improvement of congestion mitigation handling mechanisms in RRC_IDLE, in order
to ensure prioritization of access for initiation of MMTEL voice calls,
depending on the operator scenario.
# 1 Scope
The present document is related to the technical report for the study item
\"Study on Smart Congestion Mitigation in E-UTRAN\" [2].
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP systems.
This document is intended to gather all technical outcome of the study item,
and draw a conclusion on way forward.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-131397: \"New Study Item Description: Smart Congestion Mitigation
in E-UTRAN\", RAN #61, Sep. 2013.
[3] 3GPP S1-140329: "Agreed CR to 22.011 v12.0.0 on Prioritization of MMTEL
for ACB", SA1 #65, Jan. 2014.
[4] 3GPP S1-140154: "Agreed CR to 22.011 v12.0.0 on Prioritization of MO-SMS
for ACB", SA1 #65, Jan. 2014.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACB Access Class Barring
MMTEL Multimedia Telephony
SSAC Service Specific Access Control
# 4 Key Issues
## 4.1 Key Issue #1: Prioritization of Mobile Originating MMTEL Voice Services
in E-UTRAN
Considering that the network resources (e.g., RACH resources, number of
RRC_CONNECTED UEs in a cell) are limited, operators need to perform congestion
control according to the nature of congestion scenarios. In scenarios such as
public events (sport matches, fireworks, etc.), traffic rise tends to be
caused by accesses from packet data services. In this case, operator may want
to prioritize MO access for voice services over MO access for data service.
Therefore, instead of applying strong barring to all service, operator may
apply strong barring for packet data but less-strong (or even no barring) for
voice data such as MMTEL-voice.
However, operators that want to prioritize access for voice service in
congestion could not rely on the current congestion mitigation mechanisms, due
to lack of standardization support to allow MMTEL voice service prioritization
in access barring and/or connection establishment. The current standard
mechanism specifies access barring (ACB) for barring MO access of packet data
service, and IMS barring (SSAC) for barring MO access of MMTEL service.
However, in the current standard behaviour, MMTEL call may be barred whenever
ACB is activated. The current standard also does not allow independent barring
between MMTEL service and other packet data service, since according to the
standard behaviour, an MMTEL call will experience double barring when IMS
barring (SSAC) and access barring (ACB) are both activated. The inability of
LTE to prioritize MMTEL voice over other data in connection establishment when
ACB is activated leads to establishment failures of VoLTE calls.
Accordingly, prioritization of mobile originating MMTEL voice services in
E-UTRAN is considered as a key issue of this study.
Note that we study this issue with a higher priority than other issues,
considering that IMS voice is already available in some countries and is
replacing CSFB voice.
# 5 Potential Solutions
## 5.1 Solution 1: QCI based access barring
### 5.1.1 Description
In this solution, UE performs access control based on some existing QoS
related identifiers like QCI, assuming that the UE is already aware of the QCI
of each of its bearers. This approach would follow the QoS concept where the
RAN maintains an abstract view on services by mapping them to a set of QoS
characteristics referred to by a QCI. Services that require different QoS (or
access control) handling should be mapped on another QCI.
### 5.1.2 Evaluation
The evaluation of this solution is provided in Table 5.1.2-1.
Table 5.1.2-1: Evaluation of solution 1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Impact on RRC in UE | Impact on upper | Impact on network | | | layers in UE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1. Broadcasting new | 1. Additional | 1. eNB needs to | | access barring | function and | broadcast new access | | parameter per QCI | processing in NAS | barring parameter | | needs to be | layer for QCI based | per QCI via system | | specified. | barring. | information. | | | | | | 2. Reception of new | | 2. In case where | | access barring | | SSAC is needed for | | parameter and | | legacy UE, | | delivery of the | | operator's network | | received parameter | | needs to coordinate | | to NAS should be | | barring parameter | | specified in RRC | | setting between SSAC | | | | and QCI barring. | | 3. Interaction with | | | | ACB needs to be | | | | clarified. Skipping | | | | ACB, like solution | | | | 2, would need to be | | | | specified in RRC. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
In addition, the followings should be addressed for this solution:
  * If all IMS signalling is mapped to QCI5 and QCI5 is prioritized with > this mechanism, then all IMS signalling would be prioritized > rather than MMTEL voice calls only.
  * This solution may have bigger impact of 3GPP specifications and > UE/network implementation than Solution 2.
## 5.2 Solution 2: Skipping ACB for MMTEL voice subject to SSAC
### 5.2.1 Description
The UE skips the ACB check for MMTEL Voice, regardless of whether SSAC
parameters are broadcast or not. The network may control whether or not the UE
performs the ACB check skip following SSAC check. This network control could
be realized by adding a new bit in the SIB.
### 5.2.2 Evaluation
The evaluation of this solution is provided in Table 5.2.2-1.
Table 5.2.2-1: Evaluation of solution 2
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Impact on RRC in UE | Impact on upper | Impact on network | | | layers in UE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1. Skipping ACB for | Interaction between | If network needs to | | MMTEL voice should | MMTEL and AS to skip | control skipping | | be specified in RRC. | ACB is needed. | ACB, system | | | | information may need | | 2. Network control | | to indicate to UEs | | of skipping ACB may | | whether to skip ACB. | | need to be specified | | (1-bit indication | | in RRC, e.g. by 1 | | may be sufficient.) | | bit via system | | | | information. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
In addition, the followings should be addressed for this solution:
  * In terms of impact on specifications, this solution looks simpler > than the other solutions..
  * SSAC is specified such that a call subject to SSAC is also subject > to ACB. When SSAC is active, a mobile-originated MMTEL-Voice is > granted access if both SSAC and ACB barring checks pass. This > solution would change this behaviour, i.e., an MMTEL call granted > access by SSAC barring check would no longer be subject to ACB > barring check. This would enable operators to treat MMTEL-voice, > which passes SSAC barring check, separately as compared to other > packet data service when both SSAC and ACB are broadcasting.
  * Network control indication needs to be discussed. Implementation of > network control indication may be beneficial especially for the > network that needs to maintain legacy behaviour (ACB check is > applied to MMTEL).
  * If this solution is accepted, it will be discussed in Stage 3 phase > how AS can become aware of established MMTEL-voice call in order > to skip ACB.
## 5.3 Solution 3: Independent ACB for MMTEL voice
### 5.3.1 Description
In this solution, UE RRC applies independent ACB check for MMTEL voice, like
ACB check for CSFB. For prioritization of MMTEL voice, eNB may not broadcast
SSAC barring info for MMTEL voice, while broadcasting new ACB barring info for
MMTEL voice. This solution can be realized either by introducing new ACB
barring info for MMTEL voice or by reusing the existing _ac-BarringForCSFB_ in
SIB2 for MMTEL voice considering that some operators would not use CSFB
solution for voice.
VoLTE UE subject to new barring parameter for MMTEL voice in this solution
would behave like the CSFB UE subject to ac-BarringForCSFB.
### 5.3.2 Evaluation
The evaluation of this solution is provided in Table 5.3.2-1.
Table 5.3.2-1: Evaluation of solution 3
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Impact on RRC in UE | Impact on upper | Impact on network | | | layers in UE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | New access class | 1. Interaction | 1. eNB needs to | | barring for MMTEL | between MMTEL and | broadcast new access | | voice should be | RRC may need to be | barring parameter, | | specified in RRC, | implemented in UEs. | similar to | | similar to | | _ac-BarringForCSFB_ | | _ac-BarringForCSFB_. | 2. A new call type | in SIB2. | | | may be needed in NAS | | | UE behaviour | layer. This is to | 2. Considering that | | (barring check , | make AS aware of | SSAC may be | | barring alleviation, | established | broadcast for legacy | | etc.) for the new | MMTEL-voice call in | UE, operator's | | access class barring | order to apply the | network needs to | | parameter needs to | new barring | coordinate barring | | be specified. | mechanism (instead | parameter setting | | | of legacy ACB). | between SSAC and the | | | | new | | | | ac-barringforMMTEL.. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
In addition, the followings should be addressed for this solution:
  * Reutilizing IE ac-BarringForCSFB for MMTEL voice would be > infeasible, if some operators still want to control CSFB > separately with MMTEL voice. Also, it is unclear how much current > ACB CSFB can be reused as VoLTE calls are not known in the NAS > layer. For current SSAC, interaction is between IMS layer and AS.
  * This solution will have big impact on specifications and UE/network > implementation.
  * The study did not conclude whether AS can become aware of > established MMTEL-voice call in order to apply the new barring > mechanism (instead of legacy ACB).
  * The study did not conclude whether or not UE needs to skip SSAC > check. If skipping SSAC check is needed, indication from AS to > MMTEL may be needed in UE.
## 5.4 Solution 4: RRC Connection Reject based on New Establishment Cause for
Voice
### 5.4.1 Description
In this solution, a new value of MO voice is defined in Establishment Cause of
RRC Connection Request message to inform eNB that UE is accessing for MO
voice. This solution allows eNB to recognize access for MO voice in connection
establishment, and helps eNB to accept some connection requests for voice
services while rejecting other connection requests for non-voice services.
### 5.4.2 Evaluation
The evaluation of this solution is provided in Table 5.4.2-1.
Table 5.4.2-1: Evaluation of solution 4
* * *
Impact on RRC in UE Impact on upper layers in UE Impact on network New
Establishment Cause of RRC Connection Request message needs to be specified.
New call type needs to be specified in NAS layer. This is to make AS aware of
established MMTEL-voice call and set the establishment cause accordingly.. eNB
should implement handling of new establishment cause in connection
establishments for admission control.
* * *
In addition, the followings should be addressed for this solution:
  * This solution cannot prioritize MMTEL-voice call in case where ACB > is broadcast, since the MMTEL-voice call in the UE may be barred > by ACB. In addition to this solution, additional UE based solution > may be needed to ensure prioritization of MMTEL-voice call when > ACB is broadcast, if necessary.
  * It should be carefully evaluated whether "MMTEL-voice" is valuable > enough to consume one of the spares values in the RRC connection > establishment cause considering the limited space in > _RRCConnectionRequest_ message.
  * If connection reject/release is used only, there can be overload > problems on Random Access before the establishment cause is even > known by the network.
  * The study did not conclude whether AS can become aware of > established MMTEL-voice call in order to set the intended > establishment cause.
## 5.5 Solution 5: Individual up- and downscaling of random access probability
(ac-Barring-Factor)
### 5.5.1 Description
_In this solution, UE performs access control based on some existing access
baring factors and optionally backoff time where the individual scaling factor
is either provided per specific use case/application (here VoLTE) via system
information broadcast or a pre-configuration for an individual UE was applied
by using dedicated signaling._
### 5.5.2 Evaluation
The evaluation of this solution is provided in Table 5.5.2-1.
Table 5.5.2-1: Evaluation of solution 5
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Impact on RRC in UE | Impact on upper | Impact on network | | | layers in UE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1. New scaling | 1. Upper layer | 1. Provision of | | factor for IE | needs to indicate | scaling-factor via | | ** | service (here VoLTE) | BCCH or dedicated | | _ac-BarringFactor_ ** | to AS of UE in order | signalling. | | | for AS to become | | | or any other | aware of established | 2. Considering that | | ac-barringXXX | MMTEL-voice call so | SSAC may be | | parameter is read | that it can apply | broadcast for legacy | | from the BCCH or | this new mechanism. | UE, operator's | | received via | | network needs to | | dedicated | 2 Considering that | coordinate barring | | signalling. | SSAC may be | parameter setting | | | broadcast for legacy | between SSAC and the | | 2. How to up- or | UE, AS may need to | new scaling | | downscale the | indicate to MMTEL to | parameter | | ac-barringFactor | skip SSAC check. | | | should be specified, | | | | considering that | | | | SSAC may be | | | | broadcast for legacy | | | | UE, | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
In addition, the followings should be addressed for this solution:
  * This solution seems to be a generalization of solutions 3 (or even > 2).
  * This solution will introduce the new functionality overlapped with > current MMTEL barring mechanism.
  * This solution will have big impact on specifications and UE/network > implementation.
  * How to map services to different scaling groups is unclear.
  * The study did not conclude whether AS can become aware of > established MMTEL-voice call in order to apply the new barring > mechanism (instead of legacy ACB).
# 6 Conclusion
The study only focused on the prioritization of mobile-originated MMTEL Voice
Services in E-UTRAN.
It is agreed that the following solution is feasible for the prioritization of
mobile-originated MMTEL Voice Services in E-UTRAN:
  * The network indicates whether or not the UE performs the ACB check > skip following SSAC check. The UE skips the ACB check for MMTEL > Voice based on the indication, regardless of whether SSAC > parameters are broadcast or not.
This solution which is based on solution 2 is the preferred one and meets SA1
requirements in [3].
The followings are also agreed for this solution:
  * The indication is included in SIB2.
  * The indication is valid for Access Classes 0-9 and 11-15.
  * 3 bits in SIB2 indicate whether or not access attempts for MMTel > voice, MMTel video and SMS shall skip ACB functionality, > respectively.
It is recommended that this solution is specified in Release 12 Stage 3
specifications. Implementation of this solution in earlier releases than
Release 12 should be considered.
In addition, RAN2 discussed the following potential impacts of the solution
with regards to interworking between RRC, NAS and IMS layer:
> 1\. Coordination between upper layer and RRC in order for RRC to determine
> when to skip the ACB functionality.
>
> 2\. Coordination between NAS and RRC to ensure that, when ACB is applicable
> and ACB skip is configured, NAS is able to generate a Service Request for
> MMTEL or SMS even though NAS has previously been informed that access
> barring is applicable e.g., for other data packet call.
The coordination will be further discussed during Stage 3 phase, with
involvement of CT1.
Prioritization of MMTEL video and SMS was not in the original scope of this
study. However, due to new requirements defined by SA1 prioritization of MMTEL
video and SMS was also covered here. Therefore, it is recommended that
skipping the ACB check is also specified in Release 12 Stage 3 specifications
for prioritization of mobile originating MMTEL video access attempts and
mobile originating SMS access attempts in accordance with SA1 requirements in
[4].
#