# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
Previously the deployment of the 3GPP LTE technology in the bands 2305 to 2315
MHz and 2350 to 2360 MHz (known as the Wireless Communications Service band,
or 'WCS\' in the United States), could not be accommodated due to technical
and operational constraints present in FCC regulations. This is commonly known
as Block A (2305 - 2315/2350 - 2355 MHz) and Block B (2310 - 2315/2355 - 2360
MHz) in the WCS Band. The FCC on October 17, 201 amended and confirmed the
technical and operational characteristics for WCS which enable the deployment
of LTE FDD technology in Blocks A & B in the frequency band covering 2305 -
2315 MHz and 2350 - 2360 MHz.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 41.001: \"GSM Specification set\".
[3] FCC Order (FCC-12-130): \"Amendment of Part 27 of the Commission\'s Rules
to Govern the Operation of Wireless Communications Services in the 2.3 GHz
Band\"
[4] RP-121419: \"New WI proposal: Addition of LTE WCS Band\"
[5] RP-121828: \"Further information on WCS Band\"
[6] R4-130052: \"Overview of FCC regulations and recommendations on 3GPP
requirements for WCS Band\".
[7] R4-130737: \"Regulatory requirements on output power and emissions mask
for the WCS band\".
[8] R4-130912: \"TR skeleton for WCS Band\".
[9] R4-130913: \"UE output power and emission requirements for the WCS band\".
[10]
http://www.coe.montana.edu/ee/rwolff/EE580/final%20projects/SDARSReport.pdf
[11] Recommendation ITU-R SM.329: \" Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
SDARS Satellite Digital Audio Radio System
# 4 Background
During RAN #57, a work item was approved for \"LTE WCS Band\" (RP-12149). This
work item proposes specifications for the deployment of 3GPP LTE technology in
the bands 2305 to 2315 MHz and 2350 to 2360 MHz (known as the Wireless
Communications Service band, or 'WCS\' in the United States). There are two
blocks, Block A (2305-2310/2350-2355 MHz) and Block B (2310-2315/2355-2360
MHz) in the WCS Band.
Previously the deployment of the 3GPP LTE technology in the bands 2305 to 2315
MHz and 2350 to 2360 MHz (known as the Wireless Communications Service band,
or 'WCS\' in the United States), could not be accommodated due to technical
and operational constraints present in FCC regulations. This is commonly known
as Block A (2305 - 2315/2350 - 2355 MHz) and Block B (2310 - 2315/2355 - 2360
MHz) in the WCS Band. The FCC on October 17, 201 amended and confirmed the
technical and operational characteristics for WCS which enable the deployment
of LTE FDD technology in Blocks A & B in the frequency band covering 2305 -
2315 MHz and 2350 - 2360 MHz.
On October 17, 2012, the USA Federal Communications Commission unanimously
approved a joint proposal submitted by AT&T and SiriusXM to enable WCS
licensees\' to use a total of 30 megahertz of spectrum in the 2.3 GHz band for
wireless broadband services while protecting Satellite Digital Audio Radio
Service (SDARS) operator Sirius XM Radio Inc against harmful interference. The
details of the FCC Order is found in [3].
The 2.3 GHz band is divided into four blocks as follows (see Figure 1 below):
\- A and B blocks are each 10 MHz of paired spectrum (2x5 MHz):
A block: 2305 - 2310, 2350 - 2355 MHz
B block: 2310 - 2315, 2355 - 2360 MHz
\- C and D blocks are each 5 MHz unpaired (1x5 MHz):
C block: 2315 - 2320 MHz
D block: 2345 - 2350 MHz
Note: The C and D blocks will not be deployed at this time to allow for
guardband limits for the SDARS service from 2320 - 2345 MHz.
{width="6.345138888888889in" height="2.738888888888889in"}
Figure 4-1: United States WCS 2.3 GHz Band Plan
5 Frequency band arrangements and regulatory background
The WCS band work item proposes to define a new band for LTE consisting of the
A and B WCS blocks as shown below.
Table 5-1: Proposed WCS Band
* * *
Bandwidths WCS Block Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating band\
Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                           WCS LOWER LTE BLOCKS          WCS UPPER LTE BLOCKS
10+10 MHz A+B 2305 MHz -- 2315 MHz 2350 MHz -- 2360 MHz FDD
5+5 MHz A 2305 MHz -- 2310 MHz 2350 MHz -- 2355 MHz FDD
5+5 MHz B 2310 MHz -- 2315 MHz 2355 MHz -- 2360 MHz FDD
* * *
The regulatory requirements pertaining to transmit power and emission masks
provided in Appendix A of [3] are summarized below for the cases of interest.
## 5.1 Power limits and duty cycle
**1) Base and fixed stations.** For base and fixed stations transmitting in
the 2305 -- 2315 MHz band or the 2350 -- 2360 MHz band:
a) The average equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) must not exceed
2,000 watts within any 5 megahertz of authorized bandwidth and must not exceed
400 watts within any 1 megahertz of authorized bandwidth.
b) The peak-to-average power ratio (PAPR) of the transmitter output power must
not exeeed 13 dB. The PAPR measurements should be made using either an
instrument with complementary cumulative distribution function (CCDF)
capabilities to determine that PAPR will not exeeed 13 dB for more than 0.1
percent of the time or other Commission approved procedure. The measurement
must be performed using a signal corresponding to the highest PAPR expected
during periods of continuous transmission.
2) **Mobile and portable stations.** For mobile and portable stations
transmitting in the 2305 -- 2315 MHz band or the 2350 -- 2360 MHz band, the
average EIRP must not exceed 50 milliwatts within any 1 megahertz of
authorized bandwidth, **except that** for mobile and portable stations
compliant with 3GPP LTE standards or another advanced mobile broadband
protocol that avoids concentrating energy at the edge of the operating band
the average EIRP must not exceed 250 milliwatts within any 5 megahertz of
authorized bandwidth but may exceed 50 millwatts within any 1 megahertz of
authorized bandwidth. For mobile and portable stations using time division
duplexing (TDD) technology, the duty cycle must not exceed 38 percent in the
2305 -- 2315 MHz and 2350 -- 2360 MHz bands. Mobile and portable stations
using FDD technology are restricted to transmitting in the 2305 -- 2315 MHz
band. Power averaging shall not include intervals in which the transmitter is
off.
(i) **Automatic transmit power control**. Mobile and portable stations
transmitting in the 2305 -- 2315 MHz band or in the 2350 -- 2360 MHz band must
employ automatic transmit power control when operating so the stations operate
with the minimum power necessary for successful communications.
## 5.2 Emission limits
For operations in the 2305 -- 2320 MHz band and 2345 -- 2360 MHz band, the
power of any emissions outside of a licensee\'s frequency band(s) of operation
shall be attenuated below the transmitter power P (with averaging performed
only during periods of transmission) within the licencsed band(s) of
operation, in watts, by the following amounts:
Table 5.2-1: Emission limits for base and fixed stations operating\ in the
2305 -- 2320 MHz band and the 2345 -- 2360 MHz band
* * *
Frequency range (outside the licensed band(s) of operation) Minimum
attenuation requirement in dB 2305 -- 2320 MHz 43 + 10 log (P) 2345 -- 2360
MHz 43 + 10 log (P) 2320 -- 2345 MHz 75 + 10 log (P) 2300 -- 2305 MHz 43 + 10
log (P) 2287.5 -- 2300 MHz 70 + 10 log (P) 2285 -- 2287.5 MHz 72 + 10 log (P)
Below 2285 MHz 75 + 10 log (P) 2360 -- 2362.5 MHz 43 + 10 log (P) 2362.5 --
2365 MHz 55 + 10 log (P) 2365 -- 2367.5 MHz 70 + 10 log (P) 2367.5 -- 2370 MHz
72 + 10 log (P) Above 2370 MHz 75 + 10 log (P)
* * *
Table 5.2-2: Emmision limits for mobile and portable stations operating\ in
the 2305 -- 2315 MHz and 2350 -- 2360 MHz bands
* * *
Frequency range (outside the licensed band(s) of operation) Minimum
attenuation requirement in dB 2305 -- 2320 MHz 43 + 10 log (P) 2345 -- 2360
MHz 43 + 10 log (P) 2320 -- 2324 MHz 55 + 10 log (P) 2341 -- 2345 MHz 55 + 10
log (P) 2324 -- 2328 MHz 61 + 10 log (P) 2337 -- 2341 MHz 61 + 10 log (P) 2328
-- 2337 MHz 67 + 10 log (P) 2300 -- 2305 MHz 43 + 10 log (P) 2296 -- 2300 MHz
55 + 10 log (P) 2292 -- 2296 MHz 61 + 10 log (P) 2288 -- 2292 MHz 67 + 10 log
(P) Below 2288 MHz 70 + 10 log (P) 2360 -- 2365 MHz 43 + 10 log (P) Above 2365
MHz 70 + 10 log (P)
* * *
**1) Measurement Procedure:** Compliance with these rules is based on the use
of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz or
greater. However, in the 1 MHz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the
channel blocks at 2305, 2310, 2315, 2320, 2345, 2350, 2355, and 2360 MHz, a
resolution bandwidth of at least 1 percent of the emission bandwidth of the
fundamental emission of the transmitter may be employed. A narrower resolution
bandwidth is permitted in all cases to improve measurement accuracy provided
the measured power is integrated over the full required measurement bandwidth
(_i.e_., 1 MHz). The emission bandwidth is defined as the width of the signal
between two points, one below the carrier center frequency and one above the
carrier center frequency, outside of which all emissions are attenuated at
least 26 dB below the transmitter power.
## 5.3 3GPP requirements in accordance with FCC regulations
The following recommendations on defining the 3GPP requirements for the WCS
band in accordance with the FCC regulations have been approved in RAN4.
1) Not to define the 3GPP requirements for the WCS band in the RAN4
specifications corresponding to the FCC regulations on Power Limits and Duty
Cycle.
2) To define the 3GPP requirements for the WCS band in the RAN4 specifications
according to the FCC regulations on Emission Limits, without the need to
perform further coexistence studies in RAN4.
3) To study whether new NS_value and A-MPR are required to be defined in the
RAN4 specifications for UE to meet the FCC regulations on Emission Limits.
4) Not to define the 3GPP requirements for the WCS band in the RAN4
specifications corresponding to the FCC regulations on Power strength limits.
5) Not to define the 3GPP requirements for the WCS band in the RAN4
specifications corresponding to the FCC regulations on Protection from
interference.
# 6 List of band specific issues for the WCS band
This is the list of issues to resolve during the WI on the WCS band
\- General issues
\- The FCC out-of-band emissions frequency limits
\- Operating bands
\- Carrier frequency and EARFCN
\- E-UTRA specific issues
\- UE
\- Output power
\- Emission mask
\- Network signaling and A-MPR
\- UE REFSENS
\- UE in-band blocking
\- BS
\- Emission mask
# 7 General issues
## 7.1 The FCC out-of-band emissions frequency limits
3GPP specified spurious emissions in the frequency range from 9 kHz to 12.75
GHz. The general spurious emissions for an operating band above 1GHz and below
12.75 GHz is -30 dBm/MHz for the UE and -13 dBm/MHz (Category A) or -30
dBm/MHz (Category B) for the BS.
The out-of-band emissions specified by the FCC for the WCS band are equivalent
to the absolute emission limits of:
\- -45 dBm/MHz below 2285 MHz and above 2370 MHz for the BS
\- -40 dBm/MHz below 2288 MHz and above 2365 MHz for the UE
Where there is no upper or lower frequency limits to which these requirements
apply.
Specifying this requirement down to 9 kHz and up to 12.75 GHz would require a
more stringent spurious emissions for the WCS than for any other band and more
stringent than recommended in ITU-R SM.329 [11]. At the same time, these
requirements were specified for co-existence between the WCS band and adjacent
services at **2200 - 2290 MHz (** Federal Satellite Systems**) and 2370 - 2395
MHz (Aeronautical Mobile Telemetry or AMT).**
The emission limits of -45 dBm/MHz (BS) and -40 dBm/MHz(UE) can be limited
down to 2200 MHz and up to 2395 MHz while the the general spurious emission
should be required from 9 kHz - 2200 MHz and 2395 MHz-12.75 GHz. We also note
that simply complying with 3GPP requirements does not obviate the need for
equipment to also comply with applicable regulatory requirements.
# 8 Study of E-UTRA specific issues
## 8.1 UE transmitter requirements
### 8.1.1 Output power
**We propose that the maximum output power be set to 23 dBm with tolerance of
+2/-2 dB.**
Table 8.1.1-1. UE power class
* * *
EUTRA band Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 3
(dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) [30] 23 +2/-2
* * *
### 8.1.2 UE out-of-band emissions (additional spectrum emissions)
The WCS band will adhere to the additional spectrum mask requirements commonly
imposed via NS_03, NS_11, and NS_20. Thus, NS_xy for the WCS band will be
added to applicability of Table 8.1.2-1. This accounts for the FCC emission
requirements over the range 2300 - 2320 MHz. The remainder of the emission
requirements, which are stricter than those in this additional spectrum
emission mask, are captured as spurious emissions.
Additional spectrum emission requirements are signalled by the network to
indicate that the UE shall meet an additional requirement for a specific
deployment scenario as part of the cell handover/broadcast message.
When \"NS_03\", \"NS_11\", \"NS_20\", or \"NS_xy\" is indicated in the cell,
the power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in Table
8.1.2-1.
Table 8.1.2-1: Additional requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **Spe | | | | | | | | | ctrum | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | dBm)/ | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | andwi | | | | | | | | | dth** | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | ** | ** | **5** | * | * | * | **M | | *Δf~O | 1.4** | 3.0**| | *10** | _15_ _|_ 20**| easur | | OB~** | | | ** | | | | ement | | | ** | ** | MHz**| ** | ** | ** | b | |**(M | MHz**| MHz** | | MHz**| MHz** | MHz**| andwi | | Hz)** | | | | | | | dth** | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± 0-1 | -10 | -13 | -15 | -18 | -20 | -21 | 30 | | | | | | | | | kHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 1-2.5 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 2. | | | | | | | | | 5-2.8 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 2.8-5 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± 5-6 | | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | | | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 6-10 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | | | | -25 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 10-15 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | | | | | -25 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 15-20 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | | | | | | -25 | 1 MHz | | 20-25 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
NOTE: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment
should be equal to the measurement bandwidth. However, to improve measurement
accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution bandwidth may be smaller
than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is smaller than
the measurement bandwidth, the result should be integrated over the
measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the
measurement bandwidth.
### 8.1.3 Emission mask and UE coexistence
The UE coexistence table will include the emission requirements, applicable
when NS_xy is signaled by the network in accordance with the agreement in [4].
Additionally, the UE coexistence table must also include coexistence between
the WCS band and other bands operating in North America where the band is
expected to be deployed. These include bands 2, 4, 5, 10, 12, 13, 14, 17, 23,
24, 25, 26, 29, and 41. In most of these cases, the frequency separation is
large enough that -50 dBm/MHz can be met. However, in the case of Band 13, its
uplink has a 3^rd^ harmonic component which lands in the downlink of the WCS
band. Therefore, a harmonic exception is proposed to be allowed for Band 13.
Table 8.1.3-1
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Spu | | | | | | | | -UTRA | rious | | | | | | | | Band | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | Note | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1880 | | 1895 | -40 | 1 | 15,27 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1895 | | 1915 | -15.5 | 5 | 15,27 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1915 | | 1920 | +1.6 | 5 | 15,27 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 6, 8, | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 13 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 13 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | 859 | - | 869 | -27 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 26 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 875 | -37 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 875 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 7 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | 8 | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2570 | - | 2575 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2575 | - | 2595 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2620 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | band | | | high~ | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 23 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 23 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 23 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 10 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 11 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 10 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 13 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 15 | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [30] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 12, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 12, | | | range | | | | | | 15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 10 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 18 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 19 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | 9, 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 21 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -35 | 1 | 10, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 15 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 10 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 22 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 3510 | - | 3525 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 3525 | - | 3590 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 23 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 14, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 15 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1998 | - | 1999 | -21 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1997 | - | 1998 | -27 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1996 | - | 1997 | -32 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1995 | - | 1996 | -37 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1990 | - | 1995 | -40 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 24 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 25 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 0,12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 26 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 703 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 851 | - | 859 | -53 | 0. | 20 | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | 859 | -32 | 1 | 20 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 27 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 27 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | 790 | - | F | -32 | 1 | 16 | | | -UTRA | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 28 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | F~DL\ | - | 790 | -50 | 1 | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 28 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 4, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 19, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 24 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 19, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 25 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 773 | -32 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 773 | - | 803 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 662 | - | 694 | -26.2 | 6 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 19 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | \ | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | [30] | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2200 | - | 2288 | -40 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2288 | - | 2292 | -37 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2292 | - | 2296 | -31 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2296 | - | 2300 | -25 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2320 | - | 2324 | -25 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2324 | - | 2328 | -31 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2328 | - | 2332 | -37 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2332 | - | 2395 | -40 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 33 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 34 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8,39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 35 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37 | | | - | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1,3, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2620 | - | 2645 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2645 | - | 2690 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 40 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 41 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13 , | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [30] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 42 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 43 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | [ | [1] | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | -50] | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 44 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | refer | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .5-1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: To | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | N/A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | non | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | nchro | | | | | | | | | nised | | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_05 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.1 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 7: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | -1 | | | | | | | | | 919.6 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 8: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | -1 | | | | | | | | | 915.7 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 9: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_08 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.3 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 10: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_09 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.4 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 11: | | | | | | | | | Wh | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | 793-8 | | | | | | | | | 05MHz | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | stead | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 799-8 | | | | | | | | | 05MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | TBD. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 12: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | ffici | | | | | | | | | ently | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | ave | | | | | | | | | raged | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nsure | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | ndard | | | | | | | | | devi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | \ 3\. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 24: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -38 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 25: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -36 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 26: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 27: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 927.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 929.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1930 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1938 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1920 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1980 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 28: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_xy | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 8.1.4 Network signaling and A-MPR
Table 8.1.2-1: NS value
* * *
**Network Signalling value** **Requirements (subclause)** **E-UTRA Band**
**Channel bandwidth (MHz)** **Resources Blocks (_N_ ~RB~)** **A-MPR (dB)**
NS_xy 6.6.2.2.1 6.6.3.2 [30] 5, 10 Table x.y.z
* * *
Table 8.1.2-2: A-MPR table
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+-----+ | **Pa |** Region | **Region |** Region | | | | rameters**| A** | B**| C** | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+-----+ | RB~start~ | FFS | FFS | FFS | FFS | FFS | +------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+-----+ | L~CRB~ | FFS | FFS | FFS | FFS | FFS | | [RBs] | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+-----+ | A-MPR | FFS | FFS | FFS | FFS | FFS | | [dB] | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+-----+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | RB~start~ | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | the lowest | | | | | | | RB index | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ransmitted | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | L~CRB~ is | | | | | | | the length | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | contiguous | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | allocation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | intr | | | | | | | a-subframe | | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | | notes 1 | | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | apply on a | | | | | | | per slot | | | | | | | basis. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | intr | | | | | | | a-subframe | | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | | the larger | | | | | | | A-MPR | | | | | | | value of | | | | | | | the two | | | | | | | regions | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | for both | | | | | | | slots in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | subframe. | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+-----+
### 8.1.5 Emission mask and UE coexistence
The UE coexistence table will include the emission requirements, applicable
when NS_xy is signaled by the network in accordance with the agreement in [4].
Additionally, the UE coexistence table must also include coexistence between
the WCS band and other bands operating in North America where the band is
expected to be deployed. These include bands 2, 4, 5, 10, 12, 13, 14, 17, 23,
24, 25, 26, 29, and 41. In most of these cases, the frequency separation is
large enough that -50 dBm/MHz can be met. However, in the case of Band 13, its
uplink has a 3^rd^ harmonic component which lands in the downlink of the WCS
band. Therefore, a harmonic exception is proposed to be allowed for Band 13.
Table 8.1.3-1
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Spu | | | | | | | | -UTRA | rious | | | | | | | | Band | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | Note | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1880 | | 1895 | -40 | 1 | 15,27 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1895 | | 1915 | -15.5 | 5 | 15,27 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1915 | | 1920 | +1.6 | 5 | 15,27 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 6, 8, | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 13 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 13 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | 859 | - | 869 | -27 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 26 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 875 | -37 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 875 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 7 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | 8 | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2570 | - | 2575 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2575 | - | 2595 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2620 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | band | | | high~ | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 23 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 23 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 23 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 10 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 11 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 10 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 13 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 15 | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [30] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 12, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 12, | | | range | | | | | | 15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 10 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 18 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 19 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | 9, 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 21 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -35 | 1 | 10, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 15 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 10 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 22 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 3510 | - | 3525 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 3525 | - | 3590 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 23 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 14, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 15 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1998 | - | 1999 | -21 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1997 | - | 1998 | -27 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1996 | - | 1997 | -32 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1995 | - | 1996 | -37 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1990 | - | 1995 | -40 | 1 | 14, | | | uency | | | | | | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 24 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 25 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 0,12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 26 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 703 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 851 | - | 859 | -53 | 0. | 20 | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | 859 | -32 | 1 | 20 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 27 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 27 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | 790 | - | F | -32 | 1 | 16 | | | -UTRA | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 28 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | F~DL\ | - | 790 | -50 | 1 | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 28 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 4, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 19, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 24 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 19, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 25 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 773 | -32 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 773 | - | 803 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 662 | - | 694 | -26.2 | 6 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 19 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | \ | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | [30] | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2200 | - | 2288 | -40 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2288 | - | 2292 | -37 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2292 | - | 2296 | -31 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2296 | - | 2300 | -25 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2320 | - | 2324 | -25 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2324 | - | 2328 | -31 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2328 | - | 2332 | -37 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2332 | - | 2395 | -40 | 1 | 15, X | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 33 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 34 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8,39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 35 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37 | | | - | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1,3, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 30], | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2620 | - | 2645 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2645 | - | 2690 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 40 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 41 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13 , | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [30] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 42 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 43 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | [ | [1] | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | -50] | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 44 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | refer | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .5-1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: To | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | non | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | nchro | | | | | | | | | nised | | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_05 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.1 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 7: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1919. | | | | | | | | | 6MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 8: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1915. | | | | | | | | | 7MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 9: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_08 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.3 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 10: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_09 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.4 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 11: | | | | | | | | | Wh | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | 793-8 | | | | | | | | | 05MHz | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | stead | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 799-8 | | | | | | | | | 05MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | TBD | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 12: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | ffici | | | | | | | | | ently | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | ave | | | | | | | | | raged | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nsure | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | ndard | | | | | | | | | devi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | \ 3\. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 24: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -38 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 25: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -36 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 26: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 27: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 927.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 929.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1930 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1938 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1920 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1980 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 28: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_xy | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 8.2 UE receiver requirements
### 8.2.1 UE REFSENS
To establish reference sensitivity, we first evaluate the uplink configuration
required to minimize the effect of Tx noise. Based on methods used previously
for other bands, we find that the uplink configuration should be limited to 25
RB\'s for reference sensitivity. This enables a full allocation for the 5 MHz
channel. For the 10 MHz channel, the 25 RB\'s are placed closest to the
downlink in the worst case location.
Table 8.2.1-1: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
* * *
E-UTRA Band / Channel bandwidth / NRB / Duplex mode  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Duplex Mode [30] 25 25^1^
FDD NOTE: Refers to the UL resource blocks shall be located as close as
possible to the downlink operating band but confined within the transmission
bandwidth configuration for the channel bandwidth (Table 5.6-1).
* * *
The ratio of the passband to the duplex gap is small so it is expected that
the isolation requirements for the duplexer can be met without undue insertion
loss. We furthermore assume that the additional emission requirements of NS_xy
have been addressed by A-MPR, as described previously, rather than by
stringent filtering requirements. However, the ISM band is in proximity and
will require filter mitigation. Furthermore, there may be the need to provide
filter attenuation against in-band blockers. Tentatively, we propose the
reference sensitivity for WCS as -100 dBm and -97 dBm for 5 MHz and 10 MHz
channel bandwidths, respectively.
Table 8.2.1-2: Reference sensitivity
+-------------------+---------+-------+----------+---------+--------+--------+-------------+ | Channel bandwidth | | | | | | | | +-------------------+---------+-------+----------+---------+--------+--------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Duplex Mode | | | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | +-------------------+---------+-------+----------+---------+--------+--------+-------------+ | [30] | | | [-100] | [-97] | | | FDD | +-------------------+---------+-------+----------+---------+--------+--------+-------------+
### 8.2.2 UE ACS and blocking
We do not foresee any specialized ACS requirements for this band. However,
there needs to be an additional in-band blocking requirement to accommodate
SDARS repeaters operating in nearby spectrum assignments in the range 2336.2
-- 2341.3 MHz. We therefore propose to apply the conventional ACS and to
create a new in-band blocking case for the WCS band (Case 5), see clause
8.2.2.1.
Table 8.2.2-1: In-band blocking
+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Para | Unit | Case | Case | Case | Case | Case | | -UTRA | meter | | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | | band | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P~I | dBm | -56 | -44 | -30 | -30 | -38 | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | F~I | MHz | = | ≤ | -BW/2 | -BW/2 | ≤ | | | nterf | | -BW/2 | -BW/2 | -- 15 | -- 10 | -BW/2 | | | erer~ | | -- | -- | | | -- 11 | | | (of | | F~I | F~I | & | | | | | fset) | | offse | offse | | | | | | | | t,cas | t,cas | -BW/2 | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | e\ 2~ | -- 9 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = | ≥ | | | | | | | | +BW/2 | +BW/2 | | | | | | | | + | + | | | | | | | | F~I | F~I | | | | | | | | offse | offse | | | | | | | | t,cas | t,cas | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | e\ 2~ | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1, 2, | F~I | MHz | (Note | F~DL\ | | | | | 3, 4, | nterf | | 2) | _low~ | | | | | 5, 6, | erer~ | | | -- 15 | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 9, | | | | to | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | F | | | | | 13, | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | 14, | | | | high~ | | | | | 18, | | | | + 15 | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 35, | | | | | | | | | 36, | | | | | | | | | 37, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | F~I | MHz | (Note | F~DL\ | | F~DL\ | | | | nterf | | 2) | _low~ | | _low~ | | | | erer~ | | | -- 10 | | -- 10 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | + 15 | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | F~I | MHz | (Note | F~DL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | nterf | | 2) | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | erer~ | | | -- 9 | -- 15 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | to | and | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | _low~ | | | | | | | | high~ | -- 9 | | | | | | | | + 15 | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | \ | F~I | MHz | (Note | F~DL\ | | | F~DL\ | | [30] | nterf | | 2) | _low~ | | | _low~ | | | erer~ | | | -- 15 | | | -- 11 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | + 15 | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | rtain | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | unw | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | fall | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | ceive | | | | | | | | | band, | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | ceive | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | valid | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | | equen | | | | | | | | | cies: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > a. | | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | | > ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | -BW/2 | | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | F~Iof | | | | | | | | | fset, | | | | | | | | | \ cas | | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | > b. | | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | | > ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | +BW/2 | | | | | | | | | > \+ | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | F~Iof | | | | | | | | | fset, | | | | | | | | | \ cas | | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | F~I | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | unw | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | | equen | | | | | | | | | cies. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | Case | | | | | | | | | 3 and | | | | | | | | | Case | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | of 5 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.2.2-2: Out of band blocking
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | Pa | Units | Fr | | | | | band | rameter | | equency | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | range 1 | range 2 | range 3 | range 4 | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | P~Inte | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | -15 | | | rferer~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1, 2, | F~Inte | MHz | F~D | F~D | F~D | - | | 3, 4, 5 | rferer~ | | L_low~ | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | 6, 7, | | | | | | | | 8, 9, | | | F~D | F~D | 1 MHz | | | 10, 11, | | | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | | 12, 13, | | | -60 | -85 | | | | 14, 17, | | | | | | | | 18, 19, | | | | | | | | 20, 21, | | | | | | | | 22, 23, | | | | | | | | 24, 25, | | | | | | | | 26, 27, | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | [30], | | | | | | | | 33, 34, | | | | | | | | 35, 36, | | | | | | | | 37, 38, | | | | | | | | 39, 40, | | | | | | | | 41, 42, | | | | | | | | 43, 44 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | F~DL | F~DL | F~DL | - | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | _high~ | | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL | F~DL | +12750 | | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | MHz | | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2, 5, | F~Inte | MHz | - | - | - | F~U | | 12, 17 | rferer~ | | | | | L_low\ | | | | | | | | **-** ~ | | | | | | | | F~UL | | | | | | | | _high~ | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | upports | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | Band 11 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Band 21 | | | | | | | | the out | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | locking | | | | | | | | is FFS. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
#### 8.2.2.1 SDARS terrestrial repeaters
XM and Sirius deploy both terrestrial repeaters in the mid-frequencies of
their spectrum . As outlined in [10], there were about 105 Sirius terrestrial
repeaters and more than 1000 XM terrestrial repeaters by 2004, many of them
located in urban areas, where the WCS will also be used. Interference may then
happen.
The XM and Sirius terrestrial repeaters are allocated at 11.25 MHz and 23.75
MHz, respectively, from the WCS DL operating band edge, as shown in Figure
8.2.2.1-1.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.413888888888889in"}
Figure 8.2.2.1-1: WCS DL and SDARS terrestrial repeaters allocation
In terms of interferer frequency offset, the interfering signal from the XM
repeater at an offset that corresponds to the standard in-band blocking
requirements w r t the WCS receive band, while the Sirius repeater is almost
at half-duplex offset.
The standard in-band blocking level at the offset corresponding to the XM
repeater interferer is -44 dBm (for a 5 MHz LTE interferer), which would
correspond to a separation distance of around 280 m assuming in free-space
and, the same repeater antenna discrimination. The latter may be smaller at a
larger separation distance, which means that the actual separation distance
required is larger than 280 m at the -44 dBm interferer level.
The Sirius repeater interferer is almost a half-duplex blocker, but the
wideband intermodulation response with the own TX falls just below the WCS
receive band. Furthermore, it is anticipated that the receive filter at 23.7
MHz will supply sufficient rejection for the Sirius repeater interference so
that it would not become a problem, regardless of duplex filter technology
used.
The terrestrial repeater power is specified in [1] as 12 kW EIRP while the XM
terrestrial repeaters typically transmit at lower power, up to 7 kW. An
initial assessment indicates that a UE can get as close as 30 m from a SDARS
repeater. Assuming the SDARS antenna height to be 100m, its discrimination
below the repeater antenna in the order of 25 dB and the UE antenna gain as
0dBi , a victim UE is subject to a blocker of -37 dBm (in free space).
The WCS UEs should have the capability to reject the blocking signal from the
XM terrestrial repeaters. Looking at the in-band blocking requirements in TS
36.101 [12], this blocking level is higher than what is specified as the
general in-band blocking requirements. Therefore, a new in-band blocking
requirement, Case 5, is added to the WCS band. The power of the interferer
signal for this case is defined as -38 dBm at 11MHz from the DL of the WCS
band.
## 8.3 Additional spurious emissions
Table 8.3-1 shows how to specify the FCC out-of band emissions outside the
range 2345 - 2362.5MHz. These emissions are defined as additional BS spurious
emissions for Band [30]. More specifically:
\- The FCC requirement at 2320 - 2345MHz and below 2285 MHz is specified as a
minimum attenuation level of 75+10logP with 1 MHz measurement bandwidth (or
the equivalent -45 dBm/MHz), while the attenuation required between 2285 and
2320 MHz is more relaxed. The BS own UL protection (2305 - 2315 MHz for the
WCS band) is specified in 3GPP as -96 dBm/100 kHz. Therefore, the requirement
below 2345 MHz can be kept as -45 dBm/MHz.
\- The 3GPP general spurious emissions apply between 9 kHz - 2200 MHz and 2395
MHz -- 12.75 GHz.
Table 8.3-1: Additional BS Spurious emissions limits for Band [30]
* * *
Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 2200 MHz ↔ 2345 MHz
-45 dBm 1 MHz  
2362.5 MHz ↔ 2365 MHz -25 dBm 1 MHz  
2365 MHz ↔ 2367.5 MHz -40 dBm 1 MHz  
2367.5 MHz ↔ 2370 MHz -42 dBm 1 MHz  
2370 MHz ↔ 2395 MHz -45 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
# 9 Channel numbering for E-UTRA, MSR
## 9.1 Band and channel numbering for E-UTRA
Band and channel numbering are conventionally not decided until near
completion of the work item to avoid unnecessary shuffling of numbers in the
event that the work item is not completed on schedule or other new band work
items also scheduled for closure at the same time do not complete on schedule.
We note that both the WCS band and the LTE 450 band are expected to complete
at RAN #60 in June.
One possible outcome is that the WCS band is assigned Band [30] and the LTE
450 band is assigned Band [31]. In that case, the channel numbers for the WCS
band would be as shown below in Table 9.1-1.
Table 9.1-1: EARFCN number in the event that WCS band is assigned Band 30
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | D | Uplink | | | | | | Op | ownlink | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | F~D | N~O | Range | F~U | N~O | Range | | | L_low~ | ffs-DL~ | of | L_low~ | ffs-UL~ | of | | | (MHz) | | N~DL~ | (MHz) | | N~UL~ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | [30] | 2350 | \ | [9770 | 2305 | [ | [27660 | | | | [9770] | -- | | 27660] | -- | | | | | 9869] | | | 27759] | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
# 10 Required changes to E-UTRA, MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the new band are
summarised in a Table 10-1.
Table 10-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes
* * *
3GPP specification Clause in TR 30.007 where the required changes are given
Clause in the present document identifying additional changes TS 36.101
8.2.1.1  
TS 36.104 8.2.1.2  
TS 36.113 8.2.1.4  
TS 36.124 8.2.1.5  
TS 36.133 8.2.1.6  
TS 36.141 8.2.1.7  
TS 36.307 8.2.1.9  
TS 25.101 8.2.2.1  
TS 25.104 8.2.2.3  
TS 25.123 8.2.2.7  
TS 25.133 8.2.2.9  
TS 25.141 8.2.2.10  
TS 25.461 8.2.2.15  
TS 25.466 8.2.2.16  
TS 37.104 8.2.3.1  
TS 37.113 8.2.2.2  
TS 37.141 8.2.2.3
* * *
#