# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for "Expansion of LTE_FDD_1670_US
to include 1670-1680 MHz Band for LTE in the US" study item, which was
approved at 3GPP TSG RAN#59 [2]. The ID assigned to the study item is
FS_LTE_FDD_1670_US. The objective of this study item is to facilitate and
harmonize the characteristics and efficient use of 1670-1680MHz DL duplexed
with band 24 UL for LTE FDD deployment in US. In addition to the schedule and
status of the study items, the report includes a description of the
motivation, requirements, study results and specification recommendations.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\". [SID] RP-090666,
"Proposed SI: Extended 850", Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, Motorola, NII Holdings,
Nokia, Nokia Siemens Networks, ST-Ericsson
[2] RP-130202: \" Study Item Proposal: Expansion of LTE_FDD_1670_US to include
1670-1680 MHz Band for LTE in the US \", RAN #59, Feb. 2013
[3] FCC Rules and Regulations 47 C.F.R §27: \"Miscellaneous Wireless
Communications Services: http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-
idx?c=ecfr&SID=79c73df3f25987fc1a7bc7da895561df&rgn=div5&view=text&node=47:2.0.1.1.5&idno=47\"
[4] FCC Order DA 07-5101: \"Crown Castle Waiver Order\", FCC,
http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/DA-07-5101A1.pdf
[5] FCC Rules and Regulations 47 C.F.R §2.106: \"Table of Frequency
Allocations\" http://transition.fcc.gov/oet/spectrum/table/fcctable.pdf
[6] FCC Rules and Regulations 47 C.F.R §25.23: \"Special requirements for
ancillary terrestrial components operating in the 1626.5--1660.5 MHz/1525--
1559 MHz bands. \"
http://www.hallikainen.org/FCC/FccRules/2012/25/253/section.pdf
[7] FCC Order DA-10-534, March 26, 2010,
http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/DA-10-534A1.pdf
[8] FCC Order DA-04-3553, November 8, 2004,
http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/DA-04-3553A1.pdf
[9] FCC Order DA 05-30, February 25, 2005,
http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/FCC-05-30A1.pdf
[10] 3GPP TS 36.104 v12.0.0, \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.942 v11.0.0, \"Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[12] R4-092371, \"MSD for various bands based on MRC\", Ericsson, RAN4#51bis,
June 2009.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
## 3.2 Symbols
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
\ \
# 4 Background
Band 24 (L-Band) is standardized in 3GPP Rel-10 LTE under the work item
\"Adding L-Band (Band 24) LTE for Ancillary Terrestrial Component (ATC) of
Mobile Satellite Service (MSS) in North America\" (L_Band_LTE_ATC_MSS)
UID_470010. The FCC has suspended the license to deploy ATC in both the upper
and lower segments of Band-24 downlink in the United States (and the
associated build-out requirements, pending further review). As a result,
LightSquared has not commenced such deployment in this band, and will not use
Band 24 downlink until the FCC and NTIA approve such use. On December 20,
2012, the FCC granted LightSquared an indefinite extension of its ATC build-
out requirement, while it considers LightSquared's proposals to resolve
concerns regarding potential interference to GPS receivers, including the
proposals discussed here (Order in IB Docket No. 12-296, DA 12-2051 December
20, 2012).
{width="6.492361111111111in" height="1.66875in"}
Figure 4-1: LightSquared Spectrum Holding
In addition, LightSquared has contractual and regulatory authority to use the
5 MHz of spectrum associated with the FCC's nationwide license for 1670-1675
MHz (CH5 in Figure 4.1). FCC Rules allow 2000 Watts peak EIRP from base
station, and 4 Watts EIRP from mobile terminals (CFR Title 47 §27.50(f) [3]).
LightSquared has requested to expand the downlink band to 10 MHz bandwidth,
i.e. 1670-1680 MHz and has identified options for pairing this band with
uplink spectrum at 1627.5-1637.5 or 1646.7-1656.7 MHz (see Figure 4.2). The
FCC recently issued public notices for LightSquared's requests to operate its
terrestrial network using the downlink frequencies at 1670-1675 MHz and
1675-1680 MHz, and the comment cycle was completed in early January 2013
without serious objections.
{width="6.50625in" height="1.3736111111111111in"}
Figure 4-1: Potential LightSquared Spectrum Holding
# 5 Band allocation plan and regulatory background
This Section provides the frequency band arrangements and regulatory
backgrounds for the proposed band.
## 5.1 Existing Rules for 1670-1675 MHz.
FCC rules allow 2000 Watts peak EIRP from base stations, and 4 Watts EIRP from
mobile terminals (47 CFR §27.50(f)) in the 1670-1675 MHz band.
FCC has not mandated the radio propagation direction for the 1670 -- 1675 MHz
band (forward or reverse link), and leaves that to the operator's discretion.
Acceptable access techniques include both FDD and TDD technologies, provided
the relevant FCC transmitter emissions and other regulatory and requirements
are met. LightSquared aims to use the spectrum as the downlink component of an
FDD LTE system, with band 24 UL as its uplink spectrum.
This band was licensed to Crown Castle for the broadcast of a nationwide DVB-H
mobile video service, called Modeo, with at least 10 video channels and 24
audio channels. Crown Castle sought and received approval from the FCC to
operate at higher power under certain conditions for the provision of its
Modeo services (identified in FCC 07-16). For economic reasons, Modeo service
was abandoned by Crown Castle and the spectrum was leased to LightSquared.
The LTE deployment in this band will adhere to all 3GPP terrestrial out-of-
band requirements for spurious emissions including those for UE, eNB, and UE-
to-UE emissions as will be defined in 3GPP TS 36.101, TS 36.104, 3GPP TS
25.101, and other relevant documents. Spurious emission requirements from the
addition of this new band are expected to be the same as those required from
the addition of other new US bands in 3GPP.
### 5.1.1 Base Station and Mobile Station Power Limits for 1670-1675 MHz
Pursuant to Section 27.50(f) of the Commission's rules, fixed and base station
operations in the 1670-1675 MHz band are limited to 2000 watts EIRP peak
power. This power level includes transmit antenna gains.
As mentioned above, Crown Castle International Corporation sought and received
in FCC Order FCC 07-16 waiver of Section 27.50(f) of the Commission's rules,
which specifies a peak 2 kW EIRP limit for fixed and base station operations
in the 1670-1675 MHz band. Under this waiver, the fixed and base station
macrocells are allowed to transmit up to 4 kW/MHz (which is equivalent to 36
dBW/MHz or 66 dBm/MHz) peak EIRP density in non-rural, and 8 kW/MHz (which is
equivalent to 39 dBW/MHz or 69 dBm/MHz) peak EIRP density in rural areas only
in 30 Cellular Market Areas (CMAs) specified in Crown Castle's Initial Market
Deployment Plan (identified in FCC 07-16). In all other CMAs, the lower 2 kW
or 33 dBW peak base station EIRP limit applies. All these power limits include
the transmit antenna gains. Note that, based on FCC 07-16, any power level
above 2 kW is defined as high power transmission. This approach would have
enabled Crown Castle to operate its proposed 5 MHz bandwidth DVB-H technology
at up to 20 kW and 40 kW peak EIRP, for a 5 MHz channel, in non-rural and
rural areas, respectively.
Mobile terminals are limited to 4 watts EIRP peak power or 6 dBW (36 dBm)
EIRP, including the terminal's antenna gain.
### 5.1.2 Out of Band Emission (OOBE) Limits
In addition to all co-ordination and power limit requirements, operation in
1670-1675 MHz band is required to meet the following Out-Of-Band Emission
(OOBE) limits:
Per 47 CFR §27.53(k), the power of any emission outside the licensee's
frequency band of operation, shall be attenuated below the transmitter power
(P) by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB. Compliance with this provision is based on
the resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz or less, but at least one percent of the
fundamental emission bandwidth of the transmitter, provided the measured
energy is integrated over a 1 MHz bandwidth.
{width="5.717361111111111in" height="2.6694444444444443in"}
Figure 5.1: NOAA Services in 1600MHz band [Courtesy to NOAA]
### 5.1.3 Coordination
Figure 5.1 depicts the services in the 1600 MHz band that might require
coordination from any commercial services deployed in 1670-1680 MHz band. The
figure shows the current and future plans for this band.
#### 5.1.3.1 Meteorological Satellite Earth Stations
Although the 1670-1675 MHz band has been generally unencumbered, there are
three vital federal Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite System
(GOES) earth stations adjacent to this band (centred at 1676 MHz). 47 C.F.R
§1.924(g) (1) establishes coordination zones around downlinks for these earth
stations, which are located at Wallops Island, Virginia; Fairbanks, Alaska;
and Greenbelt, Maryland. More earth stations are located in Suitland MD,
Fairmont WV, and Omaha NE. However, there is no explicit FCC requirement
establishing a coordination zone for these additional earth stations. The
coordination zone for Wallops Island and Fairbanks are specified locations
bounded by circles with a radius of 100 km (62.1 miles), respectively, while
the Greenbelt zone is a specified location bounded by a circle with a radius
of 65 km (40.4 miles). For the 30 CMAs defined in FCC 07-16, where the
transmission power could be greater than 2 kW (i.e., high power), the radius
of the circle for the coordination zone surrounding Wallops Island and
Fairbanks increases to 180 km and the radius of the circle for the
coordination zone for Greenbelt increases to 100 km. Even considering the
larger coordination zones in Fairbanks and Greenbelt, only 4% of USA PoPs
would be impacted around these six locations.
Regardless of power levels, Section 1.924(g) (2) requires licensees to protect
Wallops Island and Fairbanks at all times, and to protect Greenbelt, which is
a back-up for Wallops Island, when it is active. 47 C.F.R. §27.903(b) (3)
requires licensees to file a separate station application with the FCC and
obtain an individual station license, prior to construction or operation of
any station in a coordination zone. Licensees are required to notify the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office Frequency
Management, either before or simultaneously with the filing of such an
application
#### 5.1.3.2 Radio Astronomy Services (RAS)
Radio Astronomy Service (RAS) also operates at two of the four hydroxyl line
frequencies, namely 1665 and 1667 MHz. To protect RAS, any operator with a
high power station (i.e. more than 2 kW EIRP) within 185 km radius of RAS
facilities (listed in 47 CFR §2.106, footnote US385) is obligated to co-
ordinate with the National Science Foundation (NSF) by initiating
consultations in writing at least 30 days before undertaking any such
operations. No coordination is required if the transmission power is no more
than 2 kW EIRP, as per FCC rules for the 1670 -- 1675 MHz band.
In the FCC rulemaking establishing technical requirements for the 1670-1675
MHz band, the National Research Council's Committee on Radio Frequencies
(CORF) requested the FCC to establish exclusion and coordination zones for the
protection of RAS. However, the FCC rejected the request, and rather
considered the OOBE for the 1670-1675 MHz licensee sufficient to protect RAS
operations.
Footnote US74 of 47 C.F.R. §2.106, stating that "RAS operation will be
protected from extra-band radiation only to the extent that such radiation
exceeds the limits for a station operating in compliance with all applicable
Commission rules," applies to the 1670-1675 MHz band. Footnote US385 of 47
C.F.R §2.106 lists the location of RAS sites that are considered under this
provision.
#### 5.1.3.3 Meteorological Aids
National Weather Service Radiosondes (NWS) operates radiosondes in 1675-1683
MHz to obtain upper-air data that are essential for weather forecasts and
research. Radiosondes use an approximate 250 mW transmitter power and operate
out to a range of 250 kilometers from NWS Upper Air Sites. To address the
potential interference from high power operations (i.e., more than 2 kW EIRP),
any operator deploying stations in 1670-1675 MHz within 1.3 km of any NWS
Upper Air Site is required to coordinate with NWS. No coordination is required
if the transmission power is no more than 2 kW EIRP.
## 5.2 Current Rules for 1675-1680 MHz
On November 2, 2012, LightSquared asked for FCC authority to use the 1675-1680
MHz band to provide a commercially-useable terrestrial wireless broadband
service as part of a contiguous 10 MHz downlink channel. The 5 MHz band at
1675--1680 MHz will be shared with existing federal government users.
LightSquared's proposal is uniquely suited to protecting the integrity of
essential government operations in the 1675-1680 MHz band. The FCC has
accepted public comment on the proposal, and the comment cycle has been
closed.
The 1675-1680 MHz band currently is allocated on a primary basis for both non-
Federal and Federal use by the Meteorological Aids (MetAids) and
Meteorological-Satellite (MetSat) Services; it is not allocated for
terrestrial mobile service. LightSquared's FCC filings recognize that its
proposed use of 1675-1680 MHz may require modification of the Commission's
rules in order to facilitate the prompt processing and grant of its
applications.
There are two downlink MetSat services deployed in 1675-1680 MHz band that
must be protected from any terrestrial operation in the same band: 1) Sensor
Data Link (SD) on current GOES-NOP (centred at 1676 MHz) , and 2) Data
Collection Platform Report (DCPR) on future GOES-R satellite (centred at
1679.9 MHz and 1680.2 MHz). While locations for both SD and DCPR are known
based on NTIA's report, currently there are no rules specifying protection
zones around these sites.
The 1675 -- 1680 MHz band also overlaps with NOAA Channel 1 (1676 MHz) and
Channel 2 (1678 MHz) used for MetAids (Radiosonde) operations in the
Continental United States (CONUS). Currently, there are 71 government operated
Radiosonde receive stations in the CONUS. The International Table of
Allocations contains primary allocations for MetAids (Radiosondes) at both
400.15-406 MHz and 1668.4-1700 MHz.
If coordination with these services requires LightSquared to limit its
deployment within an exclusion zone, a 5 MHz deployment (from 1670-1675 MHz)
could be considered.
## 5.3 Technical Rules for UEs
The following information outlines the UE emissions masks for 1626-1660 MHz
UL, in EIRP metrics, consistent with FCC's rules.
● Maximum Power: 0 dBW or 30 dBm [6; (g)(1)] & [7].
● Out-of-Band Emissions for Mobile Terminals
○ OOCE/OOBE Emission [8]:
  * ▪ Limit of -58 dBW/4kHz (-28 dBm/4kHz) per terminal at a 1 MHz > offset and beyond from the edge of the spectrum used for > terrestrial deployment.
○ Specific Emissions Requirement to protect RNSS (GPS) band [9]:
▪ **Wideband Emissions** \- (averaged over any 2 millisecond active
transmission interval):
• 1559 -- 1605 MHz: -60 dBm/MHz; After 5 years: -65 dBm/MHz
• 1605 -- 1610 MHz: Linear interpolation from -60 dBm/MHz to -36 dBm/MHz;
After 5 years: linear interpolation from -65 dBm/MHz to -41 dBm/MHz
▪ Narrowband Emissions - (EIRP of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz
bandwidth, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval):
• 1559 -- 1605 MHz: -70 dBm; -75 dBm after 5 years
• 1605 -- 1610 MHz: Linear interpolation from -70 dBm to -46 dBm; After 5
years: linear interpolation from -75 dBm to -51 dBm
# 6 List of band specific issues for LTE FDD in 1670-1680MHz and band 24 UL
\- General issues
○ Co-existence with nearby 3GPP bands
• Co-existence with band 24
\- E-UTRA issues
○ UE Duplexer
• Potential receiver desensitization due to UL TX noise
• Potential device receiver overload due to its UL TX power
○ UE REFSENS
\- MSR issues
# 7 General Issues
{width="3.8784722222222223in" height="1.2868055555555555in"}
Figure 7-1: Proposed Band including B24 UL
The LTE deployment in this band will adhere to all 3GPP terrestrial out-of-
band requirements for spurious emissions including those for UE, eNB, and UE-
to-UE emissions as will be defined in 3GPP TS 36.101, TS 36.104, 3GPP TS
25.101, and other relevant documents.
The downlink spectrum covered by this study item is 1670 to 1680 MHz, and the
corresponding paired 10 MHz uplink band is included within band 24 UL, 1626.5
to 1660.5 MHz (Figure 7.1). In particular the proposed UL band is either
1627.5 to 1637.5 MHz, or 1646.7 to 1656.7 MHz. These configurations are
depicted in Figure 7-2.
As depicted in Figure 7-2, the band would consider both 5 MHz and 10 MHz
channel bandwidths. The 5 MHz deployment is considered for the markets with
exclusion zone requirements to coordinate with weather services in 1675-1680
MHz. Tables 7-1 and 7-2 depict the proposed operating band configurations. We
refer to UL pairing with smaller duplexing gap (Table 7-1) as option 1, and
the UL pairing with larger duplexing gap (Table 7-2) as option 2.
Table 7-1: LTE proposed operating band configuration; option 1
* * *
E-UTRA operating Band Uplink (UL) band Downlink (DL) band TRX separation  
UE transmit / BS receive Channel BW [MHz] UE receive / BS transmit Channel BW
[MHz]  
F~UL_low~ (MHz) -- F~UL_high~ (MHz) F~DL_low~ (MHz) -- F~DL_high~ (MHz)  
XX 1646.7 - 1656.7 [5]/[10] 1670 -- 1680 [5]/[10] 23.3 MHz
* * *
Table 7-2: LTE proposed operating band configuration; option 2
* * *
E-UTRA operating Band Uplink (UL) band Downlink (DL) band TRX separation  
UE transmit / BS receive Channel BW [MHz] UE receive / BS transmit Channel BW
[MHz]  
F~UL_low~ (MHz) -- F~UL_high~ (MHz) F~DL_low~ (MHz) -- F~DL_high~ (MHz)  
XX 1627.5 - 1637.5 [5]/[10] 1670 -- 1680 [5]/[10] 42.5 MHz
* * *
The choices under study for 10 MHz pairing are either H and F, or H and G as
depicted in Figure 7.2. The distance between the UL and DL edges of the
proposed band for 10 MHz carriers is 13.3 MHz for option 1, and 32.5 MHz for
option 2. The pass-band is 10 MHz, with a UL-DL distance of either 23.3 MHz
for option 1 or 42.5 MHz for option 2. These requirements may be challenging,
but are not without precedence in 3GPP RAN4. For example, bands 8, 26, and 28
have duplexing gap of 10 MHz, band 12 has the duplexing gap of 13 MHz, and 15
MHz for band 25. The corresponding gaps for 5 MHz pass-band are 18.3 MHz for
option 1, or 37.5 MHz for option 2.
{width="4.886805555555555in" height="1.9201388888888888in"}
Figure 7-2: Proposed UL & DL Pairings (a) Pairing Lower UL Carrier (b) Pairing
Upper UL Carrier
## 7.1 Co-existence with band 24
Due to the proximity of this proposed downlink spectrum with band 24 uplink
(1626.5-1660.5), the co-existence issues between these two bands have to be
studied. In order to manage the interference from band 24 UEs to the UEs
receiving DL signal at 1670-1680 MHz, the OOBE from B24 into this downlink
band needs to be reconsidered. If a new OOBE limit is needed for band 24 UEs
to protect the receivers in this band, new Network Signaling (NS) could also
be devised, potentially.
# 8 Study of E-UTRA specific issues for UEs
## 8.1 UE Special Issues for Pairing Upper UL Carrier (Option 1)
If the upper UL carrier is paired with the DL carrier, the UE Rx filter in the
duplexer (pass-band of 1670 -- 1680 MHz) has to sufficiently attenuate uplink
transmissions from 1646.7-1656.7 MHz at a separation of 13.3 MHz from the
downlink. The UE TX filter in the duplexer must sufficiently suppress adjacent
channel emissions into the downlink band, from an UL emission 13.3 MHz away.
This demanding rejection requirement of the duplexer might impact the
insertion loss of both TX and RX filters.
To this end, some issues have to be addressed, including the followings:
1\. Potential receiver desensitization (at 1670-1680 MHz) due to UL TX noise.
2\. Potential device receiver overload due to its UL TX power
3\. OOBE and 3rd order Intermodulation products from UL aggressor band into
victim DL band (mobile to mobile case).
The same issue applies to two devices using this band in proximity (say 1- 5m
separation), one receiving downlink signal in 1670-1680MHz, and another one
transmitting uplink signal in 1646.7-1656.7MHz.
As a result, overload, receiver desensitization, OOBE, and duplexer design
have to be studied for this band.
Currently, the UE band 24 duplexer supports the UL range of 1626-1660 MHz.
This duplexer provides a sharp edge at the left side (to protect GPS), but the
isolation at 1670-1680 MHz is not significant. As a result, assuming that re-
designing band 24 duplexer to be sharp at both sides is costly and complex, a
new duplexer has to be designed for this proposed band. The duplexer has to
support high isolation, as a practical measure, 50 dB at the Rx band 1670-1680
MHz.
The performance feasibility of this duplexer is provided using simulation by
duplexer/filter vendors using Film Bulk Acoustic Resonator (FBAR) technology.
These performance figures were the Tx-Rx rejection, Tx insertion loss, and Rx
insertion loss. Figures 8.1-1, 8.1-2, and 8.1-3 show the results of simulating
these three metrics.
{width="3.9756944444444446in" height="2.879166666666667in"}
Figure 8.1-1: 1600 MHz UE Duplexer Isolation
The plots represent the typical filters at room temperature (25°C), using FBAR
filter technology process. As evident from Fig. 8.1.1, the 50 dB Tx-Rx
isolation from 1646.7-1656.7 UL carrier to 1670-1680 MHz DL is feasible with a
considerable margin.
The figures also show the operator requirement for Tx-Rx isolation (50 dB) and
the Tx and Rx insertion losses (in dotted line). The filter vendor has
affirmed that these requirements can be met over normal manufacturing
variations and a temperature range of -20 to +85°C. The vendor has further
stated that the maximum shift in the nominal center frequency over
manufacturing and temperature variations is +/- 3 MHz. It is evident from the
frequency response plots that both insertion loss and adjacent band rejection
requirements will continue to be met in spite of the above frequency shift.
{width="4.076388888888889in" height="2.8625in"}
Figure 8.1-2: 1600 MHz UE Duplexer Tx Insertion Loss
{width="4.092361111111111in" height="3.0875in"}
Figure 8.1-3: 1600 MHz UE Duplexer Rx Insertion Loss
Table 8.1-1 represents the performance of duplexer performance using FBAR
technology for the temperature range of -20 to +85°C.
Table 8.1-1: The duplexer performance for the proposed band using FBAR
technology
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band | Max Tx | Max Rx | Min Tx to | Min Tx to | | | filter IL | filter IL | Rx | Rx | | | (dB) | (dB) | isolation | isolation | | | | | in Rx band | in Tx band | | | | | (dB) | (dB) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1670-1680 | 3 | 3 | 50 | 50 | | MHz DL | | | | | | | | | | | | 16 | | | | | | 46.7-1656.7 | | | | | | MHz UL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 8.1.1 Potential receiver desensitization due to UL TX noise
Assuming the duplexer specifications in Table 8.1-1, in Table 8.1.1-1 we
calculate the receiver desensitization, and additional attenuation required to
achieve 1 dB and 3 dB receiver desensitization, using 9 dB UE NF (Noise
Figure). The UE PA OOBE attenuation is verified by evaluating the
characteristics of existing band 24 PA, using 23 dBm transmit power, and 50
RBs for UL transmission.
Table 8.1.1-1: 10 MHz Receiver Desensitation for in-device isolation Pairing
upper UL carrier
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Max UE PA OOBE (50 PRBs), 13.3 MHz from carrier edge -92
dBm/Hz Duplexer isolation at 13.3 MHz from carrier edge 50 dB Tx noise at
1670-1680 MHz -142 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the Rx carrier for 1 dB Rx
desensitization -170.9 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the Rx carrier for 3 dB Rx
desensitization -165 dBm/Hz Minimum Additional Required Isolation for 1 dB
Desense. 28.9 dB Minimum Additional Required Isolation for 3 dB Desense. 23 dB
* * *
The additional isolation must be achieved either by improving the OOBE of the
Tx band-pass filter, or by inserting an additional band-rejection filter after
the PA in the transmit chain. The former is not feasible for UEs, and the
later requires dealing with potential insertion loss of this additional
filters.
Table 8.1.1-2 provides the same analysis for 5 MHz UL Tx channel at
1646.7-1651.7 and DL carrier at 1670-1675 MHz. Note that the PA OOBE at 18.3
MHz away from carrier edge is obtained assuming 25.8 maximum UL Tx power.
Table 8.1.1-2: 5 MHz Receiver Desensitation for in-device isolation Pairing
upper UL carrier
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Max UE PA OOBE (25 PRBs), 18.3 MHz from carrier edge -125
dBm/Hz Duplexer isolation at 18.3 MHz from carrier edge 50 dB Tx noise at
1670-1675 MHz -175 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the Rx carrier for 1 dB Rx
desensitization -170.9 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the Rx carrier for 3 dB Rx
desensitization -165 dBm/Hz Additional Margin for 1 dB Desense. 4.1 dB
Additional Margin for 3 dB Desense. 10 dB
* * *
As seen above, for 5 MHz channel, no additional isolation is needed, and we
have 4.1 and 10 dB additional margin for 1 dB and 3 dB Rx accepted
desensitization, respectively.
### 8.1.2 Potential device receiver overload due to its UL TX power
Void
### 8.1.3 Mobile to Mobile OOBE Effect
Assuming two 10 MHz UEs using this band, one transmitting in UL (aggressor),
and one receiving in the DL (victim) are in 1 meter proximity of each other,
Table 8.1.3-1 provides the OOB noise from aggressor-UE transmitter at the
receiver of the victim-UE. In this analysis, it is assumed that antenna and
body loss is 8 dB at each UE, with maximum 23 dBm Tx power. It is assumed that
the duplexer (Tx and Rx duplexer filters) provide a sum of 30 dB isolation
from Tx band into Rx band.
Table 8.1.3-1: Same band 10 MHz Mobile to Mobile Noise, assumiung upper UL
band pairing
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Max UE PA OOBE (50 PRBs), 13.3 MHz from carrier edge -92
dBm/Hz Duplexer Tx filter attenuation at 1670-1680 MHz (worst case) 30 dB Path
Loss at 1m 36.6 dB Minimum Coupling Loss (MCL) 52.6 dB Tx noise at 1670-1680
MHz -174.6 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the Rx carrier for 1 dB Rx
desensitization -170.9 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the Rx carrier for 3 dB Rx
desensitization -165 dBm/Hz Additional Margin for 1 dB Desense. 3.7 dB
Additional Margin for 3 dB Desense. 9.6 dB
* * *
As seen above, for 10 MHz channel, we have 3.7 and 9.6 dB additional margin
for 1 dB and 3 dB Rx accepted desensitization, respectively.
Table 8.1.3-2 provides the same analysis for 5 MHz UEs, where the additional
margins are changed to 36.7 and 42.6 dB for 1dB and 3dB Rx accepted
desensitization, respectively.
Table 8.1.3-2: Same band 5 MHz Mobile to Mobile Noise, assumiung upper UL band
pairing
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Max UE PA OOBE (25PRBs), 18.3MHz from carrier edge -125
dBm/Hz Duplexer Tx filter attenuation at 1670-1675 MHz (worst case) 30 dB Path
Loss at 1m 36.6 dB Minimum Coupling Loss (MCL) 52.6 dB Tx noise at 1670-1675
MHz -207.6 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the Rx carrier for 1 dB Rx
desensitization -170.9 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the Rx carrier for 3 dB Rx
desensitization -165 dBm/Hz Additional Margin for 1 dB Desense 36.7 dB
Additional Margin for 3 dB Desense 42.6 dB
* * *
## 8.2 UE Special Issues for Pairing Lower UL Carrier (Option 2)
If the lower UL carrier is paired with the DL carrier, the UL-DL gap is 32.5
MHz (1670 -- 1637.5=32.5 MHz) for the 10 MHz carrier, and 37.5 MHz (1670 --
1632.5=37.5 MHz) for 5 MHz carrier. Consequently the duplexer design is not as
critical as the case where the upper UL carrier is used. A typical 50dB TX-RX
isolation would be enough to achieve the nominal expected performance.
However, in this case the mobile to mobile OOBE form an aggressor UL TX UE in
1646.7-1656.7 MHz into a victim DL RX UE in 1670-1680 MHz could be
problematic, and must be studied.
The rejection at 32.5 MHz away from the channel edge is -130 dBm/Hz, as
compared to -92 dBm/Hz for option 1. Using the same analysis as in Table
8.1.1-1, even with 50-[-92-(-130)-28.9]=40.9 dB Tx-Rx isolation, we can
achieve maximum 1dB desensitization.
For 5 MHz channel BW, the separation is 37.5 MHz, and the rejection at 37.5
MHz away from the channel edge is -132.3 dBm/Hz, as compared to -125 dBm/Hz
for option 1. Using the same analysis as in Table 8.1.1-2, the margin for 1dB
desensitization would increase to 4.1+[-125-(-132.3)]=11.4 dB.
### 8.2.1 Mobile to Mobile OOBE Effect
Assuming two 10 MHz UEs, one transmitting in UL (aggressor) at 1646.7-1656.7
MHz, and one receiving in the DL (victim) at 1670-1680 MHz, are in 1 meter
proximity of each other, Table 8.2.2-1 provides the OOB noise from aggressor
UE transmitter at the receiver of the victim UE. In this analysis, it is
assumed that antenna and body loss is 8 dB at each UE, with maximum 23 dBm Tx
power. We have assumed current band 24 duplexer does not provide any
attenuation at 1670-1680 MHz. Once again, a 9 dB NF is assumed at UE receiver.
Table 8.2.1-1: 10MHz M2M Noise
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Max UE PA OOBE (50 PRBs), 13.3 MHz from carrier edge -92
dBm/Hz Duplexer Tx filter attenuation at 1670-1680 MHz (worst case) 0 dB Path
Loss at 1m 36.6 dB Minimum Coupling Loss (MCL) 52.6 dB Tx noise at 1670-1680
MHz -144.6 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the Rx carrier for 1 dB Rx
desensitization -170.9 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the Rx carrier for 3 dB Rx
desensitization -165 dBm/Hz Minimum Additional Required Isolation for 1 dB
Desense. 26.3 dB Minimum Additional Required Isolation for 3 dB Desense. 20.4
dB
* * *
As seen above, for 10 MHz channel, we need at least 26.3 and 20.4 dB
additional isolation for 1 dB and 3 dB Rx accepted desensitization levels,
respectively. These additional isolations has to be provided by Tx filter in
band 24 duplexer or by re-designing the band 24 duplexer, using dual
duplexers, or adding a band rejection filter at the transmitter.
## 8.3 UE REFSENS
The reference sensitivity power level REFSENS is the minimum mean power
applied to both the UE antenna ports at which the throughput shall meet or
exceed the requirements for the specified reference measurement channel.
For the Band 24 UE, PREFSENS = -100 dBm for 5 MHz and PREFSENS = -97 dBm for
10 MHz channel bandwidths. These values are obtained by assuming NF (noise
figure) = 9 dB, combined SNR (for QPSK1/3) = - 1 dB before considering
implementation margin, DG (Rx diversity gain) = 3 dB, and IM (implementation
margin) = 2 dB. The reference measurement channel for which the reference
receive sensitivity requirement must be met is assumed to be full allocation
with number of allocated uplink resource blocks of 25 for 5MHz and 50 for
10MHz channel.
### 8.1.3 Maximum Sensitivity Degradation (MSD)
For calculating the REFSENS, the method described in [12] is used when two-
branch Rx antenna along with MRC receiver processing, and a certain coupling
between the Rx antennas are assumed at the UE receiver.
The Reference sensitivity is calculated using
$P_{\text{REFSENS}} = \text{SNR} - \text{DG} + \text{IM} +
\text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}\left( V_{n} \right) +
\text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}\alpha$ (8.3.1-1)
Where _V~n~_ is the receive noise power per branch and is
$V_{n} = \text{kTB}\text{10}^{\left( N_{F}\text{10} \right)}$
$V_{n}(\text{dB}) = - \text{174} + \text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}B + N_{F}$
(8.3.1-2)
The term _α_ is the additional margin for excessive transmitter noise and is
considered to be _α_ (dB) = 0.5 dB applicable for most operating band and
bandwidth combinations.
If we assume that the UE transmitter causes an emission of P~OOB~ in its own
receive band, the corresponding transmitter noise power per branch is
$V_{t} = \frac{P_{\text{OOB}}L_{\text{rx}}}{a_{\text{tx} - \text{rx}}}$
$V_{t}\left( \text{dB} \right) = P_{\text{OOB}}\left( \text{dB} \right) +
L_{\text{rx}}\left( \text{dB} \right) - a_{\text{tx} - \text{rx}}\left(
\text{dB} \right)$ (8.3.1-3)
Where _L~rx~_ is the duplexer Rx filter insertion loss, and _a~tx-rx~_ is the
duplexer isolation. One way to calculate the _P~OOB~_ , is to assume a certain
transmit power (say 23dBm) and using _P~OOB~ = Tx Power / ACLR_. Another
approach is to integrate the PA output emission graph over the receive
bandwidth.
With these values, and assuming that \|c\|^2^ is the inverse of L~coupling,~
the coupling between the two Rx antenna branches, the Maximum Sensitivity
Degradation (MSD) could be calculated according to the following rules:
1\. If the transmitter noise, _V~t~_ and the receiver noise, _V~n~_ satisfy
(8.3.1-4), which means that the receive noise is dominant, then the MSD can be
estimated from the usual MRC expression (8.3.1-5).
$\left( 1 + \frac{V_{t}}{V_{n}} \right)\text{>}V_{n}$ and$V_{t}\text{>>}V_{n}$, then MSD is
calculated form (8.3.1-6)
$\text{MSD} = \frac{2}{\alpha}\left( 1 + \left| c
\right|^{2}\frac{V_{t}}{V_{n}} \right)$ (8.3.1-6)
3\. if $V_{t} \approx V_{n}$ then (8.3.1-6) is not a reasonable approximation,
and (8.3.1-7) can be used to calculate the MSD
$\text{MSD} = \frac{1}{\alpha}\left( 1 + \frac{\text{Vt}}{\text{Vn}} \right)$
(8.3.1-7)
### 8.3.2 MSD and UE REFSENS for Upper UL pairing (Option 1)
Assuming $\text{SNR} + \text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}\alpha = -
0\text{.}5\text{dB}$, and the same parameters used for band 24, the reference
sensitivity power for 5 and 10 MHz channel bandwidths could be calculated to
be _-_ 100 _dBm_ and _-97 dBm_ , respectively. Using the UE duplexer Rx
insertion loss and Tx-Rx isolation loss in Table 8.1-1, we have enlisted the
parameters required for calculating the MSD and UE REFSENS for both 5 and 10
MHz channel bandwidths of option 1 in Table 8.3.2-1. Here, it is assumed that
the coupling between the two Rx antennas is 10 dB, and the noise figure is 9
dB.
Table 8.3.2-1: Calculation of MSD for option 1 UL pairing
BW  
(MHz) | Lcoupling  
(dB) | _α  
_(dB) | PA output OOB Density (dBm/Hz) | _L rx  
_(dB) | _a tx-rx  
_(dB) | B  
(MHz) | NF  
(dB) | POOB  
(dBm) | Vn  
(dBm) | Vt  
(dBm) | MSD (dB)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
5 | 10 | 0.5 | -128 | 3 | 50 | 4.5 | 9 | -61.47 | -98.5 | -108.47 | -0.28  
10 | 10 | 0.5 | -98.00 | 3 | 50 | 9 | 9 | -28.46 | -95.5 | -75.46 | 12.92  
As evident from this table, the sensitivity degradation for the 5 MHz channel
BW is not significant, while the maximum sensitivity degradation for 10 MHz
channel in the range of 12.92 dB. This degradation is due to small duplexing
gap between the UL and DL carrier (13.3 MHz), and the fact that the UE PA
output OOB density in the Rx channel is significant. To reduce the sensitivity
degradation, the Tx-Rx isolation must be significantly increased from 50 dB
value captured in Table 8.1-1. From Table 8.1.1-1, the required additional
isolation to achieve maximum 3 dB desensitization in Rx noise floor per
antenna branch is calculated to be 23 dB. This means that _a~tx-rx\ ~_ must be
increased to 73 dB. With this value, the MSD calculated above would reduce to
0.4 dB. One solution to achieve such isolation is to use an additional post PA
band rejection filter in the transmit chain. However, this requires dealing
with potential insertion loss of this additional filter.
### 8.3.3 UE REFSENS for Lower UL pairing (Option 2)
The Tx-Rx separation for option 2 pairing is 32.5 MHz, and the PA output OOB
density in Rx band is lower than the case for where the upper UL carrier is
paired. As a result, we expect that the MSD in this case is insignificant, and
therefore the reference sensitivities are the same as band 24 values (-100 dBm
for 5 MHz and -97 dBm for 10 MHz channel bandwidth).
With option 2 UL pairing, the coexistence with UEs transmitting in
1646.7-1656.7 MHz could cause blocking for receiver UEs in 1670-1680 MHz.
Therefore, coexistence studies must be performed to guarantee achieving the
same REFSENS values for this band.
## 8.4 UE Tx RF Requirements
### 8.4.1 UE Tx RF harmonic and IMD analysis
In Tables 8.4.1-1 and 8.4.1-2 the IMD and harmonic products for the two UL
options for this proposed band are presented, respectively. These harmonics
and IMD products are caused by the nonlinearities at the output of the UE
transmit PA, and could potentially appear at the receiver antenna connector as
spurious emission. These products will not be attenuated by the receiver
filter, and could potentially pass into the receive path and desensitize the
receiver.
Table 8.4.1-1: UE IMD products for the two pairing options for the proposed
bands
* * *
UL Pairing Options Option 1 Option 2  
f1_low f1_low f1_high f1_low f1_high UL frequency (MHz) 1646.7 1656.7 1627.5
1637.5 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*f1_low -- f1_high\| \|2*f1_high
-- f1_low\| \|2*f1_low -- f1_high\| \|2*f1_high -- f1_low\| IMD frequency
range (MHz) 1636.7 to 1666.7 1617.5 to 1647.5
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (2*f1_low + f1_high) (2*f1_high + f1_low)
(2*f1_low + f1_high) (2*f1_high + f1_low) IMD frequency range (MHz) 4950.1 to
4960.1 4892.5 to 4902.5
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products (3*f1_low -- 2*f1_high) (3*f1_high --
2*f1_low) (3*f1_low -- 2*f1_high) (3*f1_high -- 2*f1_low) IMD frequency range
(MHz) 1626.7 to 1676.7 1607.5 to 1657.5
Two-tone 7^th^ order IMD products (4*f1_low -- 3*f1_high) (4*f1_high
-3*f1_low) (4*f1_low -- 3*f1_high) (4*f1_high -3*f1_low) IMD frequency range
(MHz) 1616.7 to 1686.7 1597.5 to 1667.7
* * *
Table 8.4.1-2: UE harmonic products for the two pairing options for the
proposed bands
* * *
UE UL carriers f1_low f1_high f1_low f1_high UL frequency (MHz) 1646.7 1656.7
1627.5 1637.5 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 3293.4 to 3313.4
3255 to 3275  
3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 4940.1 to 4970.1 4882.5 to 4912.5
* * *
From Tables 8.4.1-1 and 8.4.1-2 the following impacts from IMD and harmonics
from each of the two alternatives can be observed:
1\. Option 1:
a. None of the harmonic products fall into either own DL or any other LTE
band, which means there is no harmonic problem from this proposed band.
b. The 5th order IMD product falls into own DL band, however this 5th order
IMD is suppressed by the duplexer Tx filter.
c. The 7th order IMD product falls into own DL band, however this 7th order
IMD is suppressed by the duplexer Tx filter.
1\. Option 2:
a. None of the harmonics fall into either own DL or any other LTE band, which
means there is no harmonic problem from this proposed band.
b. None of the IMD products fall into own DL.
c. The 5th order IMD product falls into the upper edge of GNSS band, however
this 5th order IMD is suppressed by the duplexer Tx filter.
d. The 7th order IMD falls into GNSS band, however this 7th order IMD is
suppressed by the duplexer Tx filter.
### 8.4.2 Spurious emission for UE co-existence
From the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis and harmonic/IMD product analysis in
this paper, Tables 8.4.2-1 and 8.4.2-2 provide the spurious emission
requirements for UE-to-UE coexistence of this proposed band for the two
alternative UL pairings, respectively.
Table 8.4.2-1: Spurious emission band UE co-existence of this proposed band
for option 1 UL pairing
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | E-UTRA | Sp | | | | | | | | Band | urious | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | | Pro | Fre | Level | Ban | C | | | | | tected | quency | (dBm) | dwidth | omment | | | | | band | range | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | XX | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, 41 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+
Table 8.4.2-2: Spurious emission band UE co-existence of this proposed band
for option 2 UL pairing
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | E-UTRA | Sp | | | | | | | | Band | urious | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | | Pro | Fre | Level | Ban | C | | | | | tected | quency | (dBm) | dwidth | omment | | | | | band | range | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | XX | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, 41 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+
### 8.4.3 Other expected UE Tx/Rx RF requirements
In Table 8.4.3-1, detailed descriptions on UE RF requirements are provided to
predict any potential requirements changes for two pairing alternatives of
this proposed band.
Table 8.4.3-1: Considering UE RF requirements for the proposed band
* * *
Clause Description Requirement for option 1 Requirement for option 2 6.2.2 UE
Maximum Output Power FFS, due to the small duplex gap and Tx-Rx separation. No
changes are needed for power class 3. 6.2.4 UE Maximum Output Power with
additional requirements (A-MPR) FFS. due to the small duplex gap and Tx-Rx
separation. No changes are expected. 6.6.2.2 Additional Spectrum Emission Mask
No changes are needed to protect adjacent coexistence bands, due to no IMD and
harmonic with other DL bands No changes are needed to protect adjacent
coexistence bands, due to no IMD and harmonic with other DL bands. 6.6.3.2
Spurious emission band UE co-existence Defines SE requirements as -50dBm/MHz
to protect UE coexistence bands. Defines SE requirements as -50dBm/MHz to
protect UE coexistence bands. FFS for co-existence with band 24 7.3.1
Reference sensitivity requirement FFS, due to the small duplex gap and Tx-Rx
separation No changes are expected. 7.5, 7.6, 7.7, and 7.8 ACS, blocking,
spurious, and intermod FFS. due to the small duplex gap and Tx-Rx separation,
as well as UE-UE co-existence. FFS, due to proximity with band 24 UE
transmitting from 1646.7-1656.7 MHz.
* * *
# 9 Study of E-UTRA specific issues for eNBs
## 9.1 BS TX RF filtering
The frequency separations between the uplink and downlink of the proposed
pairing options are given in Table 9.1-1 below.
Table 9.1-1: Frequency Separations of proposed UL pairings
* * *
Pairing option Uplink (MHz) Downlink (MHz) Frequency separation between the
uplink and downlink (MHz) 1 1646.7 - 1656.7 1670 - 1680 13.3 2 1627.5 - 1637.5
1670 - 1680 32.5
* * *
It can be seen that pairing option 1 is the more challenging BS to BS
coexistence scenario where the frequency separation between the BS uplink and
downlink is 13.3 MHz. To protect the BS receiver from own or different BS
transmitter, the operators should ensure the following:
● The BS transmitter unwanted emissions received by the BS receiver do not
cause unacceptable BS receiver desensitization.
● The total carrier power of the BS transmitter attenuated by the BS receiver
RF, IF and baseband filters do not result in BS receiver blocking.
Currently, the BS spurious emissions limits for protection of the BS receiver
of own or different BS is specified in 3GPP as -96 dBm/100 kHz (-86 dBm/MHz)
in the UL frequency range of the BS receiver for Wide Area BS [10]. This
requirement value is obtained assuming a 5 dB BS noise figure, a 30 dB BS to
BS minimum coupling loss (MCL) and a 0.8 dB victim BS receiver desensitization
[10]. The calculation for 5 MHz and 10 MHz channel bandwidths is shown in
Table 9.1-2 below.
Table 9.1-2: Calculation of spurious emission limits for BS receiver
protection
* * *
Thermal Noise power spectral density dBm/Hz -174  
BS noise figure dB 5  
Channel bandwidth MHz 5 10 Noise bandwidth MHz 4.5 9 Receiver noise floor dBm
-102.47 -99.46 BS Spurious emissions limits dBm/MHz -86  
BS-BS MCL dB 30  
Receiver interference dBm -109.47 -106.46 Receiver interference + noise floor
dBm -101.68 -98.67 Receiver sensitivity degradation dB 0.79 0.79
* * *
Note that for BS with common transmit and receive antenna port, there may not
be any considerable coupling loss between the BS transmitter and receiver,
hence the 30 MCL cannot be used and the BS spurious emission limits shall be
(-86 -- 30 =) -116 dBm/MHz. Now if we assume the out-of-band (OOB) emission
from the power amplifier (PA) is designed to meet the -13 dBm/MHz specified in
3GPP [10], then the required rejection by the BS RF transmit (TX) filter to
meet the -116 dBm/MHz emission limit will be (116 -- 13 =) 103 dB.
The RF filter simulation results for pairing option 2 with five metal
resonators are shown in Figure 9.1-1 below. It can be seen that the required
minimum rejection of 103 dB over the receive frequencies (1627.5 - 1637.5 MHz)
can be achieved (with likely drift of \~100 kHz due to manufacturing and
environmental variations), with an acceptable transmit pass-band (1670 - 1680
MHz) insertion loss of \<1.0 dB (including an additional \~0.2 dB for
connectors and internal transmission lines). Note that temperature-
compensation and implementation margin were not included in the simulation,
thus the simulation results should only be used as an approximation but not
the expectation of actual products performance.
Figure 9.1-1: Simulated BS RF TX Filter Characteristics -- 5 Metal Resonators
The RF filter simulation results for pairing option 1 with five metal
resonators are shown in Figure 9.1-2 below. It can be seen that in order to
maintain an acceptable insertion loss of \~1.0 dB over the transmit
frequencies (1670 - 1680 MHz), the required minimum rejection of 103 dB over
the receive frequencies (1646.7 - 1656.7 MHz) cannot be met with five metal
resonators. But it can be seen that \~93 dB of rejection can be achieved (with
likely drift of \~100 kHz due to manufacturing and environmental variations),
and the remaining rejection can be obtained by using separate transmit and
receive antenna ports to provide enough coupling loss between the transmitter
and receiver. Otherwise, with 93 dB of rejection, the receiver interference
will be (-13 -- 93 =) -106 dBm/MHz, leading to \~5 dB receiver sensitivity
degradation. Note that temperature-compensation and implementation margin were
not included in the simulation, thus the simulation results should only be
used as an approximation but not the expectation of actual products
performance.
Figure 9.1-2: Simulated BS RF TX Filter Characteristics -- 5 Metal Resonators
The RF filter simulation results for pairing option 1 with ceramic resonators
are shown in Figure 9.1-3 below. It can be seen that using ceramic resonators,
the required minimum rejection of 103 dB over the 1646.7 - 1656.7 MHz receive
frequencies can be achieved (with likely drift of \~100 kHz due to
manufacturing and environmental variations) with \<1.0 dB insertion loss over
the 1670-1680 MHz transmit frequencies (including an additional \~0.2 dB for
connectors and internal transmission lines). However, it should be noted that
ceramic resonators will increase the weight and cost of the RF filter. Note
that temperature-compensation and implementation margin were not included in
the simulation, thus the simulation results should only be used as an
approximation but not the expectation of actual products performance.
Figure 9.1-3: Simulated BS RF TX Filter Characteristics -- Ceramic Resonators
To summarize, the simulation results in Figures 9.1-1, 9.1-2, and 9.1-3 show
that it could be feasible for the BS RF TX filter to provide the required
rejections for pairing the 1670 - 1680 MHz downlink with either 1627.5 -
1637.5 MHz uplink or 1646.7 - 1656.7 MHz uplink. However, pairing 1670 - 1680
MHz downlink with 1646.7 - 1656.7 MHz uplink will require the use of separate
transmit and receive antenna ports or ceramic resonators, with which the
increase in cost, size, weight, and complexity of the filter still need to be
considered.
## 9.2 BS RX RF filtering
It can be seen in Table 9.1-1 that the frequency separation between the uplink
and downlink is larger than the 10 MHz channel bandwidth, hence the BS
transmitted carrier is outside the adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) region
of the BS receive frequency, and thus the BS in-band general blocking
requirement is used here for the analysis.
RAN4 has specified -43 dBm for the interfering signal power of the BS in-band
blocking requirement in order to achieve a maximum of 6 dB victim BS receiver
desensitization in Table 7.6.1.1-1 of [10]. In Table 7.6.1.1-2 of [10], the
reference measurement channel bandwidth is specified as 5 MHz. Therefore, the
analysis provided here considers only the channel bandwidth of 5 MHz. The
centre frequency of the blocker is located within 20 MHz below the lower
uplink channel edge and 20 MHz above the upper uplink channel edge (from
1626.7 MHz to 1676.7 MHz for option 1, and from 1607.5 MHz to 1657.5 MHz for
option 2). Assuming 5 dB BS noise figure, Table 2 calculates the minimum
rejection required by the BS receiver IF and baseband filter with 5 MHz uplink
channel bandwidth and 5 MHz in-band blocker. This requirement means that the
minimum rejection by the BS receiver IF and baseband filters on the in-band
blocker is 54.72 dB for 5 MHz interferer. This requirement is applicable to
both uplink pairing options. Note that the calculation in Table 9.2-1 is also
valid for 10, 15 or 20 MHz channel bandwidth because the same reference
measurement channel as for 5 MHz channel bandwidth is specified for the in-
band general blocking requirement.
Table 9.2.1: Calculation of BS in-band general blocking requirement
* * *
Thermal Noise power spectral density dBm/Hz -174 BS noise figure dB 5 Channel
bandwidth MHz 5 Noise bandwidth MHz 4.5 Receiver noise floor dBm -102.47
Interfering signal power (general blocking) dBm -43 Receiver sensitivity
degradation (general blocking) dB 6 Allowed receiver interference (general
blocking) dBm -97.72 Required receiver filter rejection (general blocking) dBm
54.72
* * *
Assuming the BS transmitted carrier power is 43 dBm/5 MHz, there is a
rejection requirement of (43 + 43 =) 86 dB from the BS RF RX filter over the
BS transmit frequency to protect the BS receiver from its own transmit signal
(with 6 dB receiver desensitization). On the other hand, if a more stringent
BS receiver desensitization (e.g. 0.8 dB instead of 6 dB) is required, then
the allowed receiver interference will be (e.g. 4.74 + 6.94 = 11.7 dB) lower
and thus the BS RX RF filter rejection will need to be higher (e.g. 86 + 11.7
= 97.7 dB for 0.8 dB receiver desensitization).
The RF filter simulation results for pairing option 1 with five metal
resonators are shown in Figure 9.2.1 below. It can be seen that the required
minimum rejection of 97.7 dB (for 0.8 dB receiver desensitization) over the
receive frequencies (1627.5 - 1637.5 MHz) can be achieved (with likely drift
of \~100 kHz due to manufacturing and environmental variations), with an
acceptable receive passband insertion loss of \<2.0 dB (including an
additional \~0.2 dB for connectors and internal transmission lines). Note that
temperature-compensation and implementation margin were not included in the
simulation, thus the simulation results should only be used as an
approximation but not the expectation of actual products performance.
Figure 9.2.1: Simulated BS RF RX Filter Characteristics -- 5 Metal Resonators
The RF filter simulation results for pairing option 2 with six metal
resonators are shown in Figure 9.2.2 below. It can be seen that the required
minimum rejection of 97.7 dB (for 0.8 dB receiver desensitization) over the
receive frequencies (1646.7 - 1656.7 MHz) can be achieved (with likely drift
of \~100 kHz due to manufacturing and environmental variations), with an
acceptable receive passband insertion loss of \<2.0 dB (including an
additional \~0.2 dB for connectors and internal transmission lines). Note that
temperature-compensation and implementation margin were not included in the
simulation, thus the simulation results should only be used as an
approximation but not the expectation of actual products performance.
Figure 9.2.2: Simulated BS RF RX Filter Characteristics -- 6 Metal Resonators
To summarize, the simulation results in Figures 9.2.1 and 9.2.2 show that it
could be feasible for the BS RF RX filter to provide the required rejections
for pairing the 1670 - 1680 MHz downlink with either 1627.5 - 1637.5 MHz
uplink or 1646.7 - 1656.7 MHz uplink. On the other hand, pairing 1670 - 1680
MHz downlink with 1627.5 - 1637.5 MHz uplink is the easier of the two options
from filter implementation viewpoint, as there is 32.5 MHz of separation
between the BS transmit and receive frequencies.
# 10 Required changes to E-UTRA and MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the new band are
summarised in a Table 10-1.
Table 10-1: he required changes to the 3GPP specifications
* * *
Table 11-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes3GPP
specification Clause in TR 30.007 where the required changes are given Clause
in the present document identifying additional changes TS 36.101 8.2.1.1  
TS 36.104 8.2.1.2  
TS 36.106 8.2.1.3  
TS 36.113 8.2.1.4  
TS 36.124 8.2.1.5  
TS 36.133 8.2.1.6  
TS 36.141 8.2.1.7  
TS 36.143 8.2.1.8  
TS 36.307 8.2.1.9  
TS 25.101 8.2.2.1  
TS 25.102 8.2.2.2  
TS 25.104 8.2.2.3  
TS 25.105 8.2.2.4  
TS 25.106 8.2.2.5  
TS 25.113 8.2.2.6  
TS 25.123 8.2.2.7  
TS 34.124 8.2.2.8  
TS 25.133 8.2.2.9  
TS 25.141 8.2.2.10  
TS 25.142 8.2.2.11  
TS 25.143 8.2.2.12  
TS 25.307 8.2.2.13  
TS 25.331 8.2.2.14  
TS 25.461 8.2.2.15  
TS 25.466 8.2.2.16  
TS 37.104 8.2.3.1  
TS 37.113 8.2.2.2  
TS 37.141 8.2.2.3
* * *
###### ### Annex A: Change history