# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the result of the Device to Device (D2D) study
item.
The Feasibility Study on Proximity-based Services (FS_ProSe, TR 22.803 [2])
has identified services that could be provided by the 3GPP system based on UEs
being in proximity to each other. The identified areas include services
related to commercial services and Public Safety that would be of interest to
operators and users.
The objectives of this feasibility study are to evaluate LTE Device to Device
proximity services, as follows:
* * *
                         Within network coverage               Outside network coverage
Discovery Non public safety &\ Public safety only public safety requirements
Direct Communication At least public safety requirements Public safety only
* * *
In particular:
  1. Define an evaluation methodology and channel models for LTE device to device proximity services, including scenarios to compare different technical options to realize proximal device discovery and communication, appropriate performance metrics, and performance targets (e.g. range, throughput, number of UEs supported). [RAN1]
```{=html}
``` 1\. Identify physical layer options and enhancements to incorporate in LTE
the ability for devices within network coverage: [RAN1]:
\- to discover each other in proximity directly in a power-efficient manner.
\- to communicate directly, including enhancements to LTE interference
management and scheduling that allow the LTE network to enable, manage, and
continuously control all direct, over the air, device to device
communications.
  1. Identify and evaluate options, solutions and enhancements to the LTE RAN protocols within network coverage [RAN2 primary, RAN3 secondary]:
\- to enable proximal device discovery among devices under continuous network
management and control,
\- to enable direct communication connection establishment between devices
under continuous network management and control,
\- to allow service continuity to/from the macro network
  1. Consider terminal and spectrum specific aspects, e.g. battery impact and requirements deriving from direct device to device discovery and communication [RAN4].
  2. Evaluate, for non public safety use cases, the gains obtained by LTE device to device direct discovery with respect to existing device to device mechanisms (e.g. WiFi Direct, Bluetooth), and existing location techniques for proximal device discovery (e.g. in terms of power consumption, and signaling overhead) [RAN1, RAN2].
  3. The possible impacts on existing operator services (e.g. voice calls) and operator resources should be investigated [RAN1].
  4. For the purposes of addressing public safety requirements, identify and study the additional enhancements and control mechanisms required to realize discovery and communication outside network coverage [RAN1, RAN2].
The identified options/enhancements should reuse the features of LTE as much
as possible.
The study will cover:
\- Single and multi-operator scenarios, including the spectrum sharing case
where a carrier is shared by multiple operators (subject to regional
regulation and operator policy)
\- LTE FDD and LTE TDD operations
In this study item, the study of direct communication shall address at least
public safety requirements and use cases..
It is assumed that aspects related to service authorization, system level
architecture, security, and lawful interception are covered in the 3GPP TSG SA
Working Groups.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.803: \"Feasibility study for Proximity Services (ProSe)\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.814: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Further advancements for E-UTRA physical layer aspects\".
[4] R4-092042, \"**Simulation assumptions and parameters for FDD HeNB RF
requirements\",** Alcatel-Lucent, picoChip Designs, Vodafone.
[5] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"**Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".**
[6] **_WINNER II Channel Models_ , D1.1.2 V1.2. , available at
http://www.cept.org/files/1050/documents/winner2%20-%20final%20report.pdf**
[7] **D5.3: WINNER+ Final Channel Models, available at http://projects.celtic-
initiative.org/winner%2B/WINNER+%20Deliverables/D5.3_v1.0.pdf.**
[8] Draft new Report ITU-R M.[IMT.EVAL] \"Guidelines for evaluation of radio
interface technologies for IMT-Advanced\", Document 5/69-E.
[9] R1-132341: \"Channel modelling for D2D\", NEC Group.
[10] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
[11] R1-133186: \"Typical Public Safety Use Cases, Performance Values, and
E-UTRAN Characteristics for D2D ProSe Group Communication\", U.S. Department
of Commerce
[12] NPSTG Communications Report \"Public Safety Broadband Push-to-Talk over
Long Term Evolution Requirements\", 7/18/2013.
[13] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical channels and modulation\".
[14] RP-13177, \"Agreements from TSG RAN on work on Public Safety related use
cases in Release 12\", Vodafone, US Department of Commerce, UK Home Office,
Motorola Solutions, General Dynamics Broadband UK, Telefonica, Ericsson, NSN,
Alcatel-Lucent.
[15] M.1579-1, \"Global circulation of IMT-2000 terrestrial terminals\".
[16] 3GPP TS 36.212: \"**Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Multiplexing and channel coding** \".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.
A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of
the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**D2D Synchronization Source:** A node that at least transmits a D2D
synchronization signal.
**D2D Synchronization Signal:** A signal from which a UE can obtain timing and
frequency synchronization.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
D2D Device to Device
D2DSS D2D Synchronization Signal
PD2DSCH Physical D2D Synchronization Channel
PD2DSS Primary D2D Synchronization Signal
ProSe Proximity based Services
PS Public Safety
SD2DSS Secondary D2D Synchronization Signal
# 4 Public Safety Use Cases and Scenarios
The following use cases are relevant for PS (Public Safety) ProSe
communication.
**Little or no coverage**
> Guaranteed communications through the network cannot be achieved either
> because of attenuation due to the local environment, the mobility of the
> users, or a simple lack of coverage. In these situations the priority is to
> maintain communications with those at the incident, e.g., in buildings, on
> trains, between vehicles, in rural environments, underground.
**Fall Back**
> Used when there has been a complete network failure in an area that would
> typically have coverage, e.g., Large Scale Natural Disasters, Power Cuts,
> Equipment Failures.
**Extra Capacity**
> Used to provide extra capacity to manage some incidents. In existing systems
> there are certain system constraints that limit the number of groups and
> group members that can operate in an area, so the ability to communicate
> directly can provide extra capacity. e.g. - Large Metropolitan Areas.
**Local Communication Requirement**
> This is used in scenarios where there is no need to connect back to a
> control room or dispatch.
>
> Solutions for PS ProSe shall support the following scenarios:
>
> **Coverage**
\- Device to device E-UTRA Communication for Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs
is needed among withinnetwork coverage UEs, outside network coverage UEs and a
mixture of UEs within and outside network coverage.
\- Determination is needed regarding within the device to device ProSe
Communication which user(s) are in device to device ProSe Communication-
coverage at any given time.
\- Maintaining concurrent device to device ProSe Communication (off-network)
and LTE connectivity is required regardless of whether UEs are within network
coverage or outside network coverage. The LTE connectivity for outside network
coverage UEs are provided via UE-to-Network Relays
> **Spectrum**
PS device to device ProSe discovery and communication can be operated:
\- on PS ProSe specific carrier;
\- on a carrier also used for LTE network coverage.
# 5 Requirements
The requirements applicable are all the ones \"radio related\" reported in
3GPP TS 22.278 [10].
In particular, requirements given in [10] including but not necessarily
limited to the following shall be accommodated:
\- potential large number of concurrently participating ProSe-enabled UEs;
\- minimization of negative impact on the ability of the operator to provide
E-UTRAN services, in particular for E-UTRA radio usage, network usage and
battery consumption;
\- continuous network control and adaptive resources allocation between ProSe
and other E-UTRAN services, as long as ProSe UEs are served by E-UTRAN;
\- system capability of monitoring communication characteristics;
\- control, by Radio Access Network, of the radio resources associated with
Prose E-UTRA Communication path;
\- capability, by an authorised Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE, of
communication using both the network infrastructure and device to device
Communication with Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs not served by E-UTRAN in
parallel;
\- proximity criteria under full operator control.
\- Note: examples of proximity criteria given in [10] are just non-binding
examples.
According to 3GPP TS 22.278 [10]:
\- [1:Many Communications (where \"many\" also includes 1 user or 0 users) is
required. Optimizations to specifically support 1:1 Communications (including
\"private calls\"), while possible as a subset of 1:Many Communications,
should not be a focus for 3GPP Rel-12].
# 6 General design assumptions
It is assumed that D2D operates in uplink spectrum (in the case of FDD) or
uplink sub-frames of the cell giving coverage.
\- Exception: in case of TDD when out-of-coverage.
\- Use of downlink sub-frames in the case of TDD can be studied further.
The ITU-R recommendation in [15] should be taken into account when considering
D2D solutions during the course of the study item.
It may be beneficial for eNodeBs to signal each other over backhaul E-UTRAN
interfaces (e.g. X2 interface) the resources used for D2D.
Definitions of out-of-coverage (outside network coverage), edge-of-coverage
and in-coverage (within network coverage) are FFS.
\- For example, definition of coverage areas is at least based on downlink
received power.
## 6.1 Multiple access scheme
_Working assumption for further evaluation:_ All data carrying physical
channels use SC-FDMA for D2D signalling.
RAN4 evaluated relative performance of SC-FDM and OFDM for D2D signalling. The
results are discussed below.
### 6.1.1 UE transmitter performance
Cubic metric (CM) and PAPR (Peak to average power ratio) (99.9%) for OFDM and
SC-FDM are listed in Table 6.1.1-1.
Table 6.1.1-1: CM and PAPR for SC-FDM and OFDM
* * *
           **CM (in dB)**   **PAPR (99.9%) (in dB)**                                                                                                    
           1 RB allocated   Fully allocated            Avg. over all RB allocations   1 RB allocated   Fully allocated   Avg. over all RB allocations
OFDM QPSK 3.7 4.0 3.9 7.9 8.4 8.3 16QAM 3.8 4.0 4.0 8.1 8.4 8.3 SC-FDM QPSK
1.2 1.2 1.2 5.7 5.8 5.8 16QAM 2.1 2.1 2.1 6.5 6.5 6.5
* * *
The following observations are made for UE transmitter performance:
\- CM and PAPR (99.9%) of OFDM are significantly higher than SC-FDM, even for
narrowband waveforms.
\- Higher CM of OFDM compared to SC-FDM results in higher EVM and IBE on
average for the same PA operating point.
\- PA (power amplifier) de-rating (reduction in maximum output power) for OFDM
\- For similar non-linear performance (e.g., w.r.t. ACLR, IBE, EVM, etc.),
higher CM of OFDM necessitates PA de-rating by approximately [2.5, 2.8]dB for
QPSK, and [1.7, 1.9]dB for 16QAM modulation, depending on the number of RBs
allocated.
\- For same UE transmit emission requirements (as defined in 3GPP TS 36.101
[5] for SC-FDM based UL transmissions), higher CM of OFDM will result in an
increased MPR (maximum power reduction) for OFDM, likely even for narrowband
transmissions.
\- PA de-rating for OFDM leads to
\- Loss in coverage
\- Higher power consumption
### 6.1.2 UE receiver performance
The following observations are made for UE receiver performance:
\- Implementation margin (IM) due to receiver impairments (non-ideal
filtering, non-ideal AGC, fixed point loss, etc.) can be assumed to be the
same between OFDMA and SC-FDMA receiver.
\- When receiving a single dominant D2D signal, the ADC SQNR/EVM performance
for SC-FDMA is better than OFDMA due to reduced PAPR for SC-FDM.
\- Demodulation complexity for SC-FDMA is expected to be only marginally
higher than OFDMA.
## 6.2 Multiplexing of signals
From an individual UE's perspective:
\- It is assumed that D2D transmission/reception does not use full duplex on a
given carrier.
\- D2D signal reception and uplink WAN transmission do not use full duplex on
a given carrier.
\- For multiplexing of a D2D signal and WAN signal on a given carrier:
\- FDM shall not be used
\- Time Division Multiplexing (TDM) can be used.
\- This includes a mechanism for handling/avoiding collisions (details FFS).
## 6.3 Signal design details
Time needed for transmit to receive turn-around is assumed to be 624T~s~. Time
needed for receive to transmit turn-around is assumed to be 624T~s~. (Here
T~s~ is defined in Section 4 of 3GPP TS 36.211 [13].)
_Working assumption: From an individual UE's perspective, in the event of a
time domain conflict between uplink WAN transmission and D2D transmission
and/or reception and/or switching, UL WAN transmission is always prioritized.
As a consequence the last symbol(s) of a D2D transmission can consist of a
gap._
\- The size of the gap is FFS between ½, 1 and 2 symbols
\- FFS whether the size can depend on cell size
\- FFS whether the gap is created by puncturing or rate matching
\- FFS whether, and if so how, the receiver is made aware of the presence (and
length if variable) of the gap
\- FFS in which circumstances the gap exists
_Working assumption: From an individual UE's perspective:_
\- No DTX period is introduced solely to aid switching for the case when a UE
switches from uplink WAN transmission to D2D reception
\- No DTX period is introduced solely to aid switching for the case neither
when a UE switches from D2D transmission to D2D reception, nor from D2D
reception to D2D transmission.
_Working assumption:_ A D2D signal can consist of either an extended cyclic
prefix (512Ts long) or a normal cyclic prefix (144 Ts long).
\- FFS: How the length of cyclic prefix is set.
# 7 Synchronization
A D2D Synchronization Source transmits at least a D2D synchronization signal
(D2DSS).
\- The transmitted D2DSS may be used by a UE to obtain time and frequency
synchronization.
\- The D2DSS transmitted by a D2D Synchronization Source which is an eNodeB
shall be the Rel-8 PSS/SSS.
\- The structure of D2DSS transmitted by D2D Synchronization Sources other
than the eNodeB is defined in Section 7.1.
_\- Working assumption:_ A synchronization source has a physical layer
identity known as PSSID.
## 7.1 Signal design
_Working assumption:_ D2D Synchronization Sources transmits a D2DSS that:
\- May (FFS) carry the identity and/or type of the D2D Synchronization
Source(s)
\- Comprises of at least a Primary D2D Synchronization Signal (PD2DSS)
\- PD2DSS is a Zadoff Chu sequence
\- Length FFS
\- May also comprise of a Secondary D2D Synchronization Signal (SD2DSS)
\- SD2DSS is a M sequence
\- Length FFS
_Working assumption:_ The concept of Physical D2D Synchronization Channel
(PD2DSCH) transmitted by a D2D Synchronization Source should be further
discussed. This is not implying that such a channel will be defined.\ The
channel may carry information including:
\- Identity of Synchronization Source
\- Type of Synchronization Source
\- Resource allocation for data and/or control signaling
\- Data
\- Others (FFS)
## 7.2 Procedure
### 7.2.1 Transmission of D2DSS
_Working assumption:_ Before starting to transmit D2DSS, a UE scans for D2D
Synchronization Sources.
\- If a D2D Synchronization Source is detected, the UE may synchronize its
receiver to it before it may transmit D2DSS.
\- UEs may transmit at least D2DSS derived from D2DSS received from a D2D
Synchronization Source.
\- Details of under what circumstances a UE transmits D2DSS are FFS.
\- If a UE transmits D2DSS, the rules for determining which D2D
Synchronization Source the UE uses as the timing reference for its
transmissions of D2DSS are described in Section 7.2.2.
\- If no D2D Synchronization Source is detected, a UE may nevertheless
transmit D2DSS.
\- A UE may reselect the D2D Synchronization Source it uses as the timing
reference for its transmissions of D2DSS if the UE detects a change in the D2D
Synchronization Source(s).
\- Detailed rules FFS
### 7.2.2 Selection of timing reference D2D Synchronization Source
_Working assumption:_ If a UE transmits a D2D signal, the rules for
determining which D2D Synchronization Source the UE uses as the timing
reference for its transmissions of D2D signal are
\- D2D Synchronization Sources which are eNodeBs have a higher priority than
D2D Synchronization Sources which are UEs;
\- D2D Synchronization Sources which are UEs in-coverage have a higher
priority than D2D Synchronization Sources which are UEs out-of-coverage;
\- After giving priority to D2D Synchronization Sources which are eNodeBs,
followed by _UEs in-coverage,_ selection of D2D Synchronization Source is
based on at least the following metrics:
\- Received D2DSS quality:
\- For example, a UE selects a D2DSS with a better received signal quality
when all the other metrics are the same.
\- FFS whether to define the measurement for received D2DSS quality.
\- FFS Stratum level: A UE selects a D2DSS with a smaller stratum level when
all the other metrics are the same.
\- FFS on further detailed D2D Synchronization Source selection criterion.
\- FFS on how D2D Synchronization Source type and stratum level can be carried
by D2DSS/PD2DSCH.
### 7.2.3 Transmission timing offset
In cases when at least one D2DSS is received by a UE, which is always the case
at least in-coverage:
\- The UE begins to transmit a D2D signal at the time instance of T1-T2.
\- T1 is the reception timing of the D2DSS transmitted by the D2D
Synchronization Source that the UE uses as the timing reference
\- T2 is an offset which is positive, negative, or zero.
The value of T2 can be one of the following options.
\- Option 1: The selected D2D Synchronization Source used as the timing
reference for transmission of its D2D signal is an eNodeB (not precluding the
possibility that different D2D Synchronization Sources may be used as the
timing reference at different times).
\- In this option, the eNodeB may or may not be the serving eNodeB of the UE
\- Option 1.1: T2 is fixed in the specification.
\- Option 1.2: T2 is configurable by the network.
\- Option 1.3: T2 is derived from the PUSCH transmit timing associated with
the cell (this option is only applicable in cases when the UE knows the PUSCH
timing).
\- Option 2: Void
\- Option 3: The selected D2D Synchronization Source used as the timing
reference for transmission of its D2D signal is a UE (not precluding the
possibility that different D2D Synchronization Sources may be used as the
timing reference at different times).
\- Option 3.1: T2 is fixed in the specification.
\- Option 3.2: T2 is obtained from the one UE
NOTE: The D2DSS received from a D2D Synchronization Source might in practice
in some situations be comprised of SFN transmissions from multiple D2D
Synchronization Sources (although, of course this is not visible to the
receiver).
\- Option 4: Void
\- Option 5: The selected D2D Synchronization Source used as the timing
reference for transmission of its D2D signal is an external source, for
example GNSS.
For D2D discovery signal within network coverage, Options 1 and 5 are
considered for further study. For D2D discovery signal outside network
coverage, Options 3 and 5 are considered for further study.
For D2D communication signal, Options 1, 3, and 5 are considered for further
study. At least option 1.3 is supported for within network coverage.
Further study is required for the transmission timing in cases when a D2DSS is
not received.
# 8 Discovery
## 8.1 Types of Discovery
At least the following two types of discovery procedure are defined for the
purpose of terminology definition for use in further discussions/studies.
NOTE: The following definitions are intended only to aid clarity and not to
limit the scope of the study:
\- Type 1: a discovery procedure where resources for discovery signal
transmission are allocated on a non UE specific basis
NOTE: Resources can be for all UEs or group of UEs.
\- Type 2: a discovery procedure where resources for discovery signal
transmission are allocated on a per UE specific basis:
\- Type 2A: Resources are allocated for each specific transmission instance of
discovery signals;
\- Type 2B: Resources are semi-persistently allocated for discovery signal
transmission.
NOTE: Further details of how the resources are allocated and by which entity,
and of how resources for transmission are selected within the allocated
resources, are not restricted by these definitions.
If D2D discovery is supported, both Type 1 and Type 2 discovery can be
supported subject to investigation and positive resolving of open issues
described in Section 11.
## 8.2 Physical layer design
For inter-cell discovery, synchronous and asynchronous cells deployments
should both be studied. The following two options for inter-cell discovery can
be considered, including their potential applicability in different scenarios:
\- By directly or indirectly achieving information about the other cell
synchronization reference timing;
\- By decoding/detecting asynchronous discovery messages/signals without
necessarily prior knowledge of the associated message/signal\'s
synchronization;
\- The detailed solution is FFS.
_Working assumption:_ Open and Restricted discovery messages are
undistinguishable at physical layer if Open and Restricted discovery MAC PDUs
have the same size.
For both Type 1 and Type 2 discovery UEs transmit their discovery signal and
receive discovery signals from other UEs subject to half duplex constraint.
### 8.2.1 Signal design
_Working assumption:_ Discovery transmissions consist of a MAC PDU.
_\- Working assumption for further evaluation:_ Discovery transmissions can
transmit a MAC PDU of 104 bits.
_\- It is FFS whether a UE transmits a "discovery preamble" prior to
transmission of a discovery MAC PDU._
\- Discovery preamble can differ from a D2DSS.
_Working assumption: A UE that transmits a discovery MAC PDU may also be a D2D
Synchronisation Source (and therefore also transmit D2DSS)._
_Working assumption: A UE transmitting a discovery MAC PDU does not
necessarily need to be a D2D Synchronisation Source._
_Working assumption:_ For the transmission of a MAC PDU
\- PUSCH structure as defined in 3GPP TS 36.211 [13] and 3GPP TS 36.212 [16]
is reused with the following:
\- CRC is inserted, FFS between 16 and 24 bits
\- Channel coding is used. FFS between Release-8 Turbo and tail-biting
convolutional codes.
\- At least if MAC PDU is not smaller than 104 bits, then Release-8 Turbo
coding is used.
\- Rate matching is used for bit size matching and possibly for generating
multiple transmissions
\- Scrambling is to be used for interference randomization
\- FFS whether UE-specific or not
\- PUSCH DMRS is transmitted
\- Possible additional reference signals is FFS
_\- None of the discovery MAC PDU is carried by the PUSCH DMRS_
\- Possible modifications to interleaver are FFS
\- CP length: See Section 6.3.
\- Detailed RE mapping is FFS
\- Guard period details is FFS
\- FFS: consider the need for a time-varying hashing/scrambling function prior
to channel coding
### 8.2.2 Resource allocation
For Type 1 discovery the following is agreed:
\- Periodic uplink resources are allocated for discovery in a semi-static
manner
\- [Discovery transmission resource configuration consists of a discovery
period, number of sub-frames within a discovery period that can be used for
transmission of discovery signals, and FFS number of PRBs.]*
NOTE: The definition of a discovery period is FFS.
\- For a UE in-coverage these resources are configured by an eNodeB.
\- Allocation can be performed using RRC signaling.
_\- Working assumption:_ Resource allocated for discovery within one period of
the allocation are TDM and/or FDM into equal sized time-frequency resource
blocks that are called "discovery resource".
_\- Working assumption:_ A discovery resource has a duration of not less than
1ms and is used for a single transmission of a given discovery MAC PDU by a UE
\- If required by the final decision on MAC PDU size, discovery resource
duration can be greater than 1ms.
\- In this case the duration would be a multiple of 1ms and consist of
consecutive sub-frames with resource allocation for discovery.
\- TDD special sub-frame is FFS.
\- Baseline: For each discovery period, a UE can transmit on a randomly
selected discovery resource.
\- [Study power consumption of RRC_IDLE UEs when considering resource
allocation for discovery.]*
*Working assumption for further evaluation.
_Working assumption:_ For Type 1discovery, further to the baseline random
selection of a discovery resource agreed to above, the following FFS options
can be further studied:
\- Repetition (either contiguous or non-contiguous) of transmission of a given
MAC PDU by a UE within a discovery period is FFS. If supported:
\- FFS between:
\- The UE performs random selection only for the first discovery resource in
the set of discovery resources that can be used for the repeated transmissions
of the MAC PDU. The other discovery resources are deterministically associated
with the first discovery resource.
\- The UE performs random selection for each discovery resource in the set of
discovery resources that can be used for the repeated transmissions of the MAC
PDU.
\- The maximum number of repeated transmissions is FFS.
\- A UE's transmission on a discovery resource (or on a set of discovery
resources if repetition is supported) can be based on:
\- Option 1: Transmitting UE's transmission period and offset.
\- Option 2: Fixed or adaptive transmission probability derived from a pre-
configured/configured nominal transmission probability.
\- Others.
\- The study can include the number of discovered UEs and latency as metrics.
### 8.2.3 Transmission timing offset
_Working assumption:_ Any UEs that do not have an active timing advance value
use T2=0 for FDD and T2 = 624Ts for TDD. Such UEs include:
\- RRC_IDLE UEs in-coverage (if transmission of discovery signal is supported
for such UEs)
\- Out-of-coverage and edge-of-coverage UEs that do not have an active timing
advance (TA) value.
_Working assumption:_ For Type 1 discovery:
\- For FDD, RRC_CONNECTED UEs transmit their discovery signal using T2 = 0.
\- For TDD, RRC_CONNECTED UEs transmit their discovery signal using T2 =
624Ts.
\- FFS possible solutions to address overlap between uplink WAN and discovery
signals.
_Working assumption:_ For RRC_CONNECTED UEs that transmit Type 2B discovery:
\- If RRC_IDLE UEs are not able to transmit Type 2B discovery, the value of T2
is FFS between:
\- T2 = TA for FDD and T2 = 624Ts +TA for TDD.
\- T2 = 0 for FDD and T2 = 624Ts for TDD.
\- If RRC_IDLE UEs are able to transmit Type 2B discovery, the value of T2 is
T2 = 0 for FDD and T2 = 624Ts for TDD.
## 8.3 Upper layer aspects
### 8.3.1 General
Figure 8.3.1-1 shows scenarios for D2D ProSe where UE1 and UE2 are located in-
coverage /out-of-coverage of a cell. When UE1 has a role of transmission, UE1
sends discovery message and UE2 receives it. UE1 and UE2 can change their
transmission and reception role. The transmission from UE1 can be received by
one or more UEs like UE2.
(a) Scenario 1A (b) Scenario 1B
(c) Scenario 1C (d) Scenario 1D
Figure 8.3.1-1 D2D Scenarios
* * *
Scenarios UE1 UE2 1A: Out-of-Coverage Out-of-Coverage Out-of-Coverage 1B:
Partial-Coverage In-Coverage Out-of-Coverage 1C: In-Coverage-Single-Cell In-
Coverage In-Coverage 1D: In-Coverage-Multi-Cell In-Coverage In-Coverage
* * *
\- According to the RAN plenary prioritization, RAN1 and RAN2 will focus on a
D2D ProSe discovery mechanism for in-coverage (scenarios 1C and 1D).
\- RAN2 should focus on the study of direct discovery (no need to look into
discovery solutions using EPC in RAN2).
\- No need to distinguish open and restricted discovery on access stratum
level.
\- No need to distinguish PUSH and PULL model on Access Stratum.
\- It is assumed that a mechanism to trigger transmission of a D2D discovery
message upon reception of another D2D discovery message can be realized by
upper layers if a need is identified (up to SA2 to discuss)
\- UE needs to be allowed by the NW to transmit discovery messages in both
RRC_IDLE and RRC_CONNECTED modes.
\- The NW needs to be in control of the resources and transmission mode
(RRC_CONNECTED and/or RRC_IDLE) that the UEs may use to transmit Discovery
signals.
Editor\'s note: NW should have the option to select the preferred
configuration mode (RRC_IDLE or RRC_CONNECTED) for transmission and reception
of discovery messages.
  * It is assumed NAS handles authorization of D2D discovery transmission and reception.
Editor's note: FFS whether there is also a need to disallow selected UEs to
use Type 1 transmission resources on AS level (e.g. to avoid out of band
emission problems).
### 8.3.2 Radio protocol architecture
\- ProSe UE Identities and ProSe Application Identities are assigned/re-
assigned/allocated in upper layers and Access Stratum transmits them
transparently.
\- RAN2 assumes that IP layer is not used and therefore RoHC is not needed
\- Radio Protocol Stack for discovery comprises of at least a MAC layer
Editor's note: FFS whether AS security is required based on input from SA3
Radio Protocol Stack for D2D direct discovery is shown in Figure 8.3.2-1. In
this protocol stack it is assumed that the security (i.e. ciphering and/or
integrity protection) for discovery information is not applied in AS.
Figure 8.3.2-1: Protocol stack for D2D direct discovery
\- The Access Stratum layer performs the following functions:
[- Interfaces with Upper Layer:]{.underline} The MAC layer receives the
discovery information from the upper layer (i.e. application layer or NAS.)
The IP layer is not used for transmitting the discovery information. The
discovery information is transparent to Access Stratum.
[- Scheduling:]{.underline} The MAC layer determines the radio resource to be
used for transmitting the discovery information.
[- Discovery PDU generation:]{.underline} The MAC layer builds the MAC PDU
carrying the discovery information and sends the MAC PDU to the PHY layer for
transmission in the determined radio resource.
\- In the UE, the RRC protocol informs the discovery resource pools to MAC.
RRC also informs allocated Type 2B resource for transmission to MAC.
\- There is no need for a MAC header.
Editor's note: Additional Access Stratum layer (e.g. PDCP), impact on Protocol
stack for D2D Direct Discovery will be considered for providing ciphering
and/or integrity protection based on SA3 input.
\- MAC header for discovery does not comprise any fields based on which
filtering on L2 could be performed.
\- Discovery message filtering at the MAC level does not seem to save
processing or power compared to performing filtering at the upper layers based
on the Prose UE- and/or Prose Application ID.
\- The MAC receiver forwards all received discovery messages to upper layers.
\- MAC will deliver only correctly received messages to upper layers.
\- It is assumed that L1 indicates to MAC whether a discovery messages has
been received correctly.
\- It is assumed Upper Layers guarantee to deliver only valid discovery
information to the Access Stratum.
Editor's note: How often upper layer delivers discovery information to L2 and
need for buffer mechanism in L2 are FFS. It is not of highest priority in the
SI phase.
\- It is assumed that D2D discovery is on a different transport channel than
D2D communication.
### 8.3.3 Radio resource management aspect
#### 8.3.3.1 Protocol states
\- It is possible for UEs to receive D2D discovery message while being
RRC_IDLE and RRC_CONNECTED.
\- If the UE cannot interpret (in Access Stratum or upper layers) the received
D2D discovery message it may or may not establish an RRC Connection in order
to verify the content e.g. with an application server.
\- Transmission of discovery messages should be supported in RRC_IDLE mode and
in RRC_CONNECTED mode.
#### 8.3.3.2 Radio resource allocation
\- The eNodeB may provide in SIB:
\- A radio resource pool for discovery transmission and reception in case of
Type 1.
\- A radio resource pool for discovery reception of Type 2B.
Editor's Note: It is FFS how resource pools information is provided for inter-
cell discovery.
#### 8.3.3.3 Procedure
\- In case of Type 1, a UE autonomously selects radio resources from the
indicated Type 1 transmission resource pool for discovery signal transmission.
\- In case of Type 2B, only an RRC CONNECTED UE may request resources for
transmission of D2D discovery messages from the eNB via RRC. The eNodeB
assigns resource via RRC.
\- As baseline, UE releases the transmission resources the latest when the UE
enters RRC_IDLE or when the eNB withdraws the resource by RRC signalling.
\- In case of Type 2B as baseline radio resource are allocated by RRC. Use of
activation/deactivation of radio resources using PDCCH is FFS.
\- Receiving UEs monitor both Type 1 and Type 2B discovery resources as
authorised.
# 9 Communication
Discovery is not a required step for groupcast and broadcast communication.
For groupcast and broadcast, it is not assumed that all receiving UEs in the
group are in proximity of each other.
## 9.1 Physical layer design
Baseline for broadcast communication is that no closed loop physical layer
feedback is to be used.\ This can be revisited if significant benefits of
introducing some such feedback are shown.
_Working assumption:_ Blind retransmission of D2D data communication transport
blocks is supported.
### 9.1.1 Signal design
_Working assumption:_ For D2D data communication physical channel PUSCH
structure as defined in 3GPP TS 36.211 [13] and 3GPP TS 36.212 [16] is reused
with the following:
\- 24 bit CRC is inserted
\- Turbo coding is used
\- Rate matching is used for bit size matching and possibly for generating
multiple transmissions.
\- Scrambling is to be used for interference randomization.
\- PUSCH DMRS is transmitted
\- Possible additional reference signal is FFS
\- Possible modifications to interleaver FFS
\- CP length: See Section 6.3.
\- Detailed RE mapping is FFS
\- Guard period details are FFS
_Working assumption:_ Scheduling assignments (as defined in Section 9.1.2) use
PUSCH structure for transmission.
\- Details of PUSCH structure including DMRS and RE mapping are FFS.
\- At least the following are not precluded from further study: scheduling
assignments piggybacked with data, or indicated over DMRS.
_Working assumption:_ Transmission of a D2D control signal for D2D
communication is FFS between
\- Separate physical channel for control signalling.
\- Multiplexed into D2D data communication physical channel.
\- FFS whether only control signalling is transmitted in this case.
\- For example: similar to UCI piggybacking on PUSCH, or at MAC level, or via
DMRS.
### 9.1.2 Resource allocation
_From a transmitting UE's perspective, a UE can operate in two modes for
resource allocation:_
\- Mode 1: eNodeB or Release-10 relay node schedules the exact resources used
by a UE to transmit direct data and direct control information
\- FFS: if semi-static resource pool restricting the available resources for
data and/or control is needed
\- Mode 2: a UE on its own selects resources from resource pools to transmit
direct data and direct control information
\- FFS if the resource pools for data and control are the same
\- FFS: if semi-static and/or pre-configured resource pool restricting the
available resources for data and/or control is needed
\- D2D communication capable UE shall support at least Mode 1 for in-coverage
\- D2D communication capable UE shall support Mode 2 for at least edge-of-
coverage and/or out-of-coverage
_Working assumption:_ For D2D broadcast communication, scheduling assignments
that at least indicate the location of the resource(s) for reception of the
associated physical channel that carries D2D data are transmitted by the
broadcasting UE.
\- The indication of resource(s) for reception may be implicit and/or explicit
based on scheduling assignment resource or content.
\- For Mode 1:
\- The location of the resources for transmission of the scheduling assignment
by the broadcasting UE comes from the eNodeB.
\- The location of the resource(s) for transmission of the D2D data by the
broadcasting UE comes from the eNodeB.
\- For Mode 2:
\- A resource pool for scheduling assignment is pre-configured and/or semi-
statically allocated.
\- FFS whether the resource pool for scheduling assignment is same as the
resource pool for D2D data.
\- UE on its own selects the resource for scheduling assignment from the
resource pool for scheduling assignment to transmit its scheduling assignment.
_Working assumption:_ When transmitting UEs are out-of-coverage, the resources
used for D2D broadcast data are selected from a resource pool.
\- The resource pool can be pre-configured, or semi-statically configured.
\- If the resource pool is semi-statically configured, the method of semi-
statically configuring the resource pool is FFS.
## 9.2 Upper layer aspects
### 9.2.1 General
Scenarios for D2D ProSe direct communication are same as mentioned above in
Section 8.3.1. When UE1 has a role of transmission, UE1 sends data and UE2
receives it. UE1 and UE2 can change their transmission and reception role. The
transmission from UE1 can be received by one or more UEs like UE2.
\- Public Safety 1: M D2D broadcast communication should be possible
irrespective of availability of infrastructure coverage.
\- Whether Public Safety Communication needs to be achieved by D2D direct
communication in all cases (e.g. in-coverage) remains to be studied.
\- It is assumedthat 1: M D2D broadcast communication should be supported both
on a dedicated carrier and on the same carrier as regular LTE.
\- As baseline from L2 point of view, 1:M D2D broadcast communication is one-
way and there is no feedback on L2 (MAC/RLC/PDCP)
\- RRC/ Connection Handling:
\- A D2D Prose UE does not establish and maintain a logical connection to
receiving D2D Prose UEs prior to a 1: M D2D broadcast communication.
### 9.2.2 Radio protocol architecture
#### 9.2.2.1 Control-plane
#### 9.2.2.2 User-plane
\- PDCP:
\- 1: M D2D broadcast communication data (i.e. IP packets) should be handled
as the normal user-plane data.
\- Header-compression/decompression in PDCP is applicable for 1: M D2D
broadcast communication.
\- U-Mode is used for header compression in PDCP for D2D broadcast operation
for public safety.
\- Security support will be addressed based on input by SA3.
\- RLC:
\- RLC UM is used for 1: M D2D broadcast communication.
\- Segmentation and Re-assembly is supported on L2 by RLC UM.
\- A receiving UE needs to maintain at least one RLC UM entity per
transmitting peer UE.
\- An RLC UM receiver entity does not need to be configured prior to reception
of the first RLC UM data unit
\- So far no need has been identified for RLC AM or RLC TM for D2D
communication for user plane data transmission.
\- MAC:
\- No HARQ feedback is assumed for 1: M D2D broadcast communication
\- The receiving UE needs to know a source ID in order to identify the
receiver RLC UM entity.
\- The MAC header comprises a L2 target ID which allows filtering out packets
at MAC layer.
\- The L2 target ID may be a broadcast, group cast or unicast address.
\- L2 Groupcast/Unicast: A L2 target ID carried in the MAC header would allow
discarding a received RLC UM PDU even before delivering it to the RLC receiver
entity.
\- L2 Broadcast: A receiving UE would process all received RLC PDUs from all
transmitters and aim to re-assemble and deliver IP packets to upper layers.
Editor's Note: It is FFS how these are represented in the MAC header
\- MAC sub header contains LCIDs (to differentiate multiple logical channels).
\- At least Multiplexing/demultiplexing, priority handling and padding are
useful for D2D
### 9.2.3 Radio resource management aspect
#### 9.2.3.1 Protocol states
#### 9.2.3.2 Radio resource allocation
\- UEs in-coverage and out-of-coverage need to be aware of a resource pool
(time/frequency) for D2D communication reception.
\- All UEs (Mode 1 ("scheduled") and Mode 2 ("autonomous")) are provided with
a resource pool (time and frequency) in which they attempt to receive
scheduling assignments.
Editor's Note: It is FFS how the resource pool is configured/provided to UEs
in or out of coverage. (e.g. pre-configured; provided by eNodeB in SIB;
forwarded by UEs in coverage to UEs out of coverage)
\- In Mode 1, a UE requests transmission resources from an eNodeB. The eNodeB
schedules transmission resources for transmission of scheduling assignment(s)
and data.
\- The UE sends a scheduling request (D-SR or RA) to the eNodeB followed by a
BSR based on which the eNodeB can determine that the UE intends to perform a
D2D transmission as well as the required amount resources.
Editor's Note: It is FFS how the eNodeB indicates the transmission resources
to the UE.
\- In Mode 1, the UE needs to be RRC Connected in order to transmit D2D
communication.
\- For Mode 2, UEs are provided with a resource pool (time and frequency) from
which they choose resources for transmitting D2D communication.
Editor's Note: It is FFS for Mode 2, UEs in the "edge of coverage", obtain the
transmission resource pool by the eNB (e.g. SIB signalling).
Editor's Note: It is FFS for For Mode 2, UEs out of coverage how they obtain
the transmission resource pool (e.g. pre-configured; from other UEs; ...).
\- The eNodeB controls whether UE may apply Mode 1 or Mode 2 transmission.
Details FFS.
#### 9.2.3.3 Procedure
\- No Access Stratum signalling is required for group formation and Group ID
allocation at access stratum level (Group IDs could e.g. be preconfigured or
configured via higher layers.
\- No Access Stratum signalling is required for configuring Source and Target
IDs in the UE. This information is provided by higher layers.
# 10 Evaluation results for D2D
RAN1 has performed extensive evaluations of D2D techniques as part of the D2D
study item.
Sections 10.1 presents system level evaluation results obtained by various
sources for D2D discovery as per the mandatory Option 1 (details in Appendix
A). For discovery, 13 sets of results from a total of 10 sources are used
Sections 10.2 presents system level evaluation results obtained by various
sources for D2D communication as per the mandatory Option 5 agreed (details in
Appendix A). For communication, 10 sets of results from a total of 8 sources
are used.
Detailed simulation and design assumptions are provided for both discovery and
communication.
Even though there is a detailed evaluation methodology (Appendix A) that was
used by all sources in the evaluation campaign, it is acknowledged that a
system calibration campaign to align simulation platforms between different
sources was not performed. It is further noted that there are differing design
assumptions across various sources which further contribute to the differences
in the evaluation results. Additionally, aspects such as different channel
estimation error modeling could be different across different sources.
## 10.1 Evaluation results for discovery
For discovery, the results below provide simulation results for Option 1
agreed in Appendix A. The results capture the mean number of devices
discovered with number of discovery periods. The results are shown in Figure
10.1-1and the same results are also shown in Table 10.1-1. Simulation
assumptions are captured in Table 10.1-2.
It is noted that the assumption of number of discovery resources used (sub-
frames / PRBs) per discovery period is different for different sources, and
the discovery results are dependent on the number of resources to a large
extent.
{width="6.083333333333333in" height="4.208333333333333in"}
Figure 10.1-1: D2D discovery performance
Table 10.1-1: D2D discovery performance
* * *
Number of discovery periods Qualcomm Incorporated LG Electronics Alcatel-
Lucent Shanghai Bell, Alcatel-Lucent ZTE NTT DOCOMO (32 SFs, 1PRB) NTT DOCOMO
(64 SFs, 1×2 PRB) CATT - Scheme 1 CATT - Scheme 2 Intel Corporation: Scheme 1
Intel Corporation: Scheme 2 Huawei Samsung* ETRI 1 110 79.1 104 86 75.8 91.9
58 139 112 106 111 140 67 2 140 113.9 208 110 124.6 147.2 115 178 143 131 137
169 113 5 180 152.2 273 134 147.5 175.4 155 223 185 182 158 188(4) 158 10 205
172.6 321 150 157.0 188.8 182 255 222 221 164 201(8) 193 20 220 191.0 364 165
161.6 195.7 207 287 240 242 166 211(16) 214 40 240 207.5 N/A N/A 163.8 199.6
N/A N/A N/A N/A 167 215(32) N/A
* * *
*Note that these results use slightly different number of discovery periods which is captured in brackets.
Table 10.1-2: Simulation assumptions for D2D discovery
* * *
Description Qualcomm Incorporated LG Electronics Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell,
Alcatel-Lucent ZTE NTT DOCOMO NTT DOCOMO CATT - Scheme 1 CATT - Scheme 2 Intel
Corporation: Scheme 1 Intel Corporation: Scheme 2 Huawei Samsung ETRI
Discovery message size including CRC (bits) 128.0 128.0 104.0 104.0 128.0
128.0 128.0 128.0 128.0 128.0 104.0 104.0 104.0 Transmission BW (RBs) 2.0 2.0
1 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Modulation QPSK QPSK QPSK QPSK QPSK
QPSK QPSK QPSK QPSK QPSK QPSK QPSK QPSK Coding Turbo Turbo Turbo Turbo Turbo
Turbo Turbo Turbo Turbo Turbo Turbo Turbo Turbo Number of
symbols/Transmissions 13.0 12.0 14.0 13.0 14.0 28.0 14.0 14.0 14.0 28.0 13.0
14.0 14.0 Number of reference symbols 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 4.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 4.0
2.0 2.0 2.0 Tx Power (dBm) 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0
23.0 23.0 23.0 IBE model {3,6,3,3} {3,6,3,3} {3,6,3,3} {3,6,3,3} {3,6,3,3}
{3,6,3,3} {3,6,3,3} {3,6,3,3} {3,6,3,3} {3,6,3,3} {3,6,3,3} {3,6,3,3}
{3,6,3,3} Resource allocation type (1 or 2A or 2B) 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1.0
Number UL resources (SFs/discovery period) -- Option 1 29.0 20.0 40.0 16.0
32.0 64.0 16.0 64.0 30 30 63.0 50 16.0 Number of discovery RBs on discovery
subframes 44.0 50.0 24.0 44.0 44.0 44.0 44 44 44 44.0 Discovery period
(seconds) 10.0 1.0 5.0 1.0 10.0 10.0
* * *
It is further noted that resource allocation schemes across different sources
are different which are summarized below:
1) Qualcomm Incorporated: Distributed (energy) -- see R1-134627.
2) LG Electronics: Random with Tx prob. 0.5 per period -- see R1-140337.
3) Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, Alcatel-Lucent: Distributed (random
selection), refer to R1-140176 for details
4) ZTE: Randomly select -- see R1-140273
5) NTT DOCOMO: Random with indoor UEs sending discovery signal every 2
periods, refer to R1-140630 for details
6) CATT - Scheme 1 [R1-140098]: Random selection with UE grouping (based on Tx
UE transmission period&offset)
7) CATT -- Scheme 2 [R1-140098]: Random selection with repetition
8) Intel Corporation: Scheme 1 [R1-140841]: Random selection with adaptive
silencing: Two sub-Discovery Zones (DZs) with deterministic sub-DZ hopping
9) Intel Corporation: Scheme 2 [R1-140841]: Random selection with adaptive
silencing: Discovery resource size spanning 1 PRB-pair and 2 subframes
10) Samsung: random -- see R1-140393
11) ETRI: Random selection with UE and resource grouping (Refer to R1-140852
for details)
## 10.2 Evaluation results for communication
For communication, the results below provide simulation results for Option 5
agreed in Appendix A for the VOIP traffic model. The results are shown in
Figures 10.2-1 and 10.2-2 and are also shown in Table 10.2-1 and 10.2-2.
Simulation assumptions are captured in Table 10.2-3.
{width="6.510416666666667in" height="3.21875in"}
Figure 10.2-1: D2D communication VOIP performance
{width="184.47222222222223in" height="3.4895833333333335in"}
Figure 10.2-2: D2D communication performance (VOIP)
Table 10.2-1: D2D communication performance (VOIP)
Description | Qualcomm Incorporated | LG Electronics | Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell , Alcatel-Lucent | ZTE | Intel Corporation | Huawei-1 | Huawei-2 | Interdigital-1 | Interdigital-2 | ETRI  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Option 5 (IN-OUT) | 0.90 | 0.94 | 0.97 | 0.93 | 0.93 |  N/A | N/A | 0.86 | 0.91 | N/A  
Option 5 (Hotspot) | 0.71 | 0.79 | 0.73 | 0.69 | 0.85 | 0.4 | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A  
Option 5 (Uniform) | 0.73 | 0.88 | 0.82 |  N/A | 0.90 | 0.6 | 0.85 | 0.61 | 0.70 | 0.85  
Table 10.2-2: D2D communication performance (VOIP)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | D | Qua | LG | Alca | ZTE | Intel | Inte | Inte | ETRI | | escri | lcomm | E | tel-L | | C | rDigi | rDigi | | | ption | In | lectr | ucent | | orpor | tal-1 | tal-2 | | | | corpo | onics | Sha | | ation | | | | | | rated | | nghai | | | | | | | | | | Bell, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Alca | | | | | | | | | | tel-L | | | | | | | | | | ucent | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | O | 11.7 | 11.24 | 11.6 | 10.0 | 12.06 | 10.10 | 11.50 | N/A | | ption | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | | (IN | | | | | | | | | | -OUT) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | O | 60.7 | 73.63 | 63.8 | 61.0 | 75.47 | N/A | N/A | N/A | | ption | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | | (Hot | | | | | | | | | | spot) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | O | 63.1 | 77.17 | 70.8 | N/A | 78.12 | 50.01 | 56.23 | 71.26 | | ption | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | | (Uni | | | | | | | | | | form) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 10.2-3: Simulation assumptions for D2D communication (VOIP)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | D | Qua | LG | Alca | ZTE | Intel | H | Inte | ETRI | | escri | lcomm | E | tel-L | | C | uawei | rdigi | | | ption | In | lectr | ucent | | orpor | 1 and | tal-1 | | | | corpo | onics | Sha | | ation | 2 | and 2 | | | | rated | | nghai | | | | | | | | | | Bell | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | , | | | | | | | | | | Alca | | | | | | | | | | tel-L | | | | | | | | | | ucent | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Tr | 2.0 | 4.0 | 2.0 | 2.0 | 3.0 | 2.0 | 2.0 | 2.0 | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | BW | | | | | | | | | | (RBs) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P | 352.0 | 328.0 | 352.0 | 352.0 | 352.0 | 352.0 | 328.0 | 338.0 | | acket | | | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | | | | incl | | | | | | | | | | uding | | | | | | | | | | CRC | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | bits) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Modul | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | C | Turbo | Turbo | Turbo | Turbo | Turbo | Turbo | Turbo | Turbo | | oding | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | 14.0 | 12.0 | 14.0 | 14.0 | 14.0 | 14.0 | 12.0 | 12.0 | | umber | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | ymbol | | | | | | | | | | s/Tra | | | | | | | | | | nsmis | | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | 2.0 | 2.0 | 2.0 | 2.0 | 2.0 | 2.0 | 2.0 | 2.0 | | umber | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | | mbols | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Tx | 23.0 | 23.0 | 23.0 | 23.0 | 23.0 | 23.0 | 23.0 | 23.0 | | Power | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Num | 4.0 | 4.0 | 4.0 | 4.0 | 4.0 | 1. | 4.0 | 1.0 | | HARQ | | | | | | 0/4.0 | | | | tra | | | | | | | | | | nsmis | | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Freq | Yes | No | No | Yes | Yes | No | No | No | | uency | | | | | | | | | | Dive | | | | | | | | | | rsity | | | | | | | | | | (a | | | | | | | | | | cross | | | | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | | | | smiss | | | | | | | | | | ions) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Time | Yes | No | No | Yes | Yes | NO | No | No | | Dive | | | | | | | | | | rsity | | | | | | | | | | (a | | | | | | | | | | cross | | | | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | | | | smiss | | | | | | | | | | ions) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | 3.0 | 3.0 | 3.0 | 3.0 | 3.0 | 3.0 | 3.0 | 3.0 | | umber | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | TX | | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | IBE | {3,6 | {3,6 | {3,6 | {3,6 | {3,6 | {3,6 | No | No | | model | ,3,3} | ,3,3} | ,3,3} | ,3,3} | ,3,3} | ,3,3} | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | RSRP | - | - | -112 | - | - | - | - | - | | thre | 112.0 | 112.0 | | 112.0 | 112.0 | 112.0 | 112.0 | 112.0 | | shold | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
It is further noted that resource allocation schemes used by sources are
different and are summarized below:
1) Qualcomm Incorporated: Distributed (minimum energy based) -- see R1-140468
2) LG Electronics: Min energy with TDM inter-cluster coordination -- see
R1-140825
3) Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, Alcatel-Lucent: Distributed (sensing on
resource pool)
4) ZTE: Distributed (blindly random) -- see R1-140271
5) Intel Corporation: See R1-140130 (TDM Assistance from SSs)
6) Huawei: RR -- see R1-135043
7) InterDigital -- 1: Distributed (Random) -- see R1-135607
8) InterDigital -- 2: Centralized -- see R1-135607
9) ETRI -- Distributed-see R1-140217
# 11 Conclusion
\- With the current status of work, adding D2D discovery techniques is
considered compatible to LTE standard.
\- With the current status of work, adding D2D broadcast communication
techniques is considered compatible to LTE standard, and can fulfill the voice
and data needs of the public safety community both within network coverage and
outside network coverage.
\- Note: Following open issues from Section 8.1 have not been considered in
RAN1.
\- Contents of discovery MAC PDU (Relevant only to discovery)
\- Impact on cellular traffic.
\- Impact on other operator spectrum.
\- Lawful interception impact on RAN if any.
\- Potential impact on inter-eNodeB interfaces.
###### ### Annex A: Simulation model
# A.1 Link simulation Scenarios
# A.2 System simulation Scenarios
## A.2.1 System simulation assumptions
### A.2.1.1 Reference system deployments
Two classes of scenarios are defined: General Scenarios and Public Safety
Scenarios.
The layout for the scenarios shall be a hexagonal grid. There shall be 3
sectors per macro site.\ There shall be either with 19 or 7 macro sites in the
layout.
Following are the layout options that shall be used:
\- Option 1: Urban macro (500m ISD) + 1 RRH/Indoor Hotzone per cell
\- Option 2: Urban macro (500m ISD) + 1 Dual stripe per cell
\- Option 3: Urban macro (500m ISD) (all UEs outdoor)
\- Option 4: Urban macro (500m ISD) + 3 RRH/Indoor Hotzone per cell
\- Option 5: Urban macro (1732m ISD)
\- Option 6: Urban micro (100m ISD)
Options 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 layout shall use parameters specified for 3GPP case 1
defined in Table A.2.1.1.1 of 3GPP TS 36.814 [3] unless specified otherwise.
Options 5 layout shall use parameters specified for 3GPP case 3 defined in
Table A.2.1.1.1 of 3GPP TS 36.814 [3] unless specified otherwise.
Buildings should not have overlapping areas. Companies are encouraged to
provide procedure used to ensure that dropped buildings do not overlap.
See Section A.2.1.1.5 in 3GPP TS 36.814 [3] for details on RRH/Indoor Hotzone.
See Section 4.2.1 in R4-092042 [4] for details on Dual Stripe model.
Table A.2.1.1-1: Details of Deployment Scenarios
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | General Scenarios | Public Safety | | | | Scenarios | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | LTE Layout | Option 1 shall be | Option 5 shall be | | | mandatory | mandatory | | | | | | | Others layouts are | Others layouts are | | | optional in order of | optional in order of | | | decreasing priority: | decreasing priority: | | | | | | | Option 2 / Option 3 | Option 3 | | | | | | | Option 4 | Option 1 | | | | | | | Option 6 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | 2GHz | 700 MHz | | | | | | (Note: The | | | | performance at 2GHz | | | | is expected to be | | | | different from the | | | | performance at | | | | 700MHz.) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System bandwidth | 10MHz Uplink and | 10MHz Uplink and | | | 10MHz Downlink for | 10MHz Downlink for | | | FDD, 20 MHz for TDD | FDD, 20MHz for TDD | | | | for in-coverage and | | | | partial-coverage | | | | scenarios, | | | | | | | | 10MHz dedicated | | | | spectrum for | | | | out-of-coverage | | | | scenarios | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network operation | 100% eNodeBs enabled | 0% eNodeBs enabled | | | | | | | | 100% eNodeBs enabled | | | | | | | | 3-site clustered | | | | eNodeB enabling | | | | pattern for 19 cells | | | | layout as shown in | | | | Figure A.2.1.1-1 for | | | | partial-coverage^a^ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE out-of-coverage | N/A | Average SINR \ synchronized | | | | | | | | - eNodeBs on | | | | > different | | | | > carriers not | | | | > synchronized | | | | | | | | - eNodeBs on a | | | | > given carrier | | | | > not | | | | > synchronized | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE mobility (only | 3 km/hr | 60km/h for outdoor | | used for small scale | | UEs in Option 5. | | Doppler modeling of | | | | channels) | | 3km/h for all other | | | | cases. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE RF parameters | Max transmit power | | | | of 23 dBm for non | | | | public safety, 23 | | | | dBm, 31 dBm for | | | | public safety | | | | | | | | 1 Tx (2 Tx optional | | | | for public safety | | | | only), 2 Rx antenna, | | | | Antenna gain 0 dBi, | | | | Noise figure 9 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eNodeB RF parameters | As specified in 3GPP | | | | Case 1, except for | | | | Option 5 which uses | | | | parameters as | | | | specified in 3GPP | | | | Case 3 (Table | | | | A.2.1.1.1 of [3]) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Non D2D traffic | With probability | | | | {X}, a UE has non | | | | D2D (downlink & | | | | uplink) traffic. | | | | | | | | WAN traffic source | | | | shall be FTP2. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total number of | Layout Option 1 | Layout Option 5 | | active UEs^b^ per | | | | cell area^c^ | Indoor-outdoor mix: | Indoor-outdoor mix: | | | 25 | 10 | | | | | | | | Uniform (outdoor): | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | Hotspot: 10 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total number of UEs | Layout Option 1 | Layout Option 5 | | (including active | | | | UEs^b^) for | Indoor-outdoor mix: | Indoor-outdoor mix: | | discovery per | 150 | 150 | | cell^c^ | | | | | | Uniform (outdoor): | | | | 150 | | | | | | | | Hotspot: 150 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of UEs | Unicast : 2 | Unicast: 2 | | participating in a | | | | D2D communication | Groupcast: N/A | Groupcast: 10 (One | | session | | transmitter UE and 9 | | | Broadcast: N/A | (N~gr~) receiver | | | | UEs) | | | | | | | | Broadcast: One | | | | transmitter UE and | | | | variable number of | | | | receiver UEs based | | | | on the association | | | | procedure defined in | | | | Section A.2.1.1.3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Average number of | Unicast: 12(N~u~) | Unicast : 12 (N~u~) | | communication | | | | sessions per cell^c^ | Groupcast: N/A | Groupcast: 3 (N~g~) | | | | | | | Broadcast: N/A | Broadcast: 3 (N~b~), | | | | other optional | | | | values can be used. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE drop for all UEs, | For layout options | | | for both discovery | 1,2, 4: | | | and communication | | | | evaluations | - 2/3 UEs randomly | | | | and uniformly | | | | dropped within | | | | the clusters of | | | | small cell(s). | | | | | | | | - Remaining 1/3 | | | | UEs randomly and | | | | uniformly | | | | dropped | | | | throughout the | | | | macro | | | | geographical | | | | area. | | | | | | | | - 20% UEs are | | | | outdoor, and 80% | | | | UEs are | | | | indoor.^d^ | | | | | | | | For layout option 3, | | | | 5, 6: | | | | | | | | - Uniform drop: | | | | All UEs are | | | | randomly and | | | | uniformly | | | | dropped | | | | throughout the | | | | macro | | | | geographical | | | | area. All UEs | | | | are dropped | | | | outdoors. No | | | | buildings are | | | | dropped. | | | | | | | | - Hotspot drop : | | | | | | | | - Randomly | | | | select an | | | | area within | | | | each cell | | | | area. | | | | | | | | - Randomly and | | | | uniformly | | | | drop 2/3 UEs | | | | within 40 m | | | | of the | | | | selected | | | | area. | | | | | | | | - Randomly and | | | | uniformly | | | | drop the | | | | remaining | | | | 1/3 UEs to | | | | the entire | | | | macro | | | | geographical | | | | area of the | | | | given macro | | | | cell. | | | | | | | | - All UEs are | | | | dropped | | | | outdoors. | | | | | | | | - No buildings | | | | are dropped. | | | | | | | | - Minimum | | | | distance | | | | between | | | | eNodeB and | | | | Hotspot | | | | center^e^: | | | | 75m | | | | | | | | - Minimum | | | | distance | | | | between | | | | Hotspot | | | | centers: 80m | | | | | | | | Additionally for | | | | layout option 5: | | | | | | | | - Drop 2 RRH | | | | buildings | | | | (without RRHs) | | | | in each cell | | | | area. (See | | | | A.2.1.1.5 in | | | | [3]) | | | | | | | | - Drop 2/3 of UEs | | | | inside of the | | | | dropped | | | | buildings and | | | | 1/3 of UEs | | | | uniformly over | | | | geographical | | | | area. Keep the | | | | indoor-outdoor | | | | user | | | | distribution, so | | | | that 80% of | | | | terminals are | | | | indoor UEs^d^ | | | | and 20% of UEs | | | | are outdoor UEs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE association for | Refer to Section | | | unicast D2D | A.2.1.1.1 | | | communication | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE association for | N/A | Refer to Section | | groupcast D2D | | A.2.1.1.2 | | communication | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE association for | N/A | Refer to Section | | broadcast D2D | | A.2.1.1.3 | | communication | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE association for | N/A | First UE is randomly | | Relay D2D | | selected from all | | communication | | UEs without eNodeB | | | | coverage and 2^nd^ | | | | UE is selected from | | | | the UEs within | | | | eNodeB coverage | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum distance | 100 m, applicable to | | | between eNodeB and | Option 1 and Option | | | building center^e^ | 5 (Indoor-outdoor | | | | mix) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum distance | >=35m (except for | | | between UE and | Option 6 where it | | | eNodeB | shall be 5m) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum distance | >= 3m | | | between UEs | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Wraparound | Wraparound is used | | | | for all cases except | | | | partial-coverage, | | | | for which no | | | | wraparound is used. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum association | -107dBm, -112dBm | | | RSRP for D2D | | | | communication (X) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Receiver dynamic | Between 68.5dB and | | | range (In case of no | 72dB | | | blocker signals and | | | | 10MHz bandwidth^f^) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AGC settling time^g^ | within one LTE | | | | symbol (up to | | | | 70us)^h^ | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Initial frequency | within ±10ppm | | | offset error | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
a) a) To ensure sufficient number of out-of-coverage UE in partial-coverage,
use ITU UMa model (Table B.1.2.1-1 in [3]) for eNodeB-to-UE channel model in
D2D evaluations.
b) b) Active UEs are UE with WAN traffic.
c) c) Note that a cell refers to a sector of the geographical macro-cell
(hexagon).
d) d) In order to ensure that 80% of the UEs are indoor some of the UEs that
are not dropped inside a building will be declared as indoor UEs. They will be
called as virtual indoor UEs.
e) e) Applicable when at least one eNodeB is enabled.
f) f) Receiver dynamic range may be smaller due to AGC and vary with UE
implementation for other cases.
g) g) For AGC implementations based on energy estimation.
h) h) Based on UE implementation, additional AGC settling time (e.g., 2-3 LTE
symbols overall) may be required for higher order modulation to achieve
acceptable accuracy.
{width="3.2868055555555555in" height="2.8243055555555556in"}
Figure A.2.1.1-1: 3-site clustered eNodeB enabling pattern for partial-
coverage
For simulation purpose the following assumptions shall be made:
\- Only one type of D2D communication (Groupcast, Broadcast and Unicast) per
simulation
\- [The unicast traffic will flow from the first selected UE to the second
selected UE]
\- Groupcast is unidirectional communication from a first UE to all other UEs
in the group
\- Broadcast is unidirectional communication from a first UE to all other UEs
#### A.2.1.1.1 Dropping and Association for Unicast
Following shall be procedure for dropping and association for unicast:
1) Create 19 or 7 macro sites (hexagon) with 3 cells each.
2) [150] UEs will be dropped per cell using the UE dropping procedure
described in Table A.2.1.1-1 for different layout options.
3) Start association of unicast links, set NUM_LINKS_ASSOCIATED = 0.
4) First UE is randomly selected from all UEs within the entire 19 or 7 macro
sites that are not part of a unicast link.
5) Second UE is randomly selected from the remaining UEs (i.e., are not part
of a unicast link and are not the first UE) within the entire 19 or 7 macro
sites.
6) If second UE is not within RSRP* of X dBm of the first UE then randomly
reselect the second UE among the UEs that are within the RSRP of X dBm of the
first UE and are not part of a unicast link already.
7) If no second UE is found then discard the first UE and go to Step 4, else
NUM_LINKS_ASSOCIATED = NUM_LINKS_ASSOCIATED + 1.
8) If the NUM_LINKS_ASSOCIATED \ PL_B1_tot | options^d^ | | | is free space | | | | | path loss (Eq. | > (d~out~ + | | | | 4.24 in | > d~in~) + | | | | [6]), | > 20.0 + | | | | | | | | | PL_B1 is the | > 0.5*d_in | | | | Winner + B1^b^ | | | | | ([7] Table | - NLOS: | | | | 4-1) channel | > PL_B1 | | | | model for | _tot(d~out~ + | | | | hexagonal | > d~in~) + | | | | layout with | > 20.0 + | | | | the following | | | | | offsets | > 0.5*d~in~ | | | | | > \-- | | | | - LOS offset | | | | | = 0 dB^c^ | > 0.8*h_MS | | | | | | | | | - NLOS | > where | | | | offset = | | | | | -5 dB^c^ | d~out~ and | | | | | d~in~ are | | | | While | defined by | | | | calculating | Note 1 after | | | | Winner + B1 | Table 4-1 in | | | | pathloss the | [7] for true | | | | following | indoor UEs | | | | values shall | | | | | be used | d~in~=1.5m and | | | | | d~out~=d-d~in~ | | | | h_BS = h_MS | for virtual | | | | = 1.5m, | indoor UEs | | | | h_BS\' = | | | | | h_MS\' = 0.8m | h_MS = 1.5m | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | __LOS | Winner II-B1 | ITU-R IMT UMi | ITU-R IMT UMi | | Pr | ([6] Table | ([8] Table | ([8] Table | | obability^e^__| 4-7) | A1-3) | A1-3) for InH | | | | | | | | | | N/A for Dual | | | | | Strip | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ |__Shadowing_ _| 7 dB | 7 dB | UEs are in | | | log-normal | log-normal | same building: | |__standard_ _| | | | | | | | LOS: 3 dB | |__deviation_ _| | | log-normal | | | | | | | | | | NLOS: 4 dB | | | | | log-normal | | | | | | | | | | UEs are in | | | | | different | | | | | building: | | | | | | | | | | 10 dB | | | | | log-normal | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ |__Shadowing_ _| i.i.d. | | | | | | | | | * | | | | |_ correlation**| | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ |** Fast | ITU-R IMT UMi | ITU-R IMT UMi | ITU-R IMT InH | | Fading^f^** | ([8] Annex | O2I ([8] | ([8] Annex | | | 1.3.2) | Annex 1.3.2) | 1.3.2) | | | | | | | | LOS and NLOS | | LOS and NLOS | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
\- a) **P** athloss should be defined for 700 MHz in addition to 2 GHz (by
applying 20log(fc) correction for 700 MHz if not otherwise specified)
\- b) Winner+B1 is assumed to be valid up to a minimum distance of 3m
\- c) The offsets are assumed to be valid for all the frequencies of interest.
\- d) For calculating the indoor to indoor path loss between a virtual indoor
UE and another virtual indoor UE or indoor UE use the InH model for UEs inside
different buildings
\- e) **LOS probability:** some pathloss models do not specify a LOS/NLOS
region -- the LOS Probability would not be used for such models
\- f) **Additional** modifications needed to incorporate changes in Doppler
modeling due to dual mobility are described in Section A.2.1.2.1. Further
study can be undertaken on the dual-scattering described in [9].
NOTE: These models are being adopted for the purpose of relative comparisons
of D2D techniques, without necessarily having measurement support.
#### A.2.1.2.1 Doppler modelling
##### A.2.1.2.1.1 System level
Following are the working assumptions for Doppler modelling.
\- [Symmetric angular spread distribution and dual mobility corrections]
\- [Doppler is determined by path AOA/AOD]
\- [Uniform AOA spread of 104 degrees]
\- [Direction of travel (velocity vector) independent and random]
\- [Amend the ITU-R UMi/InH model to incorporate dual mobility]
\- [V~TX~ (UE1) and V~RX~ (UE2) parameters separately with phase change per
sub-path]
\- [Equation (21) in [8] shall be modified to]
[For equation (23) in [8], $\upsilon_{\text{LOS}}$ shall be modified similar
to above.]
##### A.2.1.2.1.2 Link level
For link level simulations, use ITU-R UMi clustered delay line models (CDL) in
Annex 1.3.2.2 of [8].
For LOS, use Table A1-11 of [8] with modifications given in Table A.2.1.2.1-1.
For NLOS and outdoor-to-outdoor, use Table A1-12 of [6] with modifications
given in Table A.2.1.2.1-1.
For NLOS and outdoor-to-indoor, use Table A1-13 of [8] with modifications
given in Table A.2.1.2.1-1.
Table A.2.1.2.1-1: Angles of Clusters
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | AoD Umi | AoA Umi | AoD Umi | AoA UMi | AoD UMI | AoA Umi | | LOS | LOS | NLOS | NLOS | O2I | O2I | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 0 | 0 | 122.5559 | 120.1944 | 0 | 0 | | | | | | | | | -68.7175 | - | 86.7522 | - | - | 151.4573 | | | 106.2107 | | 100.2476 | 121.0478 | | | 131.5981 | | -9.9052 | | | 34.4389 | | | - | | 8.0427 | -55.1371 | | | 115.2023 | 110.1174 | 130.3126 | | | - | | | | | - | - | 178.5128 | | -38.8360 | 123.4640 | 60.4220 | 111.6904 | 176.6670 | | | | | | | | 125.9853 | | 124.0966 | 96.5260 | - | 69.8980 | - | | | | | 126.6098 | | 120.0480 | - | | 112.5924 | -80.2283 | | 158.9481 | | 120.0331 | | | | - | | 128.1768 | | | 145.2721 | 70.8023 | 105.6680 | - | | 48.5616 | | | | | 100.6300 | -22.1998 | | | -21.1926 | 110.7270 | - | | | - | | | | 164.3962 | 148.0088 | 176.9402 | 177.3006 | | -34.9820 | 54.2775 | | | | | | | | 109.9194 | 67.1337 | 90.6816 | -98.3362 | | -8.4619 | 93.7484 | | | | | | | | 107.1477 | 110.4009 | 112.9335 | - | | 87.3854 | -46.3447 | | | | 126.2771 | | | | 168.7049 | 124.0406 | -64.3963 | | | | -51.7578 | | | | 73.0122 | | | | 160.5394 | - | -87.4108 | | | | | | 152.4777 | | 102.0991 | | | | - | | | | | | | 123.5687 | - | | | | | | | 144.0233 | | | | | | 178.8640 | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | 142.3884 | 145.4387 | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | 142.0713 | | | | | | 158.7691 | | | | | | | | 168.4165 | | | | | | - | | | | | | | 107.2924 | 103.2230 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 108.2534 | 111.9478 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 112.7843 | 100.1584 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Cluster | Cluster | Cluster | Cluster | Cluster | Cluster | | ASD = | ASA = | ASD = | ASA = | ASD = | ASA = | | | | | | | | | 17 | 17 | 22 | 22 | 8 | 8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | Values | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | enerated | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | follows: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1. | | | | | | | σ~φ~ = | | | | | | | 104, | | | | | | | σ~AOA~ = | | | | | | | σ~φ~ | | | | | | | /1.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. | | | | | | | Generate | | | | | | | φ~n\'~ | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | Equation | | | | | | | (13) | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | given by | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | A1-11, | | | | | | | A1-12, | | | | | | | A1-13 | | | | | | | resp | | | | | | | ectively | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3. | | | | | | | Generate | | | | | | | φ~n~ | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | equation | | | | | | | (17) | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | (φ~LOS~ | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | 0) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4. | | | | | | | If LOS | | | | | | | or O2I | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | modify | | | | | | | φ~n~ | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ccording | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | equation | | | | | | | (18) | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | ormalize | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | angles | | | | | | | to be in | | | | | | | -180 to | | | | | | | 180 | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | 190 | | | | | | | would | | | | | | | become | | | | | | | -170) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
For temporal variation due to dual mobility:
If the CDL model is implemented as described in Step10a (Annex 1.3.2.1 of [8])
use the dual mobility modification described in Section A.2.1.2.1.1.
or
Use a Doppler spectrum shaping filter based on Equation 2 of [9], if the CDL
model is implemented as described in Step10b (Annex 1.3.2.1[8]).
### A.2.1.3 Traffic models
Use full buffer, VoIP and FTP2 from [3] with the following exceptions.
In the case of broadcast for FTP2 traffic model the file size should be 10
Kbytes.
VOIP traffic model as defined below will be the baseline for D2D broadcast
evaluations.\ Each transmitter generates VOIP traffic according to the
following assumption:
Table A.2.1.3-1: Parameters for VoIP model
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Codec | Source rate 12.2 kbps | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Encoder frame length | 20 ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Voice activity factor | 75% | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Talk spurt | Exponential distribution: | | | | | | mean = 2.5 seconds | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Voice payload per speech frame | Baseline: With header | | during active talk | compression 41 Bytes (328 bits) | | | | | | Optional: Without header | | | compression 70 Bytes (560 bits) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SID payload | Not modelled | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Outage definition | 2% (may be revisited later) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The two-state Markov model in Figure 14 in [8] can be used with a=1/125 and
c=3/125..
### A.2.1.4 Performance evaluation metrics
#### A.2.1.4.1 Metrics for discovery
For evaluation of proposed discovery schemes the following metrics shall be
considered.
\- The metrics related to performance targets aspect of Open ProSe discovery
are
\- Number of UEs discovered as a function of time. This shall be a system
level metric.
\- CDF of number of UEs discovered as a function of time. This shall be a
system level metric.
\- The metric related to performance targets aspect of Restricted ProSe
discovery is
\- Probability of discovery as a function of time. Zero time penalty shall be
assumed for each false alarm. This shall be a system level metric.
\- The metrics related to range and reliability aspects of discovery are
\- Probability of discovery vs. pathloss. This shall be both a link & system
level metric.
\- Probability of false alarm. This shall be both a link & system level
metric.
\- The metrics related to impact on WAN aspect of discovery are
\- Amount of resource used for discovery per cell if in-coverage. This shall
be a system level metric.
\- FFS metrics related to throughput loss and/or interference.
\- The metrics related to power consumption aspect of discovery is
\- Power consumption should be calculated using the model described in Section
A.2.1.6.
Points to note:
\- Time shall be measured from start of simulation without prior
synchronisation.
\- Unless explicitly stated same metrics shall be used for in-coverage,
partial-coverage and out-of-coverage scenarios with possibly different
emphasis.
\- Same metrics shall be used for public safety and non-public safety cases
with possibly different emphasis.
#### A.2.1.4.2 Metrics for communication
For evaluation of proposed communication schemes the following metrics shall
be considered.
\- The metrics related to D2D throughput aspects of communication are
\- For full buffer traffic model; mean, 5%, and CDF of user throughput.\ This
shall be a system level metric.
\- For FTP2 traffic model; mean, 5%, and CDF of perceived user throughput.\
This shall be a system level metric.
\- For VOIP traffic model; VOIP system capacity. The VOIP delay requirement
shall be 200 ms for Unicast, Broadcast, Groupcast and 100ms per hop for
Relays. This shall be a system level metric.
\- The metrics related to range and reliability aspects of communication are
\- Performance versus pathloss or distance. Performance shall be in terms of
either user throughput, perceived user throughput, or probability of satisfied
VOIP user depending on traffic model.\ This shall be both a link and system
level metric. For link level performance use only full buffer.
\- The metrics related to call setup latency aspect of communication is
\- Physical layer latency for call setup for out-of-coverage only.\ This
should only model L1 related aspects; higher layer aspects should be
considered in RAN2.\ This shall be both a link and system metric.
\- The metrics related to impact on WAN aspects of communication are
\- Change in cell throughput/cell spectral efficiency for full buffer traffic
model.\ This shall be a system level metric.
\- CDFs of perceived per-user throughput for FTP2 with and without D2D.\ This
shall be a system level metric.
\- The metrics related to power aspect of communication is
\- Power consumption should be calculated using the model described in Section
A.2.1.6.
Points to note:
\- Same metrics shall be used for in-coverage, partial-coverage and out-of-
coverage scenarios.
\- Same metrics shall be used for public safety and non-public safety cases
with possibly different emphasis.
### A.2.1.5 In-band emissions model
A modified version of in-band emissions defined in Section 6.5.2.3 of 3GPP TS
36.101 [5] should be used for simulation purposes for SC-FDMA waveforms.\
Table 6.5.2.3.1-1 in [5] is modfied to:
Table A.2.1.5-1: In-band emissions for simulations
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Limit (Note | Applicable | | | | | 1) | | | | description | | | Frequencies | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | General | dB | | Any | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | (Note 2) | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | IQ Image | dB | -28-Y | Image | Image | | | | | frequencies | frequencies | | | | | when carrier | (Notes 2, 3) | | | | | center | | | | | | frequency \ 10 dBm | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | -25-Y | Image | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | when carrier | | | | | | center | | | | | | frequency \ 10 dBm | frequency | | | | | and carrier | (Notes 4, 5) | | | | | center | | | | | | frequency \ 10 dBm | | | | | | and carrier | | | | | | center | | | | | | frequency ≥ | | | | | | 1 GHz | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | -25-Z | 0 dBm ≤ | | | | | | Output power | | | | | | ≤10 dBm | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | -20-Z | -30 dBm ≤ | | | | | | Output power | | | | | | ≤ 0 dBm | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | -10-Z | -40 dBm ≤ | | | | | | Output power | | | | | | \ **ProSe Communication:** a communication between two or more ProSe-enabled
> UEs in proximity by means of a ProSe Communication path. Unless explicitly
> stated otherwise, the term \"ProSe Communication\" refers to any/all of the
> following:
\- - ProSe E-UTRA Communication between only two ProSe-enabled UEs; or
\- - ProSe Group Communication or ProSe Broadcast Communication among Public
Safety ProSe-enabled UEs; or
\- - ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication.
**ProSe E-UTRA Communication:** a ProSe Communication using a ProSe E-UTRA
Communication path.
> **ProSe Group Communication:** a one-to-many ProSe E-UTRA Communication,
> between more than two Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs in proximity, by means
> of a common ProSe E-UTRA Communication path established between the Public
> Safety ProSe-enabled UEs.
>
> **ProSe Broadcast Communication:** a one-to-all ProSe E-UTRA Communication,
> between all authorized Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs in proximity, by
> means of a common ProSe E-UTRA Communication Path established between these
> Public Safety UEs.
## A.4.1 Typical Public Safety Use Cases and Scenarios of ProSe Communication
According to definitions and requirements in 3GPP TS 22.278 [10], Device-to-
Device (D2D) ProSe Communication:
(1) is directly between Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs using E-UTRA
regardless of whether or not a priori ProSe Discovery is used, and
(2) can be autonomously enabled by Public Safety users when authorized.
This section identifies typical public safety use cases of D2D ProSe
Communication.
### A.4.1.1 General Description of Public Safety ProSe Communication Scenarios
PTT voice is the most critical means of communications for first responders in
emergency situations and cannot be compromised. Although the focus of
applications over D2D ProSe Communication is PTT voice communications, other
forms of ProSe Communication applications are important too. In [12], general
descriptions of scenarios for PTT off-network communications are following:
_\"While the NPSBN (National Public Safety Broadband Network) will be a
primary, reliable transport of public safety voice and data, there are many
situations where voice and data communications will be required in areas where
the NPSBN is not available. NPSBN Users (NPSBN-U) may be outside of the range
of the fixed network, such as first responders in a rural area assisting in a
response to a plane crash or police officers inside a residence responding to
a domestic issue. Off-network voice communications must be immediately
accessible to users in the absence of the NPSBN. This includes areas and
locations where the ability to access non-terrestrial communications can be
impaired such as within building and other enclosed areas where non-
terrestrial communications may not be available. Additionally, there may be
times when users may wish to communicate off-network. Today, firefighters
often join a local communications network, which does not leverage the fixed
network, but rather, relies on either direct communications between the user
devices or communications via a local repeater on-scene. Firefighters can
voluntarily leave the fixed network either due to the unpredictable coverage
of the fixed network, or if the coverage of direct communications or the local
repeater is well known, based on experience._
_There will be occasions where a user may be within network coverage and will
need to communicate with users who are on the network and off-network, such as
an Incident Commander (IC) supporting fire response activities. These users
must be able to communicate to users on the fixed network, such as dispatch,
as well as the local users who are off-network or when it is desirable to
provide voice, data and video connections between users without connection to
the network even if within network coverage._
_A relay function is critical for off-network communications when NPSBN
coverage is not sufficient to support the public safety mission. In the case
of firefighters who are responding to a wildfire while outside of the coverage
of the fixed network, if one user becomes encircled by the wildfire and is
beyond the range of the IC, but within the range of another device that can
act as a relay, the endangered firefighter can still update his status to the
IC.\"_
### A.4.1.2 Typical Use Cases of Public Safety ProSe Communication
The **D2D ProSe Communication** are \"communications in Direct Mode\" that is
separate from ProSe Communications via the network infrastructure as noted
above. D2D ProSe Communication is a critical public safety need overall.
For **D2D ProSe Group Communication** involving more than two Public Safety
ProSe-enabled UEs, the Incident Commander will assign team members to specific
groups of users (detailed to perform a specific task) where each group is
having independent ProSe Group Communication. This bifurcating of each team
allows the incident commander to manage these groups more effectively and
ensures that their communications are exclusive/pre-empted to their task. In
current Public Safety LMR systems, off-network (Direct Mode) operations are
often a method used for on-scene communications, in particular by the Fire
Service, whether their existing trunked network is operational and has
coverage in this particular area or not.
Furthermore, when a task force is manually switched to off-network (D2D ProSe
Group Communication) that has had one or more of its team members move off D2D
ProSe Communication-coverage (whether it was intentional or not), if a UE will
provide the user an opportunity to determine which users are in- D2D ProSe
Communication-coverage at any given time, users could use this capability to
determine if the user they need to reach by seeing his status of availability
and, if the user is not in- D2D ProSe Communication-coverage, a procedure is
triggered to deterministically establish an alternative communication path to
try to reach him. Additionally, UEs that are switched to D2D ProSe
Communication (while being in-coverage) requires continuous LTE connectivity
to EPC for messages, maps, pictures, video exchanges with group communications
via the infrastructure LTE network. For those UEs that are out-of -coverage
the EPC connectivity is provided by UE-to-Network Relays wherever feasible.
It is noteworthy that in a D2D (off network) environment, the incident
commander could configure two users for private communication by setting them
up with **D2D ProSe E-UTRA Communication** in Direct mode. D2D ProSe E-UTRA
Communication is necessary and critical to Public Safety, which is mimics the
Private Call in today\'s Land Mobile Radio (LMR) trunked systems. This often
is communication between a supervisor and one of the people under his command
that is a member of the larger group. One use case could be Team
Leader/supervisor of a police group operating off network communicating to a
sniper on the roof giving a \"shoot\" or \"don\'t shoot\" message at a
critical moment. They may determine that immediate dialogue might not be
beneficial to a larger group during that critical moment. Moreover, this
feature is purposely used sparingly and only specific individuals/devices are
assigned to D2D ProSe E-UTRA Communication, such that sharing information
among the group of incident members is not jeopardized.
## A.4.2 Typical performance values and E-UTRAN characteristics for Public
Safety of ProSe Communication
Typically needed performance values and E-UTRAN characteristics for Public
Safety of D2D ProSe Communication are following.
### A.4.2.1 Basic operations
\- With concurrent on-network operation, there would not be more than 6-8 D2D
ProSe Group Communication groups at an incident scene.
\- With concurrent on-network operations, there should not be more than 12-16
users assigned to each D2D ProSe Group Communication group but the group size
could be expanded to 50-70 users to accommodate a search and rescue team.
\- With concurrent on-network operations, two incident service members may
have an authorized \"private call\" using D2D ProSe E-UTRA Communication.
\- Geographic area of operations for D2D ProSe Communication could be up to
1.5 mile radius per incident scene.
### A.4.2.2 Coverage
\- D2D ProSe Communication for Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs is needed among
in- coverage UEs, out-of- coverage UEs and a mixture of UEs in and out-of-
coverage.
\- Determination is needed regarding within the D2D ProSe Communication which
user(s) are in-D2D ProSe Communication-coverage at any given time.
\- Maintaining concurrent D2D ProSe Communication (off-network) and LTE
connectivity to EPC is required regardless of whether UEs are in-coverage or
out-of- coverage (see [10]). The LTE connectivity to EPC for out-of- coverage
UEs are provided via UE-to-Network Relays.
### A.4.2.3 Applications
\- The applications to be supported by D2D ProSe communication for Public
Safety are voice, location, low speed data (SMS, report/query, sensor, etc.),
and pictures (optional video if possible) with voice as the most critical
means of communications.
\- Emergency Alert is required. The alert would be sent to either the group
leader or all other group members (undercover law enforcement operations,
fireground operations).
\- Locate Team Member is required. That is the ability for the Team Leader to
send a query to acquire the location of an unresponsive team member, the UE if
functional would respond automatically, providing the location of the
unresponsive team member to the team leader.
### A.4.2.4 System Aspects
\- There is an expectation that when a UE is served by the E-UTRA network, the
network will perform radio resource allocation for Proximity Services
Communication whether the Proximity Services Communication is using the same
carrier or a different carrier from that used by the cellular E-UTRA network
the UE is attached to.
\- Dissemination of radio resource allocations and updates needs to be able to
be performed within a period of the order of seconds to meet the performance
expectations of public safety users.
\- ProSe Communication for Public Safety can be directly between the ProSe-
enabled UEs using E-UTRA regardless of whether or not a priori ProSe
Discovery, and could be enabled by Public Safety ProSe-enabled users when
authorized.
#