# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is related to the technical report for the study item
\"Study on Small Cell Enhancements for\ E-UTRA and E-UTRAN -- Higher layer
aspects\" (RP-122033 [2]).
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP systems.
The present document gathers all technical outcome of the study item, and
draws a conclusion on the way forward.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or nonâ€‘specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-122033: \"New Study Item Description: Small Cell enhancements for
E-UTRA and E-UTRAN -- Higher layer aspects\", Contribution to 3GPP TSG-RAN
meeting #58.
[3] 3GPP TR 36.932: \"Scenarios and requirements for small cell enhancements
for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN\".
[4] 3GPP TR 36.839: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Mobility enhancements in heterogeneous networks\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description;
Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TR 36.822: \"LTE Radio Access Network (RAN) enhancements for diverse
data applications\".
[7] 3GPP TR 36.819: \"Coordinated multi-point operation for LTE physical layer
aspects \".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[9] R2-131233: \"Frequent handovers and signaling load aspects in
heterogeneous networks\", Contribution to RAN2 meeting #81bis.
[10] R2-131056: \"Mobility Statistics for Macro and Small Cell Dual-
Connectivity Cases\", Contribution to RAN2 meeting #81bis.
[11] R2-131712: \"Mobility Performance for Rel-12 Small Cell Scenario 3\",
Contribution to RAN2 meeting #82.
[12] R2-132038: \"Contributions to S1 Signaling for Small Cells\",
Contribution to 3GPP TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #82.
[13] R2-131666: \"Performance evaluation of Inter-Node User Plane
Aggregation\", Contribution to RAN2 meeting #82.
[14] R2-130124: \"User data rate enhancements with inter-site CA\",
Contribution to RAN2 meeting #81.
[15] 3GPP TR 36.872: \"Small cell enhancements for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN \-
physical aspects\".
[16] R1-114311: \"Further-eICIC Performance with Finite Buffer Traffic\",
Contribution to RAN1 meeting #67.
[17] R1-114312: \"Typical RE values and UE Rx signal statistics for FeICIC\"
Contribution to RAN1 meeting #67.
[18] R1-112381: \"Uplink co-channel HetNet performance and PC optimization\"
Contribution to RAN1 meeting #66.
[19] R3-120715: \"Performance of uplink power control in co-channel macro+pico
deployment\", Contribution to RAN3 meeting #75bis.
[20] R2-132627: \"Mobility Robustness in Small Cell Deployments in Scenario
2\", Contribution to RAN2 meeting #83.
[21] R2-132903: \"Analysis of Mobility Performance in Small Cell Deployment
Scenario 2\", Contribution to RAN2 meeting #83.
[22] R2-132711: \"Performance evaluation of Inter-Node User Plane
Aggregation\", Contribution to RAN2 meeting #83.
[23] R2-132897: \"Performance of bearer split with non-ideal backhaul\",
Contribution to RAN2 meeting #83.
[24] R2-133603: \"Comparison of intra-bearer UP architectures\", Contribution
to RAN2 meeting #83bis.
[25] R2-132709: \"RRC diversity performance evaluation in Scenario#1\",
Contribution to RAN2 meeting #83.
[26] R2-133559: \"Performance of Control Plane Diversity\", Contribution to
RAN2 meeting #83bis.
[27] R2-132832: \"Simulations of intra-frequency user throughput\",
Contribution to RAN2 meeting #83.
[28] RP-130847: \"New Study Item Proposal: Study on CoMP for LTE with Non-
Ideal Backhaul\", Contribution to 3GPP TSG-RAN meeting #60.
[29] R2-131678: \"Further discussions on UL/DL split\", Contribution to RAN2
meeting #82.
[30] R2-132484: \"Performance Comparison between Dual Connectivity and
CA+eICIC\", Contribution to RAN2 meeting #83.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Bearer Split** : in dual connectivity, refers to the ability to split a
bearer over multiple eNBs.
**Dual Connectivity:** Operation where a given UE consumes radio resources
provided by at least two different network points (Master and Secondary eNBs)
connected with non-ideal backhaul while in RRC_CONNECTED.
**Master Cell Group** : the group of the serving cells associated with the
MeNB.
**Master eNB** : in dual connectivity, the eNB which terminates at least
S1-MME and therefore act as mobility anchor towards the CN.
**Secondary Cell Group** : the group of the serving cells associated with the
SeNB.
**Secondary eNB** : in dual connectivity, an eNB providing additional radio
resources for the UE, which is not the Master eNB.
**Xn** : interface between MeNB and SeNB. Since the current E-UTRAN
architecture was selected as baseline in this study, Xn in this TR means X2.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BSR Buffer Status Report
CRE Cell Range Extension
CSO Cell Selection Offset
HOF HandOver Failure
MCG Master Cell Group
MeNB Master eNB
RLF Radio Link Failure
RLM Radio Link Monitoring
RNL Radio Network Layer
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality
SCG Secondary Cell Group
SeNB Secondary eNB
TAG Timing Advance Group
TNL Transport Network Layer
ToS Time of Stay
# 4 Introduction
At the 3GPP TSG RAN #58 (December 2012) meeting, the Study Item description on
\"Study on Small Cell Enhancements for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN \-- Higher layer
aspects\" was approved (RP-122033 [2]).\ This study covers potential higher
layer technologies to be considered for enhanced support of small cell
deployments in E-UTRA and E-UTRAN to fulfil the deployment scenarios and the
requirements specified in 3GPP TR 36.932 [3].
# 5 Deployment scenarios and challenges
This clause describes the deployment scenarios assumed in this study and the
challenging issues in each scenario.\ In the following scenarios, the backhaul
technologies categorised as non-ideal backhaul in TR 36.932 [3] are assumed.
Fibre access which can be used to deploy Remote Radio Heads (RRHs) is not
assumed in this study. HeNBs are not precluded, but not distinguished from
Pico eNBs in terms of deployment scenarios and challenges even though the
transmission power of HeNBs is lower than that of Pico eNBs.
## 5.1 Scenario #1
Scenario #1 is the deployment scenario where macro and small cells on the same
carrier frequency (intra-frequency) are connected via non-ideal backhaul. In
Scenario #1, the following challenges are expected:
a) Mobility robustness: In particular increased HOF/RLF upon mobility from
pico to macro cells TR 36.839 [4];
b) UL/DL imbalance between macro and small cells;
c) Increased signalling load (e.g., to CN) due to frequent handover;
d) Difficult to improve per-user throughput by utilizing radio resources in
more than one eNB;
e) Network planning and configuration effort.
### 5.1.1 Mobility robustness
Mobility performance in this scenario was analyzed in TR 36.839 [4]. The
conclusions in TR 36.839 are a baseline for this study. Potential solutions to
address this challenge are investigated and compared to the ones developed in
the heterogeneous network mobility work item in terms of complexity and gain
under this study. The denser small cell deployment described in TR 36.932 [3]
may also be taken into account.
### 5.1.2 UL/DL imbalance between macro and small cells
A UE is said to be in UL/DL imbalance situation if the UE\'s best uplink cell
and best downlink cell are different.\ In heterogeneous networks, the eNBs
have different downlink output power, e.g., macro eNBs with high output power
and pico eNBs with low output power, and the cells may have different UL PC
settings.\ Due to this, an UL/DL imbalance situation may occur for some UEs.
UL/DL imbalance is illustrated in Figure 5.1.2-1. In Figure 5.1.2-1, the
location of the UE and macro/pico eNBs is depicted on the X axis whereas the
received signal strength is depicted on the Y axis. The curves are plotted
with the assumption that UE transmission power is fixed and the UE location
relative to the eNBs is varied. The received DL power from the macro eNB at
the UE is depicted in blue. The received DL power from the pico eNB at the UE
is depicted in green. The received UL power from the UE at the macro eNB is
depicted in orange. The received UL power from the UE at the pico eNB is
depicted in red. Uplink cell border in Figure 5.1.2-1 means that the received
uplink signal strength from the UE is equal at the two eNBs. Downlink cell
border in Figure 5.1.2-1 means that the received downlink signal strength from
the two eNBs is equal at the UE.
{width="6.100694444444445in" height="2.670138888888889in"}
Figure 5.1.2-1: UL/DL imbalance issue in HetNet deployments
In LTE, Reference Signal Received Power-based (RSRP-based) cell selection is
often used. In this scheme, UEs may connect to the macro cell even though the
path loss to the pico is lower due to the power imbalance.\ As a result, the
pico cell size becomes relatively small compared to the macro cell size which
can result in low UE uptake and small traffic offloading to the pico cells. To
increase traffic offloading to the pico cells and to improve uplink
performance, there is a need to increase the size of the pico cells. This can
be done with the concept of Cell Range Extension (CRE) [5]. With CRE, a
terminal is associated to a pico eNB even if the pico cell RSRP biased by a
cell specific offset (CSO) is below the macro cell RSRP. In a heterogeneous
deployment when the macro and pico cells are operated on the same frequency, a
UE connected to a pico cell with CRE may experience strong interference from
the macro cell. Adopting the RAN1 Rel-12 Small Cell simulation assumptions
[15], where the macro and small cell Tx power equals 46 dBm and 30 dBm,
respectively, there is 16 dB shift in optimal single-user UL and DL cell
border. However, when using further enhanced inter-cell interference
coordination (feICIC) in addition to CRE, it is generally found that the best
downlink co-channel HetNet performance with Rel-11 feICIC for medium to high
offered traffic is obtained by using approximately 9-14 dB CRE for the pico-
cells, and configuring 3 to 4 out of every 8 subframes as ABS at the macro-
layer [16, 17]. Likewise in the uplink, the optimal CRE that maximizes the UL
performance depends on the cell load, but also on the configuration of the UE
power control (PC). Given that optimized open-loop PC parameters are used, the
CRE value resulting in the best UL system performance is found to be on the
order of 8-16 dB for multi-user co-channel HetNet scenario with medium to high
offered traffic [18, 19].
In summary, for a multi-user scenario with medium to high offered traffic
(using DL feICIC and optimized UL power control parameterization), the UL/DL
imbalance \"challenge\" seems to be smaller issue, and therefore there are
potentially less gains expected from having different UL and DL serving cells
for a UE as compared to low load scenario. Potential solutions with different
UL and DL serving cells shall only be considered if possible with minor
additional complexity, as gains from such techniques are mainly relevant for
low load scenarios. Consequently, there is no conclusion that the effects of
UL/DL imbalance are significant and this study is is deprioritized.
### 5.1.3 Increased signalling load (e.g., to CN) due to frequent handover
TR 36.932 [3] defines a requirement to minimize signalling load to the CN as
well as increase of backhaul traffic due to small cell deployments TR 36.839
[4]. This clause provides an insight into quantified signalling load with
respects to increasing number of small cells in Scenario #1 [9].
Figure 5.1.3-1 shows the number of handovers for different UE speeds in a more
dense heterogeneous deployment with 10 small cells per macro cell, randomly
deployed with 50 m of the minimum ISD. Otherwise, simulation parameters are
the same as in TR 36.839 [4]. The increase in the number of handovers compared
to a macro only network is 120 % - 140 %, depending on the UE speed. This
could imply the increased amount of signalling messages over the radio
interface between the source eNB and the UE, signalling over X2 interface as
well as signalling towards the MME and the S-GW.
{width="6.683333333333334in" height="2.8097222222222222in"}
Figure 5.1.3-1: Increase in number of handovers where 10 small cells are
deployed per macro cell
On the other hand, how much the signalling load due to handover is dominant to
the total signalling load of different network nodes such as MME and eNB
depends on amount of other signalling messages for e.g. connection maintenance
as well different network configurations such as RRC inactivity timer.
Furthermore, with the RRC inactivity timer, the eNB can release the RRC
connection when there is no data activity for a given period to control the
amount of connected mode UEs. By releasing the RRC connection, the amount of
handover signalling can be reduced whereas that of connection setup signalling
is increased. Alternatively, the amount of handover signalling can be reduced
by releasing the inactive UE when the handover would occur. Table 5.1.3-1
shows a comparison of the number of RRC connection setups and handovers for
background traffic (Trace ID: 1) analyzed in TR 36.822 [6].\ Table 5.1.3-2
shows the amount of signalling messages over the S1 interface for both
connection setup and X2 handover. For connection setup, the following S1-AP
messages are assumed:
1\. Initial UE message (including Service Request)
2\. Initial Context Setup Request
3\. Initial Context Setup Response
4\. UE Context Release Request
5\. UE Context Release Command
6\. UE Context Release Complete
For X2 handover, the following S1-AP messages are assumed:
> 1\. Path Switch Request
>
> 2\. Path Switch Request ACK
These results could imply that the amount of signalling due to handover is
clearly smaller than that of state transition messages when shorter RRC
inactivity timer is applied. Furthermore, it should be noted that there are
also other messages sent over S1-MME such as tracking area updates, paging
etc. In summary, the followings are observed:
\- The amount of signalling due to handover is increased over the radio
interface and E-UTRAN including toward the CN as the number of small cells is
increased.
\- How much dominant the handover signalling load to the CN is to the total
signalling load in the E-UTRAN depends on the RRC inactivity timer. If the
network releases RRC connection by setting the RRC inactivity timer to be
shorter, the share of handover signalling to the CN can be reduced to be small
as compared to connection setup up signalling. The longer timer results in the
opposite way. The optimum RRC inactivity timer depends on the mobility rate
and the traffic characteristics.
Table 5.1.3-1: Comparison of the number of RRC connection setups and handovers
[6]
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-----+ | Scheme | Number of | Number of | | | | | | | connection | handovers | | | | | | | setups | | | | | | | | | (per UE per | | | | | | | (per UE per | hour) | | | | | | | hour) | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-----+ | | | Mobility | | | | | | | | Rate (cell | | | | | | | | changes per | | | | | | | | minute per | | | | | | | | UE) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-----+ | | | 0.1 | 0.3 | 1 | 3 | 10 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-----+ | Full use of | 0 | 6 | 18 | 60 | 180 | 600 | | RRC | | | | | | | | _CONNECTED | | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-----+ | RRC Release | 64 | 0.6 | 1.8 | 6.1 | 18.5 | 62 | | timer = 5s | | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-----+ | RRC Release | 53 | 1.0 | 3.3 | 10.9 | 32.3 | 109 | | timer = 10s | | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-----+
Table 5.1.3-2: Comparison of S1 messages between idle-connected state
transition and handovers
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-------+ | Scheme | Number of | Number of | | | | | | | S1 messages | S1 messages | | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | due to | handover | | | | | | | connection | | | | | | | | setup | (per UE per | | | | | | | | hour) | | | | | | | (per UE per | | | | | | | | hour) | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-------+ | | | Mobility | | | | | | | | Rate (cell | | | | | | | | changes per | | | | | | | | minute per | | | | | | | | UE) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-------+ | | | 0.1 | 0.3 | 1 | 3 | 10 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-------+ | Full use of | 0 | 12 | 36 | 120 | 360 | 1200 | | RRC | | | | | | | | _CONNECTED | | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-------+ | RRC Release | 384 | 1.2 | 3.6 | 12.2 | 37.0 | 124.0 | | timer = 5s | | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-------+ | RRC Release | 318 | 2.0 | 6.6 | 21.8 | 64.6 | 218.0 | | timer = 10s | | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+------+-------+
### 5.1.4 Difficult to improve per-user throughput by utilizing radio
resources in more than one eNB
Different services and bearers typically have different QoS characteristics.
For example, VoIP traffic has tight delay requirements but does not require
high bit rates and can tolerate rather high packet losses.\ In contrast, best
effort traffic benefits from higher bitrates but is less delay sensitive as
compared to VoIP traffic.\ It is desirable to take such QoS requirements into
account when multiple cell resources are available.\ However, if non-ideal
backhaul as in TR 36.932 [3] is utilized between macro and small cells,
increasing user throughput by utilising radio resources across those of cells
while taking QoS requirements into account is a challenge.
For Scenario #1, CoMP can be considered as a way of utilising multiple cell
resources as specified in TR 36.819 [7]. Nevertheless, Rel-11 CoMP assumed
that small cells are low power RRHs using ideal backhaul. With non-ideal
backhaul between macro and small cells, Rel-11 CoMP may not work well due to
larger backhaul latency.
Furthermore, if the macro cell edge is also the area boundary served by the
different eNBs, and a small cell is deployed as such that it covers the area
boundary of different eNBs as shown in Figure 5.1.4-1, there would be a region
that CoMP cannot be configured for the UE (Right half of a small cell in
Figure 5.1.4-1). This is because Rel-11 CoMP can only support the case where
all serving transmission points are served by the same eNB.
Since technology potential compared to the existing interference coordination
functionalities has not been justified, the per-user throughput enhancement
for Scenario #1 is deprioritized in this study. Whether the protocol
architecture developed for Scenario #2 can support Scenario #1 can be
considered later.
Figure 5.1.4-1: Issue on the CoMP/CA deployment at the macro cell edge
### 5.1.5 Network planning and configuration effort
Operator should be able to utilize small cells as a mean to flexibly and
promptly provide coverage and/or additional capacity whenever such a condition
prevails. Although some of self-configuration SON function may help for the
initial setting of e.g. handover parameters, tailoring the setting of handover
parameters to provide the same performance as in macro area may be difficult
e.g. if there are many small cells deployed.
Specific solutions for network planning and configuration effort will not be
discussed in this study item and will be handled by the other study item or
work item later.
## 5.2 Scenario #2
Scenario #2 is the deployment scenario where macro and small cells on
different carrier frequencies (inter-frequency) are connected via non-ideal
backhaul. In Scenario #2, the following challenges are expected:
a) Mobility robustness (not investigated in TR 36.839 [4] and the problem of
strong interference from macro on same carrier is not present);
b) UL/DL imbalance between macro and small cells;
c) Increased signalling load (e.g., to CN) due to frequent handover;
d) Difficult to improve per-user throughput by utilizing radio resources in
more than one eNB;
e) Network planning and configuration effort;
For e), the same issue as in Scenario #1 is foreseen as described in subclause
5.1.5.
### 5.2.1 Mobility robustness
This clause looks into mobility performance in Scenario #2 [20, 21]. Detailed
simulation assumptions are described in Annex [TBD].
Figure 5.2.1-1 shows the handover failure rate of the following cases without
DRX:
1) Macro only network;
2) 10 small cells per a macro cell on the same carrier (Scenario #1);
3) 10 small cells per a macro cell on the different carrier (Scenario #2);
4) 2 set of 10 clustered small cells per a macro cell on the different carrier
(Scenario #2);
The handover failure rate in Scenario #2, i.e., case 3) and 4) is much lower
than in Scenario #1, i.e., case 2) due to the lower interference between macro
and small cells. However, it is still higher than in a macro only network.
This is due to the interference in the small cell carrier when handover from a
small cell to a macro cell or between small cells occurs.
{width="3.997916666666667in" height="2.2159722222222222in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1: Handover failure rate without DRX
Figure 5.2.1-2 shows the handover failure rate in case 3) as a function of the
DRX cycle. As seen from the figure, the HO failure rates reach higher levels
here going well above 5% at higher UE speeds and with longer DRX cycle
lengths. It should be noted that DRX has a significant impact on UE power
consumption, so getting good mobility performance also with longer DRX cycles
is important.
{width="3.3118055555555554in" height="2.3958333333333335in"}
Figure 5.2.1-2: Handover failure rate in case 3) with DRX
For the above evaluations, Event A3 is used for triggering inter-frequency
handover. In this case, the small cells in the macro cell centre area would be
hardly utilized as signal strength of the macro cell is too good to handover
UEs to the small cells even with negative A3 offsets. To utilize the small
cells regardless of their locations, Event A2/A4 can be used. Figure
5.1.2-3(a) and 5.1.2-3(b) show the share of handover types and the handover
failure for each handover type respectively. MM HO and SS HO denote the
handover between macro cells and between small cells respectively. MS HO and
SM HO denote the handover from a macro cell to a small cell and vice versa
respectively. As seen in Figure 5.1.2-3(a), using Event A2/A4 increases SS HO
compared to Event A3. On the other hand, the failure rate of SM HO is
considerably increased by the aggressive offloading setting to small cells.
{width="3.2534722222222223in"
height="2.3958333333333335in"}{width="3.248611111111111in"
height="2.3652777777777776in"}
**(a) Share of handover types (b) Handover failure of each handover type**
Figure 5.2.1-3: mobility statistics with different small cell offloading
policies\ (30km/h UE speed and 10 clustered small cells per a macro cell)
In summary, the following are observed:
\- Mobility robustness in Scenario #2 is not as good as in a macro only
network, but less of a problem than in Scenario #1 if no DRX is used.
\- The HO performance is degraded if longer DRX is used.
\- If the HO threshold to small cells is set such that UE stays longer in
small cells, the HO failure and ping pong from a small cell to a macro cell is
increased.
When studying the benefits of new mobility enhancements for Scenario #2, the
baseline used for comparison should include the relevant enhancements from the
Rel-12 HetNet WI. In other words, the HetNet enhancements that can also
improve the mobility robustness in Scenario #2 should be considered before
concluding the benefits of new mobility enhancements for Scenario #2.
### 5.2.2 UL/DL imbalance between macro and small cells
UL/DL imbalance as described in subclause 5.1.2 may exist between macro and
small cells in Scenario #2.\ Unlike Scenario #1, there is no interference
between macro and small cells.
For Scenario #1, technology potential allowing difference serving cell in UL
and DL is not justified as described in subclause 5.1.2. Likewise, there is no
conclusion that the effects of UL/DL imbalance are significant and this study
is is deprioritized.
### 5.2.3 Increased signalling load (e.g., to CN) due to frequent handover
The observation on the signalling load in Scenario #1 as described in
subclause 5.1.3 can also be applied for Scenario #2. In addition, this clause
looks into mobility statistics for Scenario #2 [10]. The following performance
metrics are evaluated:
1) Statistics for number of mobility events per UE per hour;
2) Number of inter-eNB PCell handover events per UE per hour.
These performance metrics are evaluated for the following methods:
\- Method A: For UEs served by a single cell only, i.e., either by a macro or
a small cell;
\- Method B: For UEs configured to deliver data via macro and small cells
simultaneously.
For Method B, mobility is always served by the macro cell layer while a small
cell is added/ released depending on its vicinity. Detailed mobility and
simulation assumptions are described in Annex B.
Figure 5.2.3-1 and 5.2.3-2 summarise the statistics for number of mobility
events per UE per hour for both the methods, respectively. Results are
presented for the cases with either 2 or 10 small cells per macro cell area,
and different UE speeds. For Method A, the relative fraction of macro-to-macro
handovers (MM HO) is modest, as the mobility events are dominated by macro-to-
pico handovers (MP HO) and pico-to-macro handovers (PM HO). For the case with
10 small cells per macro-cell area, the fraction of pico-to-pico handovers (PP
HOs) starts to become visible.
The results of Method B in Figure 5.2.3-2 show a constant number of PCell
handovers (MM HO) independent on whether there are 2 or 10 small cells per
macro-cell area. This is due to the fact that mobility is always served on the
macro-layer. Comparing the results in Figure 5.2.3-1 and Figure 5.2.3-2 shows
that the cost of Method B is a 20% increase in the number of RRC
reconfigurations.
The increased number of RRC reconfigurations originates from managing both
macro and small cells simultaneously, as opposed to only managing either macro
or small cell for Method A. The number of events in Fig. 5.2.3-2 is clearly
dominated by events related to small cell configuration (roughly 60-80%). This
is because a UE will naturally cross higher number of small cells (as compared
to macro cells), and therefore experience more small cell reconfigurations
than macro cell changes.
{width="3.8666666666666667in" height="2.0729166666666665in"}
Figure 5.2.3-1: Statistics for number of mobility events per UE per hour for
Method A
{width="4.001388888888889in" height="1.9097222222222223in"}
Figure 5.2.3-2: Statistics for number of mobility events per UE per hour for
Method B
Figure 5.2.3-3 shows the cumulative distribution function for the number of
small cell configuration operations (i.e., add, remove, change) without
performing inter-eNB handover between macro cells. Hence, it basically shows
the statistics for number of small cell mobility events while having the PCell
on the same macro eNB. At the medium level, it is observed that 1-3 Small cell
operations typically happen while the UE has the PCell on the same macro eNB.
However, with 10% probability (i.e. 90th percentile), UEs can be subject to 8
small cell mobility events while having the PCell on the same macro eNB. The
statistics in Fig. 5.2.3-3 are useful to get a first estimate of the core
network signalling impact, if the data flow for UEs with Method B is from S-GW
to the macro cell and from the macro cell to the small cell together. Given
the assumptions for the data flow, it basically means that small cell mobility
events, while still having the same macro-eNB as PCell, will not trigger any
core network signalling (i.e. no path-switching).\ On the other hand, U-plane
overhead on Transport Network as well as inter-eNB signalling will be
increased due to routing all traffic via the macro cell.
{width="3.861111111111111in" height="2.725in"}
Figure 5.2.3-3: CDF for the number of small cell configuration operations
Fig. 5.2.3-4 shows statistics for the number of inter-eNB PCell handovers per
UE per hour for both the methods.\ For Method A, a higher number of inter-eNB
PCell changes is clearly observed as this happens for every inter-frequency
handover between macro and small layer, as well as for intra-frequency
handovers between different small cells (or different macro eNBs). In
contrast, for Method B, inter-eNB PCell handovers are only triggered for the
macro layer (intra-frequency). The results in Fig. 5.2.3-4 therefore shows on
the order of a factor 3-4 higher number of inter-eNB PCell handovers for
Method A, as compared to Method B.
{width="3.022222222222222in" height="2.9659722222222222in"}
Figure 5.2.3-4: Number of inter-eNB PCell handover events per UE per hour
In summary, the followings are observed:
\- For dual Rx/Tx UEs, keeping the mobility anchor (S1-U and S1-MME) in the
macro cell can save signalling overhead towards the CN (S1 path switch).
\- There is a trade-off between saving C-plane signalling towards the CN and
U-plane overhead on Transport Network due to routing all traffic via the macro
as well as inter-eNB C-plane signalling.
\- RRC reconfiguration overhead of managing both macro and small cells
simultaneously is higher than that of managing either macro or small cell
only.
### 5.2.4 Difficult to improve per-user throughput by utilizing radio
resources in more than one eNB
Increasing user throughput by utilising radio resources across cells, while
taking into account QoS requirements, is a challenge also in Scenario #2.
For Scenario #2, CA could be considered as a way of utilising multiple cell
resources as specified in TS 36.300 [5]. Nevertheless, Rel-10/11 CA assumes
that small cells are low power RRHs using ideal backhaul. With non-ideal
backhaul between macro and small cells, Rel-10/11 CA may not work well due to
larger backhaul latency.
The same issue as in Scenario #1 can be considered when a small cell is
deployed as such that it covers the area boundary of difference eNBs as
described in subclause 5.1.4.
## 5.3 Scenario #3
Scenario #3 is the deployment scenario where only small cells on one or more
carrier frequencies are connected via non-ideal backhaul. In Scenario #3, the
following challenges are expected:
a) Mobility robustness (not investigated in [4] and the problem of strong
interference from macro on same carrier is not present);
b) Increased signalling load (e.g., to CN) due to frequent handover;
c) Network planning and configuration effort;
For c), the same issue as for Scenario #1 is foreseen as described in
subclause 5.1.5.
### 5.3.1 Mobility robustness
This clause looks into mobility performance in Scenario #3 [11].\ Detailed
simulation assumptions are described in Annex C.
Figure 5.3.1-1 shows statistics of RLF and HOF for different UE speeds where
the fractional traffic load is assumed as in Annex C. For the UE speed of 3
and 10 km/h, the probability of RLF and HOF is quite low. For the 30 km/h
case, an increase in RLFs and HOFs can be observed for both cases with and
without time synchronisation. Nevertheless, the HOF rate in the case without
time synchronisation is still below 3 % at the 30 km/h speed and the 30 % load
(i.e., 6 UEs per cell. see Annex C). For the 60 km/h case, the number of RLFs
and HOFs becomes rather high for all the cases except for the case without
time synchronisation and the 10 % load (i.e., 2 UEs per cell).
Figure 5.3.1-2 shows statistics of RLF and HOF for different UE speeds where
the full traffic load is assumed.\ The statistics are compared with ideal and
non-ideal cell detection for synchronous cells. With ideal cell detection, the
HOF rate is close to 0 % at the 3km/h of UE speed. However, the HOF rate rises
to rather high for the faster UE speeds.
From these statistics, the following is observed:
\- Up to the 3km/h of UE speed, there is no mobility robustness problem in
Scenario #3.
{width="6.6875in" height="2.7847222222222223in"}
Figure 5.3.1-1: Statistics for RLF and HOF (fractional load)
{width="6.69375in" height="2.7395833333333335in"}
Figure 5.3.1-2: Statistics for RLF and HOF (full load)
### 5.3.2 Increased signalling load (e.g., to CN) due to frequent handover
This clause analyzes the increased signalling load due to small cell
deployments without the macro cell coverage [12].\ Table 5.3.2-1 shows the
statistics of number of mobility events per UE per minute.\ The simulation is
conducted according to the mobility parameter of Set 1 and others in [4].\ For
Scenario #3, the number of mobility events is about 4 times higher than that
of a macro only network.\ From this result, the following is observed:
\- A mechanism to cope with the increase of signalling due to cell change
traffic should be considered for Scenario #3 as well as Scenario #1 and #2.
Table 5.3.2-1: Statistics for number of Mobility events per UE per minutes in
Scenario #3
* * *
Deployment HOs / min, 30 km/h HOs / min, 3 km/h Macro-Only 3.5 1.0 Scenario
#3: 10 small cells/Macro site (single channel) 14.5 4.3
* * *
# 6 Design goals
In order to resolve the challenges described in clause 5, the following design
goals are taken into account for this study in addition to the requirements
specified in TR 36.932 [3].
In terms of mobility robustness:
\- For UEs in RRC_CONNECTED, Mobility performance achieved by small cell
deployments should be comparable with that of a macro only network.
\- A solution for Scenario #1 should be aimed for single Rx/Tx UEs if it is
decided to be progressed.
\- The details of a solution by which a single Rx/Tx UE could achieve enhanced
mobility robustness have not been investigated in this study.
In terms of increased signalling load due to frequent handover:
\- Any new solutions should not result in excessive increase of signalling
load towards the CN. However, additional signalling and user plane traffic
load caused by small cell enhancements should also be taken into account.
\- A solution for all scenarios should be aimed for single Rx/Tx UEs if it is
decided to be progressed.
In terms of improving per-user throughput and system capacity:
\- Utilising radio resources across macro and small cells in order to achieve
per-user throughput and system capacity similar to ideal backhaul deployments
while taking into account QoS requirements should be targeted.
\- Multiple Rx/Tx UEs should be a baseline for Scenario #2.
# 7 Potential solutions
This clause describes the potential solutions to realize the design goal
described in clause 6.\ The quantified technology potential compared with the
existing technologies up to Rel-11 is also shown.
## 7.1 Dual connectivity
A term \"dual connectivity\" is used to refer to operation where a given UE
consumes radio resources provided by at least two different network points
connected with non-ideal backhaul. Furthermore, each eNB involved in dual
connectivity for a UE may assume different roles. Those roles do not
necessarily depend on the eNB\'s power class and can vary among UEs. In the
form of dual connectivity, the following potential solutions can be
considered.
### 7.1.1 Inter-node radio resource aggregation (for Scenario #2)
Inter-node radio resource aggregation is a potential solution for improving
per-user throughput. This can be done by aggregating radio resources in more
than one eNB for user plane data transmission as illustrated in Figure
7.1.1-1. Depending on realization of this solution, signalling overhead
towards the CN can potentially be saved by keeping the mobility anchor in the
macro cell as described in subclause 5.2.3.
{width="4.228472222222222in" height="2.911111111111111in"}
Figure 7.1.1-1: Inter-node radio resource aggregation
#### 7.1.1.1 Analysis of technology potential
##### 7.1.1.1.1 Potential gain from the existing features
This clause analyzes technology potential on the throughput improvement
compared with the existing features up to Rel-11 [13].\ The user throughput
performance in the following scenarios as illustrated in Figure 7.1.1.1.1-1 is
evaluated:
\- Scenario #A: Both macro and pico eNBs are equipped with the same two
carriers. The macro and pico eNBs apply Rel-10 CA to aggregate both carriers.
\- Scenario #B: Both macro and pico eNBs are equipped with one carrier which
differs from one another. The macro and pico eNBs apply inter-node radio
resource aggregation.
In both scenarios, remote radio heads with ideal backhaul are deployed at the
place of pico eNBs with non-ideal backhaul. The simulation assumptions are
listed in Table D-1 of Annex D. 2GHz and 2.6 GHz carriers are assumed with the
channel model of 3GPP mode 1. File download traffic of 2 MByte file size over
TCP is assumed.
{width="2.109027777777778in" height="0.80625in"} {width="1.9625in"
height="0.80625in"}
**Scenario #A Scenario #B**
Figure 7.1.1.1.1-1: Simulation scenarios for inter-node radio resource
aggregation
Figure 7.1.1.1.1-2 shows user throughput CDF at high traffic load for macro
and pico users separately.\ Figure 7.1.1.1.1-3 shows PDSCH SINR on the
secondary carrier, f2 in Figure 7.1.1.1.1-1.\ In both figures, Scenario #A is
denoted as \"co-channel, CA\", while Scenario #B is \"sepdep, INUPA\".\ For
pico UEs, Scenario #B results in better user throughput than Scenario #A while
for macro UEs, the similar CDFs of user throughput are observed. This can be
explained by the lack of strong interference from macro cells on the pico
carrier as shown in Figure 7.1.1.1.1-3.\ Lack of interference significantly
increases the throughput of pico UEs and the effective coverage area of the
pico cells.
{width="4.3805555555555555in" height="3.2381944444444444in"}
Figure 7.1.1.1.1-2: User throughput CDF at high traffic load for macro and
pico users separately
{width="4.3805555555555555in" height="3.28125in"}
Figure 7.1.1.1.1-3: PDSCH SINR on carrier f2 (in Figure 7.1.1.1.1-1)
Hereafter, the technology potential is analyzed for different file sizes of
file down load traffic using the ITU channel model, high carrier frequency for
the pico cells (3.5 GHz), and assuming an ideal backhaul [22].
Figure 7.1.1.1.1-4 shows the 5^th^ and 95^th^ percentile user throughput as a
function of system load for 2 MByte file down load. In the figure, Scenario #B
is denoted as \"case 1, INUPA\". The technology potential is compared with the
baseline scenario where the users are served by a single cell in Scenario #B.
This baseline scenario is denoted as \"case 0\" in the figure. For cell edge
users, large throughput improvement is observed especially at low or medium
loads.\ In contrast, the peak data rate of users is increased marginally. This
is because the TCP slow start phase is dominant during such a small file
download time. Thus, the maximum peak rate of a 2MByte file download over TCP
is in fact almost already achieved with a single carrier.
{width="3.2958333333333334in"
height="2.4451388888888888in"}{width="3.3541666666666665in"
height="2.4791666666666665in"}
**(a) 5^th^ percentile (b) 95^th^ percentile**
Figure 7.1.1.1.1-4: user throughput as a function of system load for 2 MByte
file download
Figure 7.1.1.1.1-5 shows the 5^th^, average and 95th percentile user
throughput as a function of system load for 8 MByte file down load. Higher
throughput gains are achieved in the user throughput with inter-node radio
resource aggregation, especially for the 95^th^ percentile user throughput,
compared to the 2MByte file down load case. This is because the TCP slow start
phase is less dominant during such a large file download time.
{width="3.301388888888889in"
height="2.484722222222222in"}{width="3.301388888888889in"
height="2.484722222222222in"}
**(a) 5^th^ percentile and average (b) 95^th^ percentile**
Figure 7.1.1.1.1-5: user throughput as a function of system load for 8 MByte
file download
##### 7.1.1.1.2 Potential gain with non-ideal backhaul deployments
The potential gain from the existing features described in subclause 7.1.1.1.1
is evaluated according to the proportional fair in time and frequency
principles, preferably on the cell/carrier where the highest RSRP is
measured.\ If the buffer of a user is large enough, it may be scheduled on the
remaining available resources of the second carrier. However, such the
coordination between carriers is not feasible if non-ideal backhaul is assumed
between macro and pico eNBs. Scheduling has to be done independently at each
carrier. This independent scheduling method may not be optimal compared with
the coordinated scheduling. This clause analyzes technology potential with the
assumption of non-ideal backhaul, i.e., independent scheduling at macro and
pico eNBs [14].
Figure 7.1.1.1.2-1 shows 5 and 50 percentile user throughput performance as a
function of the offered load per macro cell. In Figure 7.1.1.1.2-1, Scenario
#B in subclause 7.1.1.1.1 is denoted as \"with inter-site CA\".\ The term
\"w/o inter-site CA\" denotes the scenario where inter-node radio resource
aggregation is not applied in Scenario #B. Both the 5 and 50 percentile user
throughput performance with inter-node radio resource aggregation are
significantly higher than without inter-node radio resource aggregation. Users
experience gains up to 90 % in low load conditions. On the other hand, the
gain decreases as the load increases. At very high load the user data rate
performance with and without inter-node radio resource aggregation is almost
the same. This behaviour can be explained as follows; at low-to-medium load
UEs can benefit from larger transmission bandwidth and increased multi-user
diversity available with this method. When the offered load is high, it does
not really matter whether the UE can receive data from one or both frequency
layers since the system is saturated and the schedulers try to allocate the
available resources among all UEs in a fair manner. The simulation assumptions
are listed in Table D-2 of Annex D.
{width="4.342361111111111in" height="3.692361111111111in"}
Figure 7.1.1.1.2-1: User throughput as a function of the offered load per
macro cell
From these results shown in subclause 7.1.1.1.1 and 7.1.1.1.2, the following
is observed assuming ideal backhaul and no protocol impact:
\- For Scenario #2, inter-node radio resource aggregation shows technology
potential in terms of per-user throughput; especially in case of large file
transmission.
\- This observed technology potential justifies investigating protocol
architectures.
\- The gains achievable with a realistic realization of inter-node radio
resource aggregation, considering e.g., backhaul delay, backhaul capacity and
protocol impact, will be evaluated and compared with existing functionalities
(e.g., with/without CA, eICIC, etc.) later.
\- It is assumed that the performance that can be achieved with Rel-10/11 CA
with ideal backhaul sets the technology potential of inter-node radio resource
aggregation with non-ideal backhaul.
### 7.1.2 Inter-node radio resource aggregation (for Scenario #1)
Inter-node radio resource aggregation is a potential solution for improving
cell edge throughput in Scenario #1, which allows one UE to be scheduled via
multiple eNBs. As an example showed in Figure 7.1.2-1 below, an UE 1 in small
cell edge could be served by macro cell in non-ABS to utilize macro cell radio
resource, and by small cell in ABS to utilize small cell radio resource.
Hence, the per-user throughput can be increased by utilizing radio resources
in more than one eNB.
Figure 7.1.2-1: Inter-node radio resource aggregation for Scenario #1
#### 7.1.2.1. Analysis of technology potential
Table 7.1.2.1-1 _provides the simulation results for Scenario #1 with 4 pico
nodes per a macro cell. The pico nodes are placed at traffic hot spots and the
inter-site distance between macro nodes is 500m. The simulation is conducted
with different ABS patterns. The performance metrics used are per-UE user
perceived throughput (UPT)._ Further details regarding simulation assumptions
are given in [_27_].
When the ABS pattern is 1/8, CRE UEs are exposed to the most of macro
resources, and a gain over eICIC can be observed. As the ratio of ABS pattern
increases from 1/8 to 7/8, the relative gain becomes smaller as less macro
resources can be exploited for CRE UEs. From these results the technology
potential of this solution is not justified since the existing mechanisms
seems to be sufficient. This is because for the eICIC operation, the ABS
pattern can follow the user distribution resulting in the comparable gain to
inter-node radio resource aggregation. Furthermore, this concept would be
taken care of the inter-eNB CoMP study [28].
Table 7.1.2.1-1: Inter-node radio resource aggregation for Scenario #1 with
different ABS pattern
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="2.7840277777777778in" | | height="2.05in"} | height="2.0493055555555557in"} | | | | | Figure 1: Comparison of UPT for | Figure 2: Comparison of UPT for | | CRE UE, with 1/8 ABS pattern | CRE UE, with 3/8 ABS pattern | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="2.7944444444444443in" | | height="2.0416666666666665in"} | height="2.036111111111111in"} | | | | | Figure 3: Comparison of UPT for | Figure 4: Comparison of UPT for | | CRE UE, with 5/8 ABS pattern | CRE UE, with 7/8 ABS pattern | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 7.1.3 RRC diversity
RRC diversity is a potential solution for improving mobility robustness. With
RRC diversity, the handover related RRC signalling could additionally be
transmitted from or to a potential target cell as illustrated in Figure
7.1.3-1.\ RLF could in this case be prevented as long as the UE is able to
maintain a connection to at least one of the cells.\ This will eventually lead
to a more successful handover performance (i.e. avoiding UE RRC re-
establishment procedure). The RRC diversity scheme could also be applied for
handovers from the macro to pico cells, between macro or between pico cells.
Figure 7.1.3-1: Handover region where RRC diversity can be applied
#### 7.1.3.1 Analysis of technology potential for Scenario #1
The simulation results in Table 7.1.3.1-1 compare mobility robustness for the
RRC diversity feature with a legacy system as defined in 3GPP TR 36.839 [4].
Further details regarding simulation assumptions are given in [25].\ Both
sparse and dense pico deployments have been evaluated with 1 and 10 picos per
the macro cell. RRC diversity is activated and deactivated based on an A3 RSRP
measurement event between Macro and Pico with a hysteresis value of 2dB
(considering CSO for pico inbound HOs), whereas the handover is initiated
based on an A3 RSRP measurement event of 4dB (always considering CSO). This
way, RRC diversity is always activated previous to the initiation of the
handover procedure, i.e. including the cell range expansion area.
From the results it can be seen that RRC diversity provides significant gains
in terms of mobility robustness and for a scenario with cell range expansion
gains in terms of offloading potential while keeping the mobility robustness
issues within reasonable bounds.
Table 7.1.3.1-1.: Simulation results for RRC diversity in Scenario#1
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sce | Sce | | | | | | | | nario | nario | | | | | | | | with | with | | | | | | | | 0dB | 2 dB | | | | | | | | CRE | CRE | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 10 | 1 | 10 | | | | | | Cell | R | Cell | R | | | | | | edge | andom | edge | andom | | | | | | Pico | Picos | Pico | Picos | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Refe | Dive | Refe | Dive | Refe | Dive | Refe | Dive | | rence | rsity | rence | rsity | rence | rsity | rence | rsity | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | {wi | | | | | | | | dth=" | dth=" | | | | | | | | 3.191 | 3.186 | | | | | | | | 66666 | 11111 | | | | | | | | 66666 | 11111 | | | | | | | | 67in" | 11in" | | | | | | | | heigh | heigh | | | | | | | | t="2. | t="2. | | | | | | | | 73958 | 73958 | | | | | | | | 33333 | 33333 | | | | | | | | 33333 | 33333 | | | | | | | | 5in"} | 5in"} | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | _Obse |_ Obse | | | | | | | | rvati | rvati | | | | | | | | ons:_| ons:_ | | | | | | | | In | As | | | | | | | | the 1 | com | | | | | | | | cell | pared | | | | | | | | edge | to | | | | | | | | pico | the | | | | | | | | deplo | sce | | | | | | | | yment | nario | | | | | | | | more | with | | | | | | | | than | 0dB | | | | | | | | 1/2 | CRE, | | | | | | | | of | some | | | | | | | | the | more | | | | | | | | hand | hand | | | | | | | | overs | overs | | | | | | | | corre | are | | | | | | | | spond | init | | | | | | | | to | iated | | | | | | | | macro | from | | | | | | | | to | macro | | | | | | | | macro | to | | | | | | | | hando | pico | | | | | | | | vers. | than | | | | | | | | In | from | | | | | | | | the | pico | | | | | | | | 10 | to | | | | | | | | r | m | | | | | | | | andom | acro. | | | | | | | | picos | The | | | | | | | | deplo | r | | | | | | | | yment | eason | | | | | | | | most | is | | | | | | | | hand | that | | | | | | | | overs | in | | | | | | | | are | the | | | | | | | | be | 2dB | | | | | | | | tween | CRE | | | | | | | | macro | scen | | | | | | | | and | ario, | | | | | | | | p | more | | | | | | | | icos, | pic | | | | | | | | as | o-out | | | | | | | | well | bound | | | | | | | | as | fai | | | | | | | | be | lures | | | | | | | | tween | occur | | | | | | | | p | even | | | | | | | | icos. | b | | | | | | | | | efore | | | | | | | | | han | | | | | | | | | dover | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nitia | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ! | ! | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | th="3 | th="3 | | | | | | | | .1805 | .1805 | | | | | | | | 55555 | 55555 | | | | | | | | 55555 | 55555 | | | | | | | | 54in" | 54in" | | | | | | | | heigh | heigh | | | | | | | | t="2. | t="2. | | | | | | | | 73055 | 73055 | | | | | | | | 55555 | 55555 | | | | | | | | 55555 | 55555 | | | | | | | | 6in"} | 6in"} | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | _Obse |_ Obse | | | | | | | | rvati | rvati | | | | | | | | ons:_| ons:_ | | | | | | | | For | An | | | | | | | | both | absol | | | | | | | | d | utely | | | | | | | | eploy | h | | | | | | | | ments | igher | | | | | | | | the | fa | | | | | | | | han | ilure | | | | | | | | dover | rate | | | | | | | | fa | can | | | | | | | | ilure | be | | | | | | | | rate | obs | | | | | | | | can | erved | | | | | | | | be | for | | | | | | | | sig | the | | | | | | | | nific | 2dB | | | | | | | | antly | CRE | | | | | | | | re | sce | | | | | | | | duced | nario | | | | | | | | with | as | | | | | | | | RRC | com | | | | | | | | diver | pared | | | | | | | | sity. | to | | | | | | | | In 1 | 0dB | | | | | | | | cell | CRE | | | | | | | | edge | due | | | | | | | | pico | to | | | | | | | | d | radio | | | | | | | | eploy | link | | | | | | | | ment, | fai | | | | | | | | we | lures | | | | | | | | gain | b | | | | | | | | \~60% | efore | | | | | | | | and | the | | | | | | | | for | de | | | | | | | | 10 | layed | | | | | | | | r | han | | | | | | | | andom | dover | | | | | | | | picos | i | | | | | | | | the | nitia | | | | | | | | gain | tion. | | | | | | | | is | With | | | | | | | | \ | RRC | | | | | | | | ~80%. | diver | | | | | | | | | sity, | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | fai | | | | | | | | | lures | | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | sig | | | | | | | | | nific | | | | | | | | | antly | | | | | | | | | red | | | | | | | | | uced, | | | | | | | | | even | | | | | | | | | to a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 0dB | | | | | | | | | CRE | | | | | | | | | scen | | | | | | | | | ario. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | rel | | | | | | | | | ative | | | | | | | | | gains | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | ~85%, | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | \~70% | | | | | | | | | for 1 | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | pico | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | andom | | | | | | | | | picos | | | | | | | | | deplo | | | | | | | | | yment | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | pecti | | | | | | | | | vely. | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ! | ! | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | th="3 | th="3 | | | | | | | | .1805 | .1881 | | | | | | | | 55555 | 94444 | | | | | | | | 55555 | 44444 | | | | | | | | 54in" | 46in" | | | | | | | | heigh | heigh | | | | | | | | t="2. | t="2. | | | | | | | | 73055 | 73055 | | | | | | | | 55555 | 55555 | | | | | | | | 55555 | 55555 | | | | | | | | 6in"} | 6in"} | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | _Obse |_ Obse | | | | | | | | rvati | rvati | | | | | | | | ons:_| ons:_ | | | | | | | | RRC | RRC | | | | | | | | dive | dive | | | | | | | | rsity | rsity | | | | | | | | is | is | | | | | | | | able | able | | | | | | | | to | to | | | | | | | | mit | mit | | | | | | | | igate | igate | | | | | | | | a | most | | | | | | | | lmost | of | | | | | | | | all | the | | | | | | | | pic | pic | | | | | | | | o-out | o-out | | | | | | | | bound | bound | | | | | | | | fai | fai | | | | | | | | lures | lures | | | | | | | | ( | in | | | | | | | | pico- | both | | | | | | | | macro | deplo | | | | | | | | and | yment | | | | | | | | \ | scena | | | | | | | | "pico | rios. | | | | | | | | RLM\" | Since | | | | | | | | =pico | RRC | | | | | | | | radio | dive | | | | | | | | link | rsity | | | | | | | | fa | inc | | | | | | | | ilure | ludes | | | | | | | | b | RLM | | | | | | | | efore | dive | | | | | | | | hand | rsity | | | | | | | | over) | and | | | | | | | | in | is | | | | | | | | both | acti | | | | | | | | deplo | vated | | | | | | | | yment | ea | | | | | | | | scena | rlier | | | | | | | | rios. | than | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | han | | | | | | | | | dover | | | | | | | | | proc | | | | | | | | | edure | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | initi | | | | | | | | | ated, | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | most | | | | | | | | | pico | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | link | | | | | | | | | fai | | | | | | | | | lures | | | | | | | | | (\ | | | | | | | | | "pico | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | LM\") | | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | olved | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | | | | diver | | | | | | | | | sity. | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ! | ! | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | th="3 | th="3 | | | | | | | | .1805 | .1805 | | | | | | | | 55555 | 55555 | | | | | | | | 55555 | 55555 | | | | | | | | 54in" | 54in" | | | | | | | | heigh | heigh | | | | | | | | t="2. | t="2. | | | | | | | | 73055 | 73055 | | | | | | | | 55555 | 55555 | | | | | | | | 55555 | 55555 | | | | | | | | 6in"} | 6in"} | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | _Obse |_ Obse | | | | | | | | rvati | rvati | | | | | | | | ons:_| ons:_ | | | | | | | | Fai | Same | | | | | | | | lures | as | | | | | | | | based | for | | | | | | | | on | 0dB | | | | | | | | RLC | CRE | | | | | | | | tr | scen | | | | | | | | ansmi | ario. | | | | | | | | ssion | How | | | | | | | | fai | ever, | | | | | | | | lures | in | | | | | | | | of | this | | | | | | | | the | 2dB | | | | | | | | han | CRE | | | | | | | | dover | scen | | | | | | | | co | ario, | | | | | | | | mmand | fai | | | | | | | | as | lures | | | | | | | | well | due | | | | | | | | as | to | | | | | | | | radio | RLF | | | | | | | | link | (T310 | | | | | | | | fai | exp | | | | | | | | lures | iry), | | | | | | | | (T310 | occu | | | | | | | | exp | rring | | | | | | | | iry), | even | | | | | | | | which | b | | | | | | | | dom | efore | | | | | | | | inate | the | | | | | | | | the | han | | | | | | | | ov | dover | | | | | | | | erall | proc | | | | | | | | fa | edure | | | | | | | | ilure | st | | | | | | | | rea | arts, | | | | | | | | sons, | dom | | | | | | | | are | inate | | | | | | | | res | the | | | | | | | | olved | ov | | | | | | | | by | erall | | | | | | | | RRC | fa | | | | | | | | diver | ilure | | | | | | | | sity. | re | | | | | | | | Addit | asons | | | | | | | | ional | to a | | | | | | | | fai | h | | | | | | | | lures | igher | | | | | | | | e.g. | ex | | | | | | | | due | tent. | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | early | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | eport | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | act | | | | | | | | | ivate | | | | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | | | | dive | | | | | | | | | rsity | | | | | | | | | const | | | | | | | | | itute | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | minor | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | rease | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | fail | | | | | | | | | ures. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | {wi | | | | | | | | | dth=" | | | | | | | | | 6.361 | | | | | | | | | 80555 | | | | | | | | | 55555 | | | | | | | | | 56in" | | | | | | | | | heigh | | | | | | | | | t="3. | | | | | | | | | 10069 | | | | | | | | | 44444 | | | | | | | | | 44444 | | | | | | | | | 6in"} | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | _Obse | | | | | | | | | rvati | | | | | | | | | ons:_ | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | | the 1 | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | (\" | | | | | | | | | CE\") | | | | | | | | | Pico | | | | | | | | | deplo | | | | | | | | | yment | | | | | | | | | scen | | | | | | | | | ario, | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | igher | | | | | | | | | dow | | | | | | | | | nlink | | | | | | | | | FTP | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | ach | | | | | | | | | ieved | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | most | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | users | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | incre | | | | | | | | | asing | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | CRE | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | 2dB. | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | lease | | | | | | | | | note | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | | | | diver | | | | | | | | | sity, | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | rease | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | throu | | | | | | | | | ghput | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | ecess | | | | | | | | | arily | | | | | | | | | lead | | | | | | | | | to an | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | rease | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | han | | | | | | | | | dover | | | | | | | | | fai | | | | | | | | | lures | | | | | | | | | as it | | | | | | | | | would | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | egacy | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | stem. | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | | | tiple | | | | | | | | | pico | | | | | | | | | scen | | | | | | | | | ario, | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | pico | | | | | | | | | cells | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | very | | | | | | | | | lowly | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | aded, | | | | | | | | | (due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | ropag | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | model | | | | | | | | | 1, as | | | | | | | | | well | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | un | | | | | | | | | iform | | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | | | tribu | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | umber | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | users | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | deplo | | | | | | | | | yment | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | cenar | | | | | | | | | ios), | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | rease | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | throu | | | | | | | | | ghput | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | rease | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | expa | | | | | | | | | nsion | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | 2dB | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eglig | | | | | | | | | ible, | | | | | | | | | ho | | | | | | | | | wever | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | ready | | | | | | | | | at a | | | | | | | | | sig | | | | | | | | | nific | | | | | | | | | antly | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | igher | | | | | | | | | abs | | | | | | | | | olute | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the 1 | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | pico | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | eploy | | | | | | | | | ment. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Avrg. | Avrg. | Avrg. | Avrg. | | | | | | res | res | res | res | | | | | | ource | ource | ource | ource | | | | | | uti | ut | uti | uti | | | | | | lizat | iliza | lizat | lizat | | | | | | ion:\ | tion: | ion:\ | ion:\ | | | | | | Macro | Macro | Macro | Macro | | | | | | 90%, | 80%, | 90%, | 80%, | | | | | | Pico | Pico | Pico | Pico | | | | | | 25% | 10% | 50% | 10% | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Avrg. | Avrg. | Avrg. | Avrg. | | | | | | macro | macro | macro | macro | | | | | | cell | cell | cell | cell | | | | | | area | area | area | area | | | | | | t | t | t | t | | | | | | hroug | hroug | hroug | hroug | | | | | | hput: | hput: | hput: | hput: | | | | | | 11 | 18 | 12 | 18 | | | | | | M | M | M | M | | | | | | bit/s | bit/s | bit/s | bit/s | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
As a solution for improved mobility robustness in Scenario#1, this feature was
de-prioritized due the parallel work ongoing in the Het-Net mobility WI, which
focusses on Scenario#1 while this SI\'s focus shifted to Scenario#2.\
Furthermore, there were open issues regarding whether and how (dual) UL data
transfer would be realized in the targeted Scenario#1.
####
#### 7.1.3.2 Analysis of technology potential for Scenario #2
Also for the inter-frequency scenarios, RRC diversity gives different mobility
performance compared to the baseline.\ In this subclause, the mobility
performance for Scenario #2 is analyzed [26].\ A Network deployment is assumed
with 10 small cells per macro cell, where macro cells use 2GHz carrier
frequency and small cells uses 3.5 GHz carrier frequency. For each UE, RRC
diversity is applied between a Macro cell and a Small cell, when UE is in
coverage of both. With RRC diversity, dual RLM is applied meaning that the UE
triggers RLF only when both Radio Links meet RLF criteria.
NOTE: The feasibility of sending HO command by the target cell has not been
investigated.
The following cases are compared:
\- Case I: The normal handover without RRC diversity is evaluated, which is
the baseline.
\- Case II: All handover related control messages are transmitted in two
links. Dual RLM is applied.
\- Case III: All handover related control messages are transmitted in one
link. Dual RLM is applied.
\- Case IV, V and VI: Handover measurement report, handover command, and
handover complete message are transmitted in two links, respectively. Dual RLM
is applied.
{width="5.510416666666667in" height="3.4166666666666665in"}
Figure 7.1.3.2-1: Failure number of different cases in different state
(Scenario #2)
Table 7.1.3.2-1: Failure number of different cases in different state
(Scenario #2)
* * *
Cases Failure Rate Failure Number: per UE per time unit  
Total TTT MR HOP HOCMD HO Comp Other Baseline (I) 0.055506019 24.9 6.4 5.1 6.8
3.4 1.5 1.7 Dual RRC Msgs (II) 0.02496656 11.3 2.8 2.1 2.9 1.3 0.6 1.6 Dual
RLM/RLF (III) 0.034106108 15.3 2.8 3.8 2.8 3 1.3 1.6 Dual HO MR(IV)
0.029870709 13.4 2.8 2.1 2.7 3 1.2 1.6 Dual HO CMD(V) 0.029647793 13.3 2.8 3.8
2.8 1.3 1 1.6 Dual HO Comp(VI) 0.032545698 14.6 2.8 3.8 2.8 3 0.6 1.6 HO **CMD
sent by target cell** 0.052385198 23.5 6.4 5.1 6.8 2 1.5 1.7
* * *
Table 7.1.3.2-2: Failure number of different types for baseline and dual RRC
message (Case II)
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | Baseline | Dual RRC | Gain | | | | | message | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | Types | Failure Num | Types | Failure Num | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | macro-macro | 11.2 | macro-macro | 5.5 | 0.508929 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | small | 2.6 | small | 0.9 | 0.653846 | | cell-macro | | cell-macro | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | macro-small | 4.2 | macro-small | 2.1 | 0.5 | | cell | | cell | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | small | 6.9 | small | 2.8 | 0.594203 | | cell-small | | cell-small | | | | cell | | cell | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | Sum. | 24.9 | Sum. | 11.3 | 0.546185 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | NOTE 1: By | | | | | | comparing | | | | | | the | | | | | | simulation | | | | | | results of | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | diversity | | | | | | with the | | | | | | baseline,\ | | | | | | it can be | | | | | | seen that a | | | | | | gain (about | | | | | | 55%) can be | | | | | | obtained | | | | | | from RRC | | | | | | diversity. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | mobility | | | | | | performance | | | | | | was also | | | | | | assessed | | | | | | with DRX. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+
{width="5.000694444444444in" height="3.0in"}
Figure 7.1.3.2-2: Failure number of different types for baseline and dual RRC
message
Table 7.1.3.2-3: Failure number of different types for baseline and dual RRC
message
* * *
Case No DRX DRX Cycle (ms)
                                                                                              80               160    320    640    1280
Normal HO 24,9 30,7 36,1 44,5 47,9 59,6
Dual RLM + Dual RRC Msg 11,3 13,1 15 17.8 19,4 26,2
Gain 55% 57% 58% 60% 60% 56%
NOTE: The observations on the gain of RRC diversity w.r.t. mobility
performance\  
are applicable also in cases when DRX is used.
* * *
### 7.1.4 UL/DL split
As explained in clause 5.1.2, an UL/DL imbalance can occur for UEs in
heterogeneous networks because of large difference in the transmit power of
the macro and pico cells. The consequence is an uneven load distribution
between macro and pico cells (pico cells less loaded than macro cells) and
suboptimal uplink performance because a UE is not necessarily connected to the
eNB with smallest pathloss. In addition to transmit power imbalance, there may
be UL/DL traffic load imbalance. A pico eNB may be highly loaded in DL while
unloaded in UL. It may then be beneficial to offload a macro UE\'s UL data to
the pico eNB, while keeping the UE\'s DL traffic in the macro.
As seen in clause 5.1.2, CRE based cell selection can be used to improve the
UL/DL imbalance situation. However, CRE for the intra-frequency deployments
results in strong DL interference for pico UEs in the CRE region. CRE must
therefore be used in combination with time domain ICIC, which has a negative
impact on the overall system capacity due to the reduction of schedulable
subframes.
To increase offloading of the macro by the pico cells and to improve UL
performance, an alternative solution is to have dual connectivity to both eNBs
and allow the UE to be connected in DL to the cell which offers the highest DL
throughput, while being connected in the UL to the cell which offers the
highest UL throughput, which is typically the cell to which the path loss is
lowest. This is particularly beneficial for the case where the macro and pico
layers operate on the same frequency, as the possible CSO is limited due to DL
interference problems in the CRE region.
UL/DL split provides also the advantage to apply load balancing separately for
UL and DL, achieving optimal cell capacity in UL and DL. The network has the
possibility to shift more UL traffic to the pico cell if the macro eNB is
loaded in the UL, while keeping DL traffic in the macro eNB. This is
beneficial for both intra-frequency and inter-frequency deployments.
#### 7.1.4.1 Architecture alternatives for UL/DL split
In UL/DL split, even though the UL traffic and DL traffic is routed via
different eNBs, it is assumed that local scheduling and local HARQ-feedback is
needed as we assume relaxed requirements on the backhaul in this Study.
Two architecture alternatives to achieve UL/DL split are foreseen, one with
bearer split and one with separate bearers.
In the bearer split alternative, one bearer is split over the pico and the
macro eNB, e.g. the UL part of the bearer is routed via the pico while the DL
part of the bearer is routed via the macro. In this alternative it may not be
required to have PDSCH from the pico and PUSCH to the macro. RLC Status
Reports could be sent locally or routed via the backhaul.
In the separate bearer alternative there are two bearers, one bearer to the
macro and another bearer to the pico. In this alternative there will be PUSCH
and PDSCH to both the macro and the pico and RLC Status reports are sent
locally.
In Figure 7.1.4.1-1 it is illustrated how this architecture alternative could
look like where UL/DL split is used to route UL traffic via the pico and DL
traffic via the macro. The UE would send UL traffic on the PUSCH to the pico
and receive DL traffic on the PDSCH from the macro, while as said, RLC Status
reports are sent locally which is indicated with red arrows, i.e. RLC Status
reports for DL traffic from the macro are sent on the PUSCH to the macro while
RLC Status reports for UL traffic to the pico are received on the PDSCH from
the pico.
It is expected that an architecture needed to support aggregation of UP from
different eNBs is very similar to an architecture supporting UL/DL split.
{width="5.733333333333333in" height="3.464583333333333in"}
Figure 7.1.4-1: Architecture alternative for UL/DL split
#### 7.1.4.2 Analysis of technology potential
Results below illustrate the technology potential of UL/DL split, where it is
possible to apply one CSO value for downlink (DL-CSO) and another CSO value
for UL (UL-CSO).
Figure 7.1.4.2-1 shows gain in cell edge UL UE throughput in a medium load
scenario (green) and in a low load scenario (blue) for an intra-frequency
deployment. Simulation assumptions are in [29]. The gains are measured in
comparison to a reference case without UL/DL split where the CSO has been set
to optimize DL UE throughput.\ In the medium load scenario, 8 dB CSO was
giving optimum DL UE throughput and in the low load scenario 0 dB CSO gave
optimum DL UE throughput. The gains are then shown in per cent on the Y-axis
values for different UL-CSO values.
We see that UL/DL split provides gain when the UL-CSO is increased above the
reference CSO, i.e. above 8 dB for the medium load scenario and above 0 dB for
the low load scenario. UL/DL split provides highest gains in low load
scenarios and the gain is increasing with increased UL-CSO. The gains come
both from offloading and from improvements in link quality. It has been seen
that UL/DL split also gives some gain in average user throughput which is
mainly due to offloading.
It should be noted that EPDCCH will likely be able to support higher CSO
compared to PDCCH.
{width="4.895833333333333in" height="3.4166666666666665in"}
Figure 7.1.4.2-1: Cell edge uplink user throughput gain due to UL/DL split
This solution was down-prioritized as there was no consensus if the technology
potential of the solution would justify developing it further especially
considering that the gains are more for uplink and existing in low-medium
load. Furthermore, it was not clear how significant is the performance gain as
compared to existing mechanisms like eICIC and ABS.
### 7.1.5 CA+eICIC for Scenario #2
CA+eICIC is a potential solution for improving per-user throughput. This can
be done by deploying more than one frequency layers at both macro cell and
pico cell and applying eICIC for both PCell and SCell.\ The solution has been
down-prioritized as low-cost pico cell could only have one frequency layer and
SCell eICIC should be left to the eICIC discussion.
#### 7.1.5.1 Analylsis of technology potential
The user throughput performance in Scenario #A and Scenario #B in Figure
7.1.1.1.1-1 is evaluated.\ In Scenario #A, Rel-10 CA (Carrier Aggregation) is
used for each UE, and eICIC is applied to both PCell and SCell.\ In Scenario
#B, DC (Dual Connectivity) is deployed. Further details regarding simulation
assumptions are given in [_30_]. The categories of the UEs in the simulation
are:
\- DC pico UE: The UE is within the pico cell. Its PCell is pico cell, and its
SCell is macro cell.
\- DC macro UE: The UE is within the macro cell but outside pico cell.\ Its
PCell is macro cell, and its SCell is pico cell.
\- DC UE: all UEs of Scenario #B.
\- CA pico UE: The UE is within the pico cell with +6 dB CRE offset.\ Both
PCell and SCell of the UE are pico cells.
\- CA macro UE: The UE is within the macro cell but outside pico cell.\ Both
PCell and SCell of the UE are macro cells.
\- CA UE: all UEs of Scenario #A.
According to the simulation results in Figure 7.1.5.1-1, CA UE in general
gives a better per-user throughput than DC UE at medium traffic load. With
reduced interference and more radio resources which can be scheduled for the
CA pico UE, the CA pico UE gives the best per-user throughput. The per-user
throughput of the CA macro UE is smaller than that of the DC macro UE. This is
because the CA macro UE can only use non-ABS subframes for data transmission.
However the impact of using ABS subframes is not significant as each macro eNB
in Scenario #A has two frequency layers for the CA macro UE.
{width="4.344444444444444in" height="3.0548611111111112in"}
Figure 7.1.5.1-1: User throughput CDF
## 7.2 Mobility anchor
A mobility anchor solution is proposed with the intention to reduce/hide
signalling load towards Core Network by hiding subsequent mobility involving
SeNBs. Such a mobility anchor would be independent of the dual connectivity
solution and could also be applied in case of limited UE capability (single
Rx/TX), eNB/backhaul capacity, and high system load.
The evaluation of the benefits and network impact of such solution has not
been completed in this study.\ This solution was thought to fall into
responsibility of RAN3 as no Uu impact is foreseen.
# 8 Architecture and protocol enhancements
This clause describes possible architecture and protocol enhancements to
realize the potential solutions described in clause 7.
## 8.1 Architecture and protocol enhancements for Dual connectivity
### 8.1.1 User plane architecture for dual connectivity
Dual Connectivity consists in configuring a UE with one MeNB and at least one
SeNB. When doing so, we can distinguish 3 options for splitting the U-Plane
data:
\- Option 1: S1-U also terminates in SeNB;
\- Option 2: S1-U terminates in MeNB, no bearer split in RAN;
\- Option 3: S1-U terminates in MeNB, bearer split in RAN.
Figure 8.1.1-1 below depicts those three options taking the downlink direction
as an example.
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="3.347916666666667in"}
Figure 8.1.1-1: Bearer split options
In terms of protocol architecture, when S1-U terminates at the MeNB, the
protocol stack in the SeNB must at least support (re-)segmentation. This is
due to the fact that (re-)segmentation is an operation that is tightly coupled
to the physical interface, and when non-ideal backhaul is used,
(re-)segmentation must take place in the same node as the one transmitting the
RLC PDUs. Based on this assumption, four families of U-plane alternatives
emerge:
A. **Independent PDCPs** : this option terminates the currently defined air-
interface U-plane protocol stack completely per bearer at a given eNB, and is
tailored to realize transmission of one EPS bearer by one node, but could also
support splitting of a single EPS bearer for transmission by MeNB and SeNB
with the help of an additional layer. The transmission of different bearers
may still happen simultaneously from the MeNB and a SeNB.
B. **Master-Slave PDCPs** : this option assumes that S1-U terminates in MeNB
with at least part of the PDCP layer residing in the MeNB. In case of bearer
split, there is a separate and independent RLC bearer, also at UE side, per
eNB configured to deliver PDCP PDUs of the PDCP bearer, terminated at the
MeNB.
NOTE 1: the functional split of Master-Slave PDCP is FFS.
C. **Independent RLCs** : this option assumes that S1-U terminates in MeNB
with the PDCP layer residing in the MeNB. In case of bearer split, there is a
separate and independent RLC bearer, also at UE side, per eNB configured to
deliver PDCP PDUs of the PDCP bearer, terminated at the MeNB.
D. **Master-Slave RLCs** : this option assumes that S1-U terminates in MeNB
with the PDCP layer and part of the RLC layer residing in the MeNB. While
requiring only one RLC entity in the UE for the EPS bearer, on the network
side the RLC functionality is distributed between the nodes involved, with a
\"slave RLC\" operating in the SeNB. In downlink, the slave RLC takes care of
the delay-critical RLC operation needed at the SeNB: it receives from the
master RLC at the MeNB readily built RLC PDUs (with Sequence Number already
assigned by the master) that the master has assigned for transmission by the
slave, and transmits them to the UE. The custom-fitting of these PDUs into the
grants from the MAC scheduler is achieved by re-using the currently defined
re-segmentation mechanism.
Based on the options for bearer split and U-plane protocol stack above, we
obtain the following alternatives:
\- 1A: S1-U terminates in SeNB + independent PDCPs (no bearer split);
\- 2A: S1-U terminates in MeNB + no bearer split in MeNB + independent PDCP at
SeNB;
\- 2B: S1-U terminates in MeNB + no bearer split in MeNB + master-slave PDCPs;
\- 2C: S1-U terminates in MeNB + no bearer split in MeNB + independent RLC at
SeNB;
\- 2D: S1-U terminates in MeNB + no bearer split in MeNB + master-slave RLCs;
\- 3A: S1-U terminates in MeNB + bearer split in MeNB + independent PDCPs for
split bearers;
\- 3B: S1-U terminates in MeNB + bearer split in MeNB + master-slave PDCPs for
split bearers;
\- 3C: S1-U terminates in MeNB + bearer split in MeNB + independent RLCs for
split bearers;
\- 3D: S1-U terminates in MeNB + bearer split in MeNB + master-slave RLCs for
split bearers.
NOTE 2: because the functional split of Master-Slave PDCP is FFS, 2B and 3B
are also FFS.
In the following subclauses, the expected benefits and the expected drawbacks
of each alternative are analyzed.\ It is to be noted that those alternatives
only represent how dual connectivity can be realized for one UE.\ They do not
restrict the handling of bearers of other UEs, e.g. it is not because
Alternative 2C is used for one UE that legacy UEs cannot connect directly to
SeNB.
#### 8.1.1.1 Alternative 1A
Alternative 1A is the combination of S1-U that terminates in SeNB +
independent PDCPs (no bearer split).\ It is depicted on Figure 8.1.1.1-1
below, taking the downlink direction as an example.
Figure 8.1.1.1-1: Alternative 1A
The expected benefits of this alternative are:
\- no need for MeNB to buffer or process packets for an EPS bearer transmitted
by the SeNB;
\- little or no impact to PDCP/RLC and GTP-U/UDP/IP;
\- no need to route all traffic to MeNB, low requirements on the backhaul link
between MeNB and SeNB and no flow control needed between the two;
\- support of local break-out and content caching at SeNB straightforward for
dual connectivity UEs.
The expected drawbacks of this alternative are:
\- SeNB mobility visible to CN;
\- offloading needs to be performed by MME and cannot be very dynamic;
\- security impacts due to ciphering being required in both MeNB and SeNB;
\- utilisation of radio resources across MeNB and SeNB for the same bearer not
possible;
\- for the bearers handled by SeNB, handover-like interruption at SeNB change
with forwarding between SeNBs;
\- in the uplink, logical channel prioritisation impacts for the transmission
of uplink data (radio resource allocation is restricted to the eNB where the
Radio Bearer terminates).
#### 8.1.1.2 Alternative 2A
Alternative 2A is the combination of S1-U that terminates in MeNB + no bearer
split in MeNB + independent PDCP at SeNB. It is depicted on Figure 8.1.1.2-1,
taking the downlink direction as an example.
Figure 8.1.1.2-1: Alternative 2A
The expected benefits of this alternative are:
\- SeNB mobility hidden to CN;
\- little or no impact to PDCP/RLC and GTP-U/UDP/IP;
\- processing of packets for an EPS bearer transmitted by the SeNB limited to
routing, without buffering;
The expected drawbacks of this alternative are:
\- need to route all traffic to MeNB;
\- security impacts due to ciphering being required in both MeNB and SeNB;
\- utilisation of radio resources across MeNB and SeNB for the same bearer not
possible;
\- for the bearers handled by SeNB, handover-like interruption at SeNB change
with forwarding between SeNBs and PDCP re-establishment;
\- in the uplink, logical channel prioritisation impacts for the transmission
of uplink data (radio resource allocation is restricted to the eNB where the
Radio Bearer terminates).
#### 8.1.1.3 Alternative 2B
This alternative is FFS pending clarifications on the functional split between
Master and Slave PDCP.
#### 8.1.1.4 Alternative 2C
Alternative 2C is the combination of S1-U that terminates in MeNB + no bearer
split in MeNB + independent RLC at SeNB. It is depicted on Figure 8.1.1.4-1
below, taking the downlink direction as an example.
Figure 8.1.1.4-1: Alternative 2C
The expected benefits of this alternative are:
\- SeNB mobility hidden to CN;
\- no security impacts with ciphering being required in MeNB only;
\- no data forwarding between SeNBs required at SeNB change;
\- offloads RLC processing from MeNB to SeNB;
\- little or no impacts to RLC.
The expected drawbacks of this alternative are:
\- need to route, process and buffer all dual connectivity traffic in MeNB
(also for an EPS bearer transmitted only by the SeNB, MeNB required to buffer
and process packets at PDCP level);
\- utilisation of radio resources across MeNB and SeNB for the same bearer not
possible;
\- for the bearers handled by SeNB, handover-like interruption at SeNB change;
\- in the uplink, logical channel prioritisation impacts for the transmission
of uplink data (radio resource allocation is restricted to the eNB where the
Radio Bearer terminates);
\- no support of local break-out and content caching at SeNB for dual
connectivity UEs.
#### 8.1.1.5 Alternative 2D
Alternative 2D is the combination of S1-U that terminates in MeNB + no bearer
split in MeNB + master-slave RLCs. It is depicted on Figure 8.1.1.5-1 below,
taking the downlink direction as an example.
Figure 8.1.1.5-1: Alternative 2D
The expected benefits of this alternative are:
\- SeNB mobility hidden to CN;
\- no security impacts with ciphering being required in MeNB only;
\- no data forwarding between SeNBs required at SeNB change;
\- FFS: packet loss between MeNB and SeNB covered by RLC\'s ARQ;
\- little or no impacts to PDCP.
The expected drawbacks of this alternative are:
\- need to route, process and buffer all dual connectivity traffic in MeNB
(also for an EPS bearer transmitted only by the SeNB, MeNB required to buffer
and process packets down to RLC level)
\- extension of RLC SN space may be needed to tackle Xn latency (backhaul
delay becomes part of RLC RTT);
\- application with RLC UM requires adoption of UMD PDU Segment;
\- Re-segmentation header (SO - 2bytes) always added to SeNB RLC PDUs during
segmentation;
\- need to define RLC PDU as a possible T-PDU in GTP-U;
\- for RLC status reports to reach MeNB, relaying over Xn may be needed;
\- utilisation of radio resources across MeNB and SeNB for the same bearer not
possible;
\- for the bearers handled by SeNB, handover-like interruption at SeNB change;
\- in the uplink, logical channel prioritisation impacts for the transmission
of uplink data (radio resource allocation is restricted to the eNB where the
Radio Bearer terminates);
\- no support of local break-out and content caching at SeNB for dual
connectivity UEs.
#### 8.1.1.6 Alternative 3A
Alternative 3A is the combination of S1-U that terminates in MeNB +
independent PDCPs for split bearers. It is depicted on Figure 8.1.1.6-1 below,
taking the downlink direction as an example.
Figure 8.1.1.6-1: Alternative 3A
The expected benefits of this alternative are:
\- SeNB mobility hidden to CN;
\- utilisation of radio resources across MeNB and SeNB for the same bearer
possible;
\- little or no impact to PDCP/RLC and GTP-U/UDP/IP;
\- relaxed requirements for SeNB mobility (MeNB can be used in the meantime).
The expected drawbacks of this alternative are:
\- need to route, process and buffer all dual connectivity traffic in MeNB;
\- security impacts due to ciphering being required in both MeNB and SeNB;
\- new layer above PDCP required to take care of reordering;
\- for the bearers handled by SeNB, forwarding between SeNBs at SeNB change;
\- in the uplink, logical channel prioritisation impacts for handling RLC
retransmissions and RLC Status PDUs (restricted to the eNB where the
corresponding RLC entity resides);
\- no support of local break-out and content caching at SeNB for dual
connectivity UEs.
#### 8.1.1.7 Alternative 3B
This alternative is FFS pending clarifications on the functional split between
Master and Slave PDCP.
#### 8.1.1.8 Alternative 3C
Alternative 3C is the combination of S1-U that terminates in MeNB + bearer
split in MeNB + independent RLCs for split bearers. It is depicted on Figure
8.1.1.8-1 below, taking the downlink direction as an example.
Figure 8.1.1.8-1: Alternative 3C
The expected benefits of this alternative are:
\- SeNB mobility hidden to CN;
\- no security impacts with ciphering being required in MeNB only;
\- no data forwarding between SeNBs required at SeNB change;
\- offloads RLC processing of SeNB traffic from MeNB to SeNB;
\- little or no impacts to RLC;
\- utilisation of radio resources across MeNB and SeNB for the same bearer
possible;
\- relaxed requirements for SeNB mobility (MeNB can be used in the meantime).
The expected drawbacks of this alternative are:
\- need to route, process and buffer all dual connectivity traffic in MeNB;
\- PDCP to become responsible for routing PDCP PDUs towards eNBs for
transmission and reordering them for reception;
\- flow control required between MeNB and SeNB;
\- in the uplink, logical channel prioritisation impacts for handling RLC
retransmissions and RLC Status PDUs (restricted to the eNB where the
corresponding RLC entity resides);
\- no support of local break-out and content caching at SeNB for dual
connectivity UEs.
#### 8.1.1.9 Alternative 3D
Alternative 3D is the combination of S1-U that terminates in MeNB + bearer
split in MeNB + master-slave RLCs for split bearers. It is depicted on Figure
8.1.1.9-1 below, taking the downlink direction as an example.
Figure 8.1.1.9-1: Alternative 3D
The expected benefits of this alternative are:
\- SeNB mobility hidden to CN;
\- no security impacts with ciphering being required in MeNB only;
\- no data forwarding between SeNBs required at SeNB change;
\- little or no impacts to PDCP;
\- utilisation of radio resources across MeNB and SeNB for the same bearer
possible;
\- relaxed requirements for SeNB mobility (MeNB can be used in the meantime,
and no data forwarding required at SeNB change;
\- FFS: packet loss between MeNB and SeNB covered by RLC\'s ARQ;
The expected drawbacks of this alternative are:
\- need to route, process and buffer all dual connectivity traffic in MeNB;
\- RLC to become responsible for routing the RLC PDUs towards the eNBs;
\- flow control required between MeNB and SeNB;
\- extension of RLC SN space may be needed to tackle Xn latency (backhaul
delay becomes part of RLC RTT);
\- application with RLC UM requires adoption of UMD PDU Segment;
\- for RLC status reports to reach MeNB, relaying over Xn is needed;
\- re-segmentation header (SO - 2bytes) always added to SeNB RLC PDUs during
segmentation;
\- need to define RLC PDU as a possible T-PDU in GTP-U;
\- no support of local break-out and content caching at SeNB for dual
connectivity UEs.
#### 8.1.1.10 Comparison of use plane architecture alternatives
The user plane architecture alternatives described in the previous subclauses
are compared in Table 8.1.1.10-1.
Table 8.1.1.10-1: Comparison table of user plane alternatives
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | A | A | A | Alt | A | A | A | | ltern | ltern | ltern | tlern | ernat | ltern | ltern | tlern | | ative | ative | ative | ative | ive2D | ative | ative | ative | | | 1A | 2A | 2C | | 3A | 3C | 3D | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ove | S1-U | S1-U | S1-U | S1-U | S1-U | S1-U | S1-U | | rview | termi | termi | termi | termi | termi | termi | termi | | | nates | nates | nates | nates | nates | nates | nates | | | in | in | in | in | in | in | in | | | SeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | | | + | + no | + no | + no | + | + | + | | | i | b | b | b | b | b | b | | | ndepe | earer | earer | earer | earer | earer | earer | | | ndent | split | split | split | split | split | split | | | PDCPs | in | in | in | in | in | in | | | (no | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | | | b | + | + | + | + | + | + | | | earer | i | i | ma | i | i | ma | | | sp | ndepe | ndepe | ster- | ndepe | ndepe | ster- | | | lit). | ndent | ndent | slave | ndent | ndent | slave | | | | PDCP | RLC | RLC | PDCPs | RLCs | RLCs | | | | at | at | for | for | for | for | | | | SeNB. | SeNB. | SeNB | split | split | split | | | | | | bea | bea | bea | bea | | | | | | rers. | rers. | rers. | rers. | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | D | This | This | This | This | This | This | This | | escri | o | o | o | o | o | o | o | | ption | ption | ption | ption | ption | ption | ption | ption | | | termi | termi | as | as | termi | as | as | | | nates | nates | sumes | sumes | nates | sumes | sumes | | | the | the | that | that | the | that | that | | | curr | curr | S1-U | S1-U | curr | S1-U | S1-U | | | ently | ently | termi | termi | ently | termi | termi | | | de | de | nates | nates | de | nates | nates | | | fined | fined | in | in | fined | in | in | | | air | air | MeNB | MeNB | air | MeNB | MeNB | | | -inte | -inte | with | with | -inte | with | with | | | rface | rface | the | the | rface | the | the | | | U- | U- | PDCP | PDCP | U- | PDCP | PDCP | | | plane | plane | layer | layer | plane | layer | layer | | | pro | pro | res | and | pro | res | and | | | tocol | tocol | iding | part | tocol | iding | part | | | stack | stack | in | of | stack | in | of | | | compl | compl | the | the | compl | the | the | | | etely | etely | MeNB | RLC | etely | MeNB | RLC | | | per | per | al | layer | per | al | layer | | | b | b | ways. | res | b | ways. | res | | | earer | earer | | iding | earer | | iding | | | at a | at a | The | in | at a | There | in | | | given | given | tr | the | given | is a | the | | | eNB, | eNB. | ansmi | MeNB | eNB. | sep | MeNB. | | | and | | ssion | al | | arate | | | | is | With | of | ways. | With | and | While | | | tai | the | diff | | the | i | requ | | | lored | help | erent | While | help | ndepe | iring | | | to | of an | be | requ | of an | ndent | only | | | re | addit | arers | iring | addit | RLC | one | | | alize | ional | may | only | ional | b | RLC | | | tr | fun | still | one | layer | earer | e | | | ansmi | ction | h | RLC | (or | (SAP | ntity | | | ssion | at | appen | e | funct | above | in | | | of | MeNB, | simu | ntity | ional | RLC), | the | | | one | it | ltane | in | ent | also | UE | | | EPS | sup | ously | the | ity), | at UE | for | | | b | ports | from | UE | it | side, | the | | | earer | ro | the | for | sup | per | EPS | | | by | uting | MeNB | the | ports | eNB | be | | | one | of a | and a | EPS | spli | confi | arer, | | | node. | b | SeNB. | be | tting | gured | on | | | | earer | | arer, | of a | to | the | | | The | to | | on | s | de | ne | | | tr | wards | | the | ingle | liver | twork | | | ansmi | SeNB. | | ne | EPS | PDCP | side | | | ssion | | | twork | b | PDUs | the | | | of | The | | side | earer | of | RLC | | | diff | tr | | the | for | the | fun | | | erent | ansmi | | RLC | tr | PDCP | ction | | | be | ssion | | fun | ansmi | b | ality | | | arers | of | | ction | ssion | earer | is | | | may | diff | | ality | by | (SAP | d | | | still | erent | | is | MeNB | above | istri | | | h | be | | d | and | P | buted | | | appen | arers | | istri | SeNB. | DCP), | be | | | simu | may | | buted | | termi | tween | | | ltane | still | | be | | nated | the | | | ously | h | | tween | | at | nodes | | | from | appen | | the | | the | invo | | | the | simu | | nodes | | MeNB. | lved, | | | MeNB | ltane | | invo | | | with | | | and a | ously | | lved, | | | a | | | SeNB | from | | with | | | \" | | | | the | | a | | | slave | | | | MeNB | | \" | | | RLC\" | | | | and a | | slave | | | oper | | | | SeNB. | | RLC\" | | | ating | | | | | | oper | | | in | | | | | | ating | | | the | | | | | | in | | | SeNB. | | | | | | the | | | In | | | | | | SeNB. | | | down | | | | | | In | | | link, | | | | | | down | | | the | | | | | | link, | | | slave | | | | | | the | | | RLC | | | | | | slave | | | takes | | | | | | RLC | | | care | | | | | | takes | | | of | | | | | | care | | | the | | | | | | of | | | dela | | | | | | the | | | y-cri | | | | | | dela | | | tical | | | | | | y-cri | | | RLC | | | | | | tical | | | oper | | | | | | RLC | | | ation | | | | | | oper | | | n | | | | | | ation | | | eeded | | | | | | n | | | at | | | | | | eeded | | | the | | | | | | at | | | SeNB: | | | | | | the | | | it | | | | | | SeNB: | | | rec | | | | | | it | | | eives | | | | | | rec | | | from | | | | | | eives | | | the | | | | | | from | | | m | | | | | | the | | | aster | | | | | | m | | | RLC | | | | | | aster | | | at | | | | | | RLC | | | the | | | | | | at | | | MeNB | | | | | | the | | | re | | | | | | MeNB | | | adily | | | | | | re | | | built | | | | | | adily | | | RLC | | | | | | built | | | PDUs | | | | | | RLC | | | (with | | | | | | PDUs | | | Seq | | | | | | (with | | | uence | | | | | | Seq | | | N | | | | | | uence | | | umber | | | | | | N | | | al | | | | | | umber | | | ready | | | | | | al | | | ass | | | | | | ready | | | igned | | | | | | ass | | | by | | | | | | igned | | | the | | | | | | by | | | ma | | | | | | the | | | ster) | | | | | | ma | | | that | | | | | | ster) | | | the | | | | | | that | | | m | | | | | | the | | | aster | | | | | | m | | | has | | | | | | aster | | | ass | | | | | | has | | | igned | | | | | | ass | | | for | | | | | | igned | | | tr | | | | | | for | | | ansmi | | | | | | tr | | | ssion | | | | | | ansmi | | | by | | | | | | ssion | | | the | | | | | | by | | | s | | | | | | the | | | lave, | | | | | | s | | | and | | | | | | lave, | | | tran | | | | | | and | | | smits | | | | | | tran | | | them | | | | | | smits | | | to | | | | | | them | | | the | | | | | | to | | | UE. | | | | | | the | | | The | | | | | | UE. | | | cust | | | | | | The | | | om-fi | | | | | | cust | | | tting | | | | | | om-fi | | | of | | | | | | tting | | | these | | | | | | of | | | PDUs | | | | | | these | | | into | | | | | | PDUs | | | the | | | | | | into | | | g | | | | | | the | | | rants | | | | | | g | | | from | | | | | | rants | | | the | | | | | | from | | | MAC | | | | | | the | | | sche | | | | | | MAC | | | duler | | | | | | sche | | | is | | | | | | duler | | | ach | | | | | | is | | | ieved | | | | | | ach | | | by | | | | | | ieved | | | re- | | | | | | by | | | using | | | | | | re- | | | the | | | | | | using | | | curr | | | | | | the | | | ently | | | | | | curr | | | de | | | | | | ently | | | fined | | | | | | de | | | re-se | | | | | | fined | | | gment | | | | | | re-se | | | ation | | | | | | gment | | | mecha | | | | | | ation | | | nism. | | | | | | mecha | | | | | | | | | nism. | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Impl | A | A | A | Alt | A | A | A | | ement | ltern | ltern | tlern | ernat | ltern | ltern | tlern | | ation | ative | ative | ative | ive2D | ative | ative | ative | | & | 1A | 2A | 2C | | 3A | 3C | 3D | | Specs | | | | | | | | | Im | | | | | | | | | pacts | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Xn | Must | Must | Must | Must | Must | Must | Must | | inte | intr | intr | intr | intr | intr | intr | intr | | rface | oduce | oduce | oduce | oduce | oduce | oduce | oduce | | | signa | signa | signa | signa | signa | signa | signa | | | lling | lling | lling | lling | lling | lling | lling | | | to | to | to | to | to | to | to | | | su | su | su | su | su | su | su | | | pport | pport | pport | pport | pport | pport | pport | | | the | the | the | the | the | the | the | | | i | i | i | i | i | i | i | | | ntera | ntera | ntera | ntera | ntera | ntera | ntera | | | ction | ction | ction | ction | ction | ction | ction | | | be | be | be | be | be | be | be | | | tween | tween | tween | tween | tween | tween | tween | | | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | | | and | and | and | and | and | and | and | | | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | | | on | on | on | on | on | on | on | | | RRM, | RRM, | RRM, | RRM, | RRM, | RRM, | RRM, | | | power | power | power | power | power | power | power | | | contr | contr | contr | contr | contr | contr | contr | | | ol... | ol... | ol... | ol... | ol... | ol... | ol... | | | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | | | | | | | | | | | | | Tra | Tra | Tra | Tra | Tra | Tra | | | | nsfer | nsfer | nsfer | nsfer | nsfer | nsfer | | | | of | of | of | of | of | of | | | | PDCP | PDCP | RLC | PDCP | PDCP | RLC | | | | SDUs | PDUs | PDUs | SDUs | PDUs | PDUs | | | | ï‹ | ï‹ | ïŒ | ï‹ | ï‹ | ïŒ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Opens | Tra | Flow | Opens | Tra | | | | | i | nsfer | co | i | nsfer | | | | | ntera | of | ntrol | ntera | of | | | | | ction | RLC | req | ction | RLC | | | | | be | S | uired | be | S | | | | | tween | tatus | ïŒ | tween | tatus | | | | | RLC | Re | | RLC | Re | | | | | and | ports | | and | ports | | | | | PDCP | ïŒ | | PDCP | (u | | | | | ïŒ | | | ïŒÂ­Â­Â­ | nless | | | | | | Flow | | | MAC | | | | | Flow | co | | Flow | is | | | | | co | ntrol | | co | made | | | | | ntrol | req | | ntrol | aware | | | | | req | uired | | req | to | | | | | uired | ïŒ | | uired | tra | | | | | ïŒ | | | ïŒ | nsmit | | | | | | | | | them | | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | | MeNB | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | ways) | | | | | | | | | ï‹ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Flow | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | ïŒ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Above | No | Ro | No | No | New | No | No | | PDCP | thing | uting | thing | thing | layer | thing | thing | | | req | fun | req | req | req | req | req | | | uired | ction | uired | uired | uired | uired | uired | | | in | n | ïŠ | ïŠ | to | ïŠ | ïŠ | | | the | eeded | | | split | | | | | MeNB | in | | | the | | | | | to | MeNB | | | bea | | | | | h | ï‹ | | | rers, | | | | | andle | | | | route | | | | | pa | | | | the | | | | | ckets | | | | pa | | | | | of | | | | ckets | | | | | SeNB | | | | to | | | | | ïŠ | | | | wards | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | pprop | | | | | | | | | riate | | | | | | | | | eNB, | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | | ckets | | | | | | | | | ïŒ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | PDCP | Sec | Sec | No | No | Sec | No | No | | Sec | urity | urity | sec | sec | urity | sec | sec | | urity | im | im | urity | urity | im | urity | urity | | | pacts | pacts | im | im | pacts | im | im | | | due | due | pacts | pacts | due | pacts | pacts | | | to | to | with | with | to | with | with | | | ciph | ciph | ciph | ciph | ciph | ciph | ciph | | | ering | ering | ering | ering | ering | ering | ering | | | being | being | t | t | being | t | t | | | req | req | aking | aking | req | aking | aking | | | uired | uired | place | place | uired | place | place | | | in | in | in | in | in | in | in | | | both | both | MeNB | MeNB | both | MeNB | MeNB | | | MeNB | MeNB | only | only | MeNB | only | only | | | and | and | ïŠ | ïŠ | and | ïŠ | ïŠ | | | SeNB | SeNB | | | SeNB | | | | | ïŒ | ïŒ | | | ïŒ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | PDCP | No | No | No | No | No | RLC | No | | TX | i | i | i | i | i | b | i | | eNB | mpact | mpact | mpact | mpact | mpact | earer | mpact | | | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | sele | ïŠ | | | | | | | | ction | | | | One | One | One | One | Two | req | One | | | PDCP | PDCP | PDCP | PDCP | PDCP | uired | PDCP | | | e | e | e | e | ent | ïŒ | e | | | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | ities | | ntity | | | per | per | per | per | req | One | al | | | b | b | b | b | uired | PDCP | ways, | | | earer | earer | earer | earer | for | e | even | | | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | split | ntity | for | | | | | | | b | al | split | | | | | | | earer | ways, | b | | | | | | | ïŒ | even | earer | | | | | | | | for | ïŠ | | | | | | | | split | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | earer | | | | | | | | | ïŠ | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | PDCP | No | No | One | No | No | One | No | | RX UE | i | i | PDCP | i | i | PDCP | i | | | mpact | mpact | e | mpact | mpact | e | mpact | | | ïŠ | ïŠ | ntity | ïŠ | ïŠ | ntity | ïŠ | | | | | per | | | al | | | | One | One | b | One | Two | ways, | One | | | PDCP | PDCP | earer | PDCP | PDCP | even | PDCP | | | e | e | a | e | ent | for | e | | | ntity | ntity | lways | ntity | ities | split | ntity | | | per | per | ïŠ | per | req | b | al | | | b | b | | b | uired | earer | ways, | | | earer | earer | | earer | for | ïŠ | even | | | ïŠ | ïŠ | | ïŠ | split | | for | | | | | | | b | PDCP | split | | | | | | | earer | to | b | | | | | | | ïŒ | b | earer | | | | | | | | ecome | ïŠ | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | espon | | | | | | | | | sible | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | reord | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | | allel | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | arers | | | | | | | | | ïŒ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | PDCP | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | uffer | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | reord | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | need | | | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | imens | | | | | | | | | ioned | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | cope | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | Xn | | | | | | | | | late | | | | | | | | | ncies | | | | | | | | | ïŒ | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | PDCP | No | No | No | No | No | RLC | No | | TX UE | i | i | i | i | i | b | i | | | mpact | mpact | mpact | mpact | mpact | earer | mpact | | | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | sele | ïŠ | | | | | | | | ction | | | | One | One | One | One | Two | req | One | | | PDCP | PDCP | PDCP | PDCP | PDCP | uired | PDCP | | | e | e | e | e | ent | ïŒ | e | | | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | ities | | ntity | | | per | per | per | per | req | One | al | | | b | b | b | b | uired | PDCP | ways, | | | earer | earer | earer | earer | for | e | even | | | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | split | ntity | for | | | | | | | b | al | split | | | | | | | earer | ways, | b | | | | | | | ïŒ | even | earer | | | | | | | | for | ïŠ | | | | | | | | split | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | earer | | | | | | | | | ïŠ | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | PDCP | No | No | One | No | No | One | No | | RX | i | i | PDCP | i | i | PDCP | i | | eNB | mpact | mpact | e | mpact | mpact | e | mpact | | | ïŠ | ïŠ | ntity | ïŠ | ïŠ | ntity | ïŠ | | | | | per | | | per | | | | One | One | b | One | Two | b | One | | | PDCP | PDCP | earer | PDCP | PDCP | earer | PDCP | | | e | e | ïŠ | e | ent | ïŠ | e | | | ntity | ntity | | ntity | ities | | ntity | | | per | per | | per | req | PDCP | per | | | b | b | | b | uired | to | b | | | earer | earer | | earer | for | b | earer | | | ïŠ | ïŠ | | ïŠ | split | ecome | ïŠ | | | | | | | b | r | | | | | | | | earer | espon | | | | | | | | ïŒ | sible | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | reord | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | | allel | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | arers | | | | | | | | | ïŒ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | PDCP | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | uffer | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | reord | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | need | | | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | imens | | | | | | | | | ioned | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | cope | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | Xn | | | | | | | | | late | | | | | | | | | ncies | | | | | | | | | ïŒ | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | RLC | No | No | No | One | No | No | One | | | i | i | i | M | i | i | M | | | mpact | mpact | mpact | aster | mpact | mpact | aster | | | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | + one | ïŠ | ïŠ | + one | | | | | | Slave | | | Slave | | | One | One | One | RLC | Two | Two | RLC | | | RLC | RLC | RLC | e | RLC | RLC | e | | | e | e | e | ntity | ent | ent | ntity | | | ntity | ntity | ntity | per | ities | ities | per | | | per | per | per | b | req | req | b | | | b | b | b | earer | uired | uired | earer | | | earer | earer | earer | on | for | for | on | | | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | eNB | split | split | eNB | | | | | | side | b | b | side | | | | | | ï‹ | earer | earer | ï‹ | | | | | | | ïŒ | ïŒ | | | | | | | Bac | | | Bac | | | | | | khaul | | | khaul | | | | | | delay | | | delay | | | | | | be | | | be | | | | | | comes | | | comes | | | | | | part | | | part | | | | | | of | | | of | | | | | | RLC | | | RLC | | | | | | RTT | | | RTT | | | | | | and | | | and | | | | | | exte | | | exte | | | | | | nsion | | | nsion | | | | | | of | | | of | | | | | | RLC | | | RLC | | | | | | SN | | | SN | | | | | | space | | | space | | | | | | may | | | may | | | | | | be | | | be | | | | | | requ | | | requ | | | | | | ired, | | | ired, | | | | | | which | | | which | | | | | | in | | | in | | | | | | turn | | | turn | | | | | | may | | | may | | | | | | inc | | | inc | | | | | | rease | | | rease | | | | | | buff | | | buff | | | | | | ering | | | ering | | | | | | re | | | re | | | | | | quire | | | quire | | | | | | ments | | | ments | | | | | | ïŒ | | | ïŒ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | a | | | eNB | | | | | | pplic | | | sele | | | | | | ation | | | ction | | | | | | with | | | n | | | | | | RLC | | | eeded | | | | | | UM | | | at | | | | | | req | | | m | | | | | | uires | | | aster | | | | | | ado | | | RLC | | | | | | ption | | | t | | | | | | of | | | ransm | | | | | | UMD | | | itter | | | | | | PDU | | | ïŒ | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | gment | | | a | | | | | | ïŒ | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | Re-se | | | with | | | | | | gment | | | RLC | | | | | | ation | | | UM | | | | | | h | | | req | | | | | | eader | | | uires | | | | | | (SO - | | | ado | | | | | | 2b | | | ption | | | | | | ytes) | | | of | | | | | | a | | | UMD | | | | | | lways | | | PDU | | | | | | added | | | Se | | | | | | to | | | gment | | | | | | SeNB | | | ïŒ | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | PDUs | | | Re-se | | | | | | d | | | gment | | | | | | uring | | | ation | | | | | | seg | | | h | | | | | | menta | | | eader | | | | | | tion, | | | (SO - | | | | | | ther | | | 2b | | | | | | efore | | | ytes) | | | | | | incre | | | a | | | | | | asing | | | lways | | | | | | ove | | | added | | | | | | rhead | | | to | | | | | | (also | | | SeNB | | | | | | in | | | RLC | | | | | | s | | | PDUs | | | | | | tatus | | | d | | | | | | PDUs) | | | uring | | | | | | ïŒ | | | seg | | | | | | | | | menta | | | | | | care | | | tion, | | | | | | needs | | | ther | | | | | | to be | | | efore | | | | | | taken | | | incre | | | | | | at | | | asing | | | | | | SeNB | | | ove | | | | | | that | | | rhead | | | | | | RLC | | | (also | | | | | | S | | | in | | | | | | tatus | | | s | | | | | | PDU | | | tatus | | | | | | c | | | PDUs) | | | | | | annot | | | ïŒ | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | segm | | | care | | | | | | ented | | | needs | | | | | | ïŒ | | | to be | | | | | | | | | taken | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | SeNB | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | annot | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | segm | | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | ïŒ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MAC | Prio | Prio | Prio | Prio | Prio | Prio | Prio | | TX | ritis | ritis | ritis | ritis | ritis | ritis | ritis | | eNB | ation | ation | ation | ation | ation | ation | ation | | | of | of | of | of | of | of | of | | | tr | tr | tr | tr | tr | tr | tr | | | affic | affic | affic | affic | affic | affic | affic | | | be | be | be | be | be | be | be | | | tween | tween | tween | tween | tween | tween | tween | | | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | | | and | and | and | and | and | and | and | | | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | | | must | must | must | must | must | must | must | | | be | be | be | be | be | be | be | | | done | done | done | done | done | done | done | | | th | th | th | th | th | th | th | | | rough | rough | rough | rough | rough | rough | rough | | | signa | signa | signa | signa | signa | signa | signa | | | lling | lling | lling | lling | lling | lling | lling | | | over | over | over | over | over | over | over | | | S1/X2 | Xn ïŒ | Xn ïŒ | Xn ïŒ | Xn ïŒ | Xn ïŒ | Xn ïŒ | | | ïŒ | | | | | | | | | | One | One | One | One | One | One | | | One | MAC | MAC | MAC | MAC | MAC | MAC | | | MAC | e | e | e | e | e | e | | | e | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | | | ntity | per | per | per | per | per | per | | | per | eNB ï‹ | eNB ï‹ | eNB ï‹ | eNB | eNB | eNB | | | eNB ï‹ | | | | and | and | and | | | | | | | two | two | two | | | | | | | MAC | MAC | MAC | | | | | | | ent | ent | ent | | | | | | | ities | ities | ities | | | | | | | per | per | per | | | | | | | split | split | split | | | | | | | b | b | b | | | | | | | earer | earer | earer | | | | | | | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MAC | No | No | No | No | No | No | No | | RX UE | i | i | i | i | i | i | i | | | mpact | mpact | mpact | mpact | mpact | mpact | mpact | | | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | | | | | | | | | | | | One | One | One | One | One | One | One | | | MAC | MAC | MAC | MAC | MAC | MAC | MAC | | | e | e | e | e | e | e | e | | | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | | | per | per | per | per | per | per | per | | | eNB ïŒ | eNB ïŒ | eNB ïŒ | eNB ïŒ | eNB | eNB | eNB | | | | | | | and | and | and | | | | | | | two | two | two | | | | | | | MAC | MAC | MAC | | | | | | | ent | ent | ent | | | | | | | ities | ities | ities | | | | | | | per | per | per | | | | | | | split | split | split | | | | | | | b | b | b | | | | | | | earer | earer | earer | | | | | | | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MAC | Radio | Radio | Radio | Radio | Radio | For | For | | TX | res | res | res | res | res | be | be | | UE\ | ource | ource | ource | ource | ource | arers | arers | | RLC | alloc | alloc | alloc | alloc | alloc | cont | cont | | PDUs | ation | ation | ation | ation | ation | ained | ained | | | is | is | is | is | is | in | in | | | restr | restr | restr | restr | restr | MeNB, | MeNB, | | | icted | icted | icted | icted | icted | radio | radio | | | to | to | to | to | to | res | res | | | the | the | the | the | the | ource | ource | | | eNB | eNB | eNB | eNB | eNB | alloc | alloc | | | where | where | where | where | where | ation | ation | | | the | the | the | the | the | is | is | | | Radio | Radio | Radio | Radio | Radio | restr | restr | | | B | B | B | B | B | icted | icted | | | earer | earer | earer | earer | earer | to | to | | | termi | termi | termi | termi | termi | the | the | | | nates | nates | nates | nates | nates | MeNB | MeNB | | | and | and | and | and | and | and | and | | | the | the | the | the | the | the | the | | | UE | UE | UE | UE | UE | UE | UE | | | needs | needs | needs | needs | needs | needs | needs | | | to be | to be | to be | to be | to be | to be | to be | | | aware | aware | aware | aware | aware | aware | aware | | | of | of | of | of | of | of | of | | | the | the | the | the | the | the | the | | | corr | corr | corr | corr | corr | corr | corr | | | espon | espon | espon | espon | espon | espon | espon | | | dence | dence | dence | dence | dence | dence | dence | | | â†’ | â†’ | â†’ | â†’ | â†’ | â†’ | â†’ | | | need | need | need | need | need | need | need | | | ma | ma | ma | ma | ma | ma | ma | | | pping | pping | pping | pping | pping | pping | pping | | | rules | rules | rules | rules | rules | rules | rules | | | be | be | be | be | be | be | be | | | tween | tween | tween | tween | tween | tween | tween | | | g | g | g | g | g | MeNB | MeNB | | | rants | rants | rants | rants | rants | g | g | | | and | and | and | and | and | rants | rants | | | cor | cor | cor | cor | cor | and | and | | | respo | respo | respo | respo | respo | cor | cor | | | nding | nding | nding | nding | nding | respo | respo | | | RLC | RLC | RLC | RLC | RLC | nding | nding | | | ent | ent | ent | ent | ent | RLC | RLC | | | ities | ities | ities | ities | ities | ent | ent | | | re | re | re | re | re | ities | ities | | | lated | lated | lated | lated | lated | | ïŒ | | | to | to | to | to | to | For | | | | the | the | the | the | the | split | For | | | eNB | eNB | eNB | eNB | eNB | bea | split | | | is | is | is | is | is | rers, | bea | | | suing | suing | suing | suing | suing | alt | rers, | | | the | the | the | the | the | hough | the | | | g | g | g | g | g | the | UE is | | | rants | rants | rants | rants | rants | UE is | a | | | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | free | lways | | | | | | | | to | free | | | | | | | For | s | to | | | | | | | split | elect | s | | | | | | | bea | an | elect | | | | | | | rers, | eNB | an | | | | | | | alt | where | eNB | | | | | | | hough | to | where | | | | | | | the | send | to | | | | | | | UE is | data | send | | | | | | | free | f | data | | | | | | | to | irst, | ( | | | | | | | s | RLC | first | | | | | | | elect | retra | tra | | | | | | | an | nsmis | nsmis | | | | | | | eNB | sions | sions | | | | | | | where | must | and | | | | | | | to | a | re | | | | | | | send | lways | -tran | | | | | | | data | t | smiss | | | | | | | f | arget | ions) | | | | | | | irst, | the | ïŠ | | | | | | | RLC | same | | | | | | | | retra | eNB â†’ | T | | | | | | | nsmis | one | ocken | | | | | | | sions | MAC | b | | | | | | | must | e | ucket | | | | | | | a | ntity | algo | | | | | | | lways | per | rithm | | | | | | | t | eNB + | in | | | | | | | arget | one | LCP | | | | | | | the | to | needs | | | | | | | same | one | to | | | | | | | eNB â†’ | ma | take | | | | | | | one | pping | the | | | | | | | MAC | be | tr | | | | | | | e | tween | ansmi | | | | | | | ntity | MAC | ssion | | | | | | | per | e | over | | | | | | | eNB + | ntity | diff | | | | | | | one | and | erent | | | | | | | to | RLC | eNBs | | | | | | | one | ent | into | | | | | | | ma | ities | ac | | | | | | | pping | ïŒ | count | | | | | | | be | | ïŒ | | | | | | | tween | T | | | | | | | | MAC | ocken | | | | | | | | e | b | | | | | | | | ntity | ucket | | | | | | | | and | algo | | | | | | | | RLC | rithm | | | | | | | | ent | in | | | | | | | | ities | LCP | | | | | | | | ïŒ | needs | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | T | take | | | | | | | | ocken | the | | | | | | | | b | tr | | | | | | | | ucket | ansmi | | | | | | | | algo | ssion | | | | | | | | rithm | over | | | | | | | | in | diff | | | | | | | | LCP | erent | | | | | | | | needs | eNBs | | | | | | | | to | into | | | | | | | | take | ac | | | | | | | | the | count | | | | | | | | tr | ïŒ | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | | diff | | | | | | | | | erent | | | | | | | | | eNBs | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | ïŒ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MAC | BSR, | BSR, | BSR, | BSR, | BSR, | BSR, | BSR, | | TX | PHR | PHR | PHR | PHR | PHR | PHR | PHR | | UE\ | and | and | and | and | and | and | and | | BSR, | SR | SR | SR | SR | SR | SR | SR | | PHR, | e | e | e | e | e | e | e | | SR | ither | ither | ither | ither | ither | ither | ither | | | have | have | have | have | have | have | have | | | to be | to be | to be | to be | to be | to be | to be | | | sent | sent | sent | sent | sent | sent | sent | | | separ | separ | separ | separ | separ | separ | separ | | | ately | ately | ately | ately | ately | ately | ately | | | or we | or we | or we | or we | or we | or we | or we | | | a | a | a | a | a | a | a | | | ssume | ssume | ssume | ssume | ssume | ssume | ssume | | | some | some | some | some | some | some | some | | | i | i | i | i | i | i | i | | | ntera | ntera | ntera | ntera | ntera | ntera | ntera | | | ction | ction | ction | ction | ction | ction | ction | | | be | be | be | be | be | be | be | | | tween | tween | tween | tween | tween | tween | tween | | | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | | | and | and | and | and | and | and | and | | | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | | | via | via | via | via | via | via | via | | | S1/X2 | Xn ïŒ | Xn ïŒ | Xn ïŒ | Xn ïŒ | Xn ïŒ | Xn ïŒ | | | ïŒ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MAC | One | One | One | One | One | One | One | | RX | MAC | MAC | MAC | MAC | MAC | MAC | MAC | | eNB | e | e | e | e | e | e | e | | | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | ntity | | | per | per | per | per | per | per | per | | | eNB ï‹ | eNB ï‹ | eNB ï‹ | eNB ï‹ | eNB ï‹ | eNB ï‹ | eNB ï‹ | | | | | | | | | | | | If | If | If | If | If | If | If | | | BSR, | BSR, | BSR, | BSR, | BSR, | BSR, | BSR, | | | PHR | PHR | PHR | PHR | PHR | PHR | PHR | | | and | and | and | and | and | and | and | | | SR | SR | SR | SR | SR | SR | SR | | | are | are | are | are | are | are | are | | | not | not | not | not | not | not | not | | | sent | sent | sent | sent | sent | sent | sent | | | s | s | s | s | s | s | s | | | epara | epara | epara | epara | epara | epara | epara | | | tely, | tely, | tely, | tely, | tely, | tely, | tely, | | | the | the | the | the | the | the | the | | | eNB | eNB | eNB | eNB | eNB | eNB | eNB | | | needs | needs | needs | needs | needs | needs | needs | | | to | to | to | to | to | to | to | | | fo | fo | fo | fo | fo | fo | fo | | | rward | rward | rward | rward | rward | rward | rward | | | the | the | the | the | the | the | the | | | i | i | i | i | i | i | i | | | nform | nform | nform | nform | nform | nform | nform | | | ation | ation | ation | ation | ation | ation | ation | | | to | to | to | to | to | to | to | | | the | the | the | the | the | the | the | | | other | other | other | other | other | other | other | | | node | node | node | node | node | node | node | | | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | PHY | Sep | Sep | Sep | Sep | Sep | Sep | Sep | | As | arate | arate | arate | arate | arate | arate | arate | | pects | P | P | P | P | P | P | P | | | UCCH, | UCCH, | UCCH, | UCCH, | UCCH, | UCCH, | UCCH, | | | CQI | CQI | CQI | CQI | CQI | CQI | CQI | | | and | and | and | and | and | and | and | | | power | power | power | power | power | power | power | | | co | co | co | co | co | co | co | | | ntrol | ntrol | ntrol | ntrol | ntrol | ntrol | ntrol | | | loops | loops | loops | loops | loops | loops | loops | | | req | req | req | req | req | req | req | | | uired | uired | uired | uired | uired | uired | uired | | | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P | A | A | A | Alt | A | A | A | | erfor | ltern | ltern | tlern | ernat | ltern | ltern | tlern | | mance | ative | ative | ative | ive2D | ative | ative | ative | | | 1A | 2A | 2C | | 3A | 3C | 3D | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | SeNB | Not | Not | H | H | Not | H | H | | Mob | h | h | idden | idden | h | idden | idden | | ility | idden | idden | to CN | to CN | idden | to CN | to CN | | | to CN | to CN | ïŠ | ïŠ | to CN | ïŠ | ïŠ | | | ïŒ | (u | | | (u | | | | | | nless | No | No | nless | No | No | | | Forwa | sec | forwa | forwa | sec | forwa | forwa | | | rding | urity | rding | rding | urity | rding | rding | | | be | can | be | be | can | be | be | | | tween | s | tween | tween | s | tween | tween | | | SeNBs | olely | SeNBs | SeNBs | olely | SeNBs | SeNBs | | | ïŒ | be | ïŠ | ïŠ | be | ïŠ | ïŠ | | | | ha | | | ha | | | | | In | ndled | In | In | ndled | In | In | | | terru | by | terru | terru | by | terru | terru | | | ption | MeNB) | ption | ption | MeNB) | ption | ption | | | vi | ïŒ | vi | vi | ïŒ | li | li | | | sible | | sible | sible | | mited | mited | | | due | Forwa | due | due | Forwa | t | t | | | to | rding | to | to | rding | hanks | hanks | | | MeNB | be | MeNB | MeNB | be | to | to | | | u | tween | u | u | tween | the | the | | | nable | SeNBs | nable | nable | SeNBs | ab | ab | | | to | (u | to | to | (u | ility | ility | | | su | nless | su | su | nless | of | of | | | pport | MeNB | pport | pport | MeNB | the | the | | | SeNB | bu | SeNB | SeNB | bu | MeNB | MeNB | | | b | ffers | b | b | ffers | to | to | | | earer | the | earer | earer | the | tra | tra | | | ïŒ | data) | ïŒ | ïŒ | data) | nsmit | nsmit | | | | ïŒ | | | ïŒ | data | data | | | | | | | | for | for | | | | In | | | In | the | the | | | | terru | | | terru | split | split | | | | ption | | | ption | be | be | | | | vi | | | li | arers | arers | | | | sible | | | mited | ïŠ | ïŠ | | | | due | | | t | | | | | | to | | | hanks | | | | | | MeNB | | | to | | | | | | u | | | the | | | | | | nable | | | ab | | | | | | to | | | ility | | | | | | su | | | of | | | | | | pport | | | the | | | | | | SeNB | | | MeNB | | | | | | b | | | to | | | | | | earer | | | tra | | | | | | ïŒ | | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | split | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | arers | | | | | | | | | ïŠ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | U | Not | Not | Not | Not | Pos | Pos | Pos | | tilis | pos | pos | pos | pos | sible | sible | sible | | ation | sible | sible | sible | sible | for | for | for | | of | for | for | for | for | the | the | the | | radio | the | the | the | the | same | same | same | | reso | same | same | same | same | b | b | b | | urces | be | be | be | be | earer | earer | earer | | a | arer, | arer, | arer, | arer, | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | | cross | req | req | req | req | | | | | MeNB | uires | uires | uires | uires | | | | | and | at | at | at | at | | | | | SeNB | least | least | least | least | | | | | | two | two | two | two | | | | | | DRBs | DRBs | DRBs | DRBs | | | | | | for | for | for | for | | | | | | h | h | h | h | | | | | | aving | aving | aving | aving | | | | | | user | user | user | user | | | | | | plane | plane | plane | plane | | | | | | tra | tra | tra | tra | | | | | | ffics | ffics | ffics | ffics | | | | | | in | in | in | in | | | | | | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | | | | | | and | and | and | and | | | | | | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | | | | | | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Dy | Need | Contr | Contr | Contr | Contr | Contr | Contr | | namic | to | olled | olled | olled | olled | olled | olled | | Of | in | by | by | by | by | by | by | | fload | volve | MeNB, | MeNB, | MeNB, | MeNB, | MeNB, | MeNB, | | | MME, | s | s | s | can | can | can | | | very | tatic | tatic | tatic | be | be | be | | | s | as it | as it | as it | dy | dy | dy | | | tatic | can | can | can | namic | namic | namic | | | ïŒ | only | only | only | as | as | as | | | | use | use | use | long | long | long | | | | one | one | one | S | S | S | | | | eNB | eNB | eNB | Cells | Cells | Cells | | | | and | and | and | are | are | are | | | | rec | rec | rec | setup | setup | setup | | | | onfig | onfig | onfig | ïŠ | ïŠ | ïŠ | | | | req | req | req | | | | | | | uired | uired | uired | | | | | | | each | each | each | | | | | | | time | time | time | | | | | | | ï‹ | ï‹ | ï‹ | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MeNB | None | Li | Down | Down | Li | Down | Down | | proce | ïŠ | mited | to | to | mited | to | to | | ssing | | to | PDCP | RLC | to | PDCP | RLC | | of | | rou | level | level | rou | level | level | | SeNB | | ting, | fol | fol | ting, | fol | fol | | tr | | with | lowed | lowed | with | lowed | lowed | | affic | | or | by | by | buff | by | by | | | | wi | ro | ro | ering | ro | ro | | | | thout | uting | uting | and | uting | uting | | | | buff | ïŒ | ïŒ | reord | ïŒ | ïŒ | | | | ering | | | ering | | | | | | above | | | above | | | | | | PDCP | | | PDCP | | | | | | ï‹ | | | ïŒ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Bac | Low | Need | Need | Need | Need | Need | Need | | khaul | re | to | to | to | to | to | to | | Tr | quire | carry | carry | carry | carry | carry | carry | | affic | ments | tr | tr | tr | tr | tr | tr | | | ïŠ | affic | affic | affic | affic | affic | affic | | | | offl | offl | offl | offl | offl | offl | | | | oaded | oaded | oaded | oaded | oaded | oaded | | | | to | to | to | to | to | to | | | | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | | | | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | | | | | | | | | | | | | If | If | If | If | If | If | | | | the | the | the | the | the | the | | | | r | r | r | r | r | r | | | | outer | outer | outer | outer | outer | outer | | | | is | is | is | is | is | is | | | | above | above | above | above | above | above | | | | MeNB, | MeNB, | MeNB, | MeNB, | MeNB, | MeNB, | | | | the | the | the | the | the | the | | | | M | M | M | M | M | M | | | | eNB-r | eNB-r | eNB-r | eNB-r | eNB-r | eNB-r | | | | outer | outer | outer | outer | outer | outer | | | | link | link | link | link | link | link | | | | wil | wil | wil | wil | wil | wil | | | | see | see | see | see | see | see | | | | the | the | the | part | part | part | | | | SeNB | SeNB | SeNB | of | of | of | | | | tr | tr | tr | the | the | the | | | | affic | affic | affic | tr | tr | tr | | | | twice | twice | twice | affic | affic | affic | | | | ïŒ | (once | (once | twice | twice | twice | | | | | as | as | (the | (the | (the | | | | | PDCP | PDCP | offl | offl | offl | | | | | SDUs, | SDUs | oaded | oaded | oaded | | | | | and | and | part) | part, | part, | | | | | once | once | ïŒ | once | once | | | | | as | as | | as | as | | | | | PDCP | RLC | | PDCP | PDCP | | | | | PDUs) | PDUs) | | SDUs, | SDUs | | | | | ïŒ | ïŒ | | and | and | | | | | | | | once | once | | | | | | | | as | as | | | | | | | | PDCP | RLC | | | | | | | | PDUs) | PDUs) | | | | | | | | ïŒ | ïŒ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Buff | Full | Full | Part | Part | B | B | B | | ering | t | t | ially | ially | earer | earer | earer | | Re | ermin | ermin | o | o | spli | spli | spli | | quire | ation | ation | verla | verla | tting | tting | tting | | ments | of | of | pping | pping | im | im | im | | | EPS | EPS | buff | buff | plies | plies | plies | | | b | b | ering | ering | incr | incr | incr | | | earer | earer | n | n | eased | eased | eased | | | at | at | eeded | eeded | reord | reord | reord | | | SeNB | SeNB | at | at | ering | ering | ering | | | off | off | both | both | -buff | -buff | -buff | | | loads | loads | MeNB | MeNB | ering | ering | ering | | | PDCP | PDCP | and | and | re | re | re | | | buff | buff | SeNB | SeNB | quire | quire | quire | | | ering | ering | ï‹ | ï‹ | ment, | ment, | ment, | | | from | from | | | e | e | e | | | MeNB | MeNB | | RLC | ither | ither | ither | | | ïŠ | ïŠ | | SN | to UE | to UE | to UE | | | | | | space | or | or | or | | | | | | may | MeNB | MeNB | MeNB | | | | | | re | ïŒ | ïŒ | ïŒ | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | exten | | | RLC | | | | | | sion, | | | SN | | | | | | be | | | space | | | | | | cause | | | may | | | | | | Xn | | | re | | | | | | delay | | | quire | | | | | | be | | | exten | | | | | | comes | | | sion, | | | | | | part | | | be | | | | | | of | | | cause | | | | | | ARQ | | | Xn | | | | | | RTT ï‹ | | | delay | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | comes | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ARQ | | | | | | | | | RTT ï‹ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 8.1.1.11 Performance evaluation of use plane architecture alternatives
In this clause, U-plane architectures are evaluated to assess the technology
potential on the target design goals described in clause 6.
In terms of per-user throughput enhancements, the potential gain of U-plane
date split option of Option 3 is quantified relative to Rel-10/11 CA with
ideal backhaul [23]. Figure 8.1.1.11-1 and 8.1.1.11-2 shows the 5^th^ and
50^th^ percentile user throughput as a function of the offered load per macro
cell. The simulation assumptions are listed in Table F-1 and F-2of Annex F.
From these results, it seems possible to achieve the per-user throughput gain
close to the technology potential by Option 3 if all of the following
conditions are fulfilled:
a) The Xn interface described in subclause 8.1.5 is not the bottle neck.
b) The Xn interface is loss-less and causes no re-ordering.
c) The Xn interface offers latency of 5-30 ms.
d) Flow control is used from SeNB towards MeNB.
e) Flow control commands are sent frequently.
f) The load in the system is low to medium.
g) Users are distributed appropriately. I.e., the number of UEs served by the
macro cell is sufficiently low so that it has resource to allocate to pico
UEs.
{width="4.999305555555556in" height="3.0069444444444446in"}
Figure 8.1.1.11-1: 5^th^ percentile user throughput achieved by Option 3
{width="4.999305555555556in" height="3.0069444444444446in"}
Figure 8.1.1.11-2: 50^th^ percentile user throughput achieved by Option 3
Among U-plane architecture alternatives supporting Option 3, the throughput
performance of Alternative 3C and 3D is evaluated as a function of data
reordering timer [24] with protocol level simulations having fixed link
speed.\ Figure 8.1.1.11-3 shows the performance results for 1 and 8 MByte file
download. In this figure, the case of dual connectivity is denoted as \"DC\",
while single connectivity is \"No DC\" as a reference. Alternative 3C achieves
the stable throughput performance except for the short reordering timer. This
is because the data reordering is performed in PDCP. The throughput
degradation in the range of short reordering timer is due to the fact that the
PDCP layer needs to discard packets that are received out of order which is
seen as data loss for the End-to-End TCP connection. In contrast, the
throughput performance of Alternative 3D is decreased as the reordering timer
increases. This is due to the delay of RLC retransmissions which affects the
TCP congestion control. The robust throughput performance in the short timer
range is due to the fact that the short timer will only cause unnecessary RLC
transmission which does not affect the TCP congestion control. Due to these
characteristics, the optimum value of reordering timer is different between
the different file size cases as can be seen in this figure.
{width="5.781944444444444in" height="4.302777777777778in"}
Figure 8.1.1.11-3: Throughput performance between Alternative 3C and 3D as a
function of data reordering timer
In terms of mobility robustness, all U-plane data split options can achieve
the comparable mobility performance to the macro only network by serving the
mobility on the macro cell layer.
In terms of signalling load related to mobility, the U-plane data split
options of Option 2 and 3 can achieve the comparable CN signalling load to the
macro only network as SeNB mobility can be hidden to CN as analyzed in Table
8.1.1.10-1 of subclause 8.1.1.10, while the load increase due to routing via
the MeNB is not negligible. In contrast, SeNB mobility is visible to the CN as
well as MeNB in Option 1.
Table 8.1.1.11-1 summarised the comparison in terms of the target design
goals. In addition, backhaul requirements are taken into account since the
non-ideal backhaul is assumed in this study.
Table 8.1.1.11-1: Comparison of U-plane data split options
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Option 1 | Option 2 | Option 3 | | | | | | | | (i.e., | | | | | Alternative | | | | | 1A) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Per-user | Lower gain is | Higher gain is | | | throughput | expected. | expected. | | | enhancements | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Mobility | Can be | | | | robustness | achieved. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Signalling | Both SeNB and | Comparable to | | | load to CN | MeNB mobility | the macro only | | | | is visible to | network. | | | | CN. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Backhaul | No additional | Not analyzed | The Xn | | requirements | throughput | | interface has | | | requirement on | | to offer the | | | backhaul of | | latency of | | | MeNB | | 5-30 ms and | | | | | sufficient | | | | | capacity. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
From the above evaluation, Alternative 1A and 3C are to be progressed to
support U-plane data split options of Option 1 and 3 in this study.
#### 8.1.1.12 Interconnecting eNBs via X2 for dual connectivity specific
U-plane data transmission
##### 8.1.1.12.1 X2 User plane functions
The following X2 user plane functions are necessary for dual connectivity:
\- Transmission of user plane PDCP PDUs (for U-plane option 3C).
\- Data forwarding.
\- For 1A, SeNB Addition and Removal.
\- FFS for certain mobility scenarios.
It is FFS, whether flow control for U-plane option 3C is implemented as an X2
user plane function.
### 8.1.2 Details of user plane features
In this subclause, details of different use plane related features are
described.
#### 8.1.2.1 Random Access procedure
Both contention-free and contention-based Random Access procedures are
supported towards SeNB.\ The Random Access Response message is sent from the
eNB to which the Random Access Preamble was sent. Parallel Random Access
procedure is supported if Random Access Preamble transmission is not
overlapped.\ There is no requirement to coordinate PRACH resource in network
side.
#### 8.1.2.2 Buffer Status Reporting
For the eNB specific bearer, where the bearer is mapped into either MeNB or
SeNB, the UE sends BSR information related to the specific bearer towards the
eNB for which the corresponding bearer belongs to.
#### 8.1.2.3 Discontinuous Reception (DRX)
As a working assumption, separate DRX configurations should be supported for
MeNB and SeNB and separate DRX operations (timers and active time) should be
allowed for MeNB and SeNB. From UE power consumption point of view, DRX
coordination would be beneficial.
#### 8.1.2.4 Activation/Deactivation
Activation and deactivation are supported for SCG. MeNB can activate and
deactivate Cells associated with MeNB. SeNB can activate and deactivate Cells
associated with SeNB.
#### 8.1.2.5 Number of MAC entities
UE side MAC entity is configured per Cell Group, i.e. one MAC for MCG and the
other MAC for SCG.
### 8.1.3 Control plane architecture for dual connectivity
In this clause, C-plane protocols and architectures for dual connectivity are
evaluated.
From a standards point of view, each eNB should be able to handle UEs
autonomously, i.e., provide the PCell to some UEs while acting as assisting
eNB for other.
It is assumed that there will be only one S1-MME Connection per UE.
In dual connectivity operation, the SeNB owns its radio resources and is
primarily responsible for allocating radio resources of its cells. Some
coordination is still needed between MeNB and SeNB to enable this as discussed
in next subclauses.
#### 8.1.3.1 RRC Protocol architecture
At least the following RRC functions are relevant when considering adding
small cell layer to the UE for dual connectivity operation:
\- Small cell layer\'s common radio resource configurations
\- Small cell layer\'s dedicated radio resource configurations
\- Measurement and mobility control for small cell layer
In dual connectivity operation, a UE always stays in a single RRC state, i.e.,
either RRC_CONNECTED or RRC_IDLE. With this principle, the main two
architecture alternatives for RRC are the following:
\- Option C1: Only the MeNB generates the final RRC messages to be sent
towards the UE after the coordination of RRM functions between MeNB and SeNB.
The UE RRC entity sees all messages coming only from one entity (in the MeNB)
and the UE only replies back to that entity. L2 transport of these messages
depends on the chosen UP architecture and the intended solution.
\- Option C2: MeNB and SeNB can generate final RRC messages to be sent towards
the UE after the coordination of RRM functions between MeNB and SeNB and may
send those directly to the UE (depending on L2 architecture) and the UE
replies accordingly. How and whether to distinguish source and destination RRC
entity are FFS. How to route UL messages is FFS. L2 transport of these
messages depends on the chosen UP architecture and the intended solution.
Figure 8.1.3.1-1: Radio Interface C-plane architecture alternatives for dual
connectivity
#### 8.1.3.2 RRC procedures
In this subclause, potential procedures for radio resource configurations are
discussed. This helps to understand better the potential benefits and
drawbacks between different architectures. The examples are not limiting and
there might be other ways to perform configurations as well.
Let us consider the initial SeNB radio resource configuration or the situation
when the radio resource configuration of the SeNB needs to be changed. For
C-plane alternative C1, at least the following steps could be needed:
1\. The MeNB provides input parameters (e.g. UE capabilities and the radio
resource configuration of the UE) to the SeNB. Trigger when to provide these
parameters is FFS.
2\. The SeNB decides the parameters relevant for it (e.g. PUCCH configuration)
and signals these to the MeNB.
3\. Based on input from the SeNB, the MeNB generates the final RRC message and
signals this message to the UE. L2 transport of these messages depends on the
chosen UP architecture and the intended solution.
Similarly, for C-plane alternative C2, at least the following steps could be
considered:
1\. The MeNB provides input parameters (e.g. UE capabilities and potentially
the radio resource configuration of the UE) to the SeNB. Trigger when to
provide these parameters is FFS.
2\. The SeNB decides the parameters relevant for it, generates the final RRC
message and signals this to the UE. L2 transport of these messages depends on
the chosen UP architecture and the intended solution.
3\. The SeNB signals the radio configuration parameters back to the MeNB,
In the above procedures, Step 1 can be skipped in cases when it can be
guaranteed that RRCConnectionReconfiguration is valid and in line with the UE
capabilities. Such cases could be e.g. when the SeNB already has the latest
information of the UEs radio resource configuration in the MeNB or the
parameters are not subject to the capabilities.
#### 8.1.3.3 Performance evaluation of CP alternatives
In this subclause, the qualitative performance comparison of Alternatives C1
and C2 is made:
\- **Configuration delay:** In some RRC procedures, the configuration delay
with C1 can be longer than with C2. Details are FFS.
\- **Synchronization of RRC parameter change** : C2 has more advantage in
controlling RRC reconfiguration timing. However, also with C1 the issue can be
solved by the existing means like random access towards SeNB etc.
\- **Signaling and processing overhead:** As both solutions include
coordination between the SeNB and the MeNB, the signaling overhead difference
over the Xn is considered to be small. C2 might increase the processing
overhead in the UE whereas C1 increases the processing overhead in the MeNB.
However, this should not be an issue.
\- **Complexity in the UE side:** C2 is clearly more complex mechanism than
C1. The main reasons for complexity of C2 are: 1) separate security needed in
the SeNB, 2) routing of UL messages towards the correct node and 3) solution
for parallel RRC procedures that are not supported currently. The additional
complexity of C2 depends also on L2 architecture selected for user plane.
\- **Complexity in the network side:** The complexity difference of C1 and C2
from the network point of view is not significant. Most complexity comes from
coordination between MeNB and SeNB which could be considered to be similar in
C1 and C2. Locating Security/ PDCP increases complexity of C2. However, the
additional complexity due to this depends also on L2 architecture selected for
user plane.
From the above evaluation, Alternative C1 is selected as baseline for dual
connectivity.
#### 8.1.3.4 Interconnecting eNBs via X2 for dual connectivity specific RNL
signalling
##### 8.1.3.4.1 X2 Control plane functions
At least the following additional X2 control plane functions are necessary for
dual connectivity:
\- Establishment, maintenance and release of a UE context at the SeNB
(including handling a corresponding UE context related signalling connection).
\- Control of user plane paths between MeNB and SeNB for a specific UE.
\- For U-plane option 3C for a specific UE.
\- For data forwarding.
\- Transfer of the TNL information of the S1 user plane paths for 1A.
\- Transfer of radio configuration related information between MeNB and SeNB
for a specific UE. (It is assumed that this transfer will be performed in an
X2 transparent way.)
It is FFS which mobility scenarios should be supported for dual connectivity
and whether this could be supported with the functions listed above. One
possible scenario could be to change the SeNB while keeping the MeNB.
### 8.1.4 Details of control plane features
In this subclause, details of control plane related features are described.
#### 8.1.4.1 Signalling flows and procedures
The following general principles are applied for the operation of dual
connectivity:
1) The MeNB maintains the RRM measurement configuration of the UE and may,
e.g, based on received measurement reports or traffic conditions or bearer
types, decide to ask an SeNB to provide additional resources (serving cells)
for a UE.
2) Upon receiving the request from the MeNB, an SeNB may create the container
that will result in the configuration of additional serving cells for the UE
(or decide that it has no resource available to do so).
3) The MeNB and the SeNB exchange information about UE configuration by means
of RRC containers (inter-node messages) carried in Xn messages.
4) The SeNB may initiate a reconfiguration of its existing serving cells
(e.g., PUCCH towards the SeNB).
5) The MeNB does not change the content of the RRC configuration provided by
the SeNB.
\- FFS whether the MeNB requests the SeNB to release a serving cell for one of
its UEs and the SeNB creates a container that will result in the release of a
serving cell. Or whether the MeNB can by itself release a serving cell
maintained by the SeNB.
\- FFS whether the MeNB needs to comprehend or may reject the RRC Container
received from the SeNB.
\- FFS how MeNB and SeNB \"share\" e.g. the L1 processing capabilities.
#### 8.1.4.2 Transmission of RRC messages
The RRC messages are transmitted from MeNB. The transmission of RRC messages
via SeNB is not supported.
### 8.1.5 Xn interface assumptions
Independent of the radio interface protocol solutions, an interface between
MeNB and SeNB involved in dual connectivity is defined as Xn. The same
transport layer protocol as S1/X2 could be assumed for Xn, i.e., SCTP over IP
for C-plane and GTP-U over UDP/IP for U-plane.
If the Xn interface is not the bottleneck, packet loss on Xn is rare in
reasonable load conditions. This cannot be guaranteed in high load or overload
situations. Packet loss may occur in case of transport network congestion.
Sufficient dimensioning of the backhaul is crucial. There is a case that
packets are delivered on Xn in the wrong order. But this is also rare in
reasonable load conditions. If packet loss and re-ordering occurs on Xn,
U-plane protocols shall not stall, but do not need to correct them either. It
can be discussed in the WI phase whether GTP-U should ensure in-sequence
delivery so that U-plane protocols do not need to care about out-of-order
packets.
### 8.1.6 Overall architecture
The overall E-UTRAN architecture as specified in TS 36.300 [5] and depicted
there in Figure 4-1 is applicable for dual connectivity as well.
Inter-eNB signalling for dual connectivity operation will be performed by
means of X2 interface signalling.
## 8.2 General frameworks for dual connectivity
In the form of dual connectivity as described in subclause 7.1, the following
frameworks are applied:
\- The maximum total number of serving cells per UE is 5 as for carrier
aggregation.
\- Carrier aggregation is supported in the MeNB and the SeNB. I.e., the MeNB
and the SeNB may have multiple serving cells for a UE.
\- In dual connectivity, a UE is connected to one MeNB and one SeNB.
\- A TAG may only comprise cells of one eNB.
\- FFS whether the maximum number of TAGs per UE is 4 as for carrier
aggregation.
\- MCG and SCG may operate either in the same or in different duplex schemes.
\- Whether cells within the MCG or the SCG can operate with different duplex
schemes is pending RAN1 decision on TDD/FDD carrier aggregation.
### 8.2.1 PCell functionality in SCG
The SeNB has to have one special cell containing at least PUCCH, and
potentially also some other PCell functionality. However, it is not necessary
to duplicate all PCell functionality for the special cell. For the special
cell in SCG, the following principles are applied:
\- There is no need to provide NAS security and NAS mobility functions in the
SeNB.
\- At least one cell in SeNB has configured UL and one of them is configured
with PUCCH resources (could discuss whether to support more if such an
enhancement is agreed for CA in Rel-12 in general).
\- FFS how a change of the cell configured with PUCCH resources in SeNB is
done.
\- No RLM is needed on a cell not carrying PUCCH in the SeNB.
\- FFS whether RLM is performed on the cell carrying PUCCH in the SeNB.
\- RLF, if supported, of any SCG cell does not trigger RRC connection re-
establishment.
\- The cell in the SeNB which is configured with PUCCH resources cannot be
cross-carrier scheduled.
\- FFS whether Semi-persistent scheduling is needed in the SeNB
### 8.2.2 Bearer split modelling
To realize the selected user plane architecture Alternative 1A and 3C, the
following principles are applied:
\- Options 1A and/or 3C are aimed to realize by RRC configuration. Deviations
in the protocol stack for different configurations should be limited.
\- For instance, a new specification of PDCP-SeNB should be not introduced.
\- Some bearers of a UE may be split (3C) while others are only served by the
MeNB.
\- Some bearers of a UE may be served by the SeNB (1A) while others are only
served by the MeNB.
\- FFS whether a bearer/UE currently split across SeNB and MeNB (3C) cannot be
reconfigured to be served only via the SeNB (1A) and vice versa unless the
SeNB is released and re-added.
\- FFS whether some bearers of a UE may be split (3C) while others are served
by the SeNB (1A).
\- RLC STATUS PDUs are transmitted to corresponding eNBs via the corresponding
Uu interface.
\- FFS whether UL data is transmitted to one eNB only or maybe split across
eNBs.
# 9 Conclusions
During the study on Small Cell enhancements from higher layer aspects, the
following design goals were taken into account based on the challenges
identified for the small cell deployments:
\- Mobility robustness
\- Signalling load reduction
\- Per-user throughput enhancements
  * To address these design goals, a conceptual idea of dual connectivity was extensively discussed to utilize radio resources provided by at least two eNBs.
  * In the form of dual connectivity, the technology potential of inter-node radio resource aggregation for Scenario #2 (different carrier frequencies between macro and small cells) was justified in terms of all the design goals to investigate protocol architectures.
  * To realize dual connectivity in terms of protocol architectures, control plane architecture alternative C1 described in subclause 8.1.3.1 was selected.
  * With regards to user plane architecture, alternative 1A and 3C were selected to support U-plane data split options of Option 1 and 3 described in subclause 8.1.1.
  * Details of C/U-plane features and the impact on the E-UTRAN architecture were also studied.\ The current E-UTRAN architecture was selected, i.e., no new logical nodes and no new E-UTRAN interfaces are necessary to support dual connectivity.
  * As a result, the Small Cell enhancement study item can be closed.
  * In the context of dual connectivity, a work item to specify inter-node radio resource aggregation based on the study outcomes for Scenario #2 can be approved.
###### ### Annex A: Performance evaluation
Simulation models (i.e., simulation parameters or detailed scenarios) are not
specified for this study.\ Calibration exercise is not performed. However, the
following evaluation metrics can be considered as examples when companies
provide simulation results:
\- System throughput (capacity);
\- Per-user throughput;
\- Packet delay spikes (e.g., due to mobility);
\- Mobility performance metrics (HOF/RLF, ToS);
\- UE power consumption;
\- Implementation complexity;
\- Transport network load;
###### ### Annex B: Mobility and simulation assumptions for mobility
evaluation in Scenario #2 (subclause 5.2.3)
# B.1 Mobility assumptions
Intra-frequency macro-to-macro cell handover is based on UE RSRP A3 event
(neighbour cell becomes offset better than PCell). In order to optimize the UE
power consumption and avoid unnecessary UE measurement gaps, periodic inter-
frequency measurements every 40 ms are only enabled for non-CA UEs having
reported the A2 event (cell becomes worse than threshold).
The A2 threshold is set such that approximately 80% of the UEs on macro-layer
perform inter-frequency measurements, i.e. meaning that the 20% macro-UEs with
strongest macro cell signal level are not offloaded to the small cell layer
i.e. UEs close to the macro will likely not utilize small cell layer in this
simulation setup. When the inter-frequency measurements are enabled for a
macro-UE, the same UE is configured with RSRQ A4 event (neighbour cell becomes
better than threshold) for performing handover to the small cell. Thus, when
the quality of the small cell becomes sufficiently good, the UE is offloaded
to the small cell layer.
As illustrated in Figure B.1-1, the handover to the small cell may happen for
example at locations 1 or 2 depending on the settings of the A4 event. Note
that if the handover is made too early to the small cell (say at location 1),
the UE may experience a throughput loss as compared to being at the macro-
layer, depending on the channel quality and number of active users at the two
layers. Inter-frequency handover from the small cell and back to the macro-
layer is initiated based on RSRQ A2. Also here it is important that the A2
event is optimized to maximize the end-user experienced throughput. If the UE
trajectory is crossing two small cells with overlapping coverage area, intra-
frequency small-to-small handover is based on RSRP A3 events from the UE.
{width="3.5993055555555555in" height="1.5090277777777779in"}
Figure B.1-1: Mobility events for a UE with Method A
For UEs with Method B, inter-frequency measurements on a second carrier are
performed without measurement gaps i.e. while being served at macro layer
carrier without the need for measurement gaps to perform inter-frequency
measurements (although this may not be the case for all UEs as performing
inter-frequency measurement without gaps is a UE capability). Thus, a UE on
the macro layer is assumed to make transparent inter-frequency RRM
measurements on the small cell layer without any measurement gaps. Having
frequent inter-frequency measurements activated has a cost in terms of UE
power consumption independently whether these are performed with or without
gaps. Also in this case intra-frequency PCell handover at the macro-layer is
assumed to be based on RSRP A3, while small cell addition (configuration) and
removal (de-configuration) are based on RSRQ based A4 and A2, respectively.
Intra-frequency Small cell change on the same carrier is triggered by RSRP A6
(signal level from another small cell candidate becomes a threshold better
than the current small cell). An example of the various RRC reconfiguration
events that may happen to a UE with Method B, when following a certain
trajectory, is illustrated in Figure B.1-2. Whenever a handover, or small cell
addition/release, takes place, it also involves sending a RRC reconfiguration
command to the UE.
{width="4.582638888888889in" height="2.1284722222222223in"}
Figure B.1-2: Mobility events for a UE with Method B
# B.2 Simulation assumptions
Dynamic system level simulations are conducted in coherence with 3GPP HetNet
simulation guidelines outlined in [4]. The network topology consists of a
regular 3-sector hexagonal macro layout, supplemented by either 2 or 10 small
cells placed randomly in each macro cell area. Placement of small cells is,
however, subject to constraints.\ The major downlink RRM algorithms are
modelled, including detailed representation of the mobility mechanisms.\ The
former includes UE physical-layer RRM measurement errors, Layer-3 filtering of
those measurements, UE A{2,3,4,6} reporting events, and signalling delays for
preparing a new target cell as well as execution delays. For the sake of
simplicity, only RRC connected UEs are simulated (assuming full buffer
traffic).\ Uniform spatial UE distribution is assumed, with users moving at
constant speed in a fixed direction chosen random for each terminal at the
start of the simulation. The default simulation parameters are summarized in
Table B.2-1.
Table B.2-1: Simulation parameters
+--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Bandwidth | 10 MHz | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Macro and Pico Frequency | 1.8 GHz and 2.6 GHz | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Simulation Time | 200 s | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Shadowing Standard Deviation Macro | 8 dB | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Shadowing Standard Deviation Pico | 10 dB | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Shadowing Correlation Distance Macro | 50 m | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Shadowing Correlation Distance Pico | 13 m | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | BS Tx Power Macro | 46 dBm | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | BS Tx Power Pico | 30 dBm | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Distance Dependent Path-Loss Macro | 128.1 + 37.6 log10 (R) | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Distance Dependent Path-Loss Pico | 140.7 + 36.7 log10 (R) | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | RSRP error -- zero mean Gaussian | 1 dB std dev | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Filtering Factor K | 4 or 1 | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | RLF: Qout Threshold | - 8 dB | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | RLF: Qin Threshold | - 6 dB | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Inter-frequency Measurements | 6 ms measurement gaps | | | | | | CA: 40 ms, NO CA: A2-based | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | A3 Time To Trigger (TTT) | 256 ms or 160 ms | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | A3 Prep + Exec | 100 ms | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | A3 Offset | 3 dB | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | A2, A4 and A6 Time To Trigger (TTT) | 256 ms or 160 ms | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | A2, A4 and A6 Prep + Exec | 100 ms | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | A2 Threshold | -16 dB or -17 dB RSRQ | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | A4 Threshold | -12 dB or -17 dB RSRQ | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | A6 Offset | 1 dB | +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+
###### ### Annex C: Simulation assumptions for mobility evaluation in Scenario
#3 (subclause 5.3.1)
# C.1 Scenarios and main assumptions
A dense small cell deployment scenario on a dedicated carrier is simulated
with network layout as illustrated in Figure C.1-1. Wrap around is used, and
UEs move in straight lines with constant speed -- each UE moving in a random
direction that is chosen at the start of each simulation. DRX is not used in
these simulations. Major simulation assumptions are according to the HetNet
mobility study in [4] including the definition of mobility key performance
indicators such as RLF, HOF. Mobility events are based on A3 RSRP based event
report from UEs and the following two cases of cell detection have been
simulated:
\- Ideal cell detection: UEs are assumed to be able to measure the RSRP from
all cells independent of the signal strength and SINR and in this case the
cell is regarded as detected when SINR is above given threshold.
\- Realistic cell detection: The cell detection is based on PSS and SSS and is
modelled in the system level simulator by using link level results for PSS and
SSS detection -- see more detailed description in Annex C.2. UEs measure the
RSRP from cells which it has detected. Also the effect of losing the
synchronization to a cell (and therefore the ability to measure RSRP) is
explicitly modelled.
Cases with and without time-synchronization are simulated. For the case with
time-synchronization, the PSS and SSS transmission from all the small cells
are colliding (i.e. no shifting applied), resulting in more challenging SINRs
and cell detection conditions as compared to the case without time-
synchronization.
A fractional load scenario is simulated with 2, 4, and 6 UEs per cell,
corresponding to roughly 10%, 20%, and 30% PRB utilization per cell for the
considered traffic model. Additionally full load scenario with time-
synchronization is simulated for reference. More detailed parameters are
presented in Annex C.3.
{width="3.484027777777778in" height="2.8409722222222222in"}
Figure C.1-1: Simulated network layout
# C.2 Modelling of realistic cell detection
The realistic cell detection modelling is based on PSS and SSS detection in
system level simulation studies.\ Link level simulation studies have been
performed to obtain PSS and SSS detection hit probability mapped on average
subframe SNR level assuming AWGN interference.\ These link level results have
been used in the fully dynamic system simulations.
Figure C.2-1 shows the general process of the cell detection modelling. PSS is
present in subframe 0 and SSS in subframe 5. The UE monitors the signal
continuously, thus no power saving aspect is considered in the initial
simulations. The UE has to detect PSS successfully before it starts to monitor
SSS in the modelling.\ After both signals have been successfully detected, the
UE can start to perform measurements from CRS, A cell is considered detected
and measurable as long as a 200 ms filtered RSRP and Es/Iot measurement
quantity from CRS are above certain thresholds. The following thresholds
adapted from measurement conditions in [8] have been used in the initial
simulations: RSRP -127 dBm and Es/Iot -6 dB. If either of the measurements is
below threshold cell is considered lost and in order to perform measurements
from that cell again PSS/SSS must be detected again. UE measures CRS in 40 ms
intervals.
{width="5.466666666666667in" height="3.0319444444444446in"}
Figure C.2-1: Modelling of realistic cell detection
# C.3 Simulation assumptions
Table C.3:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Feature/Parameter | Value/Description | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRX | | Not configured | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover parameters | Handover criteria | Event A3 RSRP | | | | | | | A3 baseline offset | 2 dB | | | | | | | A3 baseline | 160 ms | | | time-to-trigger | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic parameters | Full load network | Full buffer | | | (100%) | | | | | 2, 4, 6 UEs/cell | | | Fractional load | with 512 kbps CBR | | | network (10, 20, | traffic in both DL | | | 30%) | and UL | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bandwidth | | 10 MHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IFFT/FFT length | | 1024 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Duplexing | | FDD | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of | | 600 | | sub-carriers | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sub-carrier spacing | | 15 kHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Resource block | | 180 kHz | | bandwidth | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sub-frame length | | 1 ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reuse factor | | 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of symbols | | 14 | | per TTI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of data | | 11 | | symbols per TTI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of control | | 3 | | symbols per TTI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Pico cell layout | Distance between | 40 m | | [6] | Picos | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Location | Uniform grid | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Number of pico cells | 64 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Macro-pico | | Pico in dedicated | | deployment type | | frequency layer | | | | | | | | No macro cells | | | | deployed | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distance-dependent | Pico cell model (TS | 140.7 + 36.7log10(r) | | path loss | 36.814, Model 1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS Tx power | Pico | 30 dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing standard | Pico | 10 dB | | deviation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | Pico | 13 m | | correlation distance | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Multipath delay | | Typical Urban | | profile | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE speed | | 3, 10, 30, 60 km/h | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RSRP Measurement | L1 measurement cycle | 40 ms | | | | | | | Measurement | 6 RBs | | | bandwidth | | | | | 2 dB | | | Measurement error | | | | standard deviation | 5 | | | | | | | L1 sliding window | Disabled | | | size | | | | | | | | L3 filtering | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover preparation | | 50 ms | | time | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover execution | | 40 ms | | time | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radio link failure | Qout threshold | -8 dB | | monitoring | | | | | Qin threshold | -6 dB | | | | | | | T310 | 1000 ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell detection | Ideal | All cells measurable | | | | constantly | | | Non-ideal | | | | | PSS/SSS based cell | | | | detection | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
###### ### Annex D: Simulation assumptions for performance evaluation of
inter-node radio resource aggregation (subclause 7.1.1.1)
This annex lists the simulation parameters used for the throughput performance
simulation described in subclauses 7.1.1.1.1 and 7.1.1.1.2.
Table D-1: Simulation parameters for potential gain evaluation from the
existing features\ (subclause 7.1.1.1.1)
+------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values used for evaluation | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Scenario | 3GPP model 1, as specified in TS | | | 36.814 (for Scenario #A and #B) | | | | | | ITU model, as given in TR 36.819 | | | (for Case #0 and #1) | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Deployment | 7 3-sector macro sites with inter | | | site distance 500 m (21 sectors), 4 | | | picos per macro cell area, deployed | | | in center of hotspots of 40 m radii, | | | each pico forms a cell | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | System and carrier bandwidth | Each carrier is 10 MHz wide | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | Carrier 1 at 2 GHz and carrier 2 at | | | 2.6 GHz (for Scenario #A and #B) | | | | | | Carrier 1 at 800 MHz and carrier 2 | | | at 3.5 GHz (for Case #0 and #1) | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | eNB Antenna model | Macro: | | | | | | 3D antenna, as specified in 36.814 | | | | | | Pico: | | | | | | Omnidirectional antenna, as | | | specified in 36.814 | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Network synchronization | Synchronized | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | PCI planning | Same CRS shift in all points, | | | colliding CRS (\"non-shifted CRS\") | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | UE distribution | 2/3 in hotspots (4 hotspots per | | | macro cell) | | | | | | No mobility modeled, user fast | | | fading speed 3 km/h, UE antenna | | | height 1.5 m | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Traffic model | File download traffic over TCP, 2 or | | | 8 MByte file size | | | | | | Each UE downloads a single file of 2 | | | or 8 MByte and disappears from the | | | system. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Antenna configurations | Macro sector: 2 Â±45Â°cross-polarized | | | antennas | | | | | | Pico: 2 Omni-directional | | | Â±45Â°cross-polarized antennas | | | | | | UE: 2 Omni-directional | | | Â±45Â°cross-polarized antennas | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Transmit powers | Macro: 46 dBm | | | | | | Pico: 30 dBm | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Noise figure | 9 dB in UE, 5 dB in eNB | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | DL EVM | None | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Cell selection | Co-channel deployment: RSRP based | | | cell selection + 6dB cell selection | | | offset | | | | | | Inter-frequency deployment: RSRQ | | | cell selection | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Transmission schemes | DL: Spatial multiplexing, 2 layers, | | | QPSK/16QAM/64QAM | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Receiver | DL: Linear MMSE | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Scheduling | PFTF (Proportional Fair in Time and | | | Frequency) | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Channel estimation | Ideal for both demodulation and CSI | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
Table D-2: Simulation parameters for potential gain evaluation with non-ideal
backhaul deployments\ (subclause 7.1.1.1.2)
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Settings/Assumptions | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Network layout | 7 macro sites (21 macro cells), | | | wrap-around | | | | | | 4 small cells randomly placed | | | per macro cell | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel profile | SCM channel model with 3D | | | antenna | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE location | Indoor UEs with 20dB penetration | | | loss | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Inter-site distance / cell | Macro cell: 500 m (ISD);\ | | radius | Small cell: 40 m (Cell radius) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Transmit power | Macro eNB: 46 dBm\ | | | Small cell: 30 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Bandwidth | 2 x 10MHz @ 2GHz and 3.5 GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration | 2 x 2 MIMO with rank adaptation | | | and interference rejection | | | combining | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna gain | Macro: 14 dBi | | | | | | Small cell: 5 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Bursty traffic model | Poisson arrival with fixed | | | payload size of 10 Mbits per UE | | | | | | Hotspot UE distribution | | | | | | 1/3 of UEs dropped within the | | | macro cell coverage area, | | | | | | 2/3 of UEs dropped within the | | | small cell coverage area | | | (without RE) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Packet scheduling | Almost independent scheduling | | | (proportional fair) at macro and | | | small cell. Only information | | | exchanged between macro and | | | small cell is the past scheduled | | | throughput per UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cell selection metric\ | RSRQ | | (only with no dual-connectivity) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Available MCSs | QPSK (1/5 to 3/4), 16QAM (2/5 to | | | 5/6), 64QAM (3/5 to 9/10) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BLER target | 10% | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HARQ modeling | Ideal chase combining with max 4 | | | transmissions | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Path loss | Macro cell: | | | 140.7+36.7log10(R[km]) | | | | | | Small cell: | | | 128.1+37.6log10(R[km]) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Shadow fading | Lognormal, std.=8 dB for macro | | | cell | | | | | | Lognormal, std.=10 dB for small | | | cell | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
###### ### Annex E: Simulation assumptions for mobility robustness in Scenario
#2 (subclause 5.2.1)
# E.1 Simulation assumptions without DRX
Simulation assumptions used for mobility robustness without DRX, i.e., Figure
5.2.1-1 and 5.2.1-3 are shown below:
Table E.1-1: System parameters
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Macro | Small Cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of Sites | 19 (wrap around) | 10 or 20 per cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of Sectors | 3 | 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-Site Distance | 500 m | NA | | (ISD) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS/UE Height | 25 m/1.5 m | 10 m/1.5 m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bandwidth | 10 MHz (DL) + 10MHz | | | | (UL) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | 2 GHz | 3.5 GHz separate | | | | channel | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS/UE Tx Power | 46 dBm/23 dBm | 30 dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Path Loss | 128.1 | 147 + | | | +37.6*log10(d/1000) | 36.7log10(d/1000) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing Factor | 8 dB | 10 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Site-to-Site | 0.5 | | | Correlation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Correlation Distance | 25m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS Antenna Gain + | 15 dBi | 5 dBi | | Cable Loss | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Antenna Gain | 0 dBi | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS Antenna Pattern | 70 degrees (3 dB) | 0 dB | | (horizontal) | | | | | Am=25 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS Antenna Pattern | 10 degrees (3 dB) | 0 dB | | (vertical) | | | | | 15 degrees (Tilt) | | | | | | | | SLAv=20 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Antenna Pattern | Omni | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fast Fading | None | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Penetration Loss | 20 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Thermal Noise | -174 dBm/Hz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Noise Figure | 7 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | HARQ | Chase Combining | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Max HARQ | 8 | | | Retransmissions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Loading Factor | 1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | HARQ Delay | 4 ms | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MIMO | None | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SR Configuration | SR Configuration | | | | Index 0 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sr-ProhibitTimer | 0 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RACH Configuration | RACH Configuration | | | | Index 3 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RACH Power Ramping | 0dB | | | Up Step Size | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RACH | No Limit During T304 | | | preambleTransMax | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | r | 5ms | | | a-ResponseWindowSize | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL Power Control | 0.8 | | | Factor | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL Power Control | - 85 dBm | | | PUSCH | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL Power Control | -112 dBm | | | PUCCH | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL Power Control | - 104 dBm | | | PRACH | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL IoT Average | 8 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL IoT Standard | 1 dB | | | Deviation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table E.1-2: Handover parameters
* * *
Parameter Value Trigger Quantity (Intra) RSRP Trigger Quantity (Inter) RSRQ
Time To Trigger (TTT) 160 ms/480 ms A3 Offset (Off) 0 Cell Specific Offset
(Ocn, Ocp) 0 Frequency Specific Offset (Ofn, Ofp) 0 Hysteresis Margin 2 dB
Scanning Period (Intra) 40 ms Scanning Period (Inter) 80 ms Measurement
Averaging Period (Intra) 200 ms Measurement Report Interval (Intra) 200 ms
Measurement Averaging Period (Inter) 480 ms Measurement Report Interval
(Inter) 480 ms L3 Filter Coefficient 1 Triggering Condition Event Dependent
Minimum Time of Stay for Ping Pong 1s T304 (HO supervision timer) 200 ms N310
(Number of Out-of-Sync) 1 T310 (RLF Timer) 1s N311(Number of In-Sync) 1 Qin -6
dBm Qout -8 dBm Connection Re-establishment Delay (After RLF) 250 ms Handover
Decision Time (Intra-Site) 4 ms Handover Decision Time (Inter-Site, Intra
small cell cluster) 50 ms Handover Decision Time (Inter small cell cluster)
100 ms DL Synchronization Delay 3 ms
* * *
# E.2 Simulation assumptions with DRX
Simulation assumptions used for mobility robustness with DRX, i.e., Figure
5.2.1-2 are shown below:
Table E.2: System parameters
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Feature/Parameter | Value/Description | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRX | Long cycle length | 80, 160, 320, 640 ms | | | | | | | Short cycle length | 20 ms | | | | | | | Short cycle duration | 16x short cycle | | | | length | | | Inactivity timer | | | | | 10 ms | | | On duration timer | | | | | 5 ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Intra and | Handover criteria | Event A3 RSRP | | inter-frequency | | | | handover parameters | A3 baseline offset | 3 dB | | | | | | | A3 baseline | 256 ms | | | time-to-trigger | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic parameters | Traffic type | Average 3, 30 | | | \"background\": | seconds from | | | | geometric | | | Packet interval | distribution | | | options | | | | | 0.5 Mbytes | | | Traffic type | | | | \"bursty\": | 5 seconds average | | | | from geometric | | | File size | distribution | | | | | | | Reading time | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bandwidth | | 10 MHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IFFT/FFT length | | 1024 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Duplexing | | FDD | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of | | 600 | | sub-carriers | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sub-carrier spacing | | 15 kHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Resource block | | 180 kHz | | bandwidth | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sub-frame length | | 1 ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reuse factor | | 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of symbols | | 14 | | per TTI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of data | | 11 | | symbols per TTI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of control | | 3 | | symbols per TTI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3GPP Macro Cell | Cell layout | 21 sectors/7 BSs | | Scenario | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Inter site distance | 500 m | | | (ISD) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Pico cell layout | Cluster distance to | Minimum 75 m | | | macro | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Distance between | Minimum 100 m | | | clusters | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Distance between | Minimum 20 m | | | picos | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Cluster radius | 50 m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Cluster location | Random | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Clusters/macro cell | 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Picos/cluster | 4, 10 (FTP results | | | | only with 4 picos) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Macro-pico | | Inter-frequency | | deployment type | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distance-dependent | Macro cell model (TS | 128.1 + 37.6log10(r) | | path loss | 36.814, Model 1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Pico cell model (TS | 140.7 + 36.7log10(r) | | | 36.814, Model 1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS Tx power | Macro | 46 dBm | | | | | | | Pico | 30 dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing standard | Macro | 8 dB | | deviation | | | | | Pico | 10 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | | 0.5 / 1.0 | | correlation between | | | | cells/sectors | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | Macro | 50 m | | correlation distance | | | | | Pico | 13 m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Multipath delay | | Typical Urban | | profile | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE speed | | 3, 30, 60 km/h | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Intra and | L1 measurement cycle | 40 ms or DRX cycle | | inter-frequency | | length | | measurement | Measurement | | | | bandwidth | 6 RBs | | | | | | | Measurement error | 2 dB | | | standard deviation | | | | | 5 | | | L1 sliding window | | | | size | Disabled | | | | | | | L3 filtering | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover preparation | | 50 ms | | time | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover execution | | 40 ms | | time | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radio link failure | Qout threshold | -8 dB | | monitoring | | | | | Qin threshold | -6 dB | | | | | | | T310 | 1000 ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell detection model | | Enabled | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Receiver diversity | | 2RX MRC | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of calls | | 30 UEs per macro | | | | cell so totally 630 | | | | UEs\ | | | | with 100 second | | | | calls | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
###### ### Annex F: Simulation assumptions for performance evaluation of
U-plane data split Option 3 (subclause 8.1.11.1)
This annex lists the simulation parameters used for the performance evaluation
of U-plane data split Option 3 described in subclause 8.1.11.1.
Table F-1: Simulation parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Setting/Assumptions | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Network layout | > 7 macro sites (21 macro | | | > cells), wrap-around | | | > | | | > 1 cluster of small cells per | | | > macro cell, 4 small cells per | | | > cluster | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Channel profile | > ITU channel model | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > UE location | > 20% outdoor UEs, 80% Indoor | | | > UEs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Inter-site distance / cell | > Macro cell: 500 m (ISD);\ | | > radius | > Small cell: 50 m (Cell radius) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Transmit power | > Macro eNB: 46 dBm\ | | | > Small cell: 30 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Bandwidth | > 2 x 10MHz @ 2GHz and 3.5 GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Antenna configuration | > 2 x 2 MIMO with rank | | | > adaptation and interference | | | > rejection combining | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Antenna gain | > Macro: 17 dBi | | | > | | | > Small cell: 5 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Bursty traffic model | > Poisson arrival with fixed | | | > payload size of 4 Mbits per UE | | | > | | | > Hotspot UE distribution | | | > | | | > 1/3 of UEs dropped within the | | | > macro cell coverage area, | | | > | | | > 2/3 of UEs dropped within the | | | > small cell coverage area | | | > (without RE) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Packet scheduling | > Almost independent scheduling | | | > (proportional fair) at macro | | | > and small cell. Only | | | > information exchanged between | | | > macro and small cell is the | | | > past scheduled throughput per | | | > UE | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Cell selection metric\ | > RSRQ | | > (only with no | | | > dual-connectivity) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Available MCSs | > QPSK (1/5 to 3/4), 16QAM (2/5 | | | > to 5/6), 64QAM (3/5 to 9/10) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > BLER target | > 10% | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > HARQ modeling | > Ideal chase combining with max | | | > 4 transmissions | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table F-2: Simulation parameters related to the implementation of non-ideal
backhaul
+--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Backhaul latency | 5ms | 20 ms | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | > SeNB target buffering time | > 25 ms | > 50 ms | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | > _Flow control periodicity_ | > 5 ms | > 5 ms | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | > _SeNB full load RSRQ | > -15 dB/-14 dB | > -15 dB/-14 dB | | > threshold LOW_ | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | > _SeNB full load RSRQ | > -12 dB/-11 dB | > -12 dB/-11 dB | | > threshold HIGH_ | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | > _Initial SeNB buffer size | > 0.1 Mbit | > 0.1 Mbit | | > LOW_ | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | > _Initial SeNB buffer size | > 1 Mbit | > 1 Mbit | | > HIGH_ | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | > _SeNB past scheduled | > 20 ms | > 50 ms | | > throughput averaging window | | | | > (for flow control purpose)_ | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | > _Past scheduled throughput | > 50 ms | > 50 ms | | > exchange period (for | | | | > scheduling purpose)_ | | | +--------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+
###### ### Annex G: Signalling flow for dual connectivity operation
# G.1 SeNB Addition/Modification
Figure G.1-1 depicts the overall signalling scheme for addition and
modification of SeNB resources for dual connectivity operation. This
signalling scheme should help revealing similarities between addition and
modification signalling schemes and therefore not all details are provided in
this clause.
S1-MME and X2-C signalling part which is relevant for the UP option 1A only is
shown with dashed lines (steps 6, 7, 11-13).
Figure G.1-1: SeNB Addition/Modification
As depicted in Figure G.1-1, activating/modifying resources at SeNB for dual
connectivity operation could involve the following steps:
1a. The MeNB decides to request the SeNB to add or modify radio resources for
a specific E-RAB.
1b. The SeNB decides to modify radio resources for a specific E-RAB.FFS: This
step may include additional coordination between the SeNB and MeNB to make
sure that e.g the capabilities of the UE are not exceeded.
2\. The MeNB requests the SeNB to allocate/modify radio resources.
**FFS:** Depending on the actual scenario, it might contain E-RAB
characteristics (E-RAB parameters, TNL address information corresponding to
the UP option), UE Capabilities and the current radio resource configuration
of the UE etc.
3\. If the RRM entity in the SeNB is able to admit the resource request, it
configures respective radio resources and, dependent on the UP option,
respective transport network resources.\ The SeNB may also allocate dedicated
RACH preamble for the UE so that synchronisation of the SeNB radio resource
configuration can be performed.
4\. The SeNB provides the new radio resource configuration to the MeNB (for UP
alternative1A it may contain, dependent on the actual scenario, S1 DL TNL
address information for the respective E-RAB, for UP alternative 3C X2 DL TNL
address information).
5\. The MeNB endorses the new configuration and triggers the UE to apply it.
The UE starts to apply the new configuration.
6./7. In case of UP option 1A the MeNB may, dependent on respective E-RAB
characteristics, take actions to minimize service interruption due to
activation of dual connectivity (Data forwarding, SN Status Report).
NOTE 1: Whether the UP resources established for data forwarding for UP option
1A need to be released explicitly may be further discussed.
8\. The UE completes the reconfiguration procedure.
**FFS:** The order of the RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete message
(steps 8) and the synchronisation procedure (step 9).
NOTE 2: In case of UP options 3C, transmission of user plane data from the
SeNB to the UE may take place after step 8 or 9 depending on the
synchronisation procedure.
9\. The UE performs synchronisation towards the cell of the SeNB if needed.
10\. The SeNB reports to MeNB the detection of synchronisation with the UE,
confirming that the new configuration is in use. Receipt of the message in
step 10 by the MeNB successfully completes the overall SeNB
Addition/Modification procedure on X2.
NOTE 3: Depending on the decision on the order of RRC reconfiguration and
synchronisation or on the support of synchronisation, step 10 might be either
necessary as described above or in the reverse direction (from MeNB to SeNB).
11.-13. For UP option 1A, if applicable, the update of the UP path towards the
EPC is performed.
NOTE 4: Figure G.1-1 assumes that S-GW is not changed.
NOTE 5: Stage 3 work is needed to clarify signalling details for steps 11 and
13, i.e. whether a new procedure should be defined or the Path Switch
procedure can be reused.
# G.2 SeNB release (MeNB initiated)
Figure G.2-1 depicts the MeNB initiated overall signalling scheme for
releasing the SeNB resources towards the UE for dual connectivity operation.
It is FFS whether the MeNB requests the SeNB to release a serving cell for one
of its UEs and the SeNB creates a container that will result in the release of
a serving cell(s); or whether the SeNB initiates and create a container that
will result in the release of a serving cell(s); or, whether the MeNB can by
itself release a serving cell maintained by the SeNB.
Figure G.2-1: SeNB Release
As depicted in Figure G.2-1, releasing the SeNB resources towards the UE for
dual connectivity operation could involve the following steps:
1\. The MeNB decides to remove the SeNB resources towards the UE.
2\. The MeNB requests the SeNB to release its resources.
3\. The SeNB follows the MeNB\'s request.
4\. The SeNB responds to the MeNB\'s release request.
5\. The MeNB signals the reconfiguration to the UE. The UE releases the
relevant configuration towards this SeNB.
6./7. In case of UP option 1A and respective E-RAB characteristics the MeNB
may take actions to minimize service interruption due to release of SeNB
resources (Data forwarding, SN Status Report).
8\. The UE indicates the completion of the reconfiguration procedure.
9.-11. For UP option 1A, the update of the UP path towards the EPC is
performed.
> NOTE 1: Figure G.2-1 assumes that S-GW is not changed.
NOTE 2: Stage 3 work is needed to clarify signalling details for steps 9 and
11, i.e. whether a new procedure should be defined or the Path Switch
procedure can be reused.
#