# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The objective of this study item is to
\- study how to implement the requirements from SA1 as provided in TS 22.101,
i.e.
\- study impacts on E-UTRAN architecture and signalling interfaces, e.g. how
to introduce means to quantify and monitor resources used by any participating
operator
\- study which changes are needed to relevant specifications for which RAN3 is
responsible e.g. changes to S1 and X2 signalling
\- co-operate with other TSGs/WGs in case some of the requirements would
impact parts of the overall system which are out of scope of RAN3
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the study item for Study of RAN
aspects of RAN Sharing Enhancements for LTE - Core Part which was approved at
TSG RAN #62. The report provides background, analysis of the requirements set
out in [1], and a list of recommended changes to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
GWCN Gateway Core Network
MLB Mobility Load Balancing
SON Self-Organizing Network
# 4 Scenarios & Open Issues
## 4.1 General
RAN3 impacts are identified based on the following requirements described in
TS 22.101:
The Hosting E-UTRAN Operator shall be able to specify the allocation of
E-UTRAN resources to each of the Participating Operators in the following
cases:
Case A) static allocation, i.e. guaranteeing a minimum allocation and limiting
to a maximum allocation,
Case B) static allocation for a specified period of time and/or specific
cells,
Case C) first UE come first UE served allocation, namely an equal access by
sharing operators to available resources in the cell.
\- per PLMN resource limitation, taking place when the cell reaches an
overloaded status, may be enforced.
The standards should support a deployment scenario irrespective of whether
each cell employs scheduling per PLMN-ID or employs common scheduling.
## 4.2 Support for per Operator based Overload Procedure
The purpose of the Overload Start procedure is to inform an eNB to reduce the
signalling load towards the concerned MME. However, in case MME is also Shared
when Gateway Core Network (GWCN) is adopted, there should be a way for an MME
to Selectively indicate the Overload Situation per PLMN ID.
### 4.2.1 Problem description:
a) Current MME overload Start/Stop procedure in an GWCN network may be
triggered whenever the overall load reaches its limit irrespective of whether
an operator has in fact used its shared quota OR not. This may create a
situation whereby an overloading behavior of one operator having negative
impacts on other under loaded operators.
### 4.2.2 Solutions:
Following high-level solution have been identified for (a):
Overload Start/Stop in GWCN has to be signalled per PLMN ID by taking current
Load per PLMN ID and agreed quota per PLMN ID into consideration using:
a) Existing PLMN _Identity IE of_ GUMMEI IE included in Overload Start/Stop
procedure can be used as a per PLMN indication of the overload start/stop.
b) Using a new IE to indicate what PLMN-IDs a single Overload Start/Stop
trigger pertains.
Table 4.2.2-1: Comparison of Solution a and Solution b
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Solution a): GUMMEI | Solution b): PLMN | | | (PLMN + MME Group ID | only | | | + MME Code) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MME Impacts | Implementation | Stage 2 and Stage 3 | | | impact in case | specification impact | | | GUMMEI List support | due to the | | | for Overload | introduction of new | | | Start/Stop procedure | IEs. | | | has not been | | | | implemented at MME | Implementation | | | | impact due to the | | | Procedural text for | introduction of new | | | Overload Start | IEs | | | procedure may need | | | | to be modified. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Amount of | Relatively more | Relatively Less | | information to be | | | | transmitted | - OCTET STRING | - OCTET STRING | | | (size (6)) | (size (3)) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DeNB to Relay | Yes | Yes | | (working or not) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Processing delay on | Low | Relatively high | | eNB or DeNB side | | | | | - Checking or | - Mapping based on | | | Collecting the | the _S1 setup | | | GUMMEIs directly | response_ procedure | | | | set up before | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
In case multiple Overload procedures are triggered for different PLMN-IDs, the
situation that the last Overload Start/Stop will override the existing
triggers may happen. The procedures may need to be enhanced to fully support
the reuse of GUMMEI List.
## 4.3 Support for MLB in RAN Sharing
Hosting E-UTRAN Operators have the need to optimize E-UTRAN resource usage
within the shared E-UTRAN for a particular coverage area. At the same time,
the agreed shares of E-UTRAN resources based on a single cell and sector for
each Participating Operator need to be respected. Likewise, Participating
Operators have the need to optimize their E-UTRAN resource usage among shared
and unshared E-UTRAN for a particular coverage area.
The capability to perform load balancing on an individual Participating
Operator\'s traffic basis within a shared E-UTRAN should be supported.
The capability to perform load balancing on the combined traffic of all the
Participating Operators within a shared E-UTRAN should be supported.
The capability to perform load balancing between an individual Participating
Operator\'s traffic within a shared E-UTRAN and traffic in that Participating
Operator\'s unshared E-UTRAN where the shared and unshared E-UTRAN coverage
overlaps should be supported.
NOTE: Load balancing capabilities are expected to take into account the
allocation of resources to each Participating Operator and the load level for
each Participating Operator to the extent possible, so that the principal
objective to maximize throughput is not impacted.
### 4.3.1 Problem description:
a) Current load-balancing algorithms may be triggered by a congestion or
overall load imbalance between two neighbour cells. In case of Scenarios (a)
and (b) these existing mechanisms are not sufficient to take into account
sharing operator load
### 4.3.2 Solutions:
Following high-level solutions have been identified for (a):
1) Load balancing among Shared neighbour cells has to take current Load per
PLMN ID and agreed quota per PLMN ID into consideration.
1.1) Load Reporting functions
Alt. 1: the resource status reporting is differentiated by operator
identification.
In this solution, all load information (i.e. for intra-LTE case, radio
resource usage, HW load indicator, TNL load indicator, Cell Capacity Class
value and Capacity value) are reported on a per individual Sharing Operator
basis (e.g. per PLMN ID or group of PLMN IDs).
Alt. 2: the resource status reporting is enhanced by indicating only the
available resource for specific sharing operator(s).
Instead of reporting all the load information of each Sharing Operator, in
this solution only the available resource (e.g. _Composite Available Capacity
Group_ IE or PRB utilisation) for individual sharing operators (e.g. per PLMN
ID or group of PLMN IDs) is reported.
Alt. 3: in addition to the load information reporting, the agreed quota for
each sharing operator is also reported.
In addition to the load information report, the agreed quota for each sharing
operator is also reported in this solution.
1.2) Adapting handover and/or reselection configuration
> _Mobility Settings Change_ procedure enables an eNB to negotiate the
> handover trigger settings with a peer eNB controlling neighbouring cells. In
> order to meet the basic requirement, i.e. to perform load balancing on an
> individual Sharing Operator\'s traffic basis within a shared E-UTRAN, one
> possible solution is to negotiate handover trigger settings per sharing
> operator in RAN sharing scenarios.
### 4.3.3 Special Consideration:
With regards to load balancing, the starting point of scenarios in TS22.101 is
that operators sharing one or more cells may have a resource allocation limit
per cell different from each other. Hence, the need to apply different load
balancing policies to UEs depending on the sharing operator (i.e. PLMN) they
are connected to arises.
However, the following should be considered in order to properly evaluate this
scenario:
\- Mobility Load Balancing (MLB) is done on UEs that are in conditions that
allow for load balancing handovers, e.g. UEs at cell edge, UEs using specific
services (for example, services more resilient to packet losses):
\- Therefore, it would be inaccurate to "blindly" perform mobility load
balancing only for UEs connected to a certain sharing operator that exceeded
its resource limit, because such UEs might not be suitable for mobility load
balancing.
\- Mobility Load Balancing may be performed to reduce overall load in highly
loaded cells. Such load may be generated by specific UEs, e.g. UEs in
challenging channel conditions consuming data intensive services:
\- Therefore, it would be unfeasible to trigger load balancing "blindly" on
UEs belonging to a sharing operator exceeding its resource limit unless such
operator is serving specific UEs causing the overload, e.g. high data
demanding UEs in challenging channel conditions.
\- Mobility Load Balancing, namely handing over UEs to neighbour cells, may
not be appropriate if QoS can still be guaranteed within a cell. Namely, if
there are unused resources in the cell that can be employed to ensure
sufficient QoS for all UEs such resources may be used instead of forcing
mobility load balancing actions:
\- Therefore, even if resources of a sharing operator in a shared cell are
exhausted, it should be possible to avoid mobility load balancing if spare
unused resources are available in the cell to guarantee sufficient QoS for all
UEs.
The event of a sharing operator exceeding its allowed resource limit in a
shared cell should not necessarily mandate the RAN to take mobility load
balancing actions.
With the above analysis in mind, it is acknowledged that current mobility load
balancing mechanisms lack the possibility to report per PLMN or per PLMN-group
load levels. Such reporting would allow the RAN to gain an understanding of
the resources in use per sharing operator with respect to pre-set resource
limits. The latter understanding could help performing load balancing also
taking into account per sharing operator resource agreements.
In order to gain an understanding of per sharing operator resource utilisation
it may be useful to report information related to cell load (e.g. information
contained in X2: Resource Status Update message) on a per-PLMN basis**.**
The following agreement applies in relation to Mobility Load Balancing (MLB):
\- Resource Status reporting should be enhanced on a per PLMN ID or group of
PLMN ID basis. This implies that part or all of the load information may be
reported on a per sharing operator basis.
On the issue of whether Mobility Settings Change (MSC) has to be enhanced
together with Load Reporting enhancement which was agreed already, the
following apply:
\- MSC per PLMN is connected to, but not dependent on, SON UE grouping
discussion.
\- Enhancement to Load Reporting and MSC may be considered interrelated.
## 4.4 Support for Measurement of traffic volume per QoS profile per
participating operator
In a network sharing scenario, an E-UTRAN should be able to collect
measurements of network resource usage per QoS profile separately for each
PLMN in the shared network for inter-operator accounting purposes. The
collection of the measurements should be delivered to each of the
Participating Operators.
### 4.4.1 Problem description:
a) Existing mechanisms does not support the Participating Operators to know
the actual E-UTRAN resource usage per QoS profile (e.g., QCI, GBR, ...) per
PLMN in the shared network.
### 4.4.2 Solutions:
Following high-level solutions have been identified for (a):
1) Aggregated DL and UL data volume are collected per PLMN and per QoS profile
parameters. Depending on Sharing Operators agreement, QoS profile may be
limited to a subset of standard parameters (e.g. QCI).
# 5 Conclusion and recommendations
Regarding the topic "Support for per Operator based Overload Procedure" it was
concluded that existing Overload Start/Stop mechanisms are the most suitable
baseline to support RAN and CN sharing scenarios. The procedures may need to
be enhanced to fully support the reuse of GUMMEI List.
On the topic "Support for MLB in RAN Sharing" it was concluded that MLB in RAN
Sharing can be addressed by means of enhancing the Resource Status reporting.
Concerning the topic of "Support for Measurement of traffic volume per QoS
profile per participating operator", aggregated DL and UL data volume are
collected per PLMN and per QoS profile parameters. Depending on Sharing
Operators agreement, QoS profile may be limited to a subset of standard
parameters (e.g. QCI). This requires further evaluation and interaction with
other groups, e.g. SA5/RAN2.
#