# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for 3DL Inter-band Carrier
Aggregation under Rel-12 time frame. The purpose is to gather the relevant
background information and studies in order to address 3DL Inter-band Carrier
Aggregation requirements.
The present document covers relevant background information and studies in
order to address 3DL Inter-band Carrier Aggregation requirements for the
Rel-12 band combinations in table 1-1.
Table 1-1: Release 12 3DL inter-band carrier aggregation combinations
* * *
WI code WI title LTE_CA_B2_B2_B13 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation
(3DL/1UL) of Band 2, Band 2 and Band 1 LTE_CA_B2_B4_B13 LTE Advanced 3 Band
Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 2, Band 4 and Band 13 LTE_CA_B2_B5_B30
LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 2, Band 5 and Band
30 LTE_CA_B2_B12_B30 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for
Band 2, Band 12 and Band 30 LTE_CA_B2_B29_B30 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier
Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 2, Band 29 and Band 30 LTE_CA_B4_B4_B13 LTE
Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 4, Band 4 and Band 13
LTE_CA_B4_B5_B30 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 4,
Band 5 and Band 30 LTE_CA_B4_B12_B30 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation
(3DL/1UL) for Band 4, Band 12 and Band 30 LTE_CA_B4_B29_B30 LTE Advanced 3
Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 4, Band 29 and Band 30
LTE_CA_B1_B3_B8 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 1,
Band 3 and Band 8 LTE_CA_B1_B5_B7 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation
(3DL/1UL) for Band 1, Band 5 and Band 7 LTE_CA_B2_B4_B5 LTE Advanced 3 Band
Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 2, Band 4 and Band 5 LTE_CA_B2_B4_B12
LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 2, Band 4 and Band
12 LTE_CA_B2_B5_B12 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band
2, Band 5 and Band 12 LTE_CA_B2_B12_B12 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier
Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 2, Band 12 and Band 12 LTE_CA_B3_B7_B20 LTE
Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 3, Band 7 and Band 20
LTE_CA_B3_B8_B27 LTE Advanced 3 band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 3,
Band 8 and Band 27 LTE_CA_B4_B5_B12 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation
(3DL/1UL) for Band 4, Band 5 and Band 12 LTE_CA_B2_B4_B4 LTE Advanced 3 Band
Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 2, Band 4 and Band 4 LTE_CA_B2_B12_B12
LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 2, Band 12 and Band
12 LTE_CA_B4_B12_B12 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for
Band 4, Band 12 and Band 12 LTE_CA_B1_B3_B5 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier
Aggregation(3DL/1UL) for Band 1, Band 3 and Band 5 LTE_CA_B1_B3_B20 LTE
Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 1, Band 3 and Band 20
LTE_CA_B1_B3_B26 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 1,
Band 3 and Band 26 LTE_CA_B1_B19_B21 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation
(3DL/1UL) for Band 1, Band 19 and Band 21 LTE_CA_B2_B2_B5 LTE Advanced 3 Band
Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 2, Band 2 and Band 5 LTE_CA_B2_B5_B13
LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 2, Band 5 and Band
13 LTE_CA_B1_B18_B28 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for
Band 1, Band 18 and Band 28 LTE_CA_B1_B7_B20 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier
Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 1, Band 7 and Band 20 LTE_CA_B7_B8_B20 LTE
Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 7, Band 8 and Band 20
LTE_CA_B3_B7_B7 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 3,
Band 7 and Band 7 LTE_CA_B3_B3_B7 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation
(3DL/1UL) for Band 3, Band 3 and Band 7 LTE_CA_B4_B4_B5 LTE Advanced 3 Band
Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 4, Band 4 and Band 5 LTE_CA_B4_B5_B13
LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 4, Band 5 and Band
13 LTE_CA_B4_B4_B12 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band
4, Band 4 and Band 12 LTE_CA_B3_B3_B8 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation
(3DL/1UL) for Band 3, Band 3 and Band 8 LTE_CA_B41_B42_B42 LTE Advanced 3 Band
Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 41, Band 42 and Band 42
LTE_CA_B1_B42_B42 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band
1, Band 42 and Band 42 LTE_CA_B3_B42_B42 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier
Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 3, Band 42 and Band 42 LTE_CA_B1_B3_B19 LTE
Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 1, Band 3 and Band 19
LTE_CA_B2_B4_B29 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 2,
Band 4 and Band 29 LTE_CA_B4_B4_B7 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation
(3DL/1UL) for Band 4, Band 4 and Band 7 LTE_CA_B4_B7_B12 LTE Advanced 3 Band
Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 4, Band 7 and Band 12
LTE_CA_B39_B39_B41 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band
39, Band 39 and Band 41 LTE_CA_B39_B41_B41 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier
Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 39, Band 41 and Band 41 LTE_CA_B2_B2_B29 LTE
Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 2, Band 2 and Band 29
LTE_CA_B1_B41_B41 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band
1, Band 41, and Band 41 LTE_CA_B25_B41_B41 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier
Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 25, Band 41, and Band 41
* * *
The present document contains a general part and band specific combination
part. The actual requirements are added to the corresponding technical
specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 30.007: \"Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands\".
[3] R4-137152, \"Way forward on Tx and Rx relaxations for 3DL/1UL FDD carrier
aggregation \", Telecom Italia, et. all.
[4] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\"
[5] 3GPP TS 36.521-1: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Conformance testing\".
[6] 3GPP TR 36.851: \"Inter-band carrier aggregation\".
[7] 3GPP TR 36.850: \"Inter-band carrier aggregation\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DL Downlink
UL Uplink
CA Carrier Aggregation
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for 3DL Inter-band Carrier
Aggregation under Rel-12 time frame. It covers both the UE and BS side. The
present document is divided in two different parts:
\- Common part: this part covers BS and UE specific which is band combination
independent.
\- Specific band combination part: this part covers each band combination and
its specific issues independently from each other (i.e. one subclause is
defined per band combination).
The specific band combination parts are independent and therefore, the working
speed also differs.
## 4.1 TR Maintenance
A single company is responsible for introducing all approved TPs in the
present document, TR editor. However, it is the responsibility of the
rapporteur of each WI to ensure that the TPs related to the WI have been
implemented.
# 5 3 Band Carrier Aggregation with single UL: general part
BS, UE, and RF general requirements are specified in the individual band
combinations in clause 6.
## 5.1 RF receiver characteristics
### 5.1.1 UL configuration for verifying RF receiver characteristics
In what follows we describe the test configuration for verifying RF receiver
requirements for inter-band CA and combinations of inter-band and intra-band
CA for 3DL FDD. The description is general, but with some specific CA
configurations used as examples.
The number of possible DL-UL configurations will increase substantially for
3DL aggregation compared to the 2DL counterpart for which two configurations
is specified: one for each uplink band. Despite the large number of possible
DL-UL configurations for 3DL aggregation, requirements should still be
specified for all DL-UL configurations in order to make the test coverage
complete, whereas for the conformance test specification, a subset of these
configurations could be chosen for the verification in order to reduce the
test time.
Starting with band combinations with one DL carrier per operating band, e.g.
CA_4A-12A-30A, it is straightforward to specify the requirements relying on
the test configuration for 2DL inter-band combinations. For the latter, the
reference sensitivity is essentially verified in the following way:
1) pick one of the carriers as the \"measurement carrier\" but keep the
carrier in the other downlink band active;
2) assign the uplink in any one of the two uplink bands;
3) make the measurement.
Then this is repeated with the roles of the two DL carriers/bands
interchanged. The selectivity and blocking requirements for 2DL combinations
are verified in the following way:
1) pick one of the carriers as the \"measurement carrier\" but keep the
carrier in the other downlink band active;
2) assign the uplink in the other band not supporting the measured carrier;
3) make the measurement with the interferers assigned relative to the measured
carrier.
Thus the verification of the requirement is "per carrier". The selectivity and
blocking tests does not include the effect of the UL in the band supporting
the measured DL, but rather effects of e.g. cross-modulation arising from the
UL in the other band not captured in the corresponding tests for non-CA
operation.
This could be extended for 3DL combinations of different bands with one DL
carrier per operating band such as the configuration CA_4A-12A-30A:
a) pick one of the carriers as the "measurement carrier" but keep the carriers
in the other downlink bands active;
b) assign the uplink in any one of the three uplink bands (reference
sensitivity) or assign the uplink in one of the other bands not supporting the
measured carrier (blocking and selectivity);
c) make the measurement; for the selectivity and blocking tests, the
interferers are assigned relative to the measured carrier.
Then repeat for all three DL carriers and the applicable uplink
configurations.
The downside is that the number of measurements would be large and the test
time considerable. For 2DL aggregation, there are two possible measurements:
one for each DL carrier with the UL in the other band. For 3DL aggregation,
there are six possible measurements for each blocking and selectivity test
case: for each measured DL carrier the UL can be assigned to anyone of the
other two operating bands -- nine measurements for reference sensitivity.
Nevertheless, the core requirements in TS 36.101 [5] should cover all cases;
the procedure a-c) would be viable for this purpose, but the measurements need
to be limited for the conformance tests in TS 36.521-1 [5].
Turning next to combinations of non-contiguous intra-band and inter-band CA
such as CA_2A-2A-13A, the following modification of a-c) for blocking and
selectivity based on the test approaches for the 2DL intra-band non-contiguous
and inter-band cases:
a) pick one of the carriers as the \"measurement carrier\", keep all other
downlink carriers active;
b) assign the uplink in the band not supporting the measured carrier: if the
measurement carrier is within the band containing two carriers (Band 2),
assign the uplink in the band not supporting the single carrier (Band 13) with
UL configuration according to the non-CA case, whereas if the measurement
carrier is within the band supporting one carrier, assign the uplink in
accordance with the test configuration for the corresponding intra-band
REFSENS test for 2DL non-contiguous aggregation (CA_2A-2A);
c) make the measurement with the interferer(s) assigned relative to the
measured carrier.
Hence the selectivity and blocking tests does not include the effect of the UL
in the band supporting the measured DL(s) just as for the 2DL inter-band
tests.
For the reference sensitivity test, the UL should be assigned in any one of
the two bands, but always with the configuration according to the
corresponding test for 2DL non-contiguous aggregation when the UL is active in
this band. Again, the number of measurements would be large and the test time
considerable, but all six cases (still two possible UL configurations for each
measured DL carrier) should nevertheless be covered by the core requirements.
The UL configuration for the two cases above is displayed in Figure 5.1.1-1.
In the case of one DL per band, the UL is assigned at F~UL1~ or F~UL2~ for
measurements on F~DL3~ for blocking and selectivity tests, whereas any one of
the three UL frequencies is used for the reference sensitivity. In the mixed
case in the lower part of Figure 5.1.1-1, the UL is assigned at F~UL1~ for
measurements on F~DL2~ and F~DL3~ for the blocking and selectivity tests,
whereas either F~UL1~ or F~UL3~ is used for the reference sensitivity test
(F~UL2~ is never used).
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="2.475in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1: UL configuration for 3DL receiver tests
Hence the tests configuration for 3DL is consistent with that for the 2DL
fall-back modes. For the intermodulation tests, the same procedure for
blocking and selectivity is used.
### 5.1.2 Requirements for reference sensitivity
Starting with band combinations with one DL carrier per operating band, the
reference sensitivity for 2DL inter-band CA can be extended to 3DL using the
procedure a-c) in 5.2.2.1; the requirements for inter-band CA with one
component carrier per band would read as follows; changes of the Rel-11
version of TS 36.101 shown in italics:
**\  For inter-band carrier aggregation with _one component carrier per operating
> band and the_ uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the throughput shall be ≥
> 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference measurement channels as
> specified in Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and A.3.2 (with one sided dynamic OCNG
> Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD for the DL-signal as described in Annex
> A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1) with parameters specified in Table 7.3.1-1 and Table
> 7.3.1-2. The reference sensitivity is defined to be met with _all_ downlink
> component carriers active and _any one_ of the uplink carriers active. The
> UE shall meet the requirements specified in subclause 7.3.1 with the
> following exceptions.
The non-CA requirements apply per component carrier (two or three in the
Rel-12 version of 36.101).
For 3DL combinations with harmonics problems between any two (or three) bands
of a configuration, exceptions are allowed whenever any transmitter harmonics
uplink transmission in a "lower" band falls into a higher band. Picking
CA_4A-12A-30A as an example, the exceptions to B4 requirements would be
allowed when the uplink is assigned in B12 just as for the 2DL fall-back mode
CA_4A-12A that is of Class A2. (The other fall-back modes CA_12A_30A and
CA_4A_30A are of Class A1 and Class A3, respectively.) However, the exceptions
for B4 allowed for CA_4A-12A-30A may not be the same as those allowed for
CA_4A-12A due to different front-end arrangements: a B4-B30 multiplexer is
needed for the former. The changes of the 36.101 could look as follows
(changes in italics), using the existing table for A2 combinations specified
in Rel-11:
For the UE that supports any of the E-UTRA CA configurations given in Table
7.3.1A-0a, exceptions are allowed when the uplink is active in a lower-
frequency band and within a specified frequency range such that transmitter
harmonics fall within the downlink transmission bandwidth assigned in a higher
band as noted in Table 7.3.1A-0a. For these exceptions, the UE shall meet the
requirements specified in Table 7.3.1A-0a, Table 7.3.1A-0b and Table
7.3.1A-0c.
Table 7.3.1A-0a: Reference sensitivity for carrier aggregation QPSK
P~REFSENS,\ CA~
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | EUTRA | EUTRA | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | CA | band | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | uplex | | Con | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | mode | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA | 3 | | | | N/A | N/A | N/A | FDD | | _3A- | | | | | | | | | | 8A^4^ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | | | N/A | N/A | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA\ | 4 | [-8 | [-8 | [ | [-8 | | | FDD | | _4A-1 | | 9.2] | 9.2] | -90] | 9.5] | | | | | 2A^5^ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 12 | | | -96.5 | -93.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA\ | 4 | | | [ | [-8 | | | FDD | | _4A-1 | | | | -90] | 9.5] | | | | | 7A^5^ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 17 | | | -96.5 | -93.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | _4_ | _TBD_ | _TBD_ | _TBD_ | _TBD_ | _TBD_ | _TBD_ | _FDD_ | | CA_4 | | | | | | | | | | A_12 | | | | | | | | | | A_30 | | | | | | | | | | A^5^_| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ 12 _| | | * | * | | | | | | | | | [-96 | [-93 | | | | | | | | | .5]_ | .5]_| | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ 30 _| | |_ TBD _|_ TBD _| | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | P~ | | | | | | | | | | UMAX~ | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | | 2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | A.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | | dy | | | | | | | | | | namic | | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | | Pa | | | | | | | | | | ttern | | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | | FD | | | | | | | | | | D/TDD | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | | | ribed | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | | .5.1. | | | | | | | | | | 1/A.5 | | | | | | | | | | .2.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | | port. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: No | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | | RE | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | low | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | 2nd | | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | | ver | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | | (the | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.1 | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | ply). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | | RE | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | |_ up | | | | | | | | | | link _| | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | |_ a _| | | | | | | | | | low | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | 3rd | | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | |_ the | | | | | | | | | | down | | | | | | | | | | link _| | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of_ a | | | | | | | | | | hi | | | | | | | | | | gher* | | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | ver | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | ARFCN | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | low | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | (s | | | | | | | | | | upers | | | | | | | | | | cript | | | | | | | | | | LB) | | | | | | | | | | such | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | | | th="1 | | | | | | | | | | .1506 | | | | | | | | | | 94444 | | | | | | | | | | 44444 | | | | | | | | | | 45in" | | | | | | | | | | hei | | | | | | | | | | ght=" | | | | | | | | | | 0.224 | | | | | | | | | | 30555 | | | | | | | | | | 55555 | | | | | | | | | | 5556i | | | | | | | | | | n"}in | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | | | th="2 | | | | | | | | | | .8340 | | | | | | | | | | 27777 | | | | | | | | | | 77777 | | | | | | | | | | 76in" | | | | | | | | | | heigh | | | | | | | | | | t="0. | | | | | | | | | | 23888 | | | | | | | | | | 88888 | | | | | | | | | | 88888 | | | | | | | | | | 9in"} | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | | | th="0 | | | | | | | | | | .2673 | | | | | | | | | | 61111 | | | | | | | | | | 11111 | | | | | | | | | | 11in" | | | | | | | | | | hei | | | | | | | | | | ght=" | | | | | | | | | | 0.212 | | | | | | | | | | 5in"} | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | | | th="0 | | | | | | | | | | .5229 | | | | | | | | | | 16666 | | | | | | | | | | 66666 | | | | | | | | | | 67in" | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eight | | | | | | | | | | ="0.2 | | | | | | | | | | 24305 | | | | | | | | | | 55555 | | | | | | | | | | 55555 | | | | | | | | | | 6in"} | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | low | | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
The uplink configuration for cases in which exceptions are allowed can also be
specified in the existing table for Class A2 combinations:
Table 7.3.1A-0b: Uplink configuration for the low band
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | EUTRA | UL | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | CA | band | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | uplex | | Con | | | | | | | | mode | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA_4 | 12 | 2 | 5 | 8 | 16 | | | FDD | | A-12A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA_4 | 17 | | | 8 | 16 | | | FDD | | A-17A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | _CA |_ 12 _|_ 2 _|_ 5 _|_ 8 _|_ 16 _|_[ | _[ |_ FDD _| | _4A\ | | | | | | 25]_ | 32]_| | | _12A\ | | | | | | | | | | _30A_ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | | bl | | | | | | | | | | ocks, | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | | ntred | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idth. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | | regar | | | | | | | | | | dless | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | low | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nless | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | | xceed | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | alloc | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | | lies. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
For combinations of non-contiguous intra-band and inter-band aggregation such
as CA_2A-2A-13A, the reference sensitivity requirements should build on the
requirements for the fall-back modes CA_2A-13A for and CA_2A-2A (to be
specified in Rel-12), using the configuration in 5.2.2.1:
• for the component carrier in B13, the UE shall meet the requirement for B13
when the UL is allocated either in B2 according to the configuration in Table
7.3.1A-3 in 36.101 for intra-band NC CA or in B13;
• for the component carriers in B2, the UE shall meet the requirements for B2
intra-band NC CA when the UL is allocated in B2 according to the configuration
in Table 7.3.1A-3 in 36.101, while the same requirement should be met but with
∆R~IBNC~ = 0 dB for all sub-block gaps when the UL is active in B13.
The carriers are measured in turn with the remaining component carriers active
throughout the test. The ∆R~IBNC~ specified in Table 7.3.1A-3 for CA_2A-2A (to
be specified) should also apply for CA_2A-2A-13A,
Table 7.3.1A-3: Intra-band non-contiguous CA uplink configuration for
reference sensitivity
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | Ag | W~gap~ / | UL PCC | ΔR~IBNC~ | Duplex | | confi | gregated | [MHz] | al | (dB) | mode | | guration | channel | | location | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | PCC+SCC) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA\ | 2 | 30.0 \ 0 dB or UEs supporting 3DL
band combinations.
Reference-sensitivity requirements for combinations of intra-band non-
contiguous and intra-band CA could be added to 36.101 as follows, for example:
> _For combinations of intra-band non-contiguous and inter-band carrier
> aggregation with three downlink carriers and one uplink carrier assigned to
> one E-UTRA band, the requirement is defined with an uplink configuration in
> accordance with Table 7.3.1A-3 when the uplink is active in the band
> supporting two component carriers and in accordance with Table 7.3.1-2 when
> the uplink is active in the other band. For these uplink configurations, the
> UE shall meet the reference sensitivity requirements for intra-band non-
> contiguous carrier aggregation of two downlink carriers and for the
> remaining component carrier the requirements specified in subclause 7.3.1.
> For the two component carriers within the same band, ∆R~IBNC~ = 0 dB for all
> sub-block gaps (Table 7.3.1A-3) when the uplink is active in the band
> supporting the single component carrier._
**End of extract from TS 36.101 >**
### 5.1.3 Requirements for blocking and selectivity
Even if all possible DL-UL combinations for blocking and selectivity are
specified in the core specification, many of test configurations (for the UL)
or even some test cases could possibly be omitted in the conformance test
specification given the number of permutations. One could then rely on the
conformance tests for 2DL. However, the out-of-band blocking should be
verified for conformance with all component carriers active.
For band combinations with one DL carrier per operating band, the out-of-band
blocking requirements for 2DL inter-band CA can be extended to 3DL using the
procedure a-c) in 5.2.2.1. The requirements then apply per carrier with the
blocker frequency offset relative to the measured carrier and the UL allocated
in one of bands not containing the measured carrier. Table 7.6.2.1A-0 in
36.101 specifying the interferer power profile would have to be amended to
cover three downlink carriers in different bands:
**\  _For combinations of intra-band non-contiguous and inter-band carrier
> aggregation with three downlink carriers and the uplink assigned to one
> E-UTRA band, the requirement is defined with the uplink active in the band
> other than that supporting the downlink(s) under test. The uplink
> configuration shall be in accordance with Table 7.3.1A-3 when the uplink is
> active in the band supporting two component carriers and in accordance with
> Table 7.3.1-2 when the uplink is active in the other band. For the two
> component carriers within the same band, P~wanted~ in Table 7.6.2.1A-0 is
> set using ∆R~IBNC~ = 0 dB for all sub-block gaps (Table 7.3.1A-3). For each
> downlink the UE shall meet the out-of-band blocking requirements applicable
> for inter-band carrier aggregation with one component carrier per operating
> band. The three downlink carriers shall be active throughout the tests._
For 3DL CA configurations, the number of allowed exceptions per downlink
carrier should be the same as that for 2DL CA configurations:
> _For Table 7.6.2.1A-0 in frequency ranges 1, 2 and 3, up to_
> {width="1.1625in" height="0.19375in"} _exceptions per downlink are allowed
> for spurious response frequencies when measured using a step size of 1 MHz.
> For these exceptions the requirements in clause 7.7.1A apply._
Turning to in-band blocking and combinations with one component carrier per
band, the requirements for 2DL combinations could be extended to 3DL using the
procedure a-c) in 5.2.2.1 (the UL in any band not containing the measured
carrier):
7.6.1.1A Minimum requirements for CA
> For inter-band carrier aggregation with _one component carrier per operating
> band and the_ uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the in-band blocking
> requirements are defined with the uplink active on the _band(s)_ other than
> the band whose downlink is being tested. The UE shall meet the requirements
> specified in subclause 7.6.1.1 for each component carrier while _all_
> downlink carriers are active. For the UE which supports inter band CA
> configuration in Table 7.3.1A-2, P~Interferer~ power defined in Table
> 7.6.1.1-2 is increased by the amount given by ΔR~IB,c~ in Table 7.3.1A-2.
> For E-UTRA CA configurations including an operating band without uplink band
> (as noted in Table 5.5-1), the requirements for _all_ downlinks shall be met
> with the uplink in the _band(s)_ capable of UL operation [...]
For combinations of intra-band non-contiguous and inter-band CA, the in-band
blocking requirements could be amended in the following way, for example:
> _For combinations of intra-band non-contiguous and inter-band carrier
> aggregation with three downlink carriers and one uplink carrier assigned to
> one E-UTRA band, the requirement is defined with the uplink active in the
> band other than that supporting the downlink(s) under test. The uplink
> configuration shall be in accordance with Table 7.3.1A-3 when the uplink is
> active in the band supporting two component carriers and in accordance with
> Table 7.3.1-2 when the uplink is active in the other band. For these uplink
> configurations, the UE shall meet the in-band blocking requirements for
> intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation of two downlink carriers with
> ∆R~IBNC~ = 0 dB for all sub-block gaps (Table 7.3.1A-3) and for the
> remaining component carrier the requirements specified in subclause 7.6.1.
> The three downlink carriers shall be active throughout the tests._
Remark that the requirements for the two component carriers in the same band
must be met with ∆R~IBNC~ = 0 dB for all sub-block gaps since the UL is active
in the other band.
Adjacent channel selectivity could be verified in the same way as for in-band
blocking.
**End of extract from TS 36.101 >**
### 5.1.4 Requirements for wideband intermodulation
The requirements for wideband intermodulation could be verified like for in-
band blocking as described in 5.2.2.3.
### 5.1.5 Requirements for maximum input level
For combinations of intra-band non-contiguous and inter-band CA, the maximum
input level could be specified in the following way using the principle a-c)
in 5.2.2.1, e.g. for CA_2A-2A-13A:
• the UE shall meet the maximum input-level requirements applicable for intra-
band non-contiguous carrier aggregation of two downlink carriers in B2 with
the uplink active in B13: the sum of the mean carrier powers received at the
UE antenna port should be -22 dBm while both B2 carriers have equal power; the
B13 downlink is also active (but not necessarily at maximum input power);
• the UE shall meet the maximum input-level requirement for B13 (-25 dBm) with
the uplink active in B2 (according to Table 7.3.1A-3); the B2 downlinks are
also active (but not necessarily at maximum input power).
## 5.2 Specific BS RF requirements
It is agreed that:
1) Table 5.2-3 Inter-band carrier aggregation bands (two bands) in TS 36.104
and TS 36.141 can be reused to list the Inter-band CA + Intra-band contiguous
CA supported in the specifications.
**\ **
2) Table 5.5-3 Inter-band carrier aggregation bands (two bands) in TS 36.104
and TS 36.141 can be reused to list the Inter-band CA + Intra-band non-
contiguous CA supported in the specifications, with the new CA_X-Y-Y insert
into the middle of the table.
**\ **
3) A new Table 5.2-3A Inter-band carrier aggregation bands (three bands) shall
be introduced in TS 36.104 and TS 36.141 to list the Inter-band CA supported
in the specifications.
**\ **
# 6 3 Band Carrier Aggregation with single UL: band combination specific part
Table 6-1 includes the non-contiguous intra-band CA configurations which
belong to specific 3DL inter-band CA combinations.
Table 6-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets defined for
non-contiguous intra-band CA
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
E-UTRA CA configuration Component carriers in order of increasing carrier
frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                        Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_2A-2A 5, 10, 15, 20 5, 10, 15, 20 40 0
CA_4A-4A 5, 10, 15, 20 5, 10, 15, 20 40 0
* * *
Table 6-2 includes the contiguous intra-band CA configurations which belong to
specific 3DL inter-band CA combinations.
Table 6-2: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets defined for
intra-band contiguous CA
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
E-UTRA CA configuration Component carriers in order of increasing carrier
frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                        Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_12C 5, 10 5, 10 20 0
* * *
## 6.1 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 2, Band 2 and
Band 13
Table 6.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_2-2-13 2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD 13 777 MHz -- 787
MHz 746 MHz -- 756 MHz
* * *
Table 6.1-2: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL inter-
band CA
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set  
E-UTRA CA Configuration E-UTRA Band or E-UTRA CA configuration 1.4 3 5 10 15
20 Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] Bandwidth combination set MHz MHz MHz
MHz MHz MHz  
CA_2A-2A-13A CA_2A-2A See table 6-1 50 0  
13 Yes  
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set,
the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent
bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth
combination sets in Table 5.6A.2-1 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are
entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set.
* * *
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [3] when
operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.1.1 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/3 DL
The 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of Band 2, Band
2 and Band 13 DL carriers (i.e. 3DL CA with one component carrier in each
band) can be calculated as shown in Table 6.1.1-1 below:
Table 6.1.1-1: Band 2, Band 2 and Band 13 DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1-low f1-high f2-low f2-high f3-low f3-high DL frequency (MHz)
746 756 1930 1990 1930 1990
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low -- f3-high) (f1-high + f2-high --
f3-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 686 816
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) (f1-high + f3-high --
f2-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 686 816
3^rd^ order IMD products (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) (f2-high + f3-high --
f1-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3104 3234
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low + f3-low) (f1-high + f2-high +
f3-high)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4606 4736
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.1.1-1 that in addition to the impacts of harmonics
and IMD products from the constituent 2DL CA configurations, the 3^rd^ order
IMD products supporting 3 DL CA of Band (2 + 2 + 13) may fall into the BS
receive band of Bands 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 26, 27, 28 and 44. However, Bands
18, 27, 28 and 44 are not intended for use in the same geographical area as
Bands 2 and 13. Therefore, the focus here is on the 3^rd^ order IMD products
falling into Bands 12, 13, 14, 17 and 26.
Note that the 3^rd^ order IMD products may fall into the BS own (10 MHz)
receive block within Band 13. Assume that the 3 carriers transmitted by the
Band (2 + 2 + 13) BS are _a_ , _b_ and _c_ MHz in channel bandwidth and _d_ ,
_e_ and _f_ MHz from the lower edges of Bands 2 and 13 DL frequency bands as
shown in Figure 6.1.1-1 below:
Figure 6.1.1-1: 3 carriers transmitted by the Band (2 + 2 + 13) BS
And the corresponding BS receive blocks are as shown in Figure 6.1.1-2 below:
Figure 6.1.1-2: 3 carriers received by the Band (2 + 2 + 13) BS
Then the 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of the 3 CC
can be calculated as shown in Table 6.1.1-2 below:
Table 6.1.1-2: Band (2 + 2 + 13) BS DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
3^rd^ order IMD products IMD frequency limits (MHz) (f1-low + f2-low --
f3-high) 746 + _d_ \+ _e_ \-- _f_ \-- _c_ (f1-high + f2-high -- f3-low) 746 +
_d_ \+ _a_ \+ _e_ \+ _b_ \-- _f_ (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) 746 + _d_ \+ _f_
\-- _e_ \-- _b_ (f1-high + f3-high -- f2-low) 746 + _d_ \+ _a_ \+ _f_ \+ _c_
\-- _e_ (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) 3114 + _e_ \+ _f_ \-- _d_ \-- _a_
(f2-high + f3-high -- f1-low) 3114 + _e_ \+ _b_ \+ _f_ \+ _c_ \-- _d_ (f1-low
+ f2-low + f3-low) 4606 + _d_ \+ _e_ \+ _f_ (f1-high + f2-high + f3-high) 4606
+ _d_ \+ _a_ \+ _e_ \+ _b_ \+ _f_ \+ _c_
* * *
Comparing the IMD frequency limits in Table 6.1.1-2 with the BS receive blocks
in Figure 6.1.1-2, it can be deduced that the 3^rd^ order IMD products caused
in the BS by transmitting of the 3 CC will only fall into the BS own receive
block of Band 13 under one of the transmit configurations shown in Table
6.1.1-3 below:
Table 6.1.1-3: Band (2 + 2 + 13) BS transmit configurations with 3^rd^ IMD
within Band 13 BS own receive blocks
* * *
1^st^ CC channel bandwidth (_a_ MHz) 2^nd^ CC channel bandwidth (_b_ MHz)
3^rd^ CC channel bandwidth (_c_ MHz) CC position (_d_ , _e_ and _f_ MHz) 10 5
5 16 \ \- When the E-UTRA | | | | > operating band | | | | > frequency range is ≤ | | | | > 1GHz, the applicable | | | | > additional tolerance | | | | > shall be the average | | | | > of the tolerances in | | | | > Table x (in TS 36.101 | | | | > for 3DLs ΔT~IB,c~), | | | | > truncated to one | | | | > decimal place for that | | | | > operating band among | | | | > the supported CA | | | | > configurations. In | | | | > case there is a | | | | > harmonic relation | | | | > between low band UL | | | | > and high band DL, then | | | | > the maximum tolerance | | | | > among the different | | | | > supported carrier | | | | > aggregation | | | | > configurations | | | | > involving such band | | | | > shall be applied | | | | > | | | | > \- When the E-UTRA | | | | > operating band | | | | > frequency range is | | | | > >1GHz, the applicable | | | | > additional tolerance | | | | > shall be the maximum | | | | > tolerance in Table x | | | | > (in TS 36.101 for 3DLs | | | | > ΔT~IB,c~), that | | | | > applies for that | | | | > operating band among | | | | > the supported CA | | | | > configurations | | | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configuration in
Table 6.11.4-2 with uplink in one E-UTRA band, the minimum requirement for
reference sensitivity in Table 7.3.1-1 (TS 36.101) shall be increased by the
amount given in ΔR~IB,c~ in Table 6.11.4-2 for the applicable E-UTRA bands.
~Table\ 6.11.4-2:\ ΔRIB,c\ for\ 3DLs\ aggregation~
+--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Inter-band CA | E-UTRA Band | ΔR~IB,c~ Inter-band with | | Configuration | | one active UL serving | | | | cell [dB] | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | CA_1A-5A-7A | 1 | FFS | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | | 5 | 0.0 | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | | 7 | FFS | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The above | | | | additional tolerances | | | | are only applicable for | | | | the E-UTRA operating | | | | bands that belong to the | | | | supported inter-band | | | | carrier aggregation | | | | configurations | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The above | | | | additional tolerances | | | | also apply in intra-band | | | | and non-aggregated | | | | operation for the | | | | supported E-UTRA | | | | operating bands that | | | | belong to the supported | | | | inter-band carrier | | | | aggregation | | | | configurations | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: In case the UE | | | | supports more than one | | | | of the above inter-band | | | | carrier aggregation | | | | configurations and a | | | | E-UTRA operating band | | | | belongs to more than one | | | | inter-band carrier | | | | aggregation | | | | configurations then: | | | | | | | | > \- When the E-UTRA | | | | > operating band | | | | > frequency range is ≤ | | | | > 1GHz, the applicable | | | | > additional tolerance | | | | > shall be the average | | | | > of the tolerances in | | | | > Table y (in TS 36.101 | | | | > for 3DL ΔR~IB,c~),, | | | | > truncated to one | | | | > decimal place that | | | | > would apply for that | | | | > operating band among | | | | > the supported CA | | | | > configurations. In | | | | > case there is a | | | | > harmonic relation | | | | > between low band UL | | | | > and high band DL, then | | | | > the maximum tolerance | | | | > among the different | | | | > supported carrier | | | | > aggregation | | | | > configurations | | | | > involving such band | | | | > shall be applied | | | | > | | | | > \- When the E-UTRA | | | | > operating band | | | | > frequency range is | | | | > >1GHz, the applicable | | | | > additional tolerance | | | | > shall be the maximum | | | | > tolerance in Table y | | | | > (in TS 36.101 for 3DL | | | | > ΔR~IB,c~), that would | | | | > apply for that | | | | > operating band among | | | | > the supported CA | | | | > configurations | | | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+
## 6.12 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 1, Band 3
and Band 5
### 6.12.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.12.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands for 3DLs
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_1-3-5 1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD 3 1710 MHz -- 1785
MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz  
5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz 869 MHz -- 894 MHz  
NOTE 1: Only one uplink component carrier is to be supported in any of the
three frequency bands at any time.
* * *
### 6.12.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.12.2-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets
defined for inter-band CA with 3DLs
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
**CA_B1-B3-B5** | 1 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 50 | 0  
| 3 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
| 5 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
| 1 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  | 40 | 1  
| 3 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
| 5 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
NOTE: In single or dual CA mode the UE shall support all bandwidths as defined
in table 5.6.1-1 and table 5.6A.2-1 in TS 36.101 respectively.
### 6.12.3 Harmonics IMD study
#### 6.12.3.1 For the BS
_\ _
#### 6.12.3.2 For the UE
As shown in Table 6.12.3.2-1, the harmonic frequencies of band 1, band 3 and
band 5 in UL are away from the receive bands of interest in the DL and we can
conclude that there is no issue on UL harmonic interference.
Table 6.12.3.2-1: Impact of UL Harmonic Interference
* * *
                                                                                       2^nd^ Harmonic     3^rd^ Harmonic
Band UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge 1 1920 1980
2110 2170 3840 3960 5760 5940 3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355 5 824
849 869 894 1648 1698 2472 2547
* * *
### 6.12.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ values
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configurations with
uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the ΔT~IB,c~ is defined for applicable
bands in Table 6.12.4-1.
Table 6.12.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_1A-3A-5A 1 [0.3] 3 0.3 5 0.3
* * *
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configuration in
Table 6.12.4-2 with uplink in one E-UTRA band, the minimum requirement for
reference sensitivity in Table 7.3.1-1 (of TS 36.101) shall be increased by
the amount given in ΔR~IB,c~ in Table 6.12.4-2 for the applicable E-UTRA
bands.
~Table\ 6.12.4-2:\ ΔRIB,c\ for\ 3DLs\ aggregation~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_1A-3A-5A 1 0 3 0 5 0
* * *
## 6.13 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 1 Band 3 and
Band 8
### 6.13.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.13-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_1-3-8 1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD 3 1710 MHz -- 1785
MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz  
8 880 MHz -- 915 MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz
* * *
### 6.13.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.13-2: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL inter-
band CA
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
CA_1A-3A-8A | 1 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | 50 | 0  
| 3 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
| 8 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
| 1 |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | 40 | 1  
| 3 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
| 8 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set, the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth combination sets in Table 5.6A.2-1 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [4] when operating in single carrier
mode.
### 6.13.3 Harmonics and IMD study
#### 6.13.3.1 For the BS
The 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of Band 1, Band
3 and Band 8 DL carriers (i.e. 3DL CA with one component carrier in each band)
can be calculated as shown in Table 6.13.3.1-1 below:
Table 6.13.3.1-1: Band 1, Band 3 and Band 8 DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1-low f1-high f2-low f2-high F3-low F3-high DL frequency (MHz)
1805 1880 925 960 2110 2170
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low -- f3-high) (f1-high + f2-high --
f3-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 560 730
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) (f1-high + f3-high --
f2-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2955 3125
3^rd^ order IMD products (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) (f2-high + f3-high --
f1-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1155 1325
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low + f3-low) (f1-high + f2-high +
f3-high)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4840 5010
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.13.3.1-1 that in addition to the impacts of
harmonics and IMD products from the constituent 2DL CA configurations, the
3^rd^ order IMD products supporting 3 DL CA of Band (1 + 3 + 8) may fall into
BS receive band of Bands 12, 17,28 and 44. However, Band 12 and 17 are not
intended for use in the same geographical area as Bands 1, 3 and 8. Therefore,
the focus here is on the 3^rd^ order IMD products falling into Bands 28 and
44.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the IMD interference generated within the Band 28 or 44 receiver
would be well below the receiver noise floor eliminating the possibility of
receiver desensitization, provided that Band (1 + 3 + 8) BS transmitter does
not share the same antenna with Band 28 or 44 BS receiver.
Therefore, it is recommended that Band (1 + 3 + 8) BS transmitter should not
share the same antenna with Band 28 or 44 BS receiver to prevent BS receiver
desensitization, unless the antenna path meets very stringent 3^rd^ order PIM
specification so that the PIM will not cause Band 28 or 44 BS receiver
desensitization. Note that antenna sharing may be allowed as the state-of-the-
art continues to evolve in the future.
#### 6.13.3.2 For the UE
Table 6.13.3.2-1 gives the 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ harmonic for CA with B1+ B3 + B8.
It can be seen that distortions caused by 2^nd^ order harmonics of Band 8
located within the pass band of Band 3. It was already identified in previous
work and specified in TR 36.850. Except 2^nd^ order harmonics of Band 8, none
of the products falls into the B1, B3 or B8 UE receiving bands.
Table 6.13.3.2-1: UE harmonic table for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
UE DL Carriers with B1, B3, B8 [Mhz] 2*fx_low to 2*fx_high 3840 to 3960
2*fy_low to 2*fy_high 3420 to 3570 2*fz_low to 2*fz_high 1760 to 1830 3*fx_low
to 3*fx_high 5760 to 5940 3*fy_low to 3*fy_high 5130 to 5355 3*fz_low to
3*fz_high 2640 to 2745
* * *
### 6.13.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configurations with
uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the ΔT~IB,c~ is defined for applicable
bands in Table 6.13.4-1.
Table 6.13.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_1A-3A-8A 1 0.3 3 0.3 8 0.3
* * *
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configuration in
Table 6.13.4-2 with uplink in one E-UTRA band, the minimum requirement for
reference sensitivity in Table 7.3.1-1 (of TS 36.101) shall be increased by
the amount given in ΔR~IB,c~ in Table 6.13.4-2 for the applicable E-UTRA
bands.
~Table\ 6.13.4-2:\ ΔRIB,c\ for\ 3DLs\ aggregation~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_1A-3A-8A 1 0.0 3 0.0 8 0.0
* * *
~Table\ 6.13.4-2:\ ΔRIB,c\ for\ 3DLs\ aggregation~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_1A-3A-8A 1 FFS 3 FFS 8 FFS
* * *
## 6.14 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 3 Band 8 and
Band 27
### 6.14.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.14.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands for 3DLs
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_1-3-8 3 1710MHz -- 1785MHz 1805MHz -- 1880MHz FDD 8 880MHz -- 915MHz 925MHz
-- 960MHz  
27 807MHz -- 824MHz 852MHz -- 869MHz
* * *
### 6.14.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.14.2-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets
defined for inter-band CA with 3DLs
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_3A-8A-27A | 3 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | 40 | 0  
| 8 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
| 27 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  | 40 | 0  
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set,
the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent
bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth
combination sets in Table 5.6A.2-1 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are
entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set.
NOTE 2: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [4] when operating in single carrier
mode.
### 6.14.3 Harmonics and IMD study
#### 6.14.3.1 For the BS
Void
#### 6.14.3.2 For the UE
Table 6.14.3-1 gives the 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ harmonic for CA with B3+ B8 + B27. It
can be seen that distortions caused by 2^nd^ order harmonics of Band 8 located
within the pass band of Band 3. It was already identified in previous work and
specified in TR 36.850. Except 2^nd^ order harmonics of Band 8, none of the
products falls into the B3, B8 or B27 UE receiving bands.
Table 6.14.3-1: UE harmonic table for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
UE DL Carriers with B1, B3, B8 [Mhz] 2*fx_low to 2*fx_high 3420 to 3570
2*fy_low to 2*fy_high 1760 to 1830 2*fz_low to 2*fz_high 1614 to 1648 3*fx_low
to 3*fx_high 5130 to 5355 3*fy_low to 3*fy_high 5640 to 2745 3*fz_low to
3*fz_high 2421 to 2472
* * *
### 6.14.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configurations with
uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the ΔT~IB,c~ is defined for applicable
bands in Table 6.14.4-1.
Table 6.14.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_1A-3A-8A 3 0.3 8 FFS 27 FFS
* * *
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configuration in
Table 6.14.4-2 with uplink in one E-UTRA band, the minimum requirement for
reference sensitivity in Table 7.3.1-1 (of TS 36.101) shall be increased by
the amount given in ΔR~IB,c~ in Table 6.14.4-2 for the applicable E-UTRA
bands.
~Table\ 6.14.4-2:\ ΔRIB,c\ for\ 3DLs\ aggregation~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_1A-3A-8A 3 0 8 FFS 27 FFS
* * *
## 6.15 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 2 Band 4 and
Band 5
### 6.15.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.15-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_2-4-5 2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD 4 1710 MHz -- 1755
MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz  
5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz 869 MHz -- 894 MHz
* * *
### 6.15.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.15-2: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL inter-
band CA
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
**CA_2A-4A-5A** | 2 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 45 | 0  
| 4 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes Yes |  |  |   
| 5 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set, the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth combination sets in Table 5.6A.2-1 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [4] when operating in single carrier
mode.
### 6.15.3 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/3 DL
The 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of Band 2, Band
4 and Band 5 DL carriers (i.e. 3DL CA with one component carrier in each band)
can be calculated as shown in Table 6.15.3-1 below:
Table 6.15.3-1: Band 2, Band 4 and Band 5 DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1-low f1-high f2-low f2-high f2-low f2-high DL frequency (MHz)
869 894 1930 1990 2110 2155
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low -- f3-high) (f1-high + f2-high --
f3-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 644 774
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) (f1-high + f3-high --
f2-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 989 1119
3^rd^ order IMD products (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) (f2-high + f3-high --
f1-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3146 3276
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low + f3-low) (f1-high + f2-high +
f3-high)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4909 5039
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.15.3-1 that in addition to the impacts of
harmonics and IMD products from the constituent 2DL CA configurations, the
3^rd^ order IMD products supporting 3 DL CA of Band (2 + 4 + 5) may fall into
the BS receive band of Bands 12, 17, 28 and 44. However, Bands 28 and 44 are
not intended for use in the same geographical area as Bands 2, 4 and 5.
Therefore, the focus here is on the 3^rd^ order IMD products falling into
Bands 12 and 17.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the IMD interference generated within the Band 12 or 17 receiver
would be well below the receiver noise floor eliminating the possibility of
receiver desensitization, provided that Band (2 + 4 + 5) BS transmitter does
not share the same antenna with Band 12 or 17 BS receiver.
Therefore, it is recommended that Band (2 + 4 + 5) BS transmitter should not
share the same antenna with Band 12 or 17 BS receiver to prevent BS receiver
desensitization, unless the antenna path meets very stringent 3^rd^ order PIM
specification so that the PIM will not cause Band 12 or 17 BS receiver
desensitization. Note that antenna sharing may be allowed as the state-of-the-
art continues to evolve in the future.
### 6.15.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configurations with
uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ is defined for
applicable bands in Table 6.15.4-1 and 6.15.4-2 respectively.
Table 6.15.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_2A-4A-5A 2 [0.5] 4
0.5 5 0.3
* * *
Table 6.15.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_2A-4A-5A 2 0.3 4 0.3
5 0
* * *
## 6.16 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 2 Band 4 and
Band 12
### 6.16.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.16-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_2-4-12 2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD 4 1710 MHz -- 1755
MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz  
12 699 MHz -- 716 MHz 729 MHz -- 746 MHz
* * *
### 6.16.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.16-2: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL inter-
band CA
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
**CA_2A-4A-12A** | 2 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 50 | 0  
| 4 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
| 12 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set, the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth combination sets in Table 5.6A.2-1 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [4] when operating in single carrier
mode.
### 6.16.3 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/3 DL
The 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of Band 2, Band
4 and Band 12 DL carriers (i.e. 3DL CA with one component carrier in each
band) can be calculated as shown in Table 6.16.3-1 below:
Table 6.16.3-1: Band 2, Band 4 and Band 12 DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1-low f1-high f2-low f2-high f2-low f2-high DL frequency (MHz)
729 746 1930 1990 2110 2155
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low -- f3-high) (f1-high + f2-high --
f3-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 504 626
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) (f1-high + f3-high --
f2-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 849 971
3^rd^ order IMD products (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) (f2-high + f3-high --
f1-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3294 3416
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low + f3-low) (f1-high + f2-high +
f3-high)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4769 4891
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.16.3-1 that in addition to the impacts of
harmonics and IMD products from the constituent 2DL CA configurations, the
3^rd^ order IMD products supporting 3 DL CA of Band (2 + 4 + 12) may fall into
the BS receive band of Bands 8, 20, 22 and 42. However, Bands 8 and 20 are not
intended for use in the same geographical area as Bands 2, 4 and 12.
Therefore, the focus here is on the 3^rd^ order IMD products falling into
Bands 22 and 42.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the IMD interference generated within the Band 22 or 42 receiver
would be well below the receiver noise floor eliminating the possibility of
receiver desensitization, provided that Band (2 + 4 + 12) BS transmitter does
not share the same antenna with Band 22 or 42 BS receiver.
Therefore, it is recommended that Band (2 + 4 + 12) BS transmitter should not
share the same antenna with Band 22 or 42 BS receiver to prevent BS receiver
desensitization, unless the antenna path meets very stringent 3^rd^ order PIM
specification so that the PIM will not cause Band 22 or 42 BS receiver
desensitization. Note that antenna sharing may be allowed as the state-of-the-
art continues to evolve in the future.
## 6.17 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 2 Band 5 and
Band 12
### 6.17.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.17-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_2-5-12 2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD 5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz
869 MHz -- 894 MHz  
12 699 MHz -- 716 MHz 729 MHz -- 746 MHz
* * *
### 6.17.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.17-2: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL inter-
band CA
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
**CA_2A-5A-12A** | 2 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 40 | 0  
| 5 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
| 12 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set, the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth combination sets in Table 5.6A.2-1 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [4] when operating in single carrier
mode.
### 6.17.3 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/3 DL
The 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of Band 2, Band
5 and Band 12 DL carriers (i.e. 3DL CA with one component carrier in each
band) can be calculated as shown in Table 6.17.3-1 below:
Table 6.17.3-1: Band 2, Band 5 and Band 12 DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1-low f1-high f2-low f2-high f2-low f2-high DL frequency (MHz)
729 746 869 894 1930 1990
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low -- f3-high) (f1-high + f2-high --
f3-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 290 392
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) (f1-high + f3-high --
f2-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1765 1867
3^rd^ order IMD products (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) (f2-high + f3-high --
f1-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2053 2155
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low + f3-low) (f1-high + f2-high +
f3-high)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3528 3630
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.17.3-1 that in addition to the impacts of
harmonics and IMD products from the constituent 2DL CA configurations, the
3^rd^ order IMD products supporting 3 DL CA of Band (2 + 5 + 12) may fall into
the BS receive band of Bands 2, 3, 9, 10, 25, 35, 42 and 43. However, Bands 3,
9 and 10 are not intended for use in the same geographical area as Bands 2, 5
and 12. Therefore, the focus here is on the 3^rd^ order IMD products falling
into Bands 2, 25, 35, 42 and 43. Note that the 3^rd^ order IMD products will
not fall into the BS own (up to 20 MHz) receive block within Band 2.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the IMD interference generated within the Band 42 or 43 receiver
would be well below the receiver noise floor eliminating the possibility of
receiver desensitization, provided that Band (2 + 5 + 12) BS transmitter does
not share the same antenna with Band 42 or 43 BS receiver. But there is not a
large frequency gap between Bands 2, 5 and 12 DL and Bands 2, 25 and 35 UL,
and hence Bands 2, 25 and 35 BS receiver desensitization may still be an
issue.
Therefore, it is recommended that Band (2 + 5 + 12) BS transmitter should not
share the same antenna with Band 2, 25, 35, 42 or 43 BS receiver to prevent BS
receiver desensitization, unless the antenna path meets very stringent 3^rd^
order PIM specification so that the PIM will not cause Band 2, 25, 35, 42 or
43 BS receiver desensitization. Note that antenna sharing may be allowed as
the state-of-the-art continues to evolve in the future.
### 6.17.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configurations with
uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ is defined for
applicable bands in Table 6.17.4-1 and 6.17.4-2 respectively.
Table 6.17.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_2A-5A-12A 2 0.3 5 0.8
12 0.4
* * *
Table 6.17.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_2A-5A-12A 2 0 5 0.5
12 0.3
* * *
## 6.18 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 1, Band 7
and Band 20
Table 6.18-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_1-7-20 1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD 7 2500 MHz -- 2570
MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz  
20 832 MHz -- 862 MHz 791 MHz -- 821 MHz
* * *
Table 6.18-2: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL inter-
band CA
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
**CA_** 1A-7A-20A | 1 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | 45 | 0  
| 7 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
| 20 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set, the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth combination sets in Table 5.6A.2-1 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [4] when operating in single carrier
mode.
## 6.19 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 4 Band 5 and
Band 12
### 6.19.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.19-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_4-5-12 4 1710 MHz -- 1755 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz FDD 5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz
869 MHz -- 894 MHz  
12 699 MHz -- 716 MHz 729 MHz -- 746 MHz
* * *
### 6.19.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.19-2: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL inter-
band CA
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
**CA_** 4A-5A-12A | 4 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 40 | 0  
| 5 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
| 12 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set, the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth combination sets in Table 5.6A.2-1 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [4] when operating in single carrier
mode.
### 6.19.3 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/3 DL
The 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of Band 4, Band
5 and Band 12 DL carriers (i.e. 3DL CA with one component carrier in each
band) can be calculated as shown in Table 6.19.3-1 below:
Table 6.19.3-1: Band 4, Band 5 and Band 12 DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1-low f1-high f2-low f2-high f2-low f2-high DL frequency (MHz)
729 746 869 894 2110 2155
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low -- f3-high) (f1-high + f2-high --
f3-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 470 557
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) (f1-high + f3-high --
f2-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1945 2032
3^rd^ order IMD products (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) (f2-high + f3-high --
f1-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2233 2320
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low + f3-low) (f1-high + f2-high +
f3-high)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3708 3795
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.19.3-1 that in addition to the impacts of
harmonics and IMD products from the constituent 2DL CA configurations, the
3^rd^ order IMD products supporting 3 DL CA of Band (4 + 5 + 12) may fall into
the BS receive band of Bands 1, 23, 30, 34, 36, 40 and 43. However, Bands 1,
34 and 40 are not intended for use in the same geographical area as Bands 4, 5
and 12. Therefore, the focus here is on the 3^rd^ order IMD products falling
into Bands 23, 30, 36 and 43.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the IMD interference generated within the Band 23, 30, 36 or 43
receiver would be well below the receiver noise floor eliminating the
possibility of receiver desensitization, provided that Band (4 + 5 + 12) BS
transmitter does not share the same antenna with Band 23, 30, 36 or 43 BS
receiver.
## 6.20 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 2, Band 4
and Band 4
### 6.20.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.20.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_2-4-4 2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD 4 1710 MHz -- 1755
MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz
* * *
### 6.20.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.20.2-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
CA_2A-4A-4A | 2 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 60 | 0  
| CA_4A-4A | See 36.101 table 5.6A.1-3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set, the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth combination sets in Table 5.6A.1-2 and 5.6A.1-3 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [4] when operating in single carrier
mode.
### 6.20.3 Harmonics and IMD study
#### 6.20.3.1 For the BS
Table 6.20.3.1-1 shows harmonics frequency limits and Table 6.20.3.1-2
intermodulation products frequency limits for CA of Band 4, Band 4 and Band
12, respectively. Harmonics and intermodulation product problems are
summarized below the relevant Table.
> Table 6.20.3.1-1: DL harmonics frequency limits for CA of Band 2, Band 4 and
> Band 4
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high DL frequency (MHz) 1930 1990 2110
2155 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 3860 to 3980 4220 to 4310  
3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 5790 to 5970 6330 to 6465
* * *
As shown in Table 6.20.3.1-2, second and third harmonics will not fall to any
UL frequencies for Bands specified in 3GPP specifications.
Table 6.20.3.1-2: DL intermodulation products frequency limits for CA of Band
2, Band 4 and Band 4
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high
DL frequency (MHz) 1930 1990 2110 2155
Two-tone 2^nd^ order IMD products f2_low -- f1_high f2_high -- f1_low
f2_low + f1_low f2_high + f1_high
IMD frequency range (MHz) `120 to 225 4040 to 4145
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f1_low -- f2_high 2*f1_high -- f2_low
2*f2_low -- f1_high 2* f2_high -- f1_low
IMD frequency range (MHz) 1705 to 1870 2230 to 2380
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f1_low + f2_low 2*f1_high + f2_high
2*f2_low + f1_low 2*f2_high + f1_high
IMD frequency range (MHz) 5970 to 6135 6150 to 6300
Three-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (f1_low -- f2_high + f2_low) (f1_high +\
(f2_low --\ (f2_high +\ f2_high -- f2_low) f1_high + f1_low) f1_high --
f1_low)
IMD frequency range (MHz) 1885 to 2035 2050 to 2215
* * *
As shown in Table 6.20.3.1-2, second order intermodulation products will not
fall to any UL frequencies for Bands specified in 3GPP specifications.
Third intermodulation products may fall to UL frequencies of Band 1-4, 9-10,
23, 25, 30, 33-37 or 39-40. As third intermodulation products may fall to own
receive block of Band 2 or 4 (highlighted in Table 6.20.3.1-2), the
desensitisation may be an issue.
It is suggested BS transmitters supporting CA of Band 2, Band 4 and Band 4
should not share the same antenna with Band 1-4, 9-10, 23, 25, 30, 33-37 or
39-40 BS receiver, unless the antenna path meets very stringent third order
PIM specification so that the PIM will not cause Ba
## 6.21 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 2 Band 12
and Band 12
### 6.21.1 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/3 DL
The 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of Band 2, Band
12 and Band 12 DL carriers (i.e. 3DL CA with one component carrier in each
band) can be calculated as shown in Table 6.21.1-1 below:
Table 6.21.1-1: Band 2, Band 12 and Band 12 DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1-low f1-high f2-low f2-high f3-low f3-high DL frequency (MHz)
729 746 729 746 1930 1990
3^rd^ order IMD products (f3-low -- f1-high -- f2-high) (f3-high -- f1-low --
f2-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 438 532
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) (f1-high + f3-high --
f2-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1913 2007
3^rd^ order IMD products (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) (f2-high + f3-high --
f1-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1913 2007
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low + f3-low) (f1-high + f2-high +
f3-high)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3388 3482
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.21.1-1 that in addition to the impacts of
harmonics and IMD products from the constituent 2DL CA configurations, the
3^rd^ order IMD products supporting 3 DL CA of Band (2 + 12 + 12) may fall
into the BS receive band of Bands 1, 22, 23, 25, 31, 33, 36, 37, 39 and 42.
However, Bands 1, 31, 33 and 39 are not intended for use in the same
geographical area as Bands 2 and 12. Moreover, co-location of Band (2 + 12 +
12) transmitter and Band 36 or 37 transceiver implies FDD/TDD co-location on
adjacent frequencies which requires the use of certain site-engineering
solutions to avoid mutual interference. Therefore, the focus here is on the
3^rd^ order IMD products falling into Bands 22, 23, 25 and 42.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the IMD interference generated within the Band 22 or 42 receiver
would be well below the receiver noise floor eliminating the possibility of
receiver desensitization, provided that Band (2 + 12 + 12) BS transmitter does
not share the same antenna with Band 22 or 42 BS receiver. But there is not a
large frequency gap between Band 2 DL and Bands 23 and 25 UL, and hence Band
23 or 25 BS receiver desensitization may still be an issue.
Therefore, it is recommended that Band (2 + 12 + 12) BS transmitter should not
share the same antenna with Band 22, 23, 25 or 42 BS receiver to prevent BS
receiver desensitization, unless the antenna path meets very stringent 3^rd^
order PIM specification so that the PIM will not cause Band 22, 23, 25 or 42
BS receiver desensitization. Note that antenna sharing may be allowed as the
state-of-the-art continues to evolve in the future.
### 6.21.2 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configurations with
uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ is defined for
applicable bands in Table 6.21.2-1 and 6.21.2-2 respectively.
Table 6.21.2-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_2A-12A-12A 2 0.3 12
0.3
* * *
Table 6.21.2-2: ΔR~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_2A-12A-12A 2 0 12 0
* * *
### 6.21.3 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/2 DL
The 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and IMD products caused in the BS by
transmitting contiguous or non-contiguous Band 12 DL carriers can be
calculated as shown in Table 6.21.3-1 below:
Table 6.21.3-1: Band 12 DL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f-low f-high DL frequency (MHz) 729 746
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1458 1492 3^rd^ harmonics frequency
limits (MHz) 2187 2238
2^nd^ order IMD products (f-low -- f-high) (f-high -- f-low) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) -17 17
3^rd^ order IMD products (2* f-low -- f-high) (2*f-high -- f-low) IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 712 763
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.21.3-1 that the 2^nd^ harmonics of BS transmitting
in Band 12 may fall into the BS receive band of Band 21, while the 3^rd^ IMD
products of BS supporting CA of Band 12 may fall into the BS receive band of
Bands 12, 17, 28 and 44. Note that the calculation in Table 6.21.3-1 assumes
the BS is transmitting with the whole 17 MHz DL frequency of Band 12. If the
BS is only transmitting up to 15 MHz (10 + 5 or 5 + 10 MHz) contiguous
carriers in Band 12, then the 3^rd^ IMD products may only fall into the BS
receive band of the Bands 12 and 17 under the transmit configurations shown in
Table 6.21.3-2 below:
Table 6.21.3-2: Band 12 BS contiguous carriers transmit configurations with
3^rd^ IMD within Bands 12 and 17 BS receive band
* * *
1^st^ CC channel bandwidth (MHz) 2^nd^ CC channel bandwidth (MHz) Lower edge
of 15 MHz DL frequency block (MHz) Lower edge of IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5
10 729 -- 730.9 714 -- 715.9 10 5 729 -- 730.9 714 -- 715.9
* * *
The case if the BS is transmitting up to 15 MHz (10 + 5 or 5 + 10 MHz) non-
contiguous carriers in Band 12 is studied as follows. Assume that the 2 non-
contiguous CC transmitted by the Band 12 BS are _a_ and _b_ MHz channel
bandwidth and _c_ and _d_ MHz from the edges of Band 12 DL frequency band as
shown in Figure 6.21.3-1 below:
Figure 6.21.3-1: Non-contiguous CC transmitted by the Band 12 BS
And the corresponding BS receive blocks are as shown in Figure 6.21.3-2 below:
Figure 6.21.3-2: Non-contiguous CC received by the Band 12 BS
Then the 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting the 2 CC
can be calculated as shown in Table 6.21.3-3 below:
Table 6.21.3-3: Band 12 BS DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
3^rd^ order IMD products IMD frequency limits (MHz) (2*f1-low -- f2-high) 712
+ 2*_c_ \+ _d_ (2*f1-high -- f2-low) 712 + 2*_c_ \+ _d_ \+ 2*_a_ \+ _b_
(2*f2-low -- f1-high) 763 -- 2*_d_ \-- _c_ \-- 2*_b_ \-- _a_ (2*f2-high --
f1-low) 763 -- 2*_d_ \-- _c_ (f1-low -- f2-high + f2-low) 729 + _c_ \-- _b_
(f1-high + f2-high -- f2-low) 729 + _c_ \+ _b_ \+ _a_ (f2-low -- f1-high +
f1-low) 746 -- _d_ \-- _a_ \-- _b_ (f2-high + f1-high -- f1-low) 746 -- _d_ \+
_a_
* * *
Comparing the IMD frequency limits in Table 6.21.3-3 with the BS receive
blocks in Figure 6.21.3-2, it can be deduced that the 3^rd^ order IMD products
caused in the BS by transmitting the 2 CC will only fall into the BS own
receive blocks of Band 12 under one of the transmit configurations shown in
Table 6.21.3-4 below:
Table 6.21.3-4: Band 12 BS non-contiguous carriers transmit configurations
with 3^rd^ IMD within Band 12 BS own receive blocks
* * *
1^st^ CC channel bandwidth (_a_ MHz) 2nd CC channel bandwidth (_b_ MHz) 1^st^
and 2^nd^ CC position (_c_ and _d_ MHz) 5 5 _c_ \+ _d_ \ Table 6.31.3.1-1: DL harmonics frequency limits for CA of Band 3, Band 3 and
> Band 7
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high DL frequency (MHz) 1805 1880 2620
2690 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 3610 to 3760 5240 to 5380  
3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 5415 to 5640 7860 to 8070
* * *
As shown in Table 6.31.3.1-2, second and third harmonics may fall to UL
frequencies of Band 43.
Table 6.31.3.1-2: DL intermodulation products frequency limits for CA of Band
3, Band 3 and Band 7
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high
DL frequency (MHz) 1805 1880 2620 2690
Two-tone 2^nd^ order IMD products f2_low -- f1_high f2_high -- f1_low
f2_low + f1_low f2_high + f1_high
IMD frequency range (MHz) 740 to 885 4425 to 4570
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f1_low -- f2_high 2*f1_high -- f2_low
2*f2_low -- f1_high 2* f2_high -- f1_low
IMD frequency range (MHz) 920 to 1140 3360 to 3575
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f1_low + f2_low 2*f1_high + f2_high
2*f2_low + f1_low 2*f2_high + f1_high
IMD frequency range (MHz) 6230 to 6450 7045 to 7260
Three-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (f1_low --\ (f1_high +\ (f2_low --\
(f2_high +\ max BW f2) max BW f2) max BW f1) max BW f1)
IMD frequency range (MHz) 1785 to 1900 2580 to 2730
* * *
As shown in Table 6.31.3.1-2, second order intermodulation products may fall
to UL frequencies of Band 5-6, 8, 13-14, 18-20, 26-28 or 44.
Third intermodulation products may fall to UL frequencies of Band 2, 22, 25,
35, 38-39 or 41-42.
It is suggested BS transmitters supporting CA of Band 3, Band 3 and Band 7
should not share the same antenna with Band 2, 5-6, 8, 13-14, 18-20, 22,
25-28, 35, 38-39 or 41-44 BS receiver, unless the antenna path meets very
stringent third order PIM specification so that the PIM will not cause Band 2,
5-6, 8, 13-14, 18-20, 22, 25-28, 35, 38-39 or 41-44 BS receiver
desensitization.
#### 6.31.3.2 For the UE
For single UL the 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ harmonic analysis for B3 and B7 is done in
the 2DL/1UL TR 36.850. None of the products falls into the B3 or B7 UE
receiving bands. For UE coexistence the single UL is already considered for
these bands in TS 36.101.
### 6.31.4 ΔTIB,c and ΔRIB,c
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configurations with
uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the ΔT~IB,c~ is defined for applicable
bands in Table 6.31.4-1.
Table 6.31.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_3C-7A 3 0.5 7 0.5
* * *
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configuration in
Table 6.31.4-2 with uplink in one E-UTRA band, the minimum requirement for
reference sensitivity in Table 7.3.1-1 (TS 36.101) shall be increased by the
amount given in ΔR~IB,c~ in Table 6.31.4-2 for the applicable E-UTRA bands.
~Table\ 6.31.4-2:\ ΔRIB,c\ for\ 3DLs\ aggregation~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_3C-7A 3 0 7 0
* * *
## 6.32 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 3, Band 7
and Band 7
### 6.32.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.32.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_3-7-7 3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD 7 2500 MHz -- 2570
MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz
* * *
### 6.32.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.32.2-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
**CA_3A-7C** | 3 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 60 | 0  
| 7C | See table 5.6A.1-1 of TS 36.101 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set, the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth combination sets in Table 5.6A.2-1 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [4] when operating in single carrier
mode.
### 6.32.3 Harmonics and IMD study
#### 6.32.3.1 For the BS
Table 6.32.3.1-1 shows harmonics frequency limits and Table 6.32.3.1-2
intermodulation products frequency limits for CA of Band 3, Band 7 and Band 7,
respectively. Harmonics and intermodulation product problems are summarized
below the relevant Table.
> Table 6.32.3.1-1: DL harmonics frequency limits for CA of Band 3, Band 7 and
> Band 7
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high DL frequency (MHz) 1805 1880 2620
2690 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 3610 to 3760 5240 to 5380  
3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 5415 to 5640 7860 to 8070
* * *
As shown in Table 6.32.3.1-2, second and third harmonics may fall to UL
frequencies of Band 43.
Table 6.32.3.1-2: DL intermodulation products frequency limits for CA of Band
3, Band 7 and Band 7
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high
DL frequency (MHz) 1805 1880 2620 2690
Two-tone 2^nd^ order IMD products f2_low -- f1_high f2_high -- f1_low
f2_low + f1_low f2_high + f1_high
IMD frequency range (MHz) 740 to 885 4425 to 4570
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f1_low -- f2_high 2*f1_high -- f2_low
2*f2_low -- f1_high 2* f2_high -- f1_low
IMD frequency range (MHz) 920 to 1140 3360 to 3575
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f1_low + f2_low 2*f1_high + f2_high
2*f2_low + f1_low 2*f2_high + f1_high
IMD frequency range (MHz) 6230 to 6450 7045 to 7260
Three-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (f1_low --\ (f1_high +\ (f2_low --\
(f2_high +\ max BW f2) max BW f2) max BW f1) max BW f1)
IMD frequency range (MHz) 1765 to 1920 2600 to 2710
* * *
As shown in Table 6.32.3.1-2, second order intermodulation products may fall
to UL frequencies of Band 5-6, 8, 13-14, 18-20, 26-28 or 44.
Third intermodulation products may fall to UL frequencies of Band 2-3, 9-10,
22, 25, 33, 35, 37-39 or 41-42. As third intermodulation products may fall to
own receive block of Band 3 (highlighted in Table 6.32.3.1-2), the
desensitisation may be an issue. It should be noted, third intermodulation
product is falling to UL frequencies of Band 3 when f1 is in the range of
1805-1825MHz. If BS is operating in Band 3 DL frequency of 1805-1825MHz, the
Band 3 UL frequency range is 1710-1730MHz. No issue is foreseen with receiver
desensitisation.
It is suggested BS transmitters supporting CA of Band 3, Band 7 and Band 7
should not share the same antenna with Band 2-3, 5-6, 8-10, 13-14, 18-20, 22,
25-28, 33, 35, 37-39 or 41- 44 BS receiver, unless the antenna path meets very
stringent third order PIM specification so that the PIM will not cause Band
2-3, 5-6, 8-10, 13-14, 18-20, 22, 25-28, 33, 35, 37-39 or 41- 44 BS receiver
desensitization.
#### 6.32.3.2 For the UE
For single UL the 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ harmonic analysis for B3 and B7 is done in
the 2DL/1UL TR 36.850. None of the products falls into the B3 or B7 UE
receiving bands. For UE coexistence the single UL is already considered for
these bands in TS 36.101.
### 6.32.4 ΔTIB,c and ΔRIB,c
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configurations with
uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the ΔT~IB,c~ is defined for applicable
bands in Table 6.32.4-1.
Table 6.32.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_3A-7C 3 0.5 7 0.5
* * *
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configuration in
Table 6.32.4-2 with uplink in one E-UTRA band, the minimum requirement for
reference sensitivity in Table 7.3.1-1 (TS 36.101) shall be increased by the
amount given in ΔR~IB,c~ in Table 6.32.4-2 for the applicable E-UTRA bands.
~Table\ 6.32.4-2:\ ΔRIB,c\ for\ 3DLs\ aggregation~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_3A-7C 3 0 7 0
* * *
## 6.33 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 4, Band 4
and Band 5
### 6.33.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.33.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands for 3DLs
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_4-4-5 4 1710 MHz -- 1755 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz FDD 4 1710 MHz -- 1755
MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz  
5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz 869 MHz -- 894 MHz  
NOTE 1: Only one uplink component carrier is to be supported in any of the
three frequency bands at any time.
* * *
### 6.33.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.33.2-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets
defined for inter-band CA with 3DLs
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
**CA_B4-B4-B5** | 4 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 50 | 0  
| 4 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
| 5 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
NOTE: In single or dual CA mode the UE shall support all bandwidths as defined
in table 5.6.1-1 and table 5.6A.2-1 in TS 36.101 respectively.
### 6.33.3 Harmonics IMD study
#### 6.33.3.1 For the BS
zzThe 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of Band 4,
Band 4 and Band 5 DL carriers (i.e. 3DL CA with one component carrier in each
band) can be calculated as shown in Table 6.33.3.1-1 below:
Table 6.33.3.1-1: Band 4, Band 4 and Band 5 DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1-low f1-high f2-low f2-high f3-low f3-high DL frequency (MHz)
869 894 2110 2155 2110 2155
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low -- f3-high) (f1-high + f2-high --
f3-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 824 939
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) (f1-high + f3-high --
f2-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 824 939
3^rd^ order IMD products (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) (f2-high + f3-high --
f1-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3326 3441
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low + f3-low) (f1-high + f2-high +
f3-high)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5089 5204
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.33.3.1-1 that in addition to the impacts of
harmonics and IMD products from the constituent 2DL CA configurations, the
3^rd^ order IMD products supporting 3 DL CA of Band (4 + 4 + 5) may fall into
the BS receive band of Bands 5, 6, 8, 18, 19, 20, 22, 26 and 42\. However,
Bands 6, 8, 18, 19 and 20 are not intended for use in the same geographical
area as Bands 4 and 5. Therefore, the focus here is on the 3^rd^ order IMD
products falling into Bands 5, 22, 26 and 42.
Note that the 3^rd^ order IMD products may fall into the BS own (10 MHz)
receive block within Band 5. Assume that the 3 carriers transmitted by the
Band (4 + 4 + 5) BS are _a_ , _b_ and _c_ MHz in channel bandwidth and _d_ ,
_e_ and _f_ MHz from the lower edges of Bands 4 and 5 DL frequency bands as
shown in Figure 6.33.3.1-1 below:
Figure 6.33.3.1-1: 3 carriers transmitted by the Band (4 + 4 + 5) BS
And the corresponding BS receive blocks are as shown in Figure 6.33.3.1-2
below:
Figure 6.33.3.1-2: 3 carriers received by the Band (4 + 4 + 5) BS
Then the 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of the 3 CC
can be calculated as shown in Table 6.33.3.1-2 below:
Table 6.33.3.1-2: Band (4 + 4 + 5) BS DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
3^rd^ order IMD products IMD frequency limits (MHz) (f1-low + f2-low --
f3-high) 869 + _d_ \+ _e_ \-- _f_ \-- _c_ (f1-high + f2-high -- f3-low) 869 +
_d_ \+ _a_ \+ _e_ \+ _b_ \-- _f_ (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) 869 + _d_ \+ _f_
\-- _e_ \-- _b_ (f1-high + f3-high -- f2-low) 869 + _d_ \+ _a_ \+ _f_ \+ _c_
\-- _e_ (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) 3351 + _e_ \+ _f_ \-- _d_ \-- _a_
(f2-high + f3-high -- f1-low) 3351 + _e_ \+ _b_ \+ _f_ \+ _c_ \-- _d_ (f1-low
+ f2-low + f3-low) 5089 + _d_ \+ _e_ \+ _f_ (f1-high + f2-high + f3-high) 5089
+ _d_ \+ _a_ \+ _e_ \+ _b_ \+ _f_ \+ _c_
* * *
Comparing the IMD frequency limits in Table 6.33.3.1-2 with the BS receive
blocks in Figure 6.33.3.1-2, it can be deduced that the 3^rd^ order IMD
products caused in the BS by transmitting of the 3 CC will only fall into the
BS own receive block of Band 5 under one of the transmit configurations shown
in Table 6.33.3.1-3 below:
Table 6.33.3.1-3: Band (4 + 4 + 5) BS transmit configurations with 3^rd^ IMD
within Band 5 BS own receive blocks
* * *
1^st^ CC channel bandwidth (_a_ MHz) 2^nd^ CC channel bandwidth (_b_ MHz)
3^rd^ CC channel bandwidth (_c_ MHz) CC position (_d_ , _e_ and _f_ MHz) 5 5 5
35 \ Table 6.36.3.1-1: DL harmonics frequency limits for CA of Band 4, Band 4 and
> Band 12
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high DL frequency (MHz) 729 746 2110
2155 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 1458 to 1492 4220 to 4310  
3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 2187 to 2238 6330 to 6465
* * *
As shown in Table 6.36.3.1-2, second and third harmonics will not fall to any
UL frequencies for Bands specified in 3GPP specifications.
Table 6.36.3.1-2: DL intermodulation products frequency limits for CA of Band
4, Band 4 and Band 12
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high
DL frequency (MHz) 729 746 2110 2155
Two-tone 2^nd^ order IMD products f2_low -- f1_high f2_high -- f1_low
f2_low + f1_low f2_high + f1_high
IMD frequency range (MHz) 1364 to 1426 2839 to 2901
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f1_low -- f2_high 2*f1_high -- f2_low
2*f2_low -- f1_high 2* f2_high -- f1_low
IMD frequency range (MHz) 618 to 697 3474 to 3581
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f1_low + f2_low 2*f1_high + f2_high
2*f2_low + f1_low 2*f2_high + f1_high
IMD frequency range (MHz) 3568 to 3647 4949 to 5056
Three-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (f1_low -- f2_high + f2_low) (f1_high +\
(f2_low --\ (f2_high +\ f2_high -- f2_low) f1_high + f1_low) f1_high --
f1_low)
IMD frequency range (MHz) 684 to 791 2093 to 2172
* * *
As shown in Table 6.36.3.1-2, second order intermodulation products will not
fall to any UL frequencies for Bands specified in 3GPP specifications.
Third intermodulation products may fall to UL frequencies of Band 12-14, 17,
22, 28 or 42-44. As third intermodulation products may fall to own receive
block of Band 12 (highlighted in Table 6.36.3.1-2), the desensitisation may be
an issue.
Assume that the 3 carriers transmitted by the Band (4 + 4 + 12) BS are _a_ ,
_b_ and _c_ MHz in channel bandwidth and _d_ , _e_ and _f_ MHz from the lower
edges of Bands 4 and 12 DL frequency bands as shown in Figure 6.36.3.1-1
below:
Figure 6.36.3.1-1: 3 carriers transmitted by the Band (4 + 4 + 12) BS
And the corresponding BS receive blocks are as shown in Figure 6.36.3.1-2
below:
Figure 6.36.3.1-2: 3 carriers received by the Band (4 + 4 + 12) BS
Then the 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of the 3 CC
can be calculated as shown in Table 6.36.3.1-3 below:
Table 6.36.3.1-3: Band (4 + 4 + 12) BS DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
3^rd^ order IMD products IMD frequency limits (MHz) (f1-low + f2-low --
f3-high) 729 + _d_ \+ _e_ \-- _f_ \-- _c_ (f1-high + f2-high -- f3-low) 729 +
_d_ \+ _a_ \+ _e_ \+ _b_ \-- _f_ (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) 729 + _d_ \+ _f_
\-- _e_ \-- _b_ (f1-high + f3-high -- f2-low) 729 + _d_ \+ _a_ \+ _f_ \+ _c_
\-- _e_ (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) 3491 + _e_ \+ _f_ \-- _d_ \-- _a_
(f2-high + f3-high -- f1-low) 3491 + _e_ \+ _b_ \+ _f_ \+ _c_ \-- _d_ (f1-low
+ f2-low + f3-low) 4949 + _d_ \+ _e_ \+ _f_ (f1-high + f2-high + f3-high) 4949
+ _d_ \+ _a_ \+ _e_ \+ _b_ \+ _f_ \+ _c_
* * *
Comparing the IMD frequency limits in Table 6.36.3.1-3 with the BS receive
blocks in Figure 6.36.3.1-2, it can be deduced that the 3^rd^ order IMD
products caused in the BS by transmitting of the 3 CC will only fall into the
BS own receive block of Band 12 under one of the transmit configurations shown
in Table 6.36.3.1-4 below:
Table 6.36.3.1-4: Band (4 + 4 + 12) BS transmit configurations with 3^rd^ IMD
within Band 12 BS own receive blocks
* * *
1^st^ CC channel bandwidth (_a_ MHz) 2^nd^ CC channel bandwidth (_b_ MHz)
3^rd^ CC channel bandwidth (_c_ MHz) CC position (_d_ , _e_ and _f_ MHz) 5 5 5
20 \ Table 6.44.3.1-1: DL harmonics frequency limits for CA of Band 4, Band 4 and
> Band 7
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high DL frequency (MHz) 2110 2155 2620
2690 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 4220 to 4310 5240 to 5380  
3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 6330 to 6465 7860 to 8070
* * *
Table 6.44.3.1-2: Band 4, Band 4 and Band 7 DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high  
DL frequency (MHz) 2110 2155 2620 2690
Two-tone 2^nd^ order IMD products f2_low -- f1_high f2_high -- f1_low
f2_low + f1_low f2_high + f1_high  
IMD frequency range (MHz) 465 to 580 4730 to 4845  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f1_low -- f2_high 2*f1_high -- f2_low
2*f2_low -- f1_high 2* f2_high -- f1_low  
IMD frequency range (MHz) 1530 to 1690 3085 to 3270  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f1_low + f2_low 2*f1_high + f2_high
2*f2_low + f1_low 2*f2_high + f1_high  
IMD frequency range (MHz) 6840 to 7000 7350 to 7535
BS DL carriers f1-low f1-high f2-low f2-high f3-low f3-high DL frequency (MHz)
2110 2155 2110 2155 2620 2690
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low -- f3-high) (f1-high + f2-high --
f3-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1530 1690
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) (f1-high + f3-high --
f2-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2575 2735
3^rd^ order IMD products (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) (f2-high + f3-high --
f1-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2575 2735
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low + f3-low) (f1-high + f2-high +
f3-high)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 6840 6970
* * *
As shown in Table 6.44.3.1-2, in addition to the impacts of harmonics and IMD
product from the constituent 2DL CA configurations, the 3^rd^ intermodulation
products generated by BS supporting 3DL CA of Band (4+4+7) may fall into the
BS receive band of Bands 24, 38 or 41. Since band 7 is not suggested to be
used simultaneously with band 38 or band 41 in the same device, we can safely
assume that there are significant IMD issues for B4+B4 and B7 3DL combination.
#### 6.44.3.2 For the UE
Table 6.44.3.2-1 gives the intermodulation products for band 4+ band 7 CA with
1UL. The 3^rd^ intermodulation product related to band 4 falls into band 42.
Table 6.44.3.2-1: 1UL B4 + B7 harmonic products
* * *
UE UL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high UL frequency (MHz) 1710 1755 2500
2570 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 3420 to 3510 5000 to 5140  
3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 5130 to 5365 7500 to 7710
* * *
### 6.44.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configurations with
uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the ΔT~IB,c~ is defined for applicable
bands in Table 6.44.4-1.
Table 6.44.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_4A-4A-7A 4 0.5 7 0.5
* * *
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configuration in
Table 6.44.4-2 with uplink in one E-UTRA band, the minimum requirement for
reference sensitivity in Table 7.3.1-1 (TS 36.101) shall be increased by the
amount given in ΔR~IB,c~ in Table 6.44.4-2 for the applicable E-UTRA bands.
~Table\ 6.44.4-2:\ ΔRIB,c\ for\ 3DLs\ aggregation~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_4A-4A-7A 4 0.5 7 0.5
* * *
## 6.45 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 4, Band 7
and Band 12
### 6.45.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.45-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_4A-7A-12A 4 1710 -- 1755 2110 -- 2155 FDD 7 2500 -- 2570 2620 -- 2690  
12 699 -- 716 749 -- 746
* * *
### 6.45.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.45-2: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL inter-
band CA
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
**CA_4A-7A-12A** | 4 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  | 40 | 0  
| 7 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
| 12 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set, the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth combination sets in Table 5.6A.2-1 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [4] when
operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.45.3 Harmonics and IMD study
#### 6.45.3.1 For the BS
Table 6.45.3.1-1 gives the three tone IM3 analysis for CA with B4 + B7 + B12.
For two DLs the 2nd and 3rd harmonic analysis for B4 + B7 and B4 + B12 are
done in the 2DL/1UL TR 36.850. None of the products falls into the B4, B7 or
B12 BS receiving bands. We note only single tones for each band are
considered. it is recommended that Bands 4 and 12 BS transmitters should not
share the same antenna with Band 22, 42 or 43 BS receiver, unless the antenna
path meets very stringent 3^rd^ order PIM specification so that the PIM will
not cause Band 22, 42 or 43 BS receiver desensitization.
It can be seen from the tables that in addition to the impacts of harmonics
and IMD products from the constituent 2DL CA configurations, the 3^rd^ order
IMD products supporting 3 DL CA of Band (4 + 7 + 12) may not fall into any of
the BS receive Bands. However, Band 24 is not intended for use in the same
geographical area as Bands 4, 7 and 12. Therefore, the focus here is on the
3^rd^ order IMD products falling into Band 43.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the IMD interference generated within the Band 42 or 43 receiver
would be well below the receiver noise floor eliminating the possibility of
receiver desensitization, provided that Band (4 + 7 + 12) BS transmitter does
not share the same antenna with Band 42 or 43 BS receiver.
Therefore, it is recommended that Band (4 + 7 + 12) BS transmitter should not
share the same antenna with Band 42 or 43 BS receiver to prevent BS receiver
desensitization, unless the antenna path meets very stringent 3^rd^ order PIM
specification so that the PIM will not cause Band 43 BS receiver
desensitization. Note that antenna sharing may be allowed as the state-of-the-
art continues to evolve in the future.
Table 6.45.3.1-1: BS three tone IM3 table for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
BS DL Carriers with B4, B7, B12 [Mhz] fx_low + fy_low + fz_low to fx_high +
fy_high + fz_high 5459 to 5561 fx_low + fy_low -- fz_high to fx_high + fy_high
-- fz_low 149 to 281 fx_low - fy_high -- fz_high to fx_high - fy_low -- fz_low
3984 to 4116 fx_low - fy_high + fz_low to fx_high - fy_low + fz_high 1194 to
1326
* * *
#### 6.45.3.2 For the UE
For single UL the 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ harmonic analysis for B4 + B7 and B4 + B12
is done in the 2DL/1UL TR 36.850. None of the products falls into the B4 or B7
or B12 UE receiving bands. For UE coexistence the single UL is already
considered for these bands in TS 36.101.
### 6.45.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configurations with
uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the ΔT~IB,c~ is defined for applicable
bands in Table 6.45.4-1.
Table 6.45.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_4A-7A-12A 4 0.5 7 0.5 12 0.8
* * *
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configuration in
Table 6.45.4-2 with uplink in one E-UTRA band, the minimum requirement for
reference sensitivity in Table 7.3.1-1 (TS 36.101) shall be increased by the
amount given in ΔR~IB,c~ in Table 6.45.4-2 for the applicable E-UTRA bands.
~Table\ 6.45.4-2:\ ΔRIB,c\ for\ 3DLs\ aggregation~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_4A-7A-12A 4 0.5 7 0.5 12 0.5
* * *
There is a harmonic relation between the Band 12 UL band and Band 4 DL band.
Exceptions are allowed and already specified for the fallback mode CA_4A-12A.
The exceptions for CA_4A-7A-12A follow from CA_4A-12A and are given in Table
6.45.4-2.
Table 6.45.4-2: Reference sensitivity for carrier aggregation QPSK P~REFSENS,\
CA~ (exceptions)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | EUTRA | EUTRA | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | CA | band | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | uplex | | Con | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | mode | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA_4 | 4 | [-8 | [-8 | [ | [-8 | [ | [-8 | FDD | | A-12A | | 9.2] | 9.2] | -90] | 9.5] | -89] | 8.5] | | | ^5,6^ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 12 | | | -96.5 | -93.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA\ | 4 | | | [ | [-8 | [ | [-8 | FDD | | _4A-7 | | | | -90] | 9.5] | -89] | 8.5] | | | A-12A | | | | | | | | | | ^5,6^ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 7 | | | -97.5 | -94.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 12 | | | -96.5 | -93.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | P~ | | | | | | | | | | UMAX~ | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | | 2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | A.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | | dy | | | | | | | | | | namic | | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | | Pa | | | | | | | | | | ttern | | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | | FD | | | | | | | | | | D/TDD | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | | | ribed | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | A.5.1 | | | | | | | | | | .1/A. | | | | | | | | | | 5.2.1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: No | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | | RE | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | low | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | 2nd | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | dow | | | | | | | | | | nlink | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | | ver | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | | (the | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.1 | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | ply). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | | RE | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | | low | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | 3rd | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | dow | | | | | | | | | | nlink | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | ver | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | ARFCN | | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | | low | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | (s | | | | | | | | | | upers | | | | | | | | | | cript | | | | | | | | | | LB) | | | | | | | | | | such | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | | | th="1 | | | | | | | | | | .1284 | | | | | | | | | | 72222 | | | | | | | | | | 22222 | | | | | | | | | | 23in" | | | | | | | | | | hei | | | | | | | | | | ght=" | | | | | | | | | | 0.219 | | | | | | | | | | 44444 | | | | | | | | | | 44444 | | | | | | | | | | 4444i | | | | | | | | | | n"}in | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | {wi | | | | | | | | | | dth=" | | | | | | | | | | 2.686 | | | | | | | | | | 11111 | | | | | | | | | | 11111 | | | | | | | | | | 11in" | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eight | | | | | | | | | | ="0.2 | | | | | | | | | | 29166 | | | | | | | | | | 66666 | | | | | | | | | | 66666 | | | | | | | | | | 6in"} | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | | | th="0 | | | | | | | | | | .2673 | | | | | | | | | | 61111 | | | | | | | | | | 11111 | | | | | | | | | | 11in" | | | | | | | | | | hei | | | | | | | | | | ght=" | | | | | | | | | | 0.212 | | | | | | | | | | 5in"} | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | | | th="0 | | | | | | | | | | .4736 | | | | | | | | | | 11111 | | | | | | | | | | 11111 | | | | | | | | | | 11in" | | | | | | | | | | heig | | | | | | | | | | ht="0 | | | | | | | | | | .2062 | | | | | | | | | | 5in"} | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | low | | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 6.46 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 39, Band 39
and Band 41
### 6.46.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.46.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_39-41 39 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz TDD 41 2496 MHz -- 2690
MHz 2496 MHz -- 2690 MHz
* * *
### 6.46.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.46.2-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4  
MHz | 3  
MHz | 5  
MHz | 10  
MHz | 15  
MHz | 20  
MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_39C-41A | 39 | See CA_39C in Table 5.6A.1-1 of TS36101 | 55 | 0 |  |  |  |  |   
| 41 |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |   
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set, the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth combination sets in table 5.6A.1-1, 5.6A.1-2, and 5.6A.1-3 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.46.3 Harmonics and IMD study
#### 6.46.3.1 For the BS
Table 6.46.3.1-1 shows harmonics frequency limits and Table 6.46.3.1-2
intermodulation products frequency limits for CA of Band 39, Band 39 and Band
41, respectively. Harmonics and intermodulation product problems are
summarized below the relevant Tables.
> Table 6.46.3.1-1: DL harmonics frequency limits for CA of Band 39, Band 39
> and Band 41
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high DL frequency (MHz) 1880 1920 2496
2690 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 3760 to 3840 4992 to 5380  
3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 5640 to 5760 7488 to 8070
* * *
As shown in Table 6.46.3.1-1, second harmonics may fall to UL frequencies of
Band 43.
Table 6.46.3.1-2: DL intermodulation products frequency limits for CA of Band
39, Band 39 and Band 41
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high
DL frequency (MHz) 1880 1920 2496 2690
Two-tone 2^nd^ order IMD products f2_low -- f1_high f2_high -- f1_low
f2_low + f1_low f2_high + f1_high
IMD frequency range (MHz) 576 to 810 4376 to 4610
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f1_low -- f2_high 2*f1_high -- f2_low
2*f2_low -- f1_high 2* f2_high -- f1_low
IMD frequency range (MHz) 1070 to 1344 3072 to 3500
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products 2*f1_low + f2_low 2*f1_high + f2_high
2*f2_low + f1_low 2*f2_high + f1_high
IMD frequency range (MHz) 6256 to 6530 6872 to 7300
Three-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (f1_low --\ (f1_high +\ (f2_low --\
(f2_high +\ max BW f2) max BW f2) max BW f1) max BW f1)
IMD frequency range (MHz) 1860 to 1940 2461 to 2725
* * *
As shown in Table 6.46.3.1-2, second order intermodulation products may fall
to UL frequencies of Band 12, 13, 14, 17, 27, 28 or 44.
Third intermodulation products may fall to UL frequencies of Band 1, 2, 7, 22,
25, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38 or 42.
It is suggested BS transmitters supporting CA of Band 39, Band 39 and Band 41
should not share the same antenna with Band 1, 2, 7, 12, 13, 14, 17, 22, 25,
27, 28, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 42, 43 or 44 BS receiver, unless the antenna path
meets very stringent third order PIM specification so that the PIM will not
cause Band 1, 2, 7, 12, 13, 14, 17, 22, 25, 27, 28, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 42, 43
or 44 BS receiver desensitization.
#### 6.46.3.2 For the UE
For single UL non-simultaneous UE, the 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ harmonic analysis for
B39 and B41 is done in the 2DL/1UL TR 36.851. None of the products falls into
the B39 or B41 UE receiving bands. For UE coexistence the single UL is already
considered for these bands in TS 36.101.
### 6.46.4 ΔTIB,c and ΔRIB,c
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation configurations with
uplink assigned to one E-UTRA band the ΔT~IB,c~ is defined for applicable
bands in Table 6.46.4-1.
Table 6.46.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_39C-41A 39 0 41 0
* * *
For the UE which supports this inter-band carrier aggregation with uplink in
one E-UTRA band, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity in Table
7.3.1-1 (TS 36.101) shall be increased by the amount given in ΔRIB,c in Table
6.46.4-2 for the applicable E-UTRA bands.
Table 6.46.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ Inter-band with one active UL
serving cell [dB] CA_39C-41A 39 0.2 41 0.2
* * *
## 6.47 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 39, Band 41
and Band 41
### 6.47.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.47.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_39-41 39 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz TDD 41 2496 MHz -- 2690
MHz 2496 MHz -- 2690 MHz
* * *
### 6.47.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.47.2-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4  
MHz | 3  
MHz | 5  
MHz | 10  
MHz | 15  
MHz | 20  
MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_39A-41C | 39 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | 60 | 0  
| 41 |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |   
| 41 |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |   
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of a 3DL CA bandwidth combination set, the UE shall support all single carrier channel bandwidths for the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 and all the 2DL CA bandwidth combination sets in table 5.6A.1-1, 5.6A.1-2, and 5.6A.1-3 of TS 36.101 whose channel bandwidths are entirely covered by the signaled 3DL CA bandwidth combination set. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 when operating in single carrier mode
6.48LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 2, Band 2 and
Band 29
## 6.48 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 2, Band 2
and Band 29
### 6.48.1 Operating Bands for CA
Void
### 6.48.2 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/3 DL
The 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of Band 2, Band
2 and Band 29 DL carriers (i.e. 3DL CA with one component carrier in each
band) can be calculated as shown in Table 6.48.2-1 below:
Table 6.48.2-1: Band 2, Band 2 and Band 29 DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1-low f1-high f2-low f2-high f3-low f3-high DL frequency (MHz)
717 728 1930 1990 1930 1990
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low -- f3-high) (f1-high + f2-high --
f3-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 657 788
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) (f1-high + f3-high --
f2-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 657 788
3^rd^ order IMD products (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) (f2-high + f3-high --
f1-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3132 3263
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low + f3-low) (f1-high + f2-high +
f3-high)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4577 4708
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.48.2-1 that in addition to the impacts of
harmonics and IMD products from the constituent 2DL CA configurations, the
3^rd^ order IMD products supporting 3 DL CA of Band (2 + 2 + 29) may fall into
the BS receive band of Bands 12, 13, 17, 28 and 44. However, Bands 28 and 44
are not intended for use in the same geographical area as Bands 2 and 29.
Therefore, the focus here is on the 3^rd^ order IMD products falling into
Bands 12, 13 and 17.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the IMD interference generated within the Band 13 receiver would
be well below the receiver noise floor eliminating the possibility of receiver
desensitization, provided that Band (2 + 2 + 29) BS transmitter does not share
the same antenna with Band 13 BS receiver. On the other hand, receiver
desensitization may still be an issue for Bands 12 and 17 BS receive band,
which is only 1 MHz away from Band 29 transmit band.
Therefore, it is recommended that Band (2 + 2 + 29) BS transmitter should not
share the same antenna with Band 12 or 17 BS receiver to prevent BS receiver
desensitization, or with Band 13 BS receiver unless the antenna path meets
very stringent 3^rd^ order PIM specification so that the PIM will not cause
Band 13 BS receiver desensitization. Note that antenna sharing may be allowed
as the state-of-the-art continues to evolve in the future.
### 6.48.3 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/2 DL
The 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and IMD products caused in the BS by
transmitting of contiguous Band 2 DL carriers can be calculated as shown in
Table 6.48.3-1 below:
Table 6.48.3-1: Band 2 DL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f-low f-high DL frequency (MHz) 1930 1990
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 3860 3980 3^rd^ harmonics frequency
limits (MHz) 5790 5970
2^nd^ order IMD products (f-low -- f-high) (f-high -- f-low) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) -60 60
3^rd^ order IMD products (2* f-low -- f-high) (2*f-high -- f-low) IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 1870 2050
3^rd^ order IMD products (with maximum channel bandwidth) (f-low -- f-BWmax)
(f-high + f-BWmax) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1890 2030
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.48.3-1 that the 3^rd^ IMD products of BS
supporting CA of Band 2 may fall into the BS receive band of Bands 1, 2, 23,
25, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37 and 39. Note that the calculation in Table 6.48.3-1
(except the last row) assumes the BS is transmitting with the whole 60 MHz DL
frequency of Band 2. But even if the BS is only transmitting up to 20 MHz (20
+ 20 MHz) contiguous carriers in Band 2 as stated in the WIDS, the 3^rd^ IMD
products may still fall into the BS receive band of these bands as shown in
the last row in Table 6.48.3-1. However, the 3^rd^ IMD products will not fall
into the BS own (up to 40 MHz) receive block within Band 2.
Note that Bands 1, 33, 34 and 39 are not intended for use in the same
geographical area as Band 2. Moreover, co-location of Band 2 transmitter and
Band 35, 36 or 37 transceiver implies FDD/TDD co-location on adjacent
frequencies which requires the use of certain site-engineering solutions to
avoid mutual interference. Consequently, the focus here will be on the 3^rd^
order IMD products falling into Bands 2, 23 and 25.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the Band 2 BS transmit filter and the Band 2, 23 or 25 BS
receive filter would not be able to provide substantial attenuation to reduce
the IMD interference generated within the Band 2, 23 or 25 BS receive band to
well below the receiver noise floor to prevent receiver desensitization, as
there is not a large frequency gap between Band 2 DL and Band 2, 23 or 25 UL.
Therefore, it is recommended that Band 2 BS transmitters supporting contiguous
CA should not share the same antenna with other Band 2, 23 or 25 BS receiver
to prevent BS receiver desensitization. Note that antenna sharing may be
allowed as the state-of-the-art continues to evolve in the future.
## 6.49 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) of Band 1, Band 41
and Band 41
### 6.49.1 Operating bands for Band 1, Band 41 and Band 41
Table 6.49.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_1-41 1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD 41 2496 MHz -- 2690
MHz 2496 MHz -- 2690 MHz TDD
* * *
### 6.49.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.49.2-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
**CA_1A-41C** | 1 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 60 | 0  
| 41 | See Table 5.6A.1-1 CA_41C Set 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [4] when operating in single carrier
mode.
#### 6.49.2.1 List of specific combination issues
For this band combination to work, following need to be 1provided:
1) B1 Rx and B41 Rx need to provide deep rejection at B1 Tx
2) B1 Tx needs deep rejection at B1 Rx and B41 Rx
The current RAN4 requirements for this inter-band CA combination only includes
PCell in FDD band, i.e. band 1.
### 6.49.3 Co-existence studies for Band 1, Band 41 and Band 41
#### 6.49.3.1 For the BS
Table 6.49.3.1-1 gives the intermodulation products for band 1 + band 41+ band
41 CA. For the IMD analysis the maximum transmission as defined in Table
6.49.3.1-1 is considered. None of the harmonics of one band fall into the
receive band of the other. The intermodulation products generated by two
operating bands do not impact the own receiver since TDD BS cannot transmit
and receive simultaneously in a single band.
It can be seen in the table that 2nd order IMD products may fall into BS
receive band 31. The 3rd order IMD products may fall into BS receive bands of
1, 3, 4, 7, 9, 10, 23, 24, 30, 33, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 and 41\. However,
when the impact of maximum bandwidth is considered, the 3^rd^ order IMD
products do not fall into the BS receive of Band 1, 23, 30, 33, 34, 36, 37,
39, 40.
It should be noted that Bands 4, 7, 10, 24, 31 and 38 are not intended for use
in the same geographical area as Band 1 and Band 41. This leaves bands 3, 9
and 41 to consider for IMD products.
Currently Bands 3 and 9 are used in the same geographical area as Band 1 and
41. It is recommended that Band 1 and 41 BS transmitters do not share the same
antenna with Band 3 or 9 BS receivers so that the antenna PIM will not cause
Band 3 or 9 BS receiver desensitization. A TDD BS cannot transmit and receive
simultaneously in a single band so the own B41 receiver is protected. However,
it is not recommended that different band 41 operators share the same antenna
as a Band 1 transmitter unless the operation is synchronized.
Table 6.49.3.1-1: B1 + B41 + B41 harmonics and IMD products frequency limits
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high DL frequency (MHz) 2110 2170 2496
2690 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 4220 4340 4992 5380 3^rd^
order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 6330 6510 7488 8070 2^nd^ order IMD
products \|f2_low -- f1_high\| \|f2_high -- f1_low\| \|f2_low + f1_low\|
\|f2_high + f1_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 326 580 4606 4860 3^rd^ order
IMD products \|f2_high -- 2*f1_low\| \|f2_low -- 2*f1_high\| \|2*f2_low --
f1_high\| \|2*f2_high -- f1_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1530 1844 2822
3270 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*f1_low + f2_low\| \|2*f1_high + f2_high\|
\|2*f2_low + f1_low\| \|2*f2_high + f1_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 6716
7030 7102 7550 3^rd^ order IMD products \|f1_low -- f2_high + f2_low\|
\|f1_high + f2_high -- f2_low\| \|f2_low -- f1_high + f1_low\| \|f2_high +
f1_high -- f1_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1916 2364 2436 2750 3rd order
IMD products (with maximum channel bandwidth) \|f1_low -- max BW f2\|
\|f1_high + max BW f2\| \|f2_low -- max BW f1\| \|f2_high + max BW f1\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 2070 2210 2476 2710
* * *
#### 6.49.3.2 For the UE
Table 6.49.3.2-1 provides the harmonic products for CA_1A-41C with 1 UL. None
of the harmonic products fall into the B1 or B41 UE receiving bands.
Table 6.49.3.2-1: 1UL B1 + B41 + B41 harmonic products
* * *
UE UL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high UL frequency (MHz) 1920 1980 2496
2690 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 3840 to 3960 4992 to 5380  
3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 5760 to 5940 7488 to 8070
* * *
### 6.49.4 ∆T~IB,C~ and ∆R~IB,C~
For three simultaneous DL and one UL, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB~ values are shown
in Table 6.49.4-1 and Table 6.49.4-2 respectively.
Table 6.49.4-1 : ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_1A-41C 1 0.5 41 0.5
* * *
Table 6.49.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_1A-41C 1 0 41 0
* * *
## 6.50 Void
## 6.51 LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/1UL) for Band 25, Band
41, and Band 41
Table 6.51-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_25-41 25 1850 MHz -- 1915 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1995 MHz FDD 41 2496 MHz -- 2690
MHz 2496 MHz -- 2690 MHz TDD
* * *
Table 6.51-2: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL inter-
band CA
CA operating / Channel bandwidth | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth Combination Set |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz |  |   
CA_25A-41C | 25 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 60 | 0  
| CA_41C | See table below |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 6.51-3: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths of CA_41C configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
E-UTRA CA configuration Component carriers in order of increasing carrier
frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                        Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_41C 10 20 40 0
                                                        15                                                            15, 20
                                                        20                                                            10, 15, 20
                                                        5, 10                                                         20                                               40                          1
                                                        15                                                            15, 20
                                                        20                                                            5, 10, 15, 20
* * *
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [4] when
operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.51.1 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/2 DL
The 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and IMD products caused in the BS by
transmitting of contiguous Band 41 DL carriers can be calculated as shown in
Table 6.51.1-1 below:
Table 6.51.1-1: Band 41 DL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f-low f-high DL frequency (MHz) 2496 2690
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 4992 5380 3^rd^ harmonics frequency
limits (MHz) 7488 8070
2^nd^ order IMD products (f-low -- f-high) (f-high -- f-low) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) -194 194
3^rd^ order IMD products (2*f-low -- f-high) (2*f-high -- f-low) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 2302 2884
3^rd^ order IMD products (with maximum channel bandwidth) (f-low -- BWmax)
(f-high + BWmax) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2456 2730
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.51.1-1 that the 3^rd^ order IMD products of BS
transmitting contiguous carriers in Band 41 may fall into the BS receive band
of Bands 7, 30, 38, 40 and 41. Note that the calculation in Table 6.51.1-1
(except the last row) assumes the BS is transmitting with the whole 194 MHz DL
frequency of Band 41. If the BS is only transmitting an up to 40 MHz DL in
Band 41 as stated in the WIDS, then the 3^rd^ IMD products will not fall into
the BS receive band of the Band 30 or 40 as shown in the last row in Table
6.51.1-1.
Note that Bands 7 and 38 are not intended for use in the same geographical
area as Band 41. Moreover, the Band 41 BS deployed in the same geographical
area are assumed to be synchronized so that the Band 41 BS receivers will not
be interfered by the Band 41 BS transmission. Therefore, the 3^rd^ IMD
products of BS transmitting two contiguous carriers in Band 41will not fall
into the BS receive band of any operating band currently defined in the 3GPP
standards for use in the same geographical area.
### 6.51.2 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/3 DL
The 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of Band 25, Band
41 and Band 41 DL carriers (i.e. 3DL CA with one component carrier in each
band) can be calculated as shown in Table 6.51.2-1 below:
Table 6.51.2-1: Band 25, Band 41 and Band 41 DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1-low f1-high f2-low f2-high f3-low f3-high DL frequency (MHz)
1930 1995 2496 2690 2496 2690
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low -- f3-high) (f1-high + f2-high --
f3-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1736 2189
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f3-low -- f2-high) (f1-high + f3-high --
f2-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1736 2189
3^rd^ order IMD products (f2-low + f3-low -- f1-high) (f2-high + f3-high --
f1-low)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2997 3450
3^rd^ order IMD products (f1-low + f2-low + f3-low) (f1-high + f2-high +
f3-high)  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 6922 7375
* * *
It can be seen from Table 6.51.2-1 that in addition to the impacts of
harmonics and IMD products from the constituent 2DL CA configurations, the
3^rd^ order IMD products supporting 3 DL CA of Band (25 + 41 + 41) may fall
into the BS receive band of Bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 22, 23, 25, 33, 34, 35,
36, 37, 39 and 42. However, Bands 1, 3, 9, 10, 33, 34 and 39 are not intended
for use in the same geographical area as Bands 25 and 41. Moreover, co-
location of Band 25 transmitter and Band 35, 36 or 37 transceiver implies
FDD/TDD co-location on adjacent frequencies which requires the use of certain
site-engineering solutions to avoid mutual interference. Therefore, the focus
here is on the 3^rd^ order IMD products falling into Bands 2, 4, 22, 23, 25
and 42. Note that the 3^rd^ order IMD products will not fall into the BS own
(up to 20 MHz) receive block within Band 25.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the IMD interference generated within the Band 4, 22 or 42
receiver would be well below the receiver noise floor eliminating the
possibility of receiver desensitization, provided that Band (25 + 41 + 41) BS
transmitter does not share the same antenna with Band 4, 22 or 42 BS receiver.
But there is not a large frequency gap between Band 25 DL and Bands 2, 23 and
25 UL, and hence Bands 2, 23 and 25 BS receiver desensitization may still be
an issue.
Therefore, it is recommended that Band (25 + 41 + 41) BS transmitter should
not share the same antenna with Band 2, 23 or 25 BS receiver to prevent BS
receiver desensitization, or with Band 4, 22 or 42 BS receiver unless the
antenna path meets very stringent 3^rd^ order PIM specification so that the
PIM will not cause Band 4, 22 or 42 BS receiver desensitization. Note that
antenna sharing may be allowed as the state-of-the-art continues to evolve in
the future.
### 6.51.3 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For the UE which supports inter-band carrier aggregation in Band 25A and Band
41C with uplink assigned to Band 25 the ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ is defined for
applicable bands in Table 6.51.3-1 and 6.51.3-2 respectively.
Table 6.51.3-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_25A-41C 25 0.5 41 0.5
* * *
Table 6.51.3-2: ΔR~IB,c~ for 3DLs aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_25A-41C 25 0 41 0
* * *
#