# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
At the 3GPP TSG RAN #61meeting, the Study Item Description on \"Study on Group
Communication for E-UTRA\" has been approved RP-131382 [2]. This study item
covers evaluation of the ability of E-UTRA to fulfil the group communication
requirements specified in the 3GPP TS 22.468 [3].
# 1 Scope
The present document is related to the study item \"Study on Group
Communication for E-UTRA\" [2]. This Technical Report is to study and perform
an evaluation of existing E-UTRA procedures to support Group Communication for
E-UTRA. The Stage-1 requirements for this study are defined in 3GPP TS 22.468
[3].
This document is intended to gather all technical outcomes of the study and
analysis, and draw a conclusion on the way forward.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TSG-RAN RP-131382: \"New SI proposal: Group Communication for LTE\",
RAN #61, Sep.2013.
[3] 3GPP TS 22.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE;
(GCSE_LTE)\".
[4] ETSI ETR 086: \"Trans European Trunked Radio (TETRA) System; Technical
Requirements Specification Part 1: Voice plus Data (V+D) systems\", January
1994.
[5] 3GPP TR 23.768: \"Study on architecture enhancements to support Group
Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE)\".
[6] 3GPP TR 36.912: \"Feasibility study for Further Advancements for E-UTRA
(LTE-Advanced)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[8] 3GPP TR 25.912: \"Feasibility study for evolved Universal Terrestrial
Radio Access (UTRA) and Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN)\".
[9] R2-140051: \"Capacity of group call over eMBMS\", Qualcomm, RAN2#85, Feb
2014.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
(none).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BM-SC Broadcast/Multicast Service Center
GCSE Group Communication System Enabler
GCSE AS Group Communication System Enabler Application Server
GCSE_LTE Group Communication System Enabler over Long Term Evolution
MBMS-GW MBMS Gateway
MBMS SAI MBMS Service Area Identity
MSP MCH Scheduling Period
P-GW PDN Gateway
PCRF Policy and Charging Rule Function
PoC Push to talk Over Cellular
PTT Push To Talk
TETRA Trans European Trunked RAdio
TMGI Temporary Mobile Group Identity
USD User Service Description
# 4 Focus group communication requirements for evaluation of E-UTRA
The Stage-1 requirements for the evaluation of E-UTRA procedures for group
communication are defined in 3GPP TS 22.468 [3].\ The following requirements
are taken from the group communication requirements specified in 3GPP TS
22.468 [3] and identified as directly applicable to the study:
\- A user can be a member of more than one group and communicates to several
groups at the same time in parallel; clause 4.1 of 3GPP TS 22.468 [3].
\- The group communication procedure should support the following performance
requirements, clause 5.1.2 of 3GPP TS 22.468 [3].
\- End to end setup time for group communication should be less than or equal
to 300ms.The end-to-end setup time is defined as the time between a group
member initiating a group communication request on a UE and the point at which
this group member can start sending a voice or data communication. It is also
assumed that there is no acknowledgement from receiver group members before it
is allowed to proceed with the communication.
\- The time to join an ongoing group communication to the time it receives the
group communication should be less than or equal to 300ms. The time for
joining an ongoing group communication is defined as the time from when a UE
requests to join an ongoing group communication to the time that it receives
the group communication.
NOTE: The 300ms indicated in the preceding requirements is based on
requirements from ETSI ETR 086 [4] for legacy TETRA mission critical voice
systems. It is understood that these requirements are particularly important
for half duplex voice communication and other data that is delay sensitive.
These requirements may not be met in some cases where the data is delay
insensitive e.g., a large document and/or where the type of Group
Communication requires acknowledgement(s) from Receiver Group Members before
it is allowed to proceed.
\- End to end delay for media transport should be less than 150ms. The end to
end delay for media transport is assumed to be the time required for the
transmission of data from transmitting group member to the receiving group
member.
\- The evaluation in E-UTRAN should take into account the scalability support
of the group communication taking into account that the number of receiver
group members in any area may be as large as the value specified in 3GPP TS
22.468 [3] and the future extension flexibility of number of group
communications supported in parallel, clause 5.1.5 of 3GPP TS 22.468 [3].
\- Service continuity shall be supported when the participating UEs moving
among cells during group communication, clause 5.1.3 of 3GPP TS 22.468 [3]
\- The evaluation should take into account radio efficiency in support of data
distribution for group communication, clause 5.1.4 of 3GPP TS 22.468 [3].
\- The evaluation should take into account the different priority level of
group communications and support of pre-emption of lower priority
communication (i.e.: group communications and non-group communications),
clause 5.3.4 of 3GPP TS 22.468 [3].
# 5 Evaluation of E-UTRA procedures for group communication
## 5.1 Group communication using unicast bearers
### 5.1.1 Latency analysis
#### 5.1.1.1 End to end setup time
End to end setup time requirement assumes that there is no acknowledgement
from receiver group members before it is allowed to proceed with the
communication. The end to end setup time requirement can be understood as a
time for the establishment of the transmission path between the Transmitting
Group Member UE and the GCSE AS.
The end to end setup time for a RRC_IDLE UE requesting a group communication
setup is analysed below.\ Figure 5.1.1.1-1 shows the signalling flow involved
in RRC_IDLE UE requesting a group communication setup.\ It is assumed that the
UE registration to the group communication application server is kept while in
RRC_IDLE.
The end-to-end setup time involves the time spent in step 1) to step 9).
Figure 5.1.1.1-1: An example procedure for RRC_IDLE UE establishing a group
communication using 3GPP bearer setup for establishment of dedicated bearer
for VoIP.
Table 5.1.1.1-1: End to end setup time calculation for group communication
over unicast bearer
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Descriptions | Time (ms) | Comments | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | RRC_IDLE to | 50 -80 | Clause 16.2 of 3GPP TR | | RRC_CONNECTED | | 36.912 [6] | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Time from PTT floor | 55 | Out of RAN WG2 scope, the | | request to floor grant | | value 55ms, is shown as | | | | an example representative | | | | of the time required for | | | | the procedure. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Dedicated bearer for VoIP | 115 | Assume dedicated bearer | | establishment by the | | for VoIP is established | | Transmitting Group Member | | using IMS. | | UE | | | | | | It is assumed 10ms for | | | | radio interface delay, | | | | 5ms for network interface | | | | delay ad 5ms for | | | | processing delay in the | | | | calculation. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Begin establishment of | 0 | It is assumed bearers are | | VoIP bearers for the | | pre-established for | | Receiving Group Member | | receiving group members. | | UEs | | | | | | If the bearers are | | | | established for receiving | | | | group members, that could | | | | be assumed to be | | | | established in parallel | | | | to the establishment of | | | | the VoIP bearer for the | | | | transmitting UE, hence | | | | not contributing to the | | | | end to end setup time. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | End to end setup time | 220 -- 250 | Total time satisfies the | | | | end to end setup time | | | | requirement | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
The analysis assumed that the transmitting UE is in RRC_IDLE prior to the
transmission of group communication setup (i.e. floor request). The UE first
gains connection to the network. A dedicated bearer is established for VoIP
upon the group communication setup request. The estimated end to end setup
time is 220 to 250ms. The upper value is due to the RRC connection setup
procedure as per Rel-8 with 5ms PRACH cycle 3GPP TR 36.912 [6]. The end-to-end
setup delay is less than 300ms which is the end to end setup requirement for
strict latency traffic such as VoIP used in group communication.
End to end setup time requirement assumes that there is no acknowledgement
from receiver group members before the transmitting group member is allowed to
proceed with the communication. Possible delays due to DRX (for the Receiving
Group Member UEs in RRC_CONNECTED using DRX and RRC_IDLE) and time required
for the Receiving Group Member UE to transit from RRC_IDLE to RRC_CONNECTED
are not taken into account in the end to end group communication. If however
DRX status of the Receiving Group Member UE is to be taken into account,
additional time is required for the end to end group communication.
For Receiving Group Member UEs that are in RRC_CONNECTED and configured with
DRX, additional time required due to the DRX operation depends on the DRX
configuration parameters of the Receiving Group Member UEs. DRX periodicity
could take value from 2ms to 2.56s, therefore, additional latency due to DRX
operation could take values from 2ms to 2.56s depending on the DRX
configuration.
For Receiving Group Member UEs that are in RRC_IDLE, the additional time for
end to end setup consists of the time for paging the Receiving Group Member
UEs and the time for RRC_IDLE to RRC_CONNECTED transitions by the Receiving
Group Member UEs. The minimum paging cycle is 320ms therefore the additional
latency due to the Receiving Group Member UEs in RRC_IDLE is 400ms when
minimum paging cycle is configured.
#### 5.1.1.2 Time for joining an ongoing group communication
The time for joining an ongoing group communication requirement is on a user
joining an ongoing group communication for receiving the group communication.
The signalling step involves the user request for the group communication
joining and the establishment of a bearer in the downlink for data reception.
An example signalling flow is shown in figure 5.1.1.2-1. It is assumed that
the user has already performed the registration to the group communication
application server and obtained the necessary application layer security
authentication.\ The time for joining an ongoing group communication is
calculated for the UE connecting from RRC_IDLE.
Figure 5.1.1.2-1: An example procedure for receiving group member joining an
ongoing group communication
The user joining an ongoing group communication has similar number of
signalling steps to that of the Transmitting Group Member UE requesting a
grant for transmitting data. The time to join an ongoing group communication
calculation is shown in table 5.1.1.2-1.
Table 5.1.1.2-1: Calculation of time to join an ongoing group communication
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Descriptions | Time (ms) | Comments | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | RRC_IDLE to | 50 -80 | Clause 16.2 of TR 36.912 | | RRC_CONNECTED | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Time from service request | 55 | Out of RAN WG2 scope, the | | to grant | | value 55ms, is shown as | | | | an example representative | | | | of the time required for | | | | the procedure. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Dedicated bearer for VoIP | 115 | Assume dedicated bearer | | establishment | | for VoIP is established | | | | using IMS. | | | | | | | | It is assumed 10ms for | | | | radio interface delay, | | | | 5ms for network interface | | | | delay ad 5ms for | | | | processing delay in the | | | | calculation. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Time for joining an | 220 -- 250 | Total time satisfies the | | ongoing communication | | requirement for joining | | | | an ongoing communication | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
Similar to the discussion for \"end-to-end setup time requirement\", under the
assumption that the user has already registered and obtained the application
layer security, the time to join an ongoing group communication can be met.
#### 5.1.1.3 End to end delay for media transport
The end to end delay for media transport is assumed to be the time required
for the transmission of data from transmitting group member to the receiving
group member. When considering unicast bearers from transmitting group member
UE to the GSCE AS and from GSCE AS to the receiving group member UE, the time
for media transport can be calculated as shown in table 5.1.1.3-1. The total
end to end delay for media transport is in the order of 40ms.Therefore 150ms
end to end delay requirement for media transport can be achieved for delay
strict group communication applications.
Table 5.1.1.3-1: End to end delay for media transport estimation when using
unicast bearers for media delivery
+---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | Description | Time (ms) | Comments | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | Transmitting Group Member | 10 | Reference: Annex B.2 of | | UE  eNB | | 3GPP TR 36.912 [6] | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | eNBSGW/PGWGCSE ASeNB | 20 | Out of RAN WG2 scope, the | | | | value 20ms, is shown as | | | | an example representative | | | | of the time required for | | | | the procedure. Backhaul | | | | transmission delay of | | | | 10ms on each network | | | | interface is assumed. | | | | | | | | Reference: 3GPP TR 36.912 | | | | [6] | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | eNB Receiving Group | 10 | Reference: Annex B.2 of | | Member UE | | 3GPP TR 36.912 [6] | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | Total | 40 | | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+
In conclusion:
1) The end to end setup delay requirement (300ms) for group communication via
a unicast bearer can be met using E-UTRA procedures without a pre-established
radio bearer for data transmission and also for RRC_IDLE UEs establishing the
group communication setup.
2) The time to join an ongoing group communication requirement (300 ms) can be
met using E-UTRA procedures without a pre-established radio bearer and also
for UEs in RRC_IDLE. It is however assumed that user is already registered
with the group communication application server and obtained the application
layer security authentication.
3) End to end delay for media transport requirement (150ms) can be met using
E-UTRA unicast bearer for media transmission.
### 5.1.2 Scalability
VoIP capacity was evaluated through extensive simulations in both uplink and
downlink in clause 16.4.2 of 3GPP TR 36.912 [6].VoIP capacity is evaluated for
the uplink and downlink directions assuming a 12.2 kbit/s codec with a 50%
activity factor. Results shown in 3GPP TR 36.912 [6] indicate that for the
same environment, the VoIP result is similar irrespective of duplex mode
(FDD/TDD) and antenna configuration.
Since in group communication, the typical scenario is that there is one
transmitter and many receivers, DL VoIP capacity is more appropriate for
current discussion. Average DL capacity results based on Annex A3 of 3GPP
TR36.912 [6] are also included in tables. When considering the transmission of
traffic to the Receiving Group Members in group communications, 100% activity
factor should be considered because even though one Transmitting Group Member
UE is transmitting media at a time, the traffic from a group of Transmitting
UEs results in continues delivery of the traffic on the downlink bearer to the
Receiving Group Member UEs. Therefore, the VoIP capacity for Group
communication is around half of the capacity in a conventional VoIP
communication system.
For example, for urban macro (UMa) environment, the number of supported VoIP
users in group communication using unicast bearer is in the range of 34 to
37/MHz/cell for FDD, depending on antenna configuration.
Table 5.1.2-1: VoIP capacity for group communication
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | Antenna | Envi | ITU | Number | C | | | | | ronment | | | apacity | | | | config | | requ | of | [U | | | | uration | | irement | samples | ser/MHz | | | | | | | | /Cell] | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | | | | | Min | DL | group | | | | | | | | commun | | | | | | | | ication | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | Antenna | Indoor | 50 | 3 | 140 | 148 | 74 | | config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | (A) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | | Urban | 40 | 3 | 80 | 89 | 45 | | | Micro | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | | Urban | 40 | 3 | 68 | 68 | 34 | | | Macro | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | | High | 30 | 3 | 91 | 91 | 45 | | | Speed | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | Antenna | Indoor | 50 | 3 | 131 | 143 | 71 | | config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | (C) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | | Urban | 40 | 3 | 75 | 78 | 39 | | | Micro | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | | Urban | 40 | 3 | 69 | 74 | 37 | | | Macro | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | | High | 30 | 3 | 94 | 94 | 47 | | | Speed | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+
NOTE: Depending on the use of other types of media, e.g. multimedia content
(video and/or pictures) with high bit rates, the supported number of Receiver
Group Member UEs in a cell would further be limited.
### 5.1.3 Use of Bearer Type
If a large number of dedicated GBR bearers for PTT voice application are kept
established, there are impacts on call admission control on the other GBR
bearers (GBR bearers\' request of other UEs). It is likely only one
transmitting group user is granted for data transmission at a time. The number
of dedicated bearer to be maintained for support of group communication may
take a large value in some user scenarios according to 3GPP TS 22.468 [3].
Maintaining a large number of GBR bearers for support of group communication
thus enforces the limits on how many users can be supported in a cell.
QCI 1 is generally used for conversational voice application. QCI 1 bearer
could also be used for the delivery of public safety voice applications where
the media is delivered with the same level of quality of service requirement
as for the conventional voice. QCI1 bearer has 100ms of Packet Delay Budget
according to 3GPP TS 23.203 [7].\ In the worst case scenario, if the voice
packet experiences the maximum allowed PDB for both transmitting group member
and receiving group member UEs, the end to end media transport delay for the
voice packet would exceed the requirement of 150ms by 70ms (it assumes delay
over the network interfaces of 20ms). Alternatively, another (specified or
proprietary) QCI can be defined with lower PDB but that will impact the
unicast capacity compared to the capacity from the use of QCI1 bearer.
If GBR bearers are used for carrying public safety voice applications (e.g.
PTT), it would be up to the network decision to release the GBR bearer or for
how long to keep GBR bearers established after the most recent transmission of
the talk spurt.
It is also possible to use non-GBR bearers for transmission of public safety
voice application as long as those non-GBR bearers are served with high enough
scheduling priority hence satisfying the quality of service requirements (e.g.
Packet delay Budget (PDB), BLER) of the public safety voice applications.
It might be possible to optimize call admission control for group
communication but need for any new signalling towards the eNB beyond the
existing QoS parameters has not been identified. A different QCI (from VoIP,
QCI1) could be used as input to the eNB (e.g. an eNB might expect a lower UL
voice activity factor for GCSE PTT than 50%).\ The existing signalling
procedure for QoS parameters signalling is to be used. The gain of using a
different QCI for group communication application has not been quantified.
In conclusion:
1) If GBR bearers are kept established during long idle periods of the PTT
service other GBR bearers (e.g. conversational Voice) may be rejected by the
call admission control at the eNB.
2) It is possible to use GBR bearers for carrying PTT data. It would be up to
the network whether and for how long to keep GBR bearers established after the
delivery of the most recent talk spurt.
3) It is also possible to use non-GBR bearers if those are given high enough
scheduling priority so that these packets are delivered within the desired
PDB.
4) QCI1 is one feasible option. PDB of a QCI1 bearer is 100ms according to
3GPP TS 23.203 [7]. In the worst case scenario, if the voice packet
experiences the maximum allowed PDB for both Transmitting Group Member and
Receiving Group Member UEs, the end to end media transport delay for the voice
packet would exceed the requirement of 150ms by 70ms (it assumes delay over
the network interfaces of 20ms). Alternatively, another (specified or
proprietary) QCI can be defined with lower PDB but that will impact the
unicast capacity compared to what is resulted from the use of QCI1 bearer.
## 5.2 Group communication using MBMS
### 5.2.1 Latency analysis
#### 5.2.1.1 Use of pre-established MBMS Point to Multipoint Radio Bearer
(MRB)
Figure 5.2.1.1-1 shows an example procedure of group call over pre-configured
MRB. The group members are provided with the group IDs to TMGI mapping
information at the registration to the application server if the multicast
delivery is supported. The service information together with the corresponding
TMGI for the service can be provided to the user together with the application
layer information.
Figure 5.2.1.1-1 Group Communication over pre-configured MRB
1) Group is managed by GCSE AS. GCSE AS requests BM-SC to assign TMGI to the
group.
2) The MRB corresponding to the TMGI is pre-established.
3) UE downloads User Service Description (USD) for the corresponding service.
4) The UE establishes QCI=5 EPS bearer for GCSE signalling and registers to
the GCSE AS over the EPS bearer. When the UE registers with the GCSE AS, the
UE reports its capability and indicates if it is within MBMS coverage. The UE
may also register to BM-SC for security keys.
5) The group call session is established in advance. This step is similar to
the session establishment procedure of Push to talk over Cellular (PoC). The
unicast EPS bearer is established for future sending and/or receiving (in case
of MRB is not available) of group communication. The UE initiates MBMS
reception by reading SIB2, SIB13, SIB15 and MCCH.
6) When a UE presses PTT button, the UE performs a service request procedure
to enter RRC_CONNECTED if the UE is in RRC_IDLE.
7) The originating UE sends Floor Request to GCSE AS.\ GCSE AS knows whether
MRB is available from UEs' location and capability information from step 4.
GCSE AS sends Talker Identity to UEs in the same bearer as media, i.e. pre-
configured MRB (if available) and/or unicast bearer (for UEs not in MBMS
coverage).\ The UEs in MBMS coverage monitor MBMS Scheduling Information (MSI)
on Multicast Channel (MCH) at the beginning of each MCH Scheduling Period
(MSP). The shortest MSP is 80ms in current standard. So, the average user
plane delay on MBMS air interface can be as short as 40ms.\ When the UE
detects scheduling information for the MTCH of the group, the UE monitors the
MTCH to receive the Talker Identity message and the associated media.
8) The GCSE AS sends Floor Grant to the originating UE. It is up to GCSE AS
implementation on the timing of sending Floor Grant. Ideally, the Talker
Identity message and the first media packet should be sent by eNB in the same
MSP. Otherwise, after the Talker Identity is delivered, one more MSP delay is
needed for media transmission.
9) UE sends media to GCSE AS. GCSE AS forwards the media to the MRB and/or the
unicast bearer(s).
##### 5.2.1.1.1 End to end setup time
End to end setup time requirement assumes that there is no acknowledgement
from receiver group members before it is allowed to proceed with the
communication. The end to end setup time requirement can be understood as a
time for the establishment of the transmission path between the transmitting
group member UE and the GCSE AS. The unicast bearer is used for the
transmission path from the transmitting group member UE to the GCSE AS.
Therefore, the end to end setup time calculation shown in clause 5.1.1.1 also
applies when using a pre-established MRB for the delivery of media to the
receiving group members.
##### 5.2.1.1.2 Time for joining an ongoing group communication
The group communication is assumed to be ongoing using MRB. The receiving
group member is expected to have performed the registration to the application
server and obtained the corresponding TMGI(s) for the group communication.
When the receiving group member decides to join the ongoing communication, the
user checks whether the corresponding TMGI(s) is provided over MBMS in its
location. If so the UE acquires the scheduling information for the
corresponding TMGI and starts receiving the data on MTCH. The total time to
join an ongoing group communication provided over MBMS is shown in table
5.2.1.1.2-1.
Table 5.2.1.1.2-1 Time for joining an ongoing group communication estimation\
when using MRB for media delivery\ (The values indicate average delays and the
value in parenthesis indicates worst case delay.)
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Time [ms] | comments | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Acquisition of MCCH | 10 | Processing delay at | | configuration in | | the UE | | SIB13 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Average delay due to | 160 (320) | For MCCH Repetition | | MCCH scheduling | | period of 320ms. | | period | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Acquisition of MCCH | 10 | Processing delay at | | and MTCH | | the UE | | configuration for | | | | TMGI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Average time | 50 (100) | Maximum MCCH offset | | required if | | value is 100ms. It | | acquisition of | | is assumed that the | | multiple MCCHs is | | reading of multiple | | required. | | MCCH is performed in | | | | parallel | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Average delay due to | 40 (80) | 80ms of | | MCH scheduling | | mch-SchedulingPeriod | | period | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Acquisition of MSI | 5 | L1 and L2 processing | | for the | | at the UE | | corresponding | | | | service | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total time | 275 (525) | The value shows the | | | | **average time** for | | | or | joining an ongoing | | | | group communication. | | | 45 (85) if the | | | | | | | | UE has up to date | | | | MCCH content | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Upon the decision to join an ongoing group communication, the UE sends a
joining request to the GCSE AS indicating which group communication it's
willing to join. While waiting for the joining request Ack from the GCSE AS,
the UE starts acquiring the control information necessary for receiving the
service over MBMS. Therefore the transmission of joining request and reception
of joining request Ack are performed in parallel to the acquisition of MBMS
control information and not directly add extra delay to the procedure.
It is assumed that the registered user has acquired the SIB13 and kept up-to-
date SIB13 information during the communication.
If the UE has up to date MCCH content (the shaded rows of the table are not
applicable), the total time for acquiring the information required for
receiving the corresponding MTCH is 45ms (avg)/85 (worst case).
Provided that the UE has kept informed of SIB13 contents and has already
registered with the GCSE AS, on average, the time for joining an ongoing group
communication requirement (300ms) can be met with use of the MRB for the
delivery of traffic in group communication.
##### 5.2.1.1.3 End to end delay for media transport
The end to end delay for media transport defines the end to end delay for
media transport including the processing and scheduling time taken at the
network nodes. Therefore the requirement is directly link to the MCH
Scheduling Period (MSP) when MBMS is used as the transport delivery mechanism.
An estimation of the end to end delay for media transport for Group
Communications over MRB is shown in table 5.2.1.1.3-1.
Table 5.2.1.1.3-1 User plane delay estimation when using MRB for media
delivery
+---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | Description | Time (ms) | Comments | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | Talker UE  eNB | 10 | Reference: Annex B.2 of | | | | 3GPP TR 36.912 [6] | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | eNBSGW/PGWGCSE ASBM-SC | 20 | Out of RAN WG2 scope, the | | | | value 20ms, is shown as | | | | an example representative | | | | of the time required for | | | | the procedure. Backhaul | | | | transmission delay of | | | | 10ms on each network | | | | interface is assumed | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | BM-SC  eNB | 40 | Assumes SYNC sequence | | | | length = 40ms = MSP/2. | | | | | | | | The eNB processing time | | | | and M1 delay are captured | | | | into the 40ms. | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | MSP (Read MSI) | 80 | MSP = 80ms | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | eNB  Receiving UEs | 10 | Receiving and processing | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | Total | 160 | | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+
##### 5.2.1.1.4 Aspects of pre-established MRBs
The MBMS sessions which are intended to be scheduled in each PMCH is signalled
in MCCH. MCCH also provides the MBSFN subframe allocation for each PMCH
indicated in the MCCH. MCCH provides the mapping between MBMS session Id, TMGI
and Logical channel ID (MTCH). The actual radio resource scheduling for a
particular LCID (hence TMGI) is provided in MCH scheduling information MAC CE.
It can be indicated in MSI that radio resources are not allocated for a
particular LCID (hence TMGI). Therefore, even though the MCCH indicates a TMGI
is intended to be scheduled, MSI can indicate that TMGI is not scheduled in
the current MSP using special Stop MTCH value 2047. The above signalling
procedure allows for the MRB for a TMGI to be pre-established but not
scheduled until it is necessary to transmit traffic. However, the GBR of the
MRB can impact the CAC algorithm in the MCE.
As discussed in clause 5.2.2, a theoretical maximum of 3480 MBMS radio bearers
represented by individual TMGI can be supported in a cell from protocol
perspective. Furthermore, multiple user services can be multiplexed on to the
same MBMS bearer (TMGI) transparent to RAN.
A further enhancement for consideration is to shorten the MCH scheduling
period/MCCH repetition period/ MCCH modification period in order to allow a
faster establishment of new MRBs. This would allow setting up MRBs on the fly
with reduced delay and reduce the latency for joining an ongoing MRB. However,
it requires changes in specifications and implementations.
#### 5.2.1.2 Use of unicast bearer for data transmission to Receiving Group
Members while establishing MRB
In order to minimize the end to end setup time for group communication, a
unicast bearer can be used for data transmission upon start of the group call.
In this solution, E-UTRAN establishes a MRB for the data transmission as soon
as the number of participating UEs exceeds a certain threshold. In this
solution, the following steps can be considered:
\- E-UTRAN may broadcast MBMS SAIs to inform the UE about the service areas
\- Upon start of the group call, UEs are notified using application layer
procedures
\- While in service area and session is ongoing and enter connected mode
\- All eNBs in the service area are informed about the start of the group call
\- For each group call a service area is configured (e.g. using OAM) covering
the region of the incident
\- The eNBs will perform periodic counting to determine if the number of UEs
is exceeding a threshold so that MBMS transmission should be used.
\- While the service is ongoing (based on application layer info), the UE is
in the service area and the service (TMGI) is not indicated on MCCH, the
service is transmitted to the UE over unicast bearer.
\- Somewhat after session start, the eNB starts periodic counting. In case the
number of UEs exceeds the threshold, it starts employing MBSFN transmission.
### 5.2.2 Scalability
#### 5.2.2.1 Capacity evaluation
From protocol perspective, each cell can be configured with up to 8 MBSFN
areas, and each MBSFN area can be configured with up to 15 PMCH, and each PMCH
can be configured with up to 29 sessions. Therefore, MBMS allows maintaining
up to 3480 bearer services (i.e. sessions with its own TMGI) in parallel.
Furthermore, it is possible to multiplex multiple user services on a TMGI,
which is transparent to RAN. The actual capacity of group communication over
MBMS is restricted by the radio capacity. The number of active MBMS sessions
that the system support in parallel will be evaluated based on the following
assumptions:
1\. 6 sub-frames per frame are reserved for MBSFN.\ This is the maximum radio
resources that could be assigned to MBSFN as per the current specification.
2\. RoHC is not supported.
3\. The media type is VoIP (AMR 12.2 kbit/s codec).\ The payload size in MAC
layer for each speech frame is about 608 bits (30.4kb/s).
MBSFN performance was evaluated through extensive simulations in clause 13.8.2
of 3GPP TR 25.912 [8]. Based on the evaluation results, we can calculate the
number of active MBMS sessions supported in parallel when the media type is
VoIP for different deployment cases, as shown in table 5.2.2.1-1.
Table 5.2.2.1-1: Capacity of VoIP over eMBMS
+------------+----------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Deployment | Spectrum Efficiency\ | MCS | Capacity | | | [bit/s/Hz] | | | | | | | [Session/MHz] | +------------+----------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Case 1 | 3.13 | 64QAM (4/5) | 49 | +------------+----------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Case 2 | 3.02 | 64QAM (4/5) | 47 | +------------+----------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Case 3 | 0.99 | 16QAM (1/3) | 6 | +------------+----------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Case 4 | 3.18 | 64QAM (4/5) | 50 | +------------+----------------------+-------------+-----------------+
NOTE 1: [9] also provides the capacity analysis for group communication over
eMBMS.
NOTE 2: Depending on the use of other types of media, e.g. multimedia content
(video and/or pictures) with high bit rates, the supported number of active
MBMS sessions in parallel would further be limited.
#### 5.2.2.2 Use of RoHC for group communication
Since there is no feedback from MBMS channels, the only feasible RoHC mode
that can be applied in GCSE over MRB is Unidirectional Mode. In Unidirectional
Mode, RoHC context is refreshed periodically and a number of initialization
and refresh headers (i.e. the full RTP/UDP/IP headers) must be sent by the
compressor periodically to ensure proper decompression. This periodicity
inherently results in some delay for users to access an ongoing MBMS service.
Table 5.2.1.1.3-1 illustrates the end to end delay for media transport for
group communication over MRB. As shown in table 5.2.1.1.3-1, there is no time
budget for UE to wait for the first available full header for decompression
when accessing an ongoing group communication.
In RoHC Unidirectional Mode, the value of the compression parameters that
determine the efficiency and robustness (e.g. confidence variable L, IR
TIMEOUT and FO TIMEOUT) are not defined in ROHC specification and negotiated
initially but are implementation dependent.
RoHC is not required to support group communication using MBMS. The
compression gain, even though possible, would need to be traded carefully
against the acceptable additional delay. If full headers are sent
infrequently, this increases the media transfer delay over MBMS.
### 5.2.3 Service continuity
#### 5.2.3.1 Service continuity scenarios
When considering the use cases for support of group communications for public
safety users, the receiving or transmitting users move among cells while the
group communication is ongoing. Service continuity shall be supported when UEs
move among cells during group communication. The following service continuity
scenarios are identified.
Scenario 1: Moving within an MBSFN area
Service continuity within the same MBSFN area is already supported by the
legacy MBMS mechanisms.
Scenario 2: Moving into an MBSFN area
The UE is receiving the communication over unicast bearer when the UE moving
into MBSFN area, the UE can acquire the control information for the MBMS
bearer which delivers the interested service while the service is received
over the unicast bearer. Therefore there is no interruption for the data
delivery results. Upon establishment of MBMS bearer for the service, the UE
can inform the GSCE AS of availability of MBMS bearer as a consequence the
unicast bearer can be released.
End to end delay for media transport for media delivery over MRB was shown to
be in the order of 160ms, while end to end delay for media delivery using
unicast bearers is in the order of 40ms. Due to the differences of media
transport delay over MRB and unicast, the receiving group member UEs should
expect to receive duplicates packets of the service when switching from
unicast bearer to MRB for the reception of the service. It is assumed that
duplicate handling can be performed at the application layer, e.g. the media
decoder.
Scenario 3: Moving out of an MBSFN area
When the UE moves out of an MBSFN area and the UE can no longer receive a
service via MBMS, the UE is able to request the service via unicast. A number
of scenarios can be envisaged depending on what services are provided in the
cell the UE moves into.
1). The UE is moving out of an MBSFN area into a cell where MBMS is not
supported\ (i.e. UE moves in to a non-MBSFN cell)
2). The UE is moving out of an MBSFN area into an MBSFN area not providing the
interested MBMS service
3). The UE is moving between MBSFN areas providing the same service
Figure 5.2.3.1-1 illustrates the UE mobility scenario where the UE moves out
of MBSFN area #, where it has been receiving the MBMS service, into MBSFN area
#2. MBSFN area #2 might also be part of SAI1 or SAI2, both belonging to the
same MBMS Service Area. After successful cell change, the UE reads MCCH2 where
it would detect that the same MBMS service is provided or not in the target
cell.
Figure 5.2.3.1-1: Mobility between non-overlapping intra-frequency MBSFN areas
The UE, while in the source cell, is able to identify that the neighbour cell,
which the UE is about to move into, doesn't support MBMS service based on
unavailability of SIB13 in the neighbour cell. Scheduling of SIB13 is included
in SIB1which is provided to the UE over dedicated RRC signalling for
RRC_CONNECTED UEs. RRC_IDLE UEs are required to read the SIB1 during cell
reselection. Therefore, the UE is aware of presence of SIB13 in the neighbour
cell.
If the neighbour cell, which the UE is about to move into, doesn't provide
MBMS, the UE can request the service over the unicast while receiving the
service over MBMS in the source cell.
If the neighbour cell, which the UE is about to move into, provides MBMS, i.e.
presence of SIB13, the UE can identify the unavailability of the interested
MBMS service in the target cell after moving to the target cell.
The UE can assume the service is not provided over MBMS in the neighbour cell,
which the UE is about to move into if:
a) SIB13 is not provided in the target eNB
b) the received data over MTCH cannot be decoded
c) if the service TMGI is not listed in the MCCH
The signalling flow for the case where the UE requests the service over
unicast bearer after identifying that the service is not available over MBMS
is illustrated in figure 5.2.3.1-2. Time from the UE stops receiving the
service over MBMS to the time unicast bearer is established for the service
delivery, the UE experiences service interruption.
Figure 5.2.3.1-2 An example procedure for switching from MBMS to unicast\ for
ongoing group communication
The service interruption time due to the change of delivery type from MBMS to
unicast can be estimated as in table 5.2.3.1-1.
Table 5.2.3.1-1 Average and worst case (in brackets) Delivery-type change time
estimation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Time (ms) | Comments | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Acquisition of MCCH | 10 | Processing delay at | | configuration | | the UE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Delay due to MCCH | 160 (320) | For MCCH Repetition | | scheduling period | | period of 320ms. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Acquisition of MCCH | 10 | Processing delay at | | and MTCH | | the UE | | configuration for | | | | TMGI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Time required if | 50 (100) | Maximum MCCH offset | | acquisition of | | value is 100ms. It | | multiple MCCHs is | | is assumed that the | | required. | | reading of multiple | | | | MCCH is performed in | | | | parallel | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RRC_Idle to | 50 -80 | Clause 16.2 of TR | | RRC_Connected (if | | 36.912 [6] | | not already | | | | RRC_Connected) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Time for requesting | 55 | Out of RAN2 scope, | | the service over | | the figure is | | unicast bearer | | provided as a | | | | representative | | | | example | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Dedicated bearer for | 115 | Assume dedicated | | VoIP establishment | | bearer for VoIP is | | | | established using | | | | IMS. | | | | | | | | It is assumed 10ms | | | | for radio interface | | | | delay, 5ms for | | | | network interface | | | | delay and 5ms for | | | | processing delay in | | | | the calculation | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total time | 220 -- 480 (220-690) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The UE is aware of the presence of SIB13 in the target cell during the cell
re-selection or handover procedure.\ The scheduling information of SIB13 is
provided in SIB1. The service interruption time shown in table 5.2.3.1-1
assumes that the RRC_IDLE UE is receiving a group communication over MBMS
moves out of MBSFN area into a cell which supports MBMS, however the UE is not
aware of whether the same group communication is provided over MBMS in the
target cell. The UE reads MCCH to find its interested service. the analysis
excludes the time for the UE in RRC_IDLE to acquire SIB13 in the target cell.
The calculation shows that few hundreds of milliseconds interruption is
resulted including the time required for acquiring MCCH configuration
information, acquiring possibly multiple MCCHs, RRC_IDLE to RRC_CONNECTED
transition and establishment of dedicated bearer for VoIP.
If the UE moves out of the MBSFN area and the UE identify that the service is
not available over MBMS in the new cell, and assuming the UE was in idle mode,
the interruption time can be calculated as in average the order of 220 --
480ms (220-690ms worst case). If the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED and the UE has
established bearer for voice application, the interruption time is further
reduced and in average the order of 55- 285ms (55-495ms worst case).
If the UE moves out of the MBSFN area to a cell where MBMS is not supported,
the UE identifies the unavailability of the service from the absence of SIB13
hence it can request the service over the unicast. The interruption time seen
by the UE is in the order of 220 - 300ms.
#### 5.2.3.2 Service continuity support
There are a number of potential methods which could be seen feasible for
mitigating the service interruption and data loss to an acceptable level when
the transport medium is switched from MBMS to unicast.
In one method, the network ensures reduce interference to the neighbouring
cell MBMS transmission by deploying set of \"MBSFN Area Reserved Cells\".
Figure 5.2.3.2-1 illustrates this deployment scenario. MBSFN Area Reserved
Cell is defined as a cell within a MBSFN area which does not contribute to the
MBSFN Transmission. The cell may be allowed to transmit for other services but
at restricted power on the resource allocated for the MBSFN transmission.
Figure 5.2.3.2-1 illustration of MBSFN area deployment with MBSFN Area
Reserved Cells
In this deployment scenario, even though the UE is in MBSFN Area reserved
cell, the UE could receive the MBMS transmissions from the neighbouring cells,
if sufficiently robust dataMCS is used. Similar UE behaviour can be envisaged
in a deployment scenario where the MTCH coverage is larger than that of MCCH
coverage (for cases where MTCH and MCCH are in a different subframe). The UE
finds that the cell doesn't support MBMS from the absence of SIB13 in the cell
and requests the interested group communication over unicast while receiving
the MBMS from the neighbouring cells, if possible. Therefore, no service
interruption is resulted due to MBMS to unicast switching.
Another method for switching from MBMS to unicast is based on the UE detection
of degrading MBMS quality.\ The UE request the service over unicast when MBMS
quality degraded below a threshold. The UE may identify the degrading MBMS
quality based on e.g. RSRQ, BLER of PMCH. This may be UE implementation
specific threshold or RAN could provide trigger criteria to the UE to assist
the UE in requesting unicast bearer for the interested service at an
appropriate point in time. Furthermore, the network may assist the UE in
establishing unicast bearer for the interested service by providing
indications of MBSFN area boundary or defined as part of the GCSE application
in the UE. However, specification impact in support of procedure to provide
trigger criteria to the UE or benefits of such a procedure considering the
time to take measurements and the UE mobility has not been investigated.
The need and if needed how to handle the service continuity when the network
decides to stop the MBMS transmission of a service (e.g. as a result of
counting and pre-emption) needs to be further evaluated. Furthermore, whether
the MCE is allowed to stop a service while traffic is ongoing requires further
discussion given that the group communication services may be considered with
high priority services. The E-UTRAN could first indicate in SIB or MCCH that
the service is no longer available and only after the next MCCH modification
boundary actually stop provision MTCH transmission. the UE could receive MTCH
while requesting unicast from the GCSE AS and thereby avoid a gap.
In summary:
1) MBSFN Area Reserved Cells can ensure that a UE can receive the MBMS
transmission even after having left the cells contributing to the MBMS
transmission, if sufficiently robust dataMCS is used.\ The UE can, as an
implementation option, recognise based on SIB13 that it has left the MBSFN
area and can request unicast delivery from the GCSE AS while still continuing
to receive the MTCH from the previous cell. In this case, no service
interruption may occur during MBMS to unicast transition.
2) If MBSFN Area Reserved cells are not used, the UE likely observes poor MBMS
signal quality before leaving the cell providing the MBMS transmission. The
trigger for sending the unicast request to the GCSE AS could be UE
implementation specific or be defined as part of the GCSE application in the
UE.\ However, RAN could provide trigger criteria (e.g. RSRQ, BLER) or
indications (e.g. MBSFN area border indication) to assist the UE in triggering
a unicast transition at an appropriate point in time. However, no details of
such standardised enhancements have been investigated and their benefits have
not been quantified.
# 6 Conclusions
During the study on group communication for E-UTRA, the use of unicast and
MBMS to fulfil the group communication requirements in TS 22.468 [3] were
evaluated.
The use of unicast bearer for the support of group communication was
investigated based on the latency requirement, scalability and bearer type.
The study showed that:
\- Latency requirements, the end to end setup delay, the time to join an
ongoing group communication and the end to end delay for media transport
requirements for group communication can be met using E-UTRA unicast bearer
for media transport, under the assumption that the user has already registered
and obtained the application layer security and appropriate DRX value can be
set for group communication users
\- Either GBR bearers or non-GBR bearers can be used for transport of PTT
data. It would be up to the network to configure and control the bearer
appropriately based on the available bearer characteristics at the network for
delivery of the PTT data. Special handling for Call admission control with
group communication bearers may be useful.
\- Depending on the environment and Antenna configuration and simulation
assumptions in TR 36.912 [6], between 34 to 74 users/MHz/Cell can be supported
when using 12.2kbit/s codec
The use of MBMS bearer for the support of group communication was investigated
based on the latency requirement, scalability and service continuity. The
study showed that:
\- Latency requirements, the end to end setup delay and the time to join
ongoing group communication requirements for group communication can be met
using pre-established MBMS point to multipoint radio bearer for media
transport and the UE is monitoring the MBMS bearers continuously.
\- End to end delay for media transport using MBMS radio bearer is up to 160ms
taking into account 80ms of MSP.
\- As a way of minimising the end to end setup time for group communication,
unicast bearer can be used for media delivery at the start of the group
communication, but in this option the scalability requirement on the unlimited
number of receiver group members in any area, can be met only once
broadcasting of the group communication is in place.
\- From protocol perspective, each cell can support up to 3480 MBMS radio
bearers simultaneously.\ If pre-established MBMS radio bearers to be used for
the group communication, the maximum number of MBMS radio bearers can be
provided in a cell is limited to 3480.
\- RoHC is not required for MBMS in support of group communication although it
could improve resources usage efficiency however would need to be traded
carefully against the acceptable additional delay
\- The time to setup and notify the receiving group members of the MBMS bearer
setup for a new group communication is dominated by the MCCH modification
period which takes value 5.12s and 10.2s.
\- Use of MBMS reserved cells at the MBSFN boundary can ensure that a UE can
receive MBMS transmission even after having left the cells contributing to the
MBSFN transmission, if a sufficiently robust MCS is used for the data
transmission (dataMCS).
\- If MBSFN reserved cells are not used, the trigger for sending the unicast
request to the GCSE could be UE implementation specific or be defined as part
of the GCSE application in the UE. Alternatively, it is possible for RAN to
provide trigger criteria (e.g. RSRQ, BLER) or indications (e.g. \"border
indication\") to assist the UE in triggering a unicast transition at an
appropriate point in time. However, no details of such standardized
enhancements have been investigated and their benefits have not been
quantified.
\- The UE can recognize, based on SIB13 that it is about to leave the MBSFN
area and to request unicast bearer for the group communication from the GCSE
AS while still attempting to receive the MBMS service, if sufficiently robust
dataMCS is used. In this case, no interruption may occur when the UE moves out
of the MBSFN area (i.e. MBSFN=>Unicast transition). However there is no
specified requirement that mandates UE to do this.
## 6.1 Possible specification enhancements
Further enhancements can be considered for optimized group communication
support over E-UTRA considering the future extension flexibility of number of
group communications supported in parallel. The areas for enhancements are:
\- Current QoS framework alone, when used for group communication, can lead to
suboptimal admission control. Core network assisted information for radio
parameter configuration (e.g. new QCI) and special handling of call admission
control for group communication (e.g. PTT traffic) can be considered.
\- If pre-configured MBMS bearers are not used, the time to establish a MBMS
radio bearer for the service could take up to one or two MCCH modification
periods, depending on the position of the time MCE receives the session start
message in the MCCH modification period and depending on the use of MCCH
change notification. The MCCH modification period can be configured to either
5.12 seconds or 10.24 seconds per the current specification. Shortening of
MCCH modification period can be considered to reduce the end to end setup time
for a service delivery over MBMS.
\- Given the current value range of MCH Scheduling Period, the required end-
to-end delay for media transport may exceed the requirement of 150ms by 10ms.
Shorter values for MCH Scheduling Period can be considered to reduce the end-
to-end delay for media transport.
\- Given the current value range of MCH Scheduling Period and MCCH Repetition
Period, the required time for joining an ongoing group communication may in
worse case exceed the requirement of 300ms by 225ms. Shorter values for MCH
Scheduling Period and MCCH Repetition Period can be considered to reduce the
time for joining an ongoing group communication.
\- While UE implementation specific solutions are possible, there is no
specified mandatory requirement for service continuity, when 1) UE leaves the
coverage of a given MBSFN area, and 2) when network decides to stop MBMS
broadcasting. Whether support for the latter scenario is needed is FFS.
Service continuity improvements when group members leave a MBMS area while
receiving the service over MBMS can be considered for standardization.
\- RoHC for MBMS, This however, would need to be traded carefully against the
acceptable additional delay
#