# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document is related to the technical report for the study item "Study on
CoMP for LTE with Non-Ideal Backhaul" [1]. The purpose of this TR is to help
TSG RAN WG1 to assess the performance benefits of CoMP operation involving
multiple eNBs with non-ideal backhaul and the required specification support
for the inter-eNB operation.
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
potential impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP
systems.
This document is intended to gather all information and draw a conclusion on
way forward.
This document is a 'living' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
```{=html}
## ```
  1. RP-130847, "Study on CoMP for LTE with Non-Ideal Backhaul".
  2. 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
  3. 3GPP TR 36.819: "Coordinated multi-point operation for LTE physical layer aspects".
  4. 3GPP TR 36.872: "Small cell enhancement for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN physical layer aspects".
  5. R1-134142, "Evaluation of downlink CSCB CoMP with non-ideal backhaul link," Intel Corporation, RAN1#74bis
  6. R1-134321, "Evaluation of CoMP with non-ideal backhaul," ZTE, RAN1#74bis
  7. R1-134420, "Evaluation results for CoMP with non-ideal backhaul," LG Electronics, RAN1#74bis
  8. R1-134912, "Evaluation results with absolute values," Huawei, HiSilicon, RAN1#74bis
  9. R1-135241, "Collaborative distributed scheduling - updated information," IAESI, DAC-UPC, RAN1#75
  10. R1-135375, "Further evaluation of SSPS/SSPM with non-ideal backhaul," ZTE, RAN1#75
  11. R1-135376, "Further evaluation of CS with non-ideal backhaul," ZTE, RAN1#75
  12. R1-135490, "Further evaluation results for DL CoMP with non-ideal backhaul," LG Electronics, RAN1#75
  13. R1-136023, "Simulation Results for CoMP scenario.2 with non-ideal backhaul," NSN, Nokia, RAN1#75
  14. R1-135596, "Simulation Results for small cell Scenarios with non-ideal backhaul," NSN, Nokia, RAN1#75
  15. R1-135769, "System Level Evaluations of Coordinated Scheduling Using Slow Backhaul," Ericsson, RAN1#75
  16. R1-135825, "Evaluation of coordinated scheduling for SCE scenario 1 with non-ideal backhaul," Samsung, RAN1#75
  17. R1-135826, "Evaluation of coordinated scheduling for SCE scenario 2a with non-ideal backhaul," Samsung, RAN1#75
  18. R1-135887, "Further Evaluation Results for CoMP-NIB," NTT DOCOMO, RAN1#75
  19. R1-135890, "Performance Evaluation of X2 signalling supporting DL eCoMP with NIB," Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, Alcatel-Lucent, RAN1#75
  20. R1-135928, "Evaluation of coordinated scheduling for CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul," Samsung, RAN1#75
  21. R1-135940, "Further performance evaluation of CoMP with non-ideal backhaul,"Huawei, HiSilicon, RAN1#75
  22. R1-135239, "Coordinated Sounding for CoMP BF (CoMP BF-CoS) including calibration information," DAC-UPC, IAESI, RAN1#75
  23. R1-135491, "Considerations on inter-eNB signaling for DL CoMP with non-ideal backhaul," LG Electronics, RAN1#75
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Void
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations defined in 3GPP TS
21.905 [2] and the following apply:
# 4 Introduction
At the 3GPP TSG RAN #60 meeting, the Study Item Description on "Study on CoMP
for LTE with Non-Ideal Backhaul" was agreed for Release 12 [1]. Coordinated
multi-point (CoMP) transmission and reception was introduced in LTE-Advanced
Rel. 11 as a tool to improve the coverage of high data rates, the cell-edge
throughput, and also to increase system throughput [3]. However, CoMP in
Rel-11 did not address the specified support of CoMP involving multiple eNBs
with non-ideal backhaul. Due to this limitation, the operators having non-
ideal backhaul may not be able to take performance benefit from CoMP
operation. Accordingly, this study item aims at evaluating the performance
benefits and identifying potential standardization impacts for candidate CoMP
techniques involving multiple eNBs with non-ideal backhaul. The detailed
objectives are as follows.
  * RAN1 evaluate coordinated scheduling and coordinated beamforming > including semi-static point selection/muting as candidate > techniques for CoMP involving multiple eNBs with non-ideal but > typical backhaul and, if there is performance benefit, recommend > for which CoMP technique(s) signalling for inter-eNB operation > should be specified, considering potential impact on RAN3 work.
    * In the evaluations, consider the level of backhaul delay > achievable with non-ideal backhaul.
    * Evaluation should be on the CoMP operation between macro eNBs > (CoMP scenario 2 in [3] except for the backhaul > assumptions), between macro eNB and small cell eNB (small cell > enhancement (SCE) scenario 1 in [4] with non-ideal > backhaul), and between small cell eNBs ((SCE) scenario 2a in > [4] with non-ideal backhaul).
    * The study will take into account the outcome of the small cell > enhancement study item and previous work on Rel-11 CoMP SI/WI.
# 5 Scenarios and CoMP techniques
## 5.1 Network deployment scenarios
The scenarios for evaluation are described in this subclause.
  * CoMP Scenario 2 in [3] with non-ideal backhaul (NIB):
    * CoMP operation between macro eNBs in homogeneous network with ISD = 500m
      * Number of cells in coordination: baseline is 9 (optional: 21) with the layout as in [3].
    * Backhaul assumption:
      * Non-ideal backhaul between eNB sites
    * Channel model: ITU UMa with macro indoor-outdoor modelling from SCE scenario 1 in [4]
  * SCE scenario 1 in [4] with NIB:
    * CoMP operation between macro eNB and small cell eNBs in heterogeneous network
      * Number of macro cell areas in coordination: baseline is 3 intra-site macro cell areas (optional: 1 macro cell area)
    * Backhaul assumption:
      * Non-ideal backhaul between eNBs:
        * Between macro eNB and small cell eNBs within its coverage
        * Between small cell eNBs under the coverage of one macro cell
        * Between small cell eNBs of different cells in the same site
    * Channel model: ITU UMa for macro cell, ITU UMi for small cell as in [4]
  * SCE scenario 2a in [4] with NIB:
    * CoMP operation between small cell eNBs in heterogeneous network
      * Number of macro cell areas in coordination: baseline is 3 intra-site macro cell areas (optional: 1 macro cell area)
    * Backhaul assumption:
      * Non-ideal backhaul between eNBs:
        * Between macro eNB and small cell eNBs within its coverage
        * Between small cell eNBs under the coverage of one macro cell
        * Between small cell eNBs of different cells in the same site
    * Channel model: ITU UMa for macro cell, ITU UMi for small cell as in [4]
## 5.2 Potential CoMP techniques
For the evaluated candidate techniques, information relating to a transmission
to/from a serving node in a given subframe can be categorized in two groups as
in Table 1:
  * 1^st^ group: information which is considered valid for a longer than backhaul delay period
  * 2^nd^ group: information which is considered valid for a shorter than backhaul delay period
Table 5.2‑1: Information categorization of candidate CoMP techniques
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Candidate technique | Information Group 1 | Information group 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Source 3 | Resource allocation | MCS selection | | [16][17][20] | | | | | UE selection | Precoding selection | | | | | | | | HARQ process number | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Source 1 [8][21] | Resource allocation | UE selection | | | | | | Source 3 | | MCS selection | | [16][17][20] | | | | | | Precoding selection | | Source 4 [10] | | | | | | HARQ process number | | Source 5 [7][12] | | | | | | | | Source 6 | | | | [13][14] | | | | | | | | Source 7 [18] | | | | | | | | Source 8 [15] | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Source 10 [19] | R | Precoding Indication | | | esource/Interference | | | | Indication | UE selection | | | | | | | | MCS selection | | | | | | | | HARQ process number | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Source 2 [5] | Resource allocation | UE selection | | | | | | Source 4 [11] | Rank/Precoding | MCS selection | | | selection | | | | | HARQ process number | | | | | | | | Final rank/precoding | | | | selection | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Source 4 [6] | Resource allocation | Final UE selection | | | | within candidate UEs | | | Candidate UEs for | | | | each TP | MCS and precoding | | | | selection for UEs | | | MCS and precoding | scheduled in the | | | selection for UEs | serving TP | | | scheduled in a | | | | coordinating TP | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Source 5 [23] | Resource allocation | Final UE selection | | | | within candidate UEs | | | Candidate UEs for | | | | each TP | MCS and precoding | | | | selection for UEs | | | | scheduled in each TP | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Source 9 [9] | Resource allocation | | | | | | | | Transmitted power | | | | | | | | Release of resource | | | | | | | | Eventual NACK on | | | | allocation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Source 9 [22] | Sounding scheduling | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Note that each of the above techniques could be implemented in various ways
depending on each company's evaluation assumption such as
  * Use of multiple CSI processes
  * Scheduling method such as CQI re-calculation for MCS selection in each eNB
Inter-eNB CoMP signaling to support CoMP functionality can for example be
derived based on the information categorization in Table 5.2-1. Information
categorized into Group 1 can be determined based on information from a set of
eNBs. On the other hand, information categorized into Group2 is determined by
information available in individual eNBs.
# 6 Evaluation results
RAN1 has performed extensive evaluations of candidate CoMP techniques as part
of the CoMP with non-ideal backhaul study item. Subclauses 6.1 through 6.3
present the evaluation results obtained by various sources in the above three
agreed deployment scenarios (details provided in Appendix A). Note that scheme
_x_ -_y_ in the below tables listing up evaluation results denotes the _y_ -th
CoMP scheme provided by the _x_ -th source.
## 6.1 CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul
Performance evaluation for CoMP scenario 2 (inter-eNB coordination in
homogeneous network) with non-ideal backhaul is provided in subclause 6.1.1 to
6.1.5 for different levels of backhaul latency.
### 6.1.1 Backhaul latency: 5ms
Table 6.1.1-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of high resource utilization (RU) and
5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.1-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 5ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.53 | 2.80 | | | 10.93 | | | | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 2.70 | | | 10.31 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | -3.6% | | | -5.7% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | **0.64** | **1.43** | **7.72** | **43.96** | **13.07** | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | scheme 3-1 | 0.57 | 1.40 | 8.02 | 41.24 | 13.06 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | -2.3% | 3.8% | -6.2% | -0.0% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | scheme 3-2 | 0.56 | 1.53 | 8.87 | 43.96 | 13.98 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | 6.8% | 14.9% | 0.0% | 7.0% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.80 | 0.8031 | 3.8569 | 26.7139 | 7.6193 | | | | | | | | | | [6] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 0.7544 | 3.7458 | 26.4201 | 7.3221 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | -6% | -3% | -1% | -4% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.62 | 1.070 | | | 14.123 | | | | | | | | | | [7] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.61 | 1.084 | | | 13.458 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | 1.31% | | | -4.71% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.53 | 1.830 | 7.3 | 36.4 | 11.5 | | | | | | | | | | [13] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.54 | 1.770 | 6.8 | 34.2 | 10.7 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | -3.2% | -7% | -6% | -6.9% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+
Table 6.1.1-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.1-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 5ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.43 | 11.30 | 46.51 | 16.33 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.39 | 2.42 | 12.44 | 42.11 | 16.52 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -0.2% | 10.1% | -9.5% | 1.2% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.39 | 2.54 | 12.54 | 44.94 | 16.94 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 4.7% | 11.0% | -3.4% | 3.7% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.50 | 2.1117 | 9.8288 | 30.8006 | 12.3374 | | | | | | | | | | [6] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 1.9102 | 9.3511 | 30.4002 | 11.6957 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -10% | -5% | -1% | -5% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.259 | | | 18.721 | | | | | | | | | | [7] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.42 | 2.217 | | | 17.788 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -1.86 % | | | -4.98% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.1-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of low resource utilization (RU) and
5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.1-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 5ms backhaul
latency
+----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.19 | 6.72 | | | 16.26 | | | | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 6.71 | | | 15.88 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -0.2% | | | -2.3% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 2 | Reference | 0.26 | 3.92 | 16.79 | 49.78 | 20.17 | | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 2-1 | 0.25 | 4.16 | 17.15 | 49.87 | 21.13 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 6.1% | 2.1% | 0.2% | 4.8% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.27 | 3.76 | 15.00 | 50.06 | 19.80 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.25 | 3.85 | 15.44 | 48.19 | 19.49 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 2.4% | 2.7% | -4.8% | -1.7% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.24 | 3.90 | 15.60 | 48.19 | 19.88 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 3.8% | 3.7% | -4.8% | 0.3% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.20 | 5.8279 | 16.8422 | 39.4252 | 19.1012 | | | | | | | | | | [6] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 5.3928 | 15.8960 | 38.7996 | 18.4214 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -7% | -6% | -2% | -4% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.23 | 4.843 | | | 24.456 | | | | | | | | | | [7] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.22 | 4.825 | | | 23.438 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -0.37 % | | | -4.16% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.28 | 4.590 | 17.4 | 67.2 | 23.3 | | | | | | | | | | [13] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.28 | 4.450 | 16.7 | 62.0 | 22.2 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -3.0% | -4% | -8% | -4.7% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.1-4 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of high resource utilization (RU) and
5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.1-4: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 5ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | Source 3 | Reference | **0.64** | **1.43** | **7.72** | **43.96** | **13.07** | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.54 | **1.67** | **9.22** | **43.01** | **13.95** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | | gain | | **16.3%** | **19.4%** | **-2.2%** | **6.8%** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.53 | **1.79** | **9.69** | **44.94** | **14.78** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | | gain | | **24.7%** | **25.4%** | **2.2%** | **13.1%** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.53 | 1.830 | 7.3 | 36.4 | 11.5 | | | | | | | | | | [13] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.55 | 1.840 | 7.0 | 32.5 | 10.9 | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | | gain | | 0.5% | -4.2% | -10.8% | -5.2% | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | Source 8 | Reference | **0.54** | **2.76** | | | **13.72** | | | | | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | | Scheme 8-1 | 0.52 | **2.13** | | | **12.64** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | | gain | | **-23.0%** | | | **-7.9%** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | | Scheme 8-2 | 0.54 | **2.38** | | | **12.01** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | | gain | | **-13.8%** | | | **-12.4%** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+------------+
Table 6.1.1-5 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.1-5: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 5ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+------------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.43 | 11.30 | 46.51 | 16.33 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.37 | 2.62 | 13.68 | 45.45 | 17.40 | +----------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 7.9% | 21.0% | -2.3% | 6.5% | +----------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.37 | 2.76 | 13.94 | 47.06 | 17.94 | +----------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 13.4% | 23.2% | 1.2% | 9.8% | +----------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 8 | Reference | **0.39** | **4.40** | | | **17.70** | | | | | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 8-1 | 0.38 | **3.84** | | | **17.81** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | **-12.7%** | | | **0.67%** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 8-2 | 0.39 | **4.04** | | | **17.00** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | **-8.3%** | | | **-3.94%** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+------------+
Table 6.1.1-6 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of low resource utilization (RU) and
5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.1-5: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 5ms backhaul
latency
+----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.27 | 3.76 | 15.00 | 50.06 | 19.80 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.23 | 4.10 | 16.74 | 48.19 | 20.54 | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 9.1% | 11.3% | -4.8% | 3.6% | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.23 | 4.18 | 16.88 | 48.19 | 20.82 | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 11.2% | 12.2% | -4.8% | 5.0% | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.28 | 4.590 | 17.4 | 67.2 | 23.3 | | | | | | | | | | [13] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.28 | 4.460 | 16.9 | 63.0 | 22.2 | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | -2.8% | -2.9% | -6.3% | -4.7% | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 8 | Reference | **0.17** | **8.80** | | | **27.11** | | | | | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 8-1 | 0.16 | **8.51** | | | **26.90** | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | **-3.4%** | | | **-0.77%** | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 8-2 | 0.17 | **8.92** | | | **26.88** | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | **1.3%** | | | **-0.84%** | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+
### 6.1.2 Backhaul latency: 50ms
Table 6.1.2-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of high resource utilization (RU) and
50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.2-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 50ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | **0.64** | **1.43** | **7.72** | **43.96** | **13.07** | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.57 | 0.84 | 5.07 | 21.39 | 8.11 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | -41.7% | -34.5% | -51.3% | -37.9% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.54 | 1.41 | 7.45 | 33.90 | 11.06 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | -1.5% | -3.5% | -22.9% | -15.3% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.80 | 0.8031 | 3.8569 | 26.7139 | 7.6193 | | | | | | | | | | [6] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 0.7344 | 3.6556 | 26.3639 | 7.3224 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | -9% | -5% | -1% | -4% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.62 | 1.070 | | | 14.123 | | | | | | | | | | [7] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.59 | 0.923 | | | 10.669 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | -13.74% | | | -24.46% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.53 | 1.830 | | | 11.5 | | | | | | | | | | [13] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.56 | 1.480 | | | 9.5 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | -19.1% | | | -17.3% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+
Table 6.1.2-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.2-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 50ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.43 | 11.30 | 46.51 | 16.33 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.41 | 1.73 | 8.50 | 21.86 | 10.29 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -28.7% | -24.8% | -53.0% | -37.0% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.39 | 2.29 | 9.89 | 30.53 | 12.46 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -5.9% | -12.5% | -34.4% | -23.7% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.50 | 2.1117 | 9.8288 | 30.8006 | 12.3374 | | | | | | | | | | [6] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 1.7097 | 9.1605 | 29.9228 | 11.6121 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -19% | -7% | -3% | -6% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.259 | | | 18.721 | | | | | | | | | | [7] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.41 | 1.917 | | | 13.171 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -15.14% | | | -29.65% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.2-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of low resource utilization (RU) and
50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.2-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 50ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.27 | 3.76 | 15.00 | 50.06 | 19.80 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.25 | 2.95 | 11.49 | 23.12 | 12.18 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -21.6% | -23.6% | -54.3% | -38.5% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.24 | 3.40 | 11.83 | 28.57 | 13.83 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -9.6% | -21.3% | -43.6% | -30.2% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.20 | 5.8279 | 16.8422 | 39.4252 | 19.1012 | | | | | | | | | | [6] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 4.7378 | 15.5403 | 38.2994 | 18.1107 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -18% | -8% | -3% | -5% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.23 | 4.843 | | | 24.456 | | | | | | | | | | [7] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.22 | 4.049 | | | 16.310 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -16.39% | | | -33.31% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.28 | 4.590 | | | 23.3 | | | | | | | | | | [13] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.29 | 4.020 | | | 21.3 | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -12.4% | | | -8.5% | +----------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.2-4 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of high resource utilization (RU) and
50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.2-4: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 50ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | Source 3 | Reference | **0.64** | **1.43** | **7.72** | **43.96** | **13.07** | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.57 | **0.93** | **5.56** | **21.62** | **8.53** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | | gain | | **-34.9%** | **-28.1%** | **-50.8%** | **-34.7%** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.54 | **1.57** | **7.78** | **34.19** | **11.47** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | | gain | | **9.1%** | **0.7%** | **-22.2%** | **-12.2%** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.53 | 1.830 | | | 11.5 | | | | | | | | | | [13] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.54 | 1.560 | | | 9.9 | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | | gain | | -14.8% | | | -13.9% | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+
Table 6.1.2-5 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.2-5: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 50ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.43 | 11.30 | 46.51 | 16.33 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.39 | 1.91 | 9.30 | 22.35 | 10.73 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -21.4% | -17.7% | -52.0% | -34.3% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.37 | 2.51 | 10.50 | 32.26 | 13.13 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 3.7% | -7.1% | -30.6% | -19.6% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.2-6 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of low resource utilization (RU) and
50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.2-6: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 50ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.27 | 3.76 | 15.00 | 50.06 | 19.80 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.24 | 3.10 | 11.98 | 23.12 | 12.51 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -17.6% | -20.4% | -54.3% | -36.9% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.23 | 3.63 | 12.16 | 29.85 | 14.12 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -3.3% | -19.2% | -41.0% | -28.8% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.28 | 4.590 | | | 23.3 | | | | | | | | | | [13] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.28 | 4.020 | | | 21.3 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -12.4% | | | -8.5% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
### 6.1.3 Backhaul latency: 2ms
Table 6.1.3-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of high resource utilization (RU) and
2ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.3-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 2ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | **0.64** | **1.43** | **7.72** | **43.96** | **13.07** | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.57 | 1.53 | 8.48 | 44.94 | 13.90 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | 7.0% | 9.9% | 2.3% | 6.4% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.56 | 1.54 | 9.13 | 45.98 | 14.44 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | 7.5% | 18.3% | 4.6% | 10.5% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+
Table 6.1.3-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 2ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.3-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 2ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.43 | 11.30 | 46.51 | 16.33 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.38 | 2.57 | 12.90 | 45.50 | 17.40 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 5.6% | 14.4% | -2.3% | 6.3% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.38 | 2.56 | 12.95 | 45.98 | 17.57 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 5.4% | 14.6% | -1.2% | 7.6% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.3-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of low resource utilization (RU) and
2ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.3-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 2ms backhaul
latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 2 | Reference | 0.26 | 3.92 | 16.79 | 49.78 | 20.17 | | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 2-1 | 0.22 | 4.24 | 17.47 | 50.92 | 21.25 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 8.2% | 4.1% | 2.3% | 5.4% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.27 | 3.76 | 15.00 | 50.06 | 19.80 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.24 | 3.87 | 16.13 | 51.95 | 20.62 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 3.0% | 7.3% | 2.6% | 4.0% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.24 | 3.96 | 16.10 | 51.90 | 20.70 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 5.5% | 6.8% | 2.6% | 4.6% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.3-4 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of high resource utilization (RU) and
2ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.3-4: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 2ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | **0.64** | **1.43** | **7.72** | **43.96** | **13.07** | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.54 | **1.70** | **9.63** | **46.51** | **14.85** | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | **18.7%** | **24.7%** | **5.8%** | **13.6%** | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.53 | **1.81** | **9.90** | **48.19** | **15.25** | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | **26.0%** | **28.2%** | **9.6%** | **16.7%** | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
Table 6.1.3-5 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 2ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.3-5: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 2ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.43 | 11.30 | 46.51 | 16.33 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.37 | 2.73 | 14.39 | 49.38 | 18.45 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 12.4% | 27.3% | 6.2% | 13.0% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.37 | 2.79 | 14.31 | 49.38 | 18.63 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 14.7% | 26.7% | 6.2% | 14.1% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.3-6 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 2ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.3-6: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 2ms backhaul
latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.27 | 3.76 | 15.00 | 50.06 | 19.80 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.23 | 4.19 | 17.40 | 51.95 | 21.61 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 11.5% | 15.7% | 2.6% | 9.0% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.23 | 4.18 | 17.39 | 51.95 | 21.71 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 11.2% | 15.6% | 2.6% | 9.5% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
### 6.1.4 Backhaul latency: 10ms
Table 6.1.4-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of high resource utilization (RU) and
10ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.4-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 10ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | **0.64** | **1.43** | **7.72** | **43.96** | **13.07** | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.58 | 1.29 | 7.18 | 36.36 | 11.86 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | -9.9% | -7.0% | -17.3% | -9.3% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.56 | 1.46 | 8.53 | 40.82 | 13.36 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | 1.9% | 10.4% | -7.1% | 2.2% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+
Table 6.1.4-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 10ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.4-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 10ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.43 | 11.30 | 46.51 | 16.33 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.39 | 2.35 | 11.66 | 38.46 | 15.35 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -3.3% | 3.2% | -17.3% | -6.0% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.38 | 2.54 | 12.23 | 41.67 | 16.12 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 4.7% | 8.3% | -10.4% | -1.3% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.4-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of low resource utilization (RU) and
10ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.4-3:‑3 Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 10ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 2 | Reference | 0.26 | 3.92 | 16.79 | 49.78 | 20.17 | | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 2-1 | 0.30 | 3.77 | 15.93 | 47.34 | 19.19 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -3.8% | -5.1% | -4.9% | -4.9% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.27 | 3.76 | 15.00 | 50.06 | 19.80 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.25 | 3.67 | 14.98 | 42.55 | 18.15 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -2.2% | -0.4% | -16.0% | -8.4% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.24 | 3.76 | 15.18 | 43.01 | 18.74 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 0.0% | +0.9% | -15.1% | -5.5% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.4-4 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of high resource utilization (RU) and
10ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.4-4: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 10ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | **0.64** | **1.43** | **7.72** | **43.96** | **13.07** | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.55 | **1.54** | **8.24** | **38.46** | **12.74** | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+ | | gain | | **7.4%** | **6.7%** | **-12.5%** | **-2.5%** | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.54 | **1.78** | **9.18** | **41.67** | **14.04** | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+ | | gain | | **24.2%** | **18.9%** | **-5.2%** | **7.5%** | +----------+------------+----------+-----------+-----------+------------+-----------+
Table 6.1.4-5 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 10ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.4-5: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 10ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.43 | 11.30 | 46.51 | 16.33 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.38 | 2.58 | 12.70 | 40.82 | 16.18 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 6.3% | 12.4% | -12.3% | -0.9% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.37 | 2.76 | 13.20 | 43.01 | 16.99 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 13.6% | 16.8% | -7.5% | 4.0% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.4-6 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 10ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.4-6: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 10ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.27 | 3.76 | 15.00 | 50.06 | 19.80 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.24 | 3.87 | 15.81 | 43.01 | 18.94 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 3.0% | 5.1% | -15.1% | -4.44% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.23 | 4.15 | 16.19 | 43.48 | 19.49 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 10.4% | 7.7% | -14.1% | -1.7% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
### 6.1.5 Backhaul latency: 30ms
Table 6.1.5-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of high resource utilization (RU) and
30ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.5-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 30ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | **0.64** | **1.43** | **7.72** | **43.96** | **13.07** | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.61 | 0.90 | 5.63 | 27.03 | 9.20 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | -37.1% | -27.1% | -38.5% | -29.6% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.57 | 1.46 | 8.19 | 37.88 | 13.22 | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+ | | gain | | 1.7% | 6.0% | -13.8% | 1.2% | +----------+------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+-----------+
Table 6.1.5-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 30ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.5-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 30ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.43 | 11.30 | 46.51 | 16.33 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.41 | 1.85 | 9.69 | 27.78 | 12.03 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -23.8% | -14.3% | -40.3% | -26.3% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.38 | 2.44 | 11.23 | 36.16 | 15.40 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 0.3% | -0.6% | -22.3% | -5.7% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.5-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of low resource utilization (RU) and
30ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.5-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 9 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 30ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.27 | 3.76 | 15.00 | 50.06 | 19.80 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.25 | 2.97 | 12.76 | 30.06 | 14.35 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -20.9% | -15.2% | -40.6% | -27.6% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.24 | 3.70 | 13.16 | 30.77 | 15.67 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -1.5% | -12.5% | -39.2% | -21.0% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.5-4 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of high resource utilization (RU) and
30ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.5-4: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 30ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | Source 3 | Reference | **0.64** | **1.43** | **7.72** | **43.96** | **13.07** | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.58 | **1.06** | **6.37** | **27.78** | **9.67** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | | gain | | **-26.4%** | **-17.5%** | **-36.8%** | **-26.0%** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.54 | **1.64** | **8.72** | **37.95** | **13.58** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | | gain | | **14.4%** | **12.9%** | **-13.7%** | **3.9%** | +----------+------------+----------+------------+------------+------------+------------+
Table 6.1.5-5 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 30ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.5-5: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 30ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.43 | 11.30 | 46.51 | 16.33 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.38 | 2.06 | 10.50 | 28.78 | 12.59 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -15.2% | -7.1% | -38.1% | -22.9% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.37 | 2.61 | 12.09 | 36.75 | 16.03 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 7.4% | 7.0% | -21.0% | -1.9% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.1.5-6 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate
inter-eNB CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal
backhaul versus intra-site CoMP in case of medium resource utilization (RU)
and 30ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.1.5-6: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques involving 21 cells in
CoMP scenario 2 with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 30ms
backhaul latency
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.27 | 3.76 | 15.00 | 50.06 | 19.80 | | | | | | | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.24 | 3.87 | 15.81 | 43.01 | 18.94 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 3.0% | 5.1% | -15.1% | -4.44% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.23 | 4.15 | 16.19 | 43.48 | 19.49 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 10.4% | 7.7% | -14.1% | -1.7% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
## 6.2 SCE scenario 1 with non-ideal backhaul
Performance evaluation for SCE scenario 1 with non-ideal backhaul is provided
in subclause 6.2.1 to 6.2.5 for different levels of backhaul latency.
### 6.2.1 Backhaul latency: 5ms
Table 6.2.1-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of high resource utilization (RU) and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.1-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 5ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.64 | 1.23 | 9.50 | 42.25 | 14.41 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.44 | 1.40 | 10.94 | 41.33 | 15.77 | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 13.9% | 15.2% | -2.2% | 9.4% | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.44 | 1.38 | 10.91 | 42.27 | 15.90 | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 11.7% | 14.8% | 0.1% | 10.3% | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.55 | 1.1334 | 15.705 | 45.1444 | 18.4751 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 1.1152 | 17.8137 | 43.3204 | 19.3638 | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | -2% | 13% | -4% | 5% | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Reference | 0.65 | 0.8560 | 9.0882 | 42.9293 | 14.2678 | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 0.9513 | 10.6791 | 40.5981 | 14.8189 | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 11.1% | 17.5% | -5.4% | 3.9% | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.63 | 1.032 | 10.929 | 47.059 | 15.847 | | | | | | | | | | [12] | | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.49 | 1.199 | 12.658 | 47.059 | 17.152 | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 16.2 % | 15.8 % | 0.0 % | 8.2 % | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.54 | 2.370 | 10.0 | 41.7 | 14.2 | | | | | | | | | | [14] | | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.43 | 2.380 | 10.6 | 47.2 | 15.6 | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 0.4% | 6% | 13.2% | 9.8% | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 10 | Reference | 0.80 | 8.00 | 22.53 | 41.00 | 24.21 | | | | | | | | | | [19] | | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 10-1 | | 9.21 | 22.72 | 41.02 | 24.22 | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 15% | 0.8% | 0% | 0% | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 8 | Reference | **0.62** | **2.45** | | | **14.86** | | | | | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 8-1 | 0.57 | **2.26** | | | **14.99** | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | **-8.0%** | | | **0.87%** | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 8-2 | 0.61 | **2.22** | | | **13.13** | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | **-9.6%** | | | **-11.6%** | +-------------+-------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+
Table 6.2.1-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of medium resource utilization (RU) and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.1-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 5ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.47 | 2.10 | | | 11.98 | | | | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 2.17 | | | 12.28 | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 3.3% | | | 2.5% | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 2 | Reference | 0.37 | 4.43 | 19.7 | 49.80 | 22.26 | | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 2-1 | 0.31 | 4.79 | 21.12 | 51.03 | 23.73 | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 8.1% | 7.2% | 2.5% | 6.6% | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.46 | 2.10 | 14.88 | 47.88 | 19.30 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.33 | 2.35 | 16.22 | 46.58 | 20.31 | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 12.0% | 9.0% | -2.7% | 5.2% | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.33 | 2.23 | 16.32 | 47.31 | 20.47 | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 6.4% | 9.7% | -1.2% | 6.0% | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.35 | 2.9342 | 22.0962 | 46.2586 | 22.9862 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 3.0094 | 23.6375 | 46.4353 | 23.8395 | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 3% | 7% | 0% | 4% | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Reference | 0.35 | 2.0147 | 20.4340 | 45.5639 | 21.7209 | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 2.0745 | 21.4458 | 45.2161 | 22.2396 | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 3% | 5% | -0.7% | 2.4% | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.37 | 2.686 | 17.621 | 54.054 | 21.576 | | | | | | | | | | [12] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.32 | 2.672 | 18.779 | 51.948 | 22.033 | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | -0.5% | 6.6% | -3.9% | 2.1% | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.41 | 3.570 | 15.0 | 53.4 | 19.9 | | | | | | | | | | [14] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.33 | 3.610 | 15.5 | 57.3 | 20.6 | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 1.1% | 3.3% | 7.3% | 3.5% | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 8 | Reference | **0.36** | **5.63** | | | **22.64** | | | | | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 8-1 | 0.36 | **5.00** | | | **22.22** | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | **-11.1%** | | | **-1.9%** | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 8-2 | 0.36 | **5.37** | | | **21.62** | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | **-4.7%** | | | **-4.5%** | +-------------+------------+----------+------------+---------+---------+-----------+
Table 6.2.1-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of low resource utilization (RU) and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.1-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 5ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.24 | 4.35 | | | 16.60 | | | | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 4.54 | | | 16.83 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 4.4% | | | 1.4% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.29 | 3.09 | 19.04 | 52.78 | 23.41 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.22 | 3.40 | 20.34 | 49.19 | 23.88 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 10.2% | 6.8% | -6.8% | 2.0% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.22 | 3.35 | 20.46 | 49.86 | 24.02 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 8.5% | 7.4% | -5.5% | 2.6% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.15 | 8.2782 | 31.9424 | 50.2469 | 31.7544 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 8.2900 | 32.6986 | 50.7498 | 32.5353 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 0% | 2% | 1% | 2% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Reference | 0.15 | 7.6122 | 31.0130 | 49.8559 | 29.8981 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 6.6576 | 31.5714 | 50.2596 | 30.2215 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | -12.5% | 1.8% | 0.8% | 1.1% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.19 | 4.902 | 24.390 | 58.824 | 26.957 | | | | | | | | | | [12] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.17 | 4.711 | 25.157 | 55.556 | 26.970 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | -3.9 % | 3.1 % | -5.6 % | 0.0 % | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.15 | 9.250 | 37.5 | 67.2 | 38.5 | | | | | | | | | | [14] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.13 | 9.440 | 35.0 | 64.5 | 37.2 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 2% | -6% | -4% | -3% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 8 | Reference | **0.24** | **7.74** | | | **27.12** | | | | | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 8-1 | 0.24 | **7.67** | | | **27.16** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | **-1.0%** | | | **0.2%** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 8-2 | 0.25 | **7.37** | | | **26.68** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | **-4.7%** | | | **-1.6%** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+
Table 6.2.1-4 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 10 small cells within one macro area in case
of high resource utilization (RU) and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.1-4: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 5ms backhaul latency (10 small
cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.61 | 1.22 | | | 7.594 | | | | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 1.31 | | | 7.698 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 7.4% | | | 1.4% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.63 | 0.8511 | | | 7.4921 | | | | | | | | | | [10] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 1.0327 | | | 7.4591 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Gain | | 21.34% | | | -0.44% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.58 | 1.28 | 5.91 | 30.40 | 9.29 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | | 1.49 | 7.29 | 33.56 | 10.57 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Gain | | 16.4% | 23.4% | 10.4% | 13.8% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.2.1-5 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 10 small cells within one macro area in case
of medium resource utilization (RU) and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.1-5: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 5ms backhaul latency (10 small
cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.32 | 3.05 | | | 12.39 | | | | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 3.10 | | | 12.33 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 1.6% | | | -0.5% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
### 6.2.2 Backhaul latency: 50ms
Table 6.2.2-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of high resource utilization (RU) and 50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.2-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 50ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.64 | 1.23 | 9.50 | 42.25 | 14.41 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.44 | 1.10 | 8.31 | 28.47 | 11.36 | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -10.9% | -12.6% | -32.6% | -21.2% | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.44 | 1.26 | 9.63 | 33.55 | 13.21 | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 2.2% | 1.3% | -20.6% | -8.4% | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.55 | 1.1334 | 15.705 | 45.1444 | 18.4751 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10][11] | | | | | | | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 1.0111 | 15.0941 | 40.9162 | 16.8228 | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -11% | -4% | -10% | -9% | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.65 | 0.8560 | 9.0882 | 42.9293 | 14.2678 | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 0.8295 | 9.0331 | 34.9762 | 12.5879 | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -3.1% | -0.6% | -18.5% | -11.7% | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-3 | | 0.9262 | 9.3520 | 42.9010 | 14.4390 | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 8.2% | 2.9% | 0% | 1.2% | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.63 | 1.032 | 10.929 | 47.059 | 15.847 | | | | | | | | | | [12] | | | | | | | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.49 | 1.069 | 11.527 | 41.667 | 15.491 | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 3.6 % | 5.5 % | -11.5 % | -2.2 % | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.54 | 2.370 | 10.0 | 41.7 | 14.2 | | | | | | | | | | [14] | | | | | | | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.44 | 2.080 | 9.8 | 46.0 | 14.7 | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -13.0% | -2% | 10.3% | 3.5% | +-------------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.2.2-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of medium resource utilization (RU) and 50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.2-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 50ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.47 | 2.10 | | | 11.98 | | | | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 1.83 | | | 11.55 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -12.9% | | | -3.6% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 2 | Reference | 0.37 | 4.43 | 19.7 | 49.80 | 22.26 | | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 2-1 | 0.39 | 4.17 | 18.65 | 48.10 | 21.53 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -5.8% | -5.3% | -3.4% | -3.3% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.46 | 2.10 | 14.88 | 47.88 | 19.30 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.34 | 1.81 | 12.50 | 30.10 | 14.62 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -13.7% | -15.9% | -37.1% | -24.3% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.32 | 1.86 | 13.55 | 34.27 | 16.22 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -11.1% | -8.9% | -28.4% | -15.9% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.35 | 2.9342 | 22.0962 | 46.2586 | 22.9862 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 2.4761 | 20.0379 | 44.1233 | 21.4031 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -16% | -9% | -4% | -7% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.35 | 2.0147 | 20.4340 | 45.5639 | 21.7209 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 1.7996 | 18.6422 | 43.8889 | 20.2267 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -10.7% | -8.8% | -3.7% | -6.9% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.37 | 2.686 | 17.621 | 54.054 | 21.576 | | | | | | | | | | [12] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.33 | 2.448 | 17.094 | 45.977 | 19.607 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -8.9 % | -3.0 % | -14.9 % | -9.1 % | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.41 | 3.570 | 15.0 | 53.4 | 19.9 | | | | | | | | | | [14] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.34 | 3.260 | 14.6 | 56.3 | 19.8 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -9% | -2.7% | 5.4% | -0.5% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.2.2-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of low resource utilization (RU) and 50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.2-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 50ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.24 | 4.35 | | | 16.60 | | | | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 4.34 | | | 16.48 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -0.2% | | | -0.7% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.29 | 3.09 | 19.04 | 52.78 | 23.41 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.25 | 2.54 | 15.23 | 31.11 | 16.67 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -17.8% | -20.0% | -41.0% | -28.8% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.21 | 2.84 | 16.34 | 33.50 | 18.29 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -7.9% | -14.2% | -36.5% | -21.9% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.15 | 8.2782 | 31.9424 | 50.2469 | 31.7544 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 7.2857 | 30.56 | 50.2821 | 29.8659 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -12% | -4% | 0% | -6% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.15 | 7.6122 | 31.0130 | 49.8559 | 29.8981 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 6.3314 | 28.4904 | 49.6146 | 28.4765 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -16.8% | -8.1% | -0.5% | -4.8% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.19 | 4.902 | 24.390 | 58.824 | 26.957 | | | | | | | | | | [12] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.18 | 4.324 | 22.346 | 50.031 | 23.803 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -11.8 % | -8.4 % | -15.0 % | -11.7 % | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 6 | Reference | 0.15 | 9.250 | 37.5 | 67.2 | 38.5 | | | | | | | | | | [14] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 6-1 | 0.13 | 9.360 | 35.6 | 64.5 | 37.1 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 1.1% | -5.1% | -4.0% | -3.7% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.2.2-4 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 10 small cells within one macro area in case
of high resource utilization (RU) and 50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.2-4: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 50ms backhaul latency (10 small
cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.61 | 1.22 | | | 7.594 | | | | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 1.21 | | | 7.702 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -0.8% | | | 1.4% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.58 | 1.28 | 5.91 | 30.40 | 9.29 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | | 1.25 | 5.85 | 28.99 | 9.15 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Gain | | -2.3% | -1.0% | -4.6% | -1.5% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.2.2-5 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 10 small cells within one macro area in case
of medium resource utilization (RU) and 50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.2-5: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 50ms backhaul latency (10
small cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.32 | 3.05 | | | 12.39 | | | | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 3.05 | | | 12.20 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 0.0% | | | -1.5% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
### 6.2.3 Backhaul latency: 2ms
Table 6.2.3-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of high resource utilization (RU) and 2ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.3-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 2ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.64 | 1.23 | 9.50 | 42.25 | 14.41 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.44 | 1.44 | 11.21 | 43.35 | 16.29 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 17.1% | 18.0% | 2.6% | 13.0% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.44 | 1.40 | 11.14 | 43.77 | 16.27 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 14.1% | 17.2% | 3.6% | 12.9% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.2.3-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of medium resource utilization (RU) and 2ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.3-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 2ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 2 | Reference | 0.37 | 4.43 | 19.7 | 49.80 | 22.26 | | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 2-1 | 0.30 | 4.89 | 21.45 | 51.24 | 23.88 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 10.3% | 8.9% | 2.9% | 7.3% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.46 | 2.10 | 14.88 | 47.88 | 19.30 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.33 | 2.36 | 16.74 | 48.55 | 20.99 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 12.3% | 12.5% | 1.4% | 8.7% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.33 | 2.28 | 16.58 | 49.06 | 20.97 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 8.4% | 11.4% | 2.5% | 8.6% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.2.3-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of low resource utilization (RU) and 2ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.3-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 2ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.29 | 3.09 | 19.04 | 52.78 | 23.41 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.22 | 3.56 | 20.81 | 51.27 | 24.66 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 15.3% | 9.3% | -2.9% | 5.3% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.22 | 3.40 | 20.93 | 51.30 | 24.67 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 10.1% | 9.9% | -2.8% | 5.4% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
### 6.2.4 Backhaul latency: 10ms
Table 6.2.4-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of high resource utilization (RU) and 10ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.4-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 10ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.64 | 1.23 | 9.50 | 42.25 | 14.41 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.44 | 1.32 | 10.40 | 39.57 | 14.97 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 7.6% | 9.5% | -6.3% | 3.9% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.44 | 1.35 | 10.66 | 40.88 | 15.43 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 9.8% | 12.1% | -3.2% | 7.1% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.63 | 1.032 | 10.929 | 47.059 | 15.847 | | | | | | | | | | [12] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.49 | 1.169 | 12.384 | 45.455 | 16.692 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 13.3 % | 13.3 % | -3.4 % | 5.3 % | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.2.4-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of medium resource utilization (RU) and 10ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.4-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 10ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 2 | Reference | 0.37 | 4.43 | 19.7 | 49.80 | 22.26 | | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 2-1 | 0.33 | 4.62 | 20.33 | 50.99 | 23.46 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 4.3% | 3.2% | 2.4% | 5.4% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.46 | 2.10 | 14.88 | 47.88 | 19.30 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.33 | 2.25 | 15.57 | 43.91 | 19.30 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 7.1% | 4.6% | -8.3% | 0.0% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.33 | 2.16 | 15.86 | 45.40 | 19.72 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 2.9% | 6.6% | -5.2% | 2.2% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.37 | 2.686 | 17.621 | 54.054 | 21.576 | | | | | | | | | | [12] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.32 | 2.639 | 18.433 | 49.383 | 21.379 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -1.7 % | 4.6 % | -8.6 % | -0.9 % | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.2.4-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of low resource utilization (RU) and 10ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.4-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 10ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.29 | 3.09 | 19.04 | 52.78 | 23.41 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.22 | 3.27 | 19.67 | 46.07 | 22.70 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 5.8% | 3.3% | -12.7% | -3.1% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.22 | 3.22 | 19.78 | 47.27 | 23.06 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 4.4% | 3.9% | -10.4% | -1.5% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 5 | Reference | 0.19 | 4.902 | 24.390 | 58.824 | 26.957 | | | | | | | | | | [12] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 5-1 | 0.17 | 4.614 | 24.242 | 51.948 | 26.062 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -5.9 % | -0.6 % | -11.7 % | -3.3 % | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
### 6.2.5 Backhaul latency: 30ms
Table 6.2.5-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of high resource utilization (RU) and 30ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.5-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 30ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.64 | 1.23 | 9.50 | 42.25 | 14.41 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.45 | 1.25 | 9.26 | 33.28 | 12.86 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 1.7% | -2.6% | -21.2% | -10.7% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.44 | 1.31 | 10.13 | 37.15 | 14.28 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 6.1% | 6.6% | -12.1% | -0.9% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.2.5-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of medium resource utilization (RU) and 30ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.5-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 30ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.46 | 2.10 | 14.88 | 47.88 | 19.30 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.34 | 1.99 | 14.03 | 35.91 | 16.70 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -5.3% | -5.7% | -25.0% | -13.5% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.32 | 2.04 | 14.58 | 39.95 | 17.77 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -2.7% | -2.0% | -16.6% | -7.9% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.2.5-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 1 with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of low resource utilization (RU) and 30ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.2.5-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 1 with
non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 30ms backhaul latency (4 small
cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.29 | 3.09 | 19.04 | 52.78 | 23.41 | | | | | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.24 | 2.90 | 17.14 | 37.15 | 19.27 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -6.2% | -10.0% | -29.6% | -17.7% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.22 | 2.98 | 18.00 | 40.00 | 20.30 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -3.6% | -5.5% | -24.2% | -13.3% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
## 6.3 SCE scenario 2a with non-ideal backhaul
Performance evaluation for SCE scenario 2a with non-ideal backhaul is provided
in subclause 6.3.1 to 6.3.5 for different levels of backhaul latency.
### 6.3.1 Backhaul latency: 5ms
Table 6.3.1-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of high resource utilization (RU) and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.1-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 5ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.65 | 1.44 | 9.01 | 27.59 | 11.05 | | | | | | | | | | [21] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 1.48 | | | 8.27 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 2.8% | | | -25.2% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.62 | 2.03 | 16.75 | 57.42 | 24.66 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.47 | 2.18 | 22.87 | 54.14 | 28.00 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 7.6% | 36.5% | -5.7% | 13.5% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.47 | 2.24 | 23.25 | 56.11 | 28.69 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 10.7% | 38.8% | -2.3% | 16.4% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.55 | 2.2681 | 14.7405 | 38.0283 | 16.8709 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 2.8866 | 17.5938 | 37.4706 | 18.8005 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 27% | 19% | -1% | 11% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Reference | 0.70 | 1.1152 | 7.9623 | 36.3222 | 12.1837 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 1.2901 | 10.3581 | 33.9936 | 13.3770 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | 15.7% | 30% | -6.4% | 10% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | Source 8 | Reference | **0.56** | **3.37** | | | **19.33** | | | | | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 8-1 | 0.56 | **3.31** | | | **19.17** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | **-1.8%** | | | **-0.87%** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | Scheme 8-2 | 0.56 | **3.07** | | | **18.63** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+ | | gain | | **-9.1%** | | | **-3.63%** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+------------+
Table 6.3.1-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of medium resource utilization (RU) and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.1-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 5ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.46 | 3.03 | 13.61 | 31.75 | 15.17 | | | | | | | | | | [21] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 2.80 | | | 13.94 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | -7.6% | | | -8.1% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.88 | 27.07 | 59.10 | 32.94 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.35 | 3.27 | 30.58 | 54.72 | 34.10 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 13.4% | 13.0% | -7.4% | 3.5% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.34 | 3.23 | 31.38 | 54.78 | 34.80 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 12.2% | 15.9% | -7.3% | 5.6% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.35 | 5.4776 | 21.3443 | 39.7287 | 22.0011 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 6.1502 | 23.9174 | 41.2953 | 23.9819 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 12% | 12% | 4% | 9% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Reference | 0.35 | 4.9042 | 19.8332 | 38.8622 | 20.9783 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 5.6722 | 22.3816 | 40.1389 | 22.9476 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 15.7% | 12.9% | 3.3% | 9.4% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 9 | Reference | 0.38 | 1.48 | 10.52 | 38.81 | 13.57 | | | | | | | | | | [9][22] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 9-1 | 0.4 | 3.54 | 27.08 | 77.08 | 31.18 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 139.19% | 157.41% | 98.61% | 129.77% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Reference | 0.38 | 1.48 | 10.52 | 38.81 | 13.57 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 9-2 | 0.64 | 3.61 | 19.90 | 69.48 | 24.94 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 143.9% | 89.2% | 79.0% | 83.8% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 8 | Reference | **0.41** | **5.58** | | | **24.02** | | | | | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 8-1 | 0.42 | **5.10** | | | **23.46** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | **-8.7%** | | | **-2.3%** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 8-2 | 0.41 | **5.46** | | | **23.78** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | **-2.2%** | | | **-1.0%** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+
Table 6.3.1-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of low resource utilization (RU) and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.1-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 5ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.24 | 7.03 | 20.51 | 31.75 | 20.20 | | | | | | | | | | [21] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 6.8 | | | 19.41 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | -3.3% | | | -3.9% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.25 | 5.94 | 37.50 | 60.67 | 40.49 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.22 | 6.86 | 36.97 | 56.00 | 39.67 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 15.7% | -1.4% | -7.7% | -2.0% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.22 | 6.82 | 37.12 | 55.79 | 39.60 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 15.0% | -1.0% | -8.0% | -2.2% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.15 | 10.2375 | 29.3093 | 42.5863 | 30.2464 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 10.7755 | 30.8004 | 46.5318 | 31.4034 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 5% | 5% | 9% | 4% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Reference | 0.15 | 9.2158 | 28.3489 | 42.7610 | 27.5393 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 9.9932 | 29.9386 | 46.4986 | 29.1592 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 8.4% | 5.6% | 8.7% | 5.9% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 9 | Reference | 0.16 | 5.54 | 24.46 | 39.75 | 24.89 | | | | | | | | | | [9][22] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 9-1 | 0.23 | 7.55 | 40.88 | 79.07 | 43.68 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 36.3% | 67.1% | 98.9% | 75.5% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Reference | 0.16 | 5.54 | 24.46 | 39.75 | 24.89 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 9-2 | 0.23 | 12.21 | 49.24 | 78.29 | 48.48 | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | 120.4% | 101.3% | 97.0% | 94.8% | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | Source 8 | Reference | **0.28** | **8.00** | | | **28.40** | | | | | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 8-1 | 0.28 | **7.79** | | | **28.28** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | **-2.7%** | | | **-0.4%** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | Scheme 8-2 | 0.29 | **7.67** | | | **28.24** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+ | | gain | | **-4.2%** | | | **-0.6%** | +-------------+------------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+-----------+
Table 6.3.1-4 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 10 small cells within one macro area in
case of high resource utilization (RU) and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.1-4: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 5ms backhaul latency (10
small cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.60 | 0.6966 | 3.1735 | 23.4821 | 6.4765 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 0.7222 | 4.4730 | 26.4767 | 8.1635 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 4% | 41% | 13% | 26% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.60 | 0.7146 | 3.7046 | 25.6457 | 7.3947 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 0.7313 | 6.1008 | 28.2600 | 9.4048 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 2.3% | 64.5% | 10.2% | 27% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 7 | Reference | 0.64 | 1.15 | 6.11 | | 9.60 | | | | | | | | | | [18] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 7-1 | 0.50 | 1.35 | 6.29 | | 9.86 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 17.4% | 2.9% | | 2.7% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 7-2 | 0.57 | 1.31 | 6.09 | | 9.55 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 13.9% | -0.3% | | -0.5% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.59 | 1.86 | 9.21 | 47.91 | 15.98 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | | 2.08 | 13.10 | 49.72 | 19.64 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Gain | | 11.7% | 42.3% | 3.8% | 22.9% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.1-5 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 10 small cells within one macro area in
case of medium resource utilization (RU) and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.1-5: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 5ms backhaul latency (10
small cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.40 | 0.8040 | 8.6319 | 31.5032 | 11.4975 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 0.8089 | 12.0737 | 33.6536 | 13.7429 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 0% | 40% | 7% | 20% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.40 | 0.7968 | 8.6317 | 31.2956 | 11.4846 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 0.8109 | 12.2512 | 33.8618 | 13.8110 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 1.8% | 42% | 8.2% | 20% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 7 | Reference | 0.47 | 2.39 | 9.71 | | 13.65 | | | | | | | | | | [18] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 7-1 | 0.38 | 2.58 | 9.80 | | 13.77 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 7.9% | 0.9% | | 0.9% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 7-2 | 0.45 | 2.56 | 9.69 | | 13.70 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 7.1% | -0.2% | | 0.4% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 8 | Reference | 0.42 | 4.0 | 13.9 | 40.7 | 16.8 | | | | | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 8-1 | 0.42 | 3.4 | 12.8 | 39.1 | 15.8 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -14.9% | -7.6% | -3.8% | -6.2% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 9 | Reference | 0.34 | 2.33 | 9.22 | 32.14 | 11.97 | | | | | | | | | | [9][22] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 9-1 | 0.36 | 5.78 | 21.36 | 67.69 | 26.35 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 148.07% | 131.67% | 110.61% | 120.13% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.34 | 2.33 | 9.22 | 32.14 | 11.97 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 9-2 | 0.58 | 4.13 | 16.53 | 49.98 | 20.08 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 77.2% | 79.3% | 55.5% | 67.7% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.1-6 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 10 small cells within one macro area in
case of low resource utilization (RU) and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.1-6: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 5ms backhaul latency (10
small cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.20 | 3.2369 | 18.484 | 37.813 | 19.5892 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 3.0891 | 20.6368 | 40.3302 | 21.0225 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -4% | 5% | 7% | 7% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.20 | 3.1215 | 18.3898 | 37.8013 | 19.5448 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 3.1040 | 20.7745 | 40.3043 | 21.1546 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -0.6% | 13% | 6.6% | 8.2% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 7 | Reference | 0.32 | 4.23 | 14.44 | | 19.45 | | | | | | | | | | [18] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 7-1 | 0.26 | 4.49 | 15.09 | | 19.64 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 6.1% | 4.5% | | 1.0% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 7-2 | 0.30 | 4.50 | 14.65 | | 19.91 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 6.4% | 1.5% | | 2.4% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 8 | Reference | 0.24 | 7.0 | 21.7 | 46.0 | 24.0 | | | | | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 8-1 | 0.25 | 6.3 | 20.8 | 46.0 | 23.2 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -10.4% | -4.1% | -0.1% | -3.5% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 9 | Reference | 0.24 | 5.42 | 17.17 | 39.62 | 19.43 | | | | | | | | | | [9][22] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 9-1 | 0.21 | 10.89 | 36.8 | 79.86 | 40.98 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 100.92% | 114.33% | 101.56% | 110.91% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.24 | 5.42 | 17.17 | 39.62 | 19.43 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 9-2 | 0.36 | 9.61 | 28.50 | 72.94 | 33.01 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 77.3% | 66.0% | 84.1% | 69.9% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+
### 6.3.2 Backhaul latency: 50ms
Table 6.3.2-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of high resource utilization (RU) and 50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.2-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 50ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.65 | 1.44 | 9.01 | 27.59 | 11.05 | | | | | | | | | | [21] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 1.38 | | | 8.03 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -4.2% | | | -27.3% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.62 | 2.03 | 16.75 | 57.42 | 24.66 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.49 | 2.00 | 15.66 | 31.55 | 18.60 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -1.3% | -6.5% | -45.1% | -24.6% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.47 | 1.98 | 18.61 | 46.31 | 22.65 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -2.2% | 11.1% | -19.4% | -8.2% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.55 | 2.2681 | 14.7405 | 38.0283 | 16.8709 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 2.2382 | 13.9666 | 33.7901 | 15.4622 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -1% | -5% | -11% | -8% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.70 | 1.1152 | 7.9623 | 36.3222 | 12.1837 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 1.1267 | 8.0666 | 28.1953 | 10.7905 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 1% | 1.3% | -22% | -11% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.2-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of medium resource utilization (RU) and 50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.2-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 50ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.46 | 3.03 | 13.61 | 31.75 | 15.17 | | | | | | | | | | [21] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 2.90 | | | 13.73 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -4.3% | | | -9.5% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.88 | 27.07 | 59.10 | 32.94 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.37 | 2.79 | 21.37 | 32.23 | 22.31 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -3.1% | -21.1% | -45.5% | -32.3% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.34 | 2.72 | 23.73 | 45.99 | 25.91 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -5.6% | -12.3% | -22.2% | -21.3% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.35 | 5.4776 | 21.3443 | 39.7287 | 22.0011 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 5.286 | 19.9815 | 37.7614 | 20.7301 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -3% | -6% | -5% | -3% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.35 | 4.9042 | 19.8332 | 38.8622 | 20.9783 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 4.6972 | 19.0261 | 36.7585 | 19.8877 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -4.2% | -4.1% | -5.4% | -5.2% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.2-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of low resource utilization (RU) and 50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.2-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 50ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 1 | Reference | 0.24 | 7.03 | 20.51 | 31.75 | 20.20 | | | | | | | | | | [21] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 1-1 | | 6.20 | | | 18.18 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -11.8% | | | -10.0% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.25 | 5.94 | 37.50 | 60.67 | 40.49 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.26 | 5.55 | 24.83 | 33.09 | 25.20 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -6.5% | -33.8% | -45.5% | -37.8% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.21 | 5.84 | 25.81 | 44.47 | 27.80 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -1.6% | -31.2% | -26.7% | -31.3% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.15 | 10.2375 | 29.3093 | 42.5863 | 30.2464 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 9.7086 | 28.6856 | 43.2505 | 29.7536 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -5% | -2% | 2% | -2% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.15 | 9.2158 | 28.3489 | 42.7610 | 27.5393 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 8.9214 | 27.7439 | 43.0637 | 27.2236 | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -3.2% | -2.1% | 0.7% | -1.2% | +-------------+------------+------+---------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.2-4 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 10 small cells within one macro area in
case of high resource utilization (RU) and 50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.2-4: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 50ms backhaul latency (10
small cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.60 | 0.6966 | 3.1735 | 23.4821 | 6.4765 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 0.7100 | 3.7021 | 19.3405 | 6.2239 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 2% | 17% | -18% | -4% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.60 | 0.7146 | 3.7046 | 25.6457 | 7.3947 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 0.7290 | 4.7425 | 21.8044 | 7.2541 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 2% | 28% | -15% | -1.9% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 7 | Reference | 0.64 | 1.15 | 6.11 | | 9.60 | | | | | | | | | | [18] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 7-1 | 0.54 | 1.17 | 5.24 | | 8.12 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 1.7% | -14.2% | | -15.4% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 7-2 | 0.57 | 1.24 | 6.30 | | 9.81 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 7.8% | 3.1% | | 2.1% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.59 | 1.86 | 9.21 | 47.91 | 15.98 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | | 1.81 | 11.31 | 37.66 | 15.84 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Gain | | -2.8% | 22.8% | -21.4% | -0.9% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.2-5 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 10 small cells within one macro area in
case of medium resource utilization (RU) and 50ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.2-5: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 50ms backhaul latency (10
small cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.40 | 0.8040 | 8.6319 | 31.5032 | 11.4975 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 0.8031 | 8.8686 | 29.0103 | 10.5871 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 0% | 3% | -8% | -8% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.40 | 0.7968 | 8.6317 | 31.2956 | 11.4846 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 0.8003 | 9.3116 | 27.4679 | 10.8840 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 0.4% | 7.8% | -12.2% | -5.2% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 7 | Reference | 0.47 | 2.39 | 9.71 | | 13.65 | | | | | | | | | | [18] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 7-1 | 0.41 | 2.26 | 7.72 | | 10.60 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -5.4% | -20.5% | | -22.3% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 7-2 | 0.44 | 2.54 | 9.71 | | 13.67 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 6.3% | 0.0% | | 0.1% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.2-6 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 10 small cells within one macro area in
case of low resource utilization (RU) and 5ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.2-6: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 50ms backhaul latency (10
small cells within one macro area)
+-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 4 | Reference | 0.20 | 3.2369 | 18.484 | 37.813 | 19.5892 | | | | | | | | | | [6][10] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-1 | | 3.0252 | 16.7335 | 36.4978 | 18.0046 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -6% | -9% | -3% | -8% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Reference | 0.20 | 3.1215 | 18.3898 | 37.8013 | 19.5448 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 4-2 | | 3.0094 | 17.2826 | 37.2874 | 18.5295 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -3.6% | -6% | -1.4% | -5.2% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 7 | Reference | 0.32 | 4.23 | 14.44 | | 19.45 | | | | | | | | | | [18] | | | | | | | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 7-1 | 0.28 | 3.57 | 10.42 | | 13.72 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -15.6% | -27.8% | | -29.5% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 7-2 | 0.30 | 4.33 | 14.39 | | 19.68 | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 2.4% | -0.3% | | 1.2% | +-------------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
### 6.3.3 Backhaul latency: 2ms
Table 6.3.3-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of high resource utilization (RU) and 2ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.3-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 2ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.62 | 2.03 | 16.75 | 57.42 | 24.66 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.46 | 2.39 | 23.88 | 56.55 | 29.29 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 17.8% | 42.6% | -1.5% | 18.8% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.48 | 2.26 | 23.82 | 58.45 | 29.31 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 11.6% | 42.2% | 1.8% | 18.9% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.3-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of medium resource utilization (RU) and 2ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.3-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 2ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.88 | 27.07 | 59.10 | 32.94 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.34 | 3.29 | 32.15 | 57.41 | 35.83 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 14.4% | 18.8% | -2.9% | 8.8% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.35 | 3.25 | 32.00 | 57.43 | 35.80 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 12.8% | 18.2% | -2.8% | 8.7% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.3-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of low resource utilization (RU) and 2ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.3-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 2ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.25 | 5.94 | 37.50 | 60.67 | 40.49 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.21 | 6.94 | 38.71 | 58.71 | 41.29 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 16.9% | 3.2% | -3.2% | 2.0% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.22 | 6.75 | 38.17 | 58.46 | 41.23 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 13.8% | 1.8% | -3.7% | 1.8% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
### 6.3.4 Backhaul latency: 10ms
Table 6.3.4-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of high resource utilization (RU) and 10ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.4-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 10ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.62 | 2.03 | 16.75 | 57.42 | 24.66 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.47 | 2.14 | 21.18 | 48.96 | 26.17 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 5.8% | 26.4% | -14.7% | 6.1% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.47 | 2.20 | 22.38 | 52.10 | 27.40 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 8.4% | 33.6% | -9.3% | 11.1% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.4-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of medium resource utilization (RU) and 10ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.4-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 10ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.88 | 27.07 | 59.10 | 32.94 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.35 | 3.05 | 29.23 | 50.63 | 32.15 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 6.0% | 8.0% | -14.3% | -2.4% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.35 | 3.20 | 29.88 | 51.38 | 32.82 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 10.9% | 10.4% | -13.1% | -0.4% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.4-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of low resource utilization (RU) and 10ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.4-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 10ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.25 | 5.94 | 37.50 | 60.67 | 40.49 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.22 | 6.82 | 34.95 | 52.00 | 37.17 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 14.8% | -6.8% | -14.3% | -8.2% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.20 | 6.86 | 35.57 | 52.12 | 38.12 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 15.5% | -5.2% | -14.1% | -5.8% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
### 6.3.5 Backhaul latency: 30ms
Table 6.3.5-1 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of high resource utilization (RU) and 30ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.5-1: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for high (0.5\~0.8) RU and 30ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.62 | 2.03 | 16.75 | 57.42 | 24.66 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.48 | 2.07 | 17.95 | 38.55 | 21.69 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 2.2% | 7.1% | -32.9% | -12.1% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.47 | 2.03 | 20.84 | 48.62 | 24.90 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 0.4% | 24.4% | -15.3% | 1.0% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.5-2 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of medium resource utilization (RU) and 30ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.5-2: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for medium (0.3\~0.5) RU and 30ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.43 | 2.88 | 27.07 | 59.10 | 32.94 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.37 | 2.84 | 24.33 | 39.38 | 26.19 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -1.3% | -10.1% | -33.4% | -20.5% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.34 | 2.86 | 26.28 | 46.44 | 28.76 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -0.6% | -2.9% | -21.4% | -12.7% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
Table 6.3.5-3 shows the user packet throughput (UPT) results of candidate CoMP
techniques in SCE scenario 2a with 4 small cells within one macro area in case
of low resource utilization (RU) and 30ms backhaul latency.
Table 6.3.5-3: Performance of candidate CoMP techniques in SCE scenario 2a
with non-ideal backhaul for low (0.0\~0.3) RU and 30ms backhaul latency (4
small cells within one macro area)
+----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | | RU | 5% UPT | 50% UPT | 95% UPT | Mean UPT | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | Source 3 | Reference | 0.25 | 5.94 | 37.50 | 60.67 | 40.49 | | | | | | | | | | [17] | | | | | | | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-1 | 0.26 | 5.82 | 29.03 | 40.44 | 29.81 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | -2.0% | -22.6% | -33.3% | -26.4% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | Scheme 3-2 | 0.20 | 6.47 | 30.21 | 47.60 | 31.95 | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+ | | gain | | 9.0% | -19.4% | -21.5% | -21.1% | +----------+------------+------+--------+---------+---------+----------+
# 7 Conclusion
Scatter plots for performance under CoMP scenario 2, SCE scenario 1, and SCE
scenario 2a in case of 5ms backhaul delay and high RU are provided in Figure
7-1, Figure 7-2, and Figure 7-3, respectively.
Scatter plots for performance under CoMP scenario 2, SCE scenario 1, and SCE
scenario 2a in case of 50ms backhaul delay and high RU are provided in Figure
7-4, Figure 7-5, and Figure 7-6, respectively.
It was observed that CoMP-NIB gain varies as a factor of deployment scenario,
backhaul delay, coordination scheme, resource utilization factor, and
coordination size.
  * In case of 5ms backhaul delay and high RU
    * For CoMP scenario 2 with coordination size of 9, it is observed > that
      * Mean UPT gain has a median of -4.7%
      * 5% UPT gain has a median of -3.2%
    * For CoMP scenario 2 with coordination size of 21, it is observed > that
      * Mean UPT gain has a median of -5.2%
      * 5% UPT gain has a median of 0.5%
    * For SCE scenario 1 in case of 4 small cells within one macro > area, it is observed that
      * Mean UPT gain has a median of 6.1%
      * 5% UPT gain has a median of 11.4%
    * For SCE scenario 1 in case of 10 small cells within one macro > area, it is observed that
      * Mean UPT gain has a median of 1.4%
      * 5% UPT gain has a median of 16.4%
    * For SCE scenario 2a in case of 4 small cells within one macro > area, it is observed that
      * Mean UPT gain has a median of 5.1%
      * 5% UPT gain has a median of 6.8%
    * For SCE scenario 2a in case of 10 small cells within one macro > area, it is observed that
      * Mean UPT gain has a median of 22.9%
      * 5% UPT gain has a median of 11.7%
  * In case of 50ms backhaul delay and high RU
    * For CoMP scenario 2 with coordination size of 9, it is observed > that
      * Mean UPT gain has a median of -16.3%
      * 5% UPT gain has a median of -11.4%
    * For CoMP scenario 2 with coordination size of 21, it is observed > that
      * Mean UPT gain has a median of -13.1%
      * 5% UPT gain has a median of -2.9%
    * For SCE scenario 1 in case of 4 small cells within one macro > area, it is observed that
      * Mean UPT gain has a median of -0.5%
      * 5% UPT gain has a median of 2.9%
    * For SCE scenario 1 in case of 10 small cells within one macro > area, it is observed that
      * Mean UPT gain has a median of -0.1%
      * 5% UPT gain has a median of -1.6%
    * For SCE scenario 2a in case of 4 small cells within one macro > area, it is observed that
      * Mean UPT gain has a median of -8.2%
      * 5% UPT gain has a median of -2.2%
    * For SCE scenario 2a in case of 10 small cells within one macro > area, it is observed that
      * Mean UPT gain has a median of -0.9%
      * 5% UPT gain has a median of 2.0%
In summary in CoMP scenario 2 for 9 cell coordination, inter-site CoMP does
not provide significant gain over intra-site CoMP with 5ms backhaul latency,
with median of -4.7% and range of -6.9 to 7%.
{width="5.902777777777778in" height="3.2875in"}
Figure 7-1: Scatter plot for performance under CoMP scenario 2 with NIB in
case of 5ms backhaul delay and high RU (blue: 9-cell coordination, red:
21-cell coordination)
{width="6.100694444444445in" height="3.365972222222222in"}
Figure 7-2: Scatter plot for performance under SCE scenario 1 with NIB in case
of 5ms backhaul delay and high RU (blue: sparse deployment, red: dense
deployment)
{width="5.761805555555555in" height="3.183333333333333in"}
Figure 7-3: Scatter plot for performance under SCE scenario 2a with NIB in
case of 5ms backhaul delay and high RU (blue: sparse deployment, red: dense
deployment)
{width="5.879861111111111in" height="3.295138888888889in"}
Figure 7-4: Scatter plot for performance under CoMP scenario 2 with NIB in
case of 50ms backhaul delay and high RU (blue: 9-cell coordination, red:
21-cell coordination)
{width="5.955555555555556in" height="3.154861111111111in"}
Figure 7-5: Scatter plot for performance under SCE scenario 1 with NIB in case
of 50ms backhaul delay and high RU (blue: sparse deployment, red: dense
deployment)
{width="6.060416666666667in" height="3.3833333333333333in"}
Figure 7-6: Scatter plot for performance under SCE scenario 2a with NIB in
case of 50ms backhaul delay and high RU (blue: sparse deployment, red: dense
deployment)
###### ### Annex A: Evaluation Assumptions
## A.1 CoMP Scenario 2 with NIB
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | **macro** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Layout | Hexagonal grid, 3 sectors per | | | site, 19 macro sites | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of cells in coordination | Baseline is 9 (optional: 21) | | | with the layout as in [3] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | System bandwidth per carrier | 10MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2.0GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Total BS TX power (Ptotal per | 46dBm | | carrier) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Distance-dependent path loss | ITU UMa according to Table | | | B.1.2.1-1in TR 36.814 [5] with | | | 3D distance between an eNB and a | | | UE applied (same as macro of SCE | | | scenario 1 in [4]) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Penetration loss | Same as macro of SCE scenario 1 | | | in [4]\ | | | (i.e., [\ | | | ]{.underline}For outdoor | | | UEs:0dB\ | | | For indoor UEs: 20dB+0.5din (din | | | : independent uniform random | | | value between [ 0, min(25,d) ] | | | for each link)) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Shadowing | ITU UMa according to Table A.1-1 | | | of TR 36.819 [3] (same as | | | macro of SCE scenario 1 in | | | [4]) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna pattern | 3D according to TR36.819 [3] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna Height: | 25m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna Height | 1.5m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna gain + connector loss | 17 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna gain of UE | 0 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Fast fading channel between eNB | ITU UMa according to Table A.1-1 | | and UE | of TR 36.819 [3] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration | - For FDD, | | | | | | • 4Tx, 2Rx in DL, | | | cross-polarized | | | | | | • 2Tx, 2Rx in DL, | | | cross-polarized | | | | | | • 1Tx, 2Rx in UL, | | | cross-polarized | | | | | | - For TDD, | | | | | | • 8Tx, 2Rx in DL cross-polarized | | | | | | • 1Tx, 8Rx in UL, | | | cross-polarized | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of UEs | Variable per FTP model 1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE dropping | 20% UEs are outdoor and 80% UEs | | | are indoor (same as SCE scenario | | | 1 in [4]) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Minimum distance | Macro - UE: 35m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic model | - FTP model 1 as in TR 36.814 | | | | | | > • Evaluate low, medium, and | | | > high load levels (e.g. RU 20%, | | | > 40%, 60% across all cells in | | | > the most loaded "layer" (i.e. | | | > macro and small cells) for the | | | > reference scheme) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE receiver | MMSE-IRC (non-ideal DMRS channel | | | estimation) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE noise figure for DL | 9 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | eNB for UL | 7 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE speed | 3km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cell selection criteria | RSRP with cell common bias if | | | CRE is applied | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Handover margin | 1 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Network synchronization | - 0us for co-sited cells | | | | | | - 3us for non-co-sited cells | | | | | | • How to model the network | | | synchronization error is | | | provided by each company | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Backhaul assumption | - Non-ideal backhaul between | | | eNB sites | | | | | | - Latency values: {5, 50}ms | | | mandatory, {2, 10, 30}ms | | | optional | | | | | | - Backhaul topology is to be | | | described by each company | | | | | | • Baseline is same latency | | | between any pair of nodes | | | | | | - Backhaul capacity limitation: | | | | | | • As per TR 36.932. Further | | | details can be provided by each | | | company | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Performance metrics | Mean, 5%/50%/95% UPT at the | | | given offered traffic | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Considered transmission schemes | - DL: TM10 SU/MU-MIMO | | from a single point | | | | - UL: TM1 MU-MIMO | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Coordination scheme | - Coordinated scheduling and/or | | | coordinated beamforming | | | | | | • including semi-static point | | | selection/muting | | | | | | - Note: Companies are to | | | provide details of their | | | coordination schemes | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Reference scheme for performance | The "best pre-release-12 | | comparison | scheme", including: | | | | | | • Rel-11 intra-site CoMP between | | | the 3 sectors of each macro | | | | | | > • Rel-11 feICIC and other | | | > Rel-11 (and earlier) | | | > coordination signalling | | | > between cells where applicable | | | | | | • Rel-12 enhanced feedback | | | | | | > • Further details of what each | | | > company believes to be the | | | > "best pre-release-12 scheme" | | | > to be provided by each company | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Feedback assumption | - Non-ideal | | | channel/interference estimation | | | based on TM10 | | | | | | - CSI reporting: Rel-11 | | | feedback and Rel-12 enhanced | | | feedback | | | | | | - The assumed feedback should | | | be described by companies in | | | detail (e.g. PUSCH mode 3-2) | | | | | | - CSI feedback delay from | | | measurement time to arrival at | | | serving eNB: 5ms | | | | | | - Companies to give details of | | | UL feedback rate/overhead | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CRS interference | - CRS interference is modelled: | | | | | | • How CRS interference is | | | modelled should be provided by | | | each company | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## A.2 SCE Scenario 1 with NIB
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **macro cell** | **small cell** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Layout | Hexagonal grid, 3 | {width="2 | | | case 1 | .1506944444444445in" | | | | height="1. | | | Both 19 Macro sites | 6118055555555555in"} | | | and 7 Macro sites | | | | can be used. | Clusters uniformly | | | Companies should | random within macro | | | indicate whether 19 | geographical area; | | | or 7 sites are used | small cells | | | when presenting the | uniformly random | | | results. | dropping within | | | | cluster area | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of macro cell | baseline is 3 | | | areas in | intra-site macro | | | coordination* | cell areas | | | | (optional: 1 macro | | | | cell area) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System bandwidth per | 10MHz | | | carrier | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2.0GHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier number | 1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total BS TX power | 46dBm | 30 dBm, Optional: | | (Ptotal per carrier) | | 24dBm, 37dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distance-dependent | ITU UMa[referring | ITU UMi[referring | | path loss | to Table B.1.2.1-1 | toTableto Table | | | in TR36.814], with | B.1.2.1-1 in | | | 3D distance between | TR36.814], with 3D | | | an eNB and a UE | distance between an | | | applied. Working | eNB and a UE | | | assumption is that | applied. Working | | | 3D distance is also | assumption is that | | | used for: | 3D distance is also | | | | used for: | | | - break point | | | | distance | -break point | | | | distance | | | - LOS probability | | | | | -LOS probability | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Penetration loss | For outdoor UEs:0dB\ | | | | For indoor UEs: | | | | 20dB+0.5din (din : | | | | independent uniform | | | | random value between | | | | [ 0, min(25,d) ] | | | | for each link) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | ITU UMa according to | ITU UMi [referring | | | Table A.1-1 of | to Table B.1.2.1-4 | | | 36.819 | in TR36.814] | | | | | | | Working assumption | Working assumption | | | is that 3D distance | is that 3D distance | | | is used for | is used for | | | shadowing | shadowing | | | correlation distance | correlation distance | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna pattern | 3D according to | 2D Omni-directional | | | TR36.819 [3] | is baseline; | | | | directional antenna | | | | is not precluded | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna Height: | 25m | 10m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE antenna Height | 1.5m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain + | 17 dBi | 5 dBi | | connector loss | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain of UE | 0 dBi | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fast fading channel | ITU UMa according to | ITU UMi | | between eNB and UE | Table A.1-1 of TR | | | | 36.819 [3] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna | - For FDD, | - For FDD, | | configuration* | | | | | • 4Tx, 2Rx in DL, | • 4Tx, 2Rx in DL, | | | cross-polarized | cross-polarized | | | | | | | • 2Tx, 2Rx in DL, | • 2Tx, 2Rx in DL, | | | cross-polarized | cross-polarized | | | | | | | • 1Tx, 2Rx in UL, | • 1Tx, 2Rx in UL, | | | cross-polarized | cross-polarized | | | | | | | - For TDD, | - For TDD, | | | | | | | • 8Tx, 2Rx in DL | • 2Tx, 2Rx in DL | | | cross-polarized | cross-polarized | | | | | | | • 1Tx, 8Rx in UL, | • 1Tx, 2Rx in UL, | | | cross-polarized | cross-polarized | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of small cell | Baseline is 1 | | | clusters per macro | (optional: 2) | | | cell area* | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of small | 4, 10 | | | cells per cluster | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of small | [4, 10]*Number of | | | cells per macro cell | clusters per macro | | | | cell area | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of UEs* | Variable per FTP | | | | model 1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE dropping | Baseline: 2/3 UEs | | | | randomly and | | | | uniformly dropped | | | | within the clusters, | | | | 1/3 UEs randomly and | | | | uniformly dropped | | | | throughout the macro | | | | geographical area. | | | | 20% UEs are outdoor | | | | and 80% UEs are | | | | indoor. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radius for small | 50m | | | cell dropping in a | | | | cluster | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radius for UE | 70m | | | dropping in a | | | | cluster | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum distance | Small cell -- small | | | (2D) | cell: 20m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Small cell -- UE: 5m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Macro -- small cell | | | | cluster center: 105m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Macro -- UE: 35m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Cluster center -- | | | | cluster center: | | | | 2*radius for small | | | | cell dropping in a | | | | cluster | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic model* | - FTP model 1 as in | | | | TR 36.814 | | | | | | | | > • Evaluate low, | | | | > medium, and high | | | | > load levels (e.g. | | | | > RU 20%, 40%, 60% | | | | > across all cells | | | | > in the most loaded | | | | > "layer" (i.e. | | | | > macro and small | | | | > cells) for the | | | | > reference scheme) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE receiver | MMSE-IRC as baseline | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE noise figure for | 9 dB | | | DL | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE speed | 3km/h | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell selection | Baseline: RSRP with | | | criteria | cell common bias if | | | | CRE is applied. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover margin* | 1dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | - 0us for co-sited | | | synchronization* | cells | | | | | | | | - 3us for | | | | non-co-sited cells | | | | | | | | > • How to model the | | | | > network | | | | > synchronization | | | | > error is provided | | | | > by each company | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Backhaul | - Non-ideal | | | assumption* | backhaul between eNB | | | | sites | | | | | | | | - Latency values: | | | | {5, 50}ms mandatory, | | | | {2, 10, 30}ms | | | | optional | | | | | | | | - Backhaul topology | | | | is to be described | | | | by each company | | | | | | | | • Baseline is same | | | | latency between any | | | | pair of nodes | | | | | | | | - Backhaul capacity | | | | limitation: | | | | | | | | • As per TR 36.932. | | | | Further details can | | | | be provided by each | | | | company | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Performance metrics | Mean, 5%/50%/95% UPT | | | | at the given offered | | | | traffic | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Considered | - DL: TM10 | | | transmission schemes | SU/MU-MIMO | | | from a single | | | | point* | - UL: TM1 MU-MIMO | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coordination | - Coordinated | | | scheme* | scheduling and/or | | | | coordinated | | | | beamforming | | | | | | | | • including | | | | semi-static point | | | | selection/muting | | | | | | | | - Note: Companies | | | | are to provide | | | | details of their | | | | coordination schemes | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reference scheme for | The "best | | | performance | pre-release-12 | | | comparison* | scheme", including: | | | | | | | | • Rel-11 intra-site | | | | CoMP between the 3 | | | | sectors of each | | | | macro | | | | | | | | > • Rel-11 feICIC | | | | > and other Rel-11 | | | | > (and earlier) | | | | > coordination | | | | > signalling between | | | | > cells where | | | | > applicable | | | | | | | | • Rel-12 enhanced | | | | feedback | | | | | | | | > • Further details | | | | > of what each | | | | > company believes | | | | > to be the "best | | | | > pre-release-12 | | | | > scheme" to be | | | | > provided by each | | | | > company | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Feedback | - Non-ideal | | | assumption* | channel/interference | | | | estimation based on | | | | TM10 | | | | | | | | - CSI reporting: | | | | Rel-11 feedback and | | | | Rel-12 enhanced | | | | feedback | | | | | | | | - The assumed | | | | feedback should be | | | | described by | | | | companies in detail | | | | (e.g. PUSCH mode | | | | 3-2) | | | | | | | | - CSI feedback | | | | delay from | | | | measurement time to | | | | arrival at serving | | | | eNB: 5ms | | | | | | | | - Companies to give | | | | details of UL | | | | feedback | | | | rate/overhead | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CRS interference* | - CRS interference | | | | is modelled: | | | | | | | | • How CRS | | | | interference is | | | | modelled should be | | | | provided by each | | | | company | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
(*) Evaluation assumptions which are different from in Annex A of TR 36.872
[4]
## A.3 SCE Scenario 2a with NIB
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **macro cell** | **small cell** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Layout | Hexagonal grid, 3 | {width="2 | | | case 1 | .1506944444444445in" | | | | height="1. | | | Both 19 Macro sites | 6118055555555555in"} | | | and 7 Macro sites | | | | can be used. | Clusters uniformly | | | Companies should | random within macro | | | indicate whether 19 | geographical area; | | | or 7 sites are used | small cells | | | when presenting the | uniformly random | | | results. | dropping within | | | | cluster area | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of macro cell | baseline is 3 | | | areas in | intra-site macro | | | coordination* | cell areas | | | | (optional: 1 macro | | | | cell area) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System bandwidth per | 10MHz | | | carrier | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2.0GHz | 3.5GHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier number | 1 | 1 or 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total BS TX power | 46dBm | 30 dBm, Optional: | | (Ptotal per carrier) | | 24dBm, 37dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distance-dependent | ITU UMa[referring | ITU UMi[referring | | path loss | to Table B.1.2.1-1 | toTableto Table | | | in TR36.814], with | B.1.2.1-1 in | | | 3D distance between | TR36.814], with 3D | | | an eNB and a UE | distance between an | | | applied. Working | eNB and a UE | | | assumption is that | applied. Working | | | 3D distance is also | assumption is that | | | used for: | 3D distance is also | | | | used for: | | | - break point | | | | distance | -break point | | | | distance | | | - LOS probability | | | | | -LOS probability | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Penetration loss | For outdoor UEs:0dB\ | | | | For indoor UEs: | | | | 20dB+0.5din (din : | | | | independent uniform | | | | random value between | | | | [ 0, min(25,d) ] | | | | for each link) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | ITU UMa according to | ITU UMi [referring | | | Table A.1-1 of | to Table B.1.2.1-4 | | | 36.819 | in TR36.814] | | | | | | | Working assumption | Working assumption | | | is that 3D distance | is that 3D distance | | | is used for | is used for | | | shadowing | shadowing | | | correlation distance | correlation distance | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna pattern | 3D according to | 2D Omni-directional | | | TR36.819 [3] | is baseline; | | | | directional antenna | | | | is not precluded | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna Height: | 25m | 10m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE antenna Height | 1.5m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain + | 17 dBi | 5 dBi | | connector loss | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain of UE | 0 dBi | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fast fading channel | ITU UMa according to | ITU UMi | | between eNB and UE | Table A.1-1 of TR | | | | 36.819 [3] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna | - For FDD, | - For FDD, | | configuration* | | | | | • 4Tx, 2Rx in DL, | • 4Tx, 2Rx in DL, | | | cross-polarized | cross-polarized | | | | | | | • 2Tx, 2Rx in DL, | • 2Tx, 2Rx in DL, | | | cross-polarized | cross-polarized | | | | | | | • 1Tx, 2Rx in UL, | • 1Tx, 2Rx in UL, | | | cross-polarized | cross-polarized | | | | | | | - For TDD, | - For TDD, | | | | | | | • 8Tx, 2Rx in DL | • 2Tx, 2Rx in DL | | | cross-polarized | cross-polarized | | | | | | | • 1Tx, 8Rx in UL, | • 1Tx, 2Rx in UL, | | | cross-polarized | cross-polarized | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of small cell | Baseline is 1 | | | clusters per macro | (optional: 2) | | | cell area* | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of small | 4, 10 | | | cells per cluster | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of small | [4, 10]* Number | | | cells per macro | of clusters per | | | cell* | macro cell area | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of UEs* | Variable per FTP | | | | model 1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE dropping | Baseline: 2/3 UEs | | | | randomly and | | | | uniformly dropped | | | | within the clusters, | | | | 1/3 UEs randomly and | | | | uniformly dropped | | | | throughout the macro | | | | geographical area. | | | | 20% UEs are outdoor | | | | and 80% UEs are | | | | indoor. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radius for small | 50m | | | cell dropping in a | | | | cluster | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radius for UE | 70m | | | dropping in a | | | | cluster | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum distance | Small cell -- small | | | (2D) | cell: 20m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Small cell -- UE: 5m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Macro -- small cell | | | | cluster center: 105m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Macro -- UE: 35m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Cluster center -- | | | | cluster center: | | | | 2*radius for small | | | | cell dropping in a | | | | cluster | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic model* | - FTP model 1 as in | | | | TR 36.814 | | | | | | | | > • Evaluate low, | | | | > medium, and high | | | | > load levels (e.g. | | | | > RU 20%, 40%, 60% | | | | > across all cells | | | | > in the most loaded | | | | > "layer" (i.e. | | | | > macro and small | | | | > cells) for the | | | | > reference scheme) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE receiver | MMSE-IRC as baseline | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE noise figure for | 9 dB | | | DL | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE speed | 3km/h | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell selection | Baseline: RSRP for | | | criteria | intra-frequency and | | | | RSRQ for | | | | inter-frequency, | | | | with cell common | | | | bias if CRE is | | | | applied. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover margin* | 1dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | - 0us for co-sited | | | synchronization* | cells | | | | | | | | - 3us for | | | | non-co-sited cells | | | | | | | | > • How to model the | | | | > network | | | | > synchronization | | | | > error is provided | | | | > by each company | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Backhaul | - Non-ideal | | | assumption* | backhaul between eNB | | | | sites | | | | | | | | - Latency values: | | | | {5, 50}ms mandatory, | | | | {2, 10, 30}ms | | | | optional | | | | | | | | - Backhaul topology | | | | is to be described | | | | by each company | | | | | | | | • Baseline is same | | | | latency between any | | | | pair of nodes | | | | | | | | - Backhaul capacity | | | | limitation: | | | | | | | | • As per TR 36.932. | | | | Further details can | | | | be provided by each | | | | company | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Performance metrics | Mean, 5%/50%/95% UPT | | | | at the given offered | | | | traffic | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Considered | - DL: TM10 | | | transmission schemes | SU/MU-MIMO | | | from a single | | | | point* | - UL: TM1 MU-MIMO | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coordination | - Coordinated | | | scheme* | scheduling and/or | | | | coordinated | | | | beamforming | | | | | | | | • including | | | | semi-static point | | | | selection/muting | | | | | | | | - Note: Companies | | | | are to provide | | | | details of their | | | | coordination schemes | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reference scheme for | The "best | | | performance | pre-release-12 | | | comparison* | scheme", including: | | | | | | | | • Rel-11 intra-site | | | | CoMP between the 3 | | | | sectors of each | | | | macro | | | | | | | | > • Rel-11 feICIC | | | | > and other Rel-11 | | | | > (and earlier) | | | | > coordination | | | | > signalling between | | | | > cells where | | | | > applicable | | | | | | | | • Rel-12 enhanced | | | | feedback | | | | | | | | > • Further details | | | | > of what each | | | | > company believes | | | | > to be the "best | | | | > pre-release-12 | | | | > scheme" to be | | | | > provided by each | | | | > company | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Feedback | - Non-ideal | | | assumption* | channel/interference | | | | estimation based on | | | | TM10 | | | | | | | | - CSI reporting: | | | | Rel-11 feedback and | | | | Rel-12 enhanced | | | | feedback | | | | | | | | - The assumed | | | | feedback should be | | | | described by | | | | companies in detail | | | | (e.g. PUSCH mode | | | | 3-2) | | | | | | | | - CSI feedback | | | | delay from | | | | measurement time to | | | | arrival at serving | | | | eNB: 5ms | | | | | | | | - Companies to give | | | | details of UL | | | | feedback | | | | rate/overhead | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CRS interference* | - CRS interference | | | | is modelled: | | | | | | | | • How CRS | | | | interference is | | | | modelled should be | | | | provided by each | | | | company | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
(*) Evaluation assumptions which are different from in Annex A of TR 36.872
[4]
#