# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the findings of the study item \"Study on
3D-channel model for Elevation Beamforming and FD-MIMO studies for LTE\" [3]
and aims to help TSG RAN WG1 to properly model and evaluate the performance of
physical layer techniques using 3D channel models.
This document relates to the 3GPP evaluation methodology and covers the
modelling of the physical layer of both Mobile Equipment (ME) and Access
Network (AN) of 3GPP systems.
It intends to capture the scenarios relevant to 3D channel models and the
modifications to the 3GPP evaluation methodology needed to support 3D channel
modelling.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-122034: Work Item Description for \"Study on 3D-channel model for
Elevation Beamforming and FD-MIMO studies for LTE\".
[3] RP-130811: Revised Work Item Description for \"Study on 3D-channel model
for Elevation Beamforming and FD-MIMO studies for LTE\".
[4] 3GPP TR 36.814 (V9.0.0): \"Further Advancements for E-UTRA, Physical Layer
Aspects\".
[5] ITU-R Rec. P.1816: \"The prediction of the time and the spatial profile
for broadband land mobile services using UHF and SHF bands\"
[6] R1-140765: \"Polarized antenna modelling\" Ericsson, RAN1#76, Feb 2014.
[7] R1-140842: \"Discussions on Wrapping Methodology\" Ericsson, RAN1#76, Feb
2014.
[8] R1-140843: \"Summary of Phase-1 and Phase-2 calibration results from
[75-29]\", NSN, Nokia, RAN1#76, Feb 2014.
[9] 3GPP TR 25.996: \"Spatial channel model for Multiple Input Multiple Output
(MIMO) simulations\".
[10] R1-143469: \"Summary of 3D channel model calibration results\", Nokia
Networks, Nokia Corporation, RAN1#78, Aug 2014.
[11] R1-140972: \"WF on Channel Modeling for High Rise Scenario\", Alcatel-
Lucent, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, CATR, CATT, CHTTL, CMCC, Huawei,
HiSilicon, Hitachi, INTEL, LGE, NEC, NTT DoCoMo, Samsung, ZTE, RAN1#76, Feb
2014.
[12] R1-140600: \"Measurement and Discussions on Small Scale Parameters for
High Rise Scenario\", CMCC, RAN1#76, Feb 2014.
[13] R1-140284: \"Discussion on channel model for high rise scenario\", ZTE,
RAN1#76, Feb 2014.
[14] R1-140204: \"Details of channel modeling for high rise scenario\",
Huawei, HiSilicon, RAN1#76, Feb 2014.
[15] R1-140770: \"Modelling Considerations for the High-Rise Scenario\",
Ericsson, RAN1#76, Feb 2014.
[16] IST-WINNER II Deliverable 1.1.2 v.1.2, \"WINNER II Channel Models\", IST-
WINNER2, Tech. Rep., 2007 (http://www.ist-winner.org/deliverables.html).
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
FD-MIMO Full Dimension MIMO
GCS Global Coordinate System
LCS Local Coordinate System
# 4 Introduction
At 3GPP TSG RAN #58 meeting the Study Item Description on \"Study on
3D-channel model for Elevation Beamforming and FD-MIMO studies for LTE\" was
approved [2], which was subsequently revised at RAN#60 [3].
This study item covers the identification of scenarios applicable to 3D
beamforming, FD-MIMO and the evaluation methodology needed for modelling and
evaluation of such techniques. This TR documents the modified evaluation
methodology including 3D channel models needed for studying the above
techniques.
# 5 General
## 5.1 Coordinate system
### 5.1.1 Definition
A coordinate system is defined by the x, y, z axes, the spherical angles and
the spherical unit vectors as shown in Figure 5.1.1.\ Figure 5.1.1 defines the
zenith angle $\theta$ and the azimuth angle$\varphi$ in a Cartesian coordinate
system.\ Note that $\theta = 0$points to the zenith and $\theta =
\text{90}^{0}$points to the horizon.\ The field component in the direction of
$\hat{\theta}$ is given by $F_{\theta}$and the field component in the
direction of $\hat{\varphi}$ is given by $F_{\varphi}$.
{width="3.827777777777778in" height="2.8222222222222224in"}
Figure 5.1.1:Definition of spherical angles and spherical unit vectors in a
Cartesian coordinate system, where$\hat{n}$is the given direction,
$\hat{\theta}$ and $\hat{\varphi}$are the spherical basis vectors
### 5.1.2 Local and global coordinate systems
A Global Coordinate System (GCS) is defined for a system comprising of
multiple BSs and UTs. An antenna array for a BS or a UT can be defined in a
Local Coordinate System (LCS). An LCS is used as a reference to define the
vector far-field that is pattern and polarization, of each antenna element in
an array. It is assumed that the far-field is known in the LCS by formulae.
The placement of an array within the GCS is defined by the translation between
the GCS and a LCS. The orientation of the array with respect to the GCS is
defined in general by a sequence of rotations (described in clause 5.1.3).
Since this orientation is in general different from the GCS orientation, it is
necessary to map the vector fields of the array elements from the LCS to the
GCS. This mapping depends only on the orientation of the array and is given by
the equations in clause 5.13.\ Note that any arbitrary mechanical orientation
of the array can be achieved by rotating the LCS with respect to the GCS.
### 5.1.3 Transformation from a LCS to a GCS
A GCS with coordinates (_x_ , _y_ , _z_ , $\theta$, $\varphi$) and unit
vectors ($\hat{\theta}$, $\hat{\varphi}$) and an LCS with \"primed\"
coordinates (_x\'_ , _y\'_ , _z\'_ , $\theta'$, $\varphi'$) and \"primed\"
unit vectors ($\hat{\theta}'$, $\hat{\varphi}'$) are defined with a common
origins in Figures 5.1.3-1 and 5.1.3-2. Figure 5.1.3-1 illustrates the
sequence of rotations that relate the GCS (gray) and the LCS (blue).\ Figure
5.1.3-2 shows the coordinate direction and unit vectors of the GCS (gray) and
the LCS (blue).\ Note that the vector fields of the antenna array elements are
defined in the LCS. In Figure 5.1.3-1 we consider an arbitrary 3D-rotation of
the LCS with respect to the GCS given by the angles _α_ , _β_ , _γ_. The set
of angles _α_ , _β_ , _γ_ can also be termed as the orientation of the antenna
array with respect to the GCS.\ Note that the transformation from a LCS to a
GCS depends only on the angles _α_ , _β_ , _γ_. The angle _α_ is called the
bearing angle, _β_ is called the downtilt angle and _γ_ is called the slant
angle.
{width="2.9229166666666666in" height="3.0902777777777777in"}
Figure 5.1.3-1: Orienting the LCS (blue) with respect to the GCS (gray) by a
sequence of 3 rotations: _α_ , _β_ , _γ_.
{width="2.9277777777777776in" height="3.0909722222222222in"}
Figure 5.1.3-2: Definition of spherical coordinates and unit vectors in both
the GCS and LCS.
Let $A'(\theta\text{',}\varphi')$denote an antenna element pattern in the LCS
and $A(\theta,\varphi)$denote the same antenna element pattern in the GCS.
Then the two are related simply by
$A(\theta,\varphi) = A'(\theta\text{',}\varphi')$ (5.1-1)
with $\theta'$ and $\varphi'$given by (5.1-7) and (5.1-8).
Let us denote the polarized field components in the LCS by
$F_{\theta'}(\theta\text{',}\varphi')$,
$F_{\varphi'}(\theta\text{',}\varphi')$and in the GCS by
$F_{\theta}(\theta,\varphi)$, $F_{\varphi}(\theta,\varphi)$. Then they are
related by equation (5.1-11).
Any arbitrary 3-D rotation can be specified by at most 3 elemental rotations,
and following the framework of Figure 5.1.3-1, a series of rotations about the
z, $\overset{˙}{y}$and $\overset{¨}{x}$axes are assumed here, in that order.\
The dotted and double-dotted marks indicate that the rotations are intrinsic,
which means that they are the result of one (⋅) or two (⋅⋅) intermediate
rotations. In other words, the $\overset{˙}{y}$ axis is the original y axis
after the first rotation about z, and the $\overset{¨}{x}$ axis is the
original x axis after the first rotation about z and the second rotation
about$\overset{˙}{y}$.\ A first rotation of _α_ about _z_ sets the antenna
bearing angle (i.e. the sector pointing direction for a BS antenna element).\
The second rotation of _β_ about $\overset{˙}{y}$ sets the antenna downtilt
angle.\ Finally, the third rotation of _γ_ about $\overset{¨}{x}$ sets the
antenna slant angle.\ The orientation of the _x_ , _y_ and _z_ axes after all
three rotations can be denoted as $\dddot{x}$, $\dddot{y}$ and $\dddot{z}$.\
These triple-dotted axes represents the final orientation of the LCS, and for
notational purposes denoted as the _x\'_ , _y\'_ and _z\'_ axes (local or
\"primed\" coordinate system).
In order to establish the equations for transformation of the coordinate
system and the polarized antenna field patterns between the GCS and the LCS,
it is necessary to determine the composite rotation matrix that describes the
transformation of point (_x_ , _y_ , _z_) in the GCS into point (_x\'_ , _y\'_
, _z\'_) in the LCS.\ This rotation matrix is computed as the product of three
elemental rotation matrices.\ The matrix to describe rotations about the _z_
,$\overset{˙}{y}$and $\overset{¨}{x}$ axes by the angles _α_ , _β_ and _γ_
respectively and in that order is defined in equation (5.1-2).
$R = R_{Z}\left( \alpha \right)R_{Y}\left( \beta \right)R_{X}\left( \gamma
\right) = \begin{pmatrix} \+ \text{cos}\alpha & \- \text{sin}\alpha & 0 \ \+
\text{sin}\alpha & \+ \text{cos}\alpha & 0 \ 0 & 0 & 1 \
\end{pmatrix}\begin{pmatrix} \+ \text{cos}\beta & 0 & \+ \text{sin}\beta \ 0 &
1 & 0 \ \- \text{sin}\beta & 0 & \+ \text{cos}\beta \
\end{pmatrix}\begin{pmatrix} 1 & 0 & 0 \ 0 & \+ \text{cos}\gamma & \-
\text{sin}\gamma \ 0 & \+ \text{sin}\gamma & \+ \text{cos}\gamma \
\end{pmatrix}$ (5.1-2)
The reverse transformation is given by the inverse of R, which is also equal
to the transpose of R since it is orthogonal.
$R^{- 1} = R_{X}\left( - \gamma \right)R_{Y}\left( - \beta \right)R_{Z}\left(
- \alpha \right) = R^{T}$ (5.1-3)
The simplified forward and reverse composite rotation matrices are given in
equations (5.1-4) and (5.1-5).
$R = \begin{pmatrix} \text{cos}\alpha\text{cos}\beta &
\text{cos}\alpha\text{sin}\beta\text{sin}\gamma -
\text{sin}\alpha\text{cos}\gamma &
\text{cos}\alpha\text{sin}\beta\text{cos}\gamma +
\text{sin}\alpha\text{sin}\gamma \ \text{sin}\alpha\text{cos}\beta &
\text{sin}\alpha\text{sin}\beta\text{sin}\gamma +
\text{cos}\alpha\text{cos}\gamma &
\text{sin}\alpha\text{sin}\beta\text{cos}\gamma -
\text{cos}\alpha\text{sin}\gamma \ \- \text{sin}\beta &
\text{cos}\beta\text{sin}\gamma & \text{cos}\beta\text{cos}\gamma \
\end{pmatrix}$ (5.1-4)
$R^{- 1} = \begin{pmatrix} \text{cos}\alpha\text{cos}\beta &
\text{sin}\alpha\text{cos}\beta & \- \text{sin}\beta \
\text{cos}\alpha\text{sin}\beta\text{sin}\gamma -
\text{sin}\alpha\text{cos}\gamma &
\text{sin}\alpha\text{sin}\beta\text{sin}\gamma +
\text{cos}\alpha\text{cos}\gamma & \text{cos}\beta\text{sin}\gamma \
\text{cos}\alpha\text{sin}\beta\text{cos}\gamma +
\text{sin}\alpha\text{sin}\gamma &
\text{sin}\alpha\text{sin}\beta\text{cos}\gamma -
\text{cos}\alpha\text{sin}\gamma & \text{cos}\beta\text{cos}\gamma \
\end{pmatrix}$ (5.1-5)
These transformations can be used to derive the angular and polarization
relationships between the two coordinate systems.
In order to establish the angular relationships, consider a point (_x_ , _y_ ,
_z_) on the unit sphere defined by the spherical coordinates (_ρ_ =1, _θ_ ,
_φ_), where _ρ_ is the unit radius, _θ_ is the zenith angle measured from the
+_z_ -axis, and _φ_ is the azimuth angle measured from the +_x_ -axis in the
_x_ -_y_ plane. The Cartesian representation of that point is given by
$\hat{\rho} = \begin{matrix} \left( x \middle| \right)\left( y \middle|
\right) \ \ \end{matrix}$ (5.1-6)
The zenith angle is computed as $\text{arccos}\left( \hat{\rho} \cdot \hat{z}
\right)$ and the azimuth angle as $\text{arg}(\hat{x} \cdot \hat{\rho} + j\
\hat{y} \cdot \hat{\rho})$, where $\hat{x}$, $\hat{y}$ and $\hat{z}$ are the
Cartesian unit vectors. If this point represents a location in the GCS defined
by _θ_ and _φ_ , the corresponding position in the LCS is given by $R^{-
1}\hat{\rho}$, from which local angles _θ\'_ and _φ\'_ can be computed. The
results are given in equations (5.1-7) and (5.1-8).
$\theta'\left( \alpha,\beta,\gamma;\theta,\varphi \right) = \text{arccos}$
(5.1-7)
$\varphi'\left( \alpha,\beta,\gamma;\theta,\varphi \right) = \text{arg}\left(
\begin{bmatrix} 1 \ j \ 0 \ \end{bmatrix}^{T}R^{- 1}\hat{\rho} \right) =
\text{arg}\begin{matrix} \left( \left(
\text{cos}\beta\text{sin}\theta\text{cos}\left( \varphi - \alpha \right) -
\text{sin}\beta\text{cos}\theta \right) + \middle| \right) \ \ \end{matrix}$
(5.1-8)
These formulae relate the spherical angles (_θ_ , _φ_) of the GCS to the
spherical angles (_θ\'_ , _φ\'_) of the LCS given the rotation operation
defined by the angles (_α_ , _β_ , _γ_).
Let us denote the polarized field components$F_{\theta}(\theta,\varphi)$,
$F_{\varphi}(\theta,\varphi)$ in the GCS
and$F_{\theta'}(\theta\text{',}\varphi')$,
$F_{\varphi'}(\theta\text{',}\varphi')$ in the LCS. Then they can be related
by
$\begin{pmatrix} F_{\theta}\left( \theta,\varphi \right) \ F_{\varphi}\left(
\theta,\varphi \right) \ \end{pmatrix} = \begin{pmatrix} \hat{\theta}\left(
\theta,\varphi \right)^{T}R{\hat{\theta}}^{'}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'}
\right) & \hat{\theta}\left( \theta,\varphi
\right)^{T}R{\hat{\varphi}}^{'}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) \
\hat{\varphi}\left( \theta,\varphi \right)^{T}R{\hat{\theta}}^{'}\left(
\theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) & \hat{\varphi}\left( \theta,\varphi
\right)^{T}R{\hat{\varphi}}^{'}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) \
\end{pmatrix}\begin{pmatrix} F_{\theta^{'}}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'}
\right) \ F_{\varphi^{'}}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) \
\end{pmatrix}$ (5.1-9)
In this equation, $\hat{\theta}$ and $\hat{\varphi}$ represent the spherical
unit vectors of the GCS, and ${\hat{\theta}}^{'}$ and ${\hat{\varphi}}^{'}$are
the representations in the LCS. The forward rotation matrix R transforms the
LCS unit vectors into the GCS frame of reference.\ These pairs of unit vectors
are orthogonal and can be represented as shown in Figure 5.1.3-3.
Figure 5.1.3-3: Rotation of the spherical basis vectors by an angle _ψ_ due to
the orientation of the LCS with respect to the GCS
Assuming an angular displacement of _ψ_ between the two pairs of unit vectors,
the rotation matrix of equation (5.1-9) can be further simplified as:
$\begin{pmatrix} \hat{\theta}\left( \theta,\varphi
\right)^{T}R{\hat{\theta}}^{'}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) &
\hat{\theta}\left( \theta,\varphi \right)^{T}R{\hat{\varphi}}^{'}\left(
\theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) \ \hat{\varphi}\left( \theta,\varphi
\right)^{T}R{\hat{\theta}}^{'}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) &
\hat{\varphi}\left( \theta,\varphi \right)^{T}R{\hat{\varphi}}^{'}\left(
\theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) \ \end{pmatrix} = \begin{pmatrix}
\text{cos}\psi & \text{cos}\left( \pi/2 + \psi \right) \ \text{cos}\left(
\pi/2 - \psi \right) & \text{cos}\psi \ \end{pmatrix} = \begin{pmatrix} \+
\text{cos}\psi & \- \text{sin}\psi \ \+ \text{sin}\psi & \+ \text{cos}\psi \
\end{pmatrix}$ (5.1-10)
and equation (5.1-9) can be written as:
$\begin{pmatrix} F_{\theta}\left( \theta,\varphi \right) \ F_{\varphi}\left(
\theta,\varphi \right) \ \end{pmatrix} = \begin{pmatrix} \+ \text{cos}\psi &
\- \text{sin}\psi \ \+ \text{sin}\psi & \+ \text{cos}\psi \
\end{pmatrix}\begin{pmatrix} F_{\theta^{'}}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'}
\right) \ F_{\varphi^{'}}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) \
\end{pmatrix}$ (5.1-11)
The angle _ψ_ can be computed in numerous ways from equation (5.1-10), with
one such way approach being
$\psi = \text{arg}\left( \hat{\theta}\left( \theta,\varphi
\right)^{T}R{\hat{\theta}}^{'}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) + j\
\hat{\varphi}\left( \theta,\varphi \right)^{T}R{\hat{\theta}}^{'}\left(
\theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) \right)$ (5.1-12)
The dot products are readily computed using the Cartesian representation of
the spherical unit vectors.\ The general expressions for these unit vectors
are given by
$\hat{\theta} = \begin{pmatrix} \text{cos}\theta\text{cos}\varphi \
\text{cos}\theta\text{sin}\varphi \ \- \text{sin}\theta \ \end{pmatrix}$
(5.1-13)
and
$\hat{\varphi} = \begin{pmatrix} \- \text{sin}\varphi \ \+ \text{cos}\varphi \
0 \ \end{pmatrix}$ (5.1-14)
The angle _ψ_ can be expressed as a function of mechanical orientation (_α_ ,
_β_ , _γ_) and spherical position (_θ_ , _φ_), and is given by
$\psi = \text{arg}\begin{pmatrix} \left(
\text{sin}\gamma\text{cos}\theta\text{sin}\left( \varphi - \alpha \right) +
\text{cos}\gamma\left( \text{cos}\beta\text{sin}\theta -
\text{sin}\beta\text{cos}\theta\text{cos}\left( \varphi - \alpha \right)
\right) \right) + \ j\left( \text{sin}\gamma\text{cos}\left( \varphi - \alpha
\right) + \text{sin}\beta\text{cos}\gamma\text{sin}\left( \varphi - \alpha
\right) \right) \ \end{pmatrix}$ (5.1-15)
It can be shown that$\text{cos}\psi$and$\text{sin}\psi$can be expressed as:
$\text{cos}\psi = \frac{\text{cos}\beta\text{cos}\gamma\text{sin}\theta -
\left( \text{sin}\beta\text{cos}\gamma\text{cos}\left( \varphi - \alpha
\right) - \text{sin}\gamma\text{sin}\left( \varphi - \alpha \right)
\right)\text{cos}\theta}{\sqrt{1 - \left(
\text{cos}\beta\text{cos}\gamma\text{cos}\theta + \left(
\text{sin}\beta\text{cos}\gamma\text{cos}\left( \varphi - \alpha \right) -
\text{sin}\gamma\text{sin}\left( \varphi - \alpha \right)
\right)\text{sin}\theta \right)^{2}}}$ (5.1-16)
$\text{sin}\psi = \frac{\text{sin}\beta\text{cos}\gamma\text{sin}\left(
\varphi - \alpha \right) + \text{sin}\gamma\text{cos}\left( \varphi - \alpha
\right)}{\sqrt{1 - \left( \text{cos}\beta\text{cos}\gamma\text{cos}\theta +
\left( \text{sin}\beta\text{cos}\gamma\text{cos}\left( \varphi - \alpha
\right) - \text{sin}\gamma\text{sin}\left( \varphi - \alpha \right)
\right)\text{sin}\theta \right)^{2}}}$ (5.1-17)
### 5.1.4 Transformation from an LCS to a GCS for downtilt angle only
In this clause equations are provided for the transformation from LCS to GCS
assuming that the orientation of the LCS (with respect to the GCS) is such
that the bearing angle _α_ =0, the downtilt angle _β_ is non-zero and the
slant angle _γ_ =0. In other words the _y\'_ -axis of the LCS is parallel to
the _y_ -axis of the GCS. Considering a BS antenna element the _x_ -axis of
the GCS is aligned with the pointing direction of the sector. Mechanical
downtilt is modelled as a rotation of the LCS around the _y_ -axis. For zero
mechanical downtilt the LCS coincides with the GCS.
This transformation relates the spherical angles ($\theta$,$\varphi$) in the
global coordinate system to spherical angles ($\theta'$,$\varphi'$) in the
local (antenna-fixed) coordinate system and is defined as follows:
$\theta' = \text{arccos}($$\text{cos}\varphi\text{sin}\theta\text{sin}\beta +
\text{cos}\theta\text{cos}\beta$), (5.1-18)
$\varphi' = \text{arg}($$\text{cos}\varphi\text{sin}\theta\text{cos}\beta -
\text{cos}\theta\text{sin}\beta + j\text{sin}\varphi\text{sin}\theta$),
(5.1-19)
where $\beta$ is the mechanical tilt angle around the _y_ -axis as defined in
Figure 5.1.4.\ Note that the equations (5.1-7), (5.1-8) reduce to equations
(5.1-18), (5.1-19) if both _α_ and _γ_ are zero.
The antenna element pattern $A(\theta,\varphi)$in the GCS is related to the
antenna element pattern $A'(\theta\text{',}\varphi')$in the LCS by the
relation
$A(\theta,\varphi) = A'(\theta\text{',}\varphi')$ (5.1-20)
with $\theta'$ and $\varphi'$given by (5.1-18) and (5.1-19).
{width="3.1930555555555555in" height="2.3631944444444444in"}
{width="2.1083333333333334in" height="1.4618055555555556in"}
Figure 5.1.4: Definition of angles and unit vectors when\ the LCS has been
rotated an angle $\beta$ around the _y_ -axis of the GCS
For a mechanical tilt angle $\beta$, the global coordinate system field
components $F_{\theta}(\theta,\varphi)$ and $F_{\varphi}(\theta,\varphi)$, are
calculated from the field components $F_{\theta'}(\theta\text{',}\varphi')$
and $F_{\varphi'}(\theta\text{',}\varphi')$ of the radiation pattern in the
local (antenna-fixed) coordinate system as:
$F_{\theta}(\theta,\varphi) =
F_{\theta'}(\theta\text{',}\varphi')\text{cos}\psi -
F_{\varphi'}(\theta\text{',}\varphi')\text{sin}\psi$ (5.1-21)
$F_{\varphi}(\theta,\varphi) =
F_{\theta'}(\theta\text{',}\varphi')\text{sin}\psi +
F_{\varphi'}(\theta\text{',}\varphi')\text{cos}\psi$ (5.1-22)
where $\theta'$ and $\varphi'$ are defined as in (5.1-18) and (5.1-19), and
$\psi$ is defined as:
$\psi = \text{arg}\left( \text{sin}\theta\text{cos}\beta -
\text{cos}\varphi\text{cos}\theta\text{sin}\beta +
j\text{sin}\varphi\text{sin}\beta \right)$. (5.1-23)
Note that the equation (5.1-15) is reduced to equation (5.1-23) if both α and
γ are zero.
As an example, in the horizontal cut, i.e., for $\theta = \text{90}^{\circ}$,
equations (5.1-18), (5.1-19) and (5.1-23) become
$\theta' = \text{arccos}($$\text{cos}\varphi\text{sin}\beta$), (5.1-24)
$\varphi' = \text{arg}($$\text{cos}\varphi\text{cos}\beta +
j\text{sin}\varphi$), (5.1-25)
$\psi = \text{arg}\left( \text{cos}\beta + j\text{sin}\varphi\text{sin}\beta
\right)$. (5.1-26)
# 6 Scenarios for UE specific elevation beamforming and FD-MIMO
Editor\'s note: Intended to identify the typical usage scenarios of UE-
specific elevation beamforming and FD- MIMO
Scenario 3D-UMi: Urban Micro cell with high (outdoor/indoor) UE density
\- Base Station (BS) is below surrounding buildings.
Scenario 3D-UMa: Urban Macro cell with high (outdoor/indoor) UE density
\- BS is above surrounding buildings.
Scenario 3D-UMa-H: **Urban Macro cell with one high-rise per sector and 300m
ISD**
> \- Density of high rise buildings is one per sector.
Scenario 3D-InH: Indoor Hotspot cell with high (indoor) UE density
\- Base Station (BS) is mounted below the ceiling. The indoor test environment
focuses on small cells and high user throughput inside of buildings. The key
characteristics of this test environment are high user throughput and indoor
coverage.
Table 6-1: 3D-UMi and 3D-UMa scenario descriptions
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | **Urban |** Urban | **Urban | | | | Micro | Macro | Macro cell | | | | cell** | cell**| with** | | | | | | | | | | **with high |** with high | **one | | | | UE | UE | high-rise | | | | density** | density**| per sector | | | | | | and 300m | | | | * | * | ISD** | | | | _(3D-UMi)__|_(3D-UMa)**| | | | | | |**( | | | | | | 3D-UMa-H)**| +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Clause-1 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** Layout**| | Hexagonal | Hexagonal | Hexagonal | | | | grid, 19 | grid, 19 | grid, 19 | | | | micro | macro | macro | | | | sites,3 | sites,3 | sites,3 | | | | sectors per | sectors per | sectors per | | | | site | site | site | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** UE | | 3km/h | 3km/h | 3kmph | | mobility | | | | | | (movement | | | | | | in | | | | | | horizontal | | | | | | plane)**| | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** BS | | 10m | 25m | 25m | | antenna | | | | | | height**| | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** Total BS | | 41/44 dBm | 46/49 dBm | 46/49 dBm | | Tx Power**| | for | for | for | | | | 10/20MHz | 10/20MHz | 10/20MHz | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** Carrier | | 2 GHz | 2 GHz | 2 GHz | | frequency**| | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** Min. | | 10m [other | 35m | 35m | | UE-eNB 2D | | values are | | | | distance | | not | | | | (note 1)**| | precluded] | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** UE height | general | _h~UT~ |_ h~UT~ | _h~UT~ | | (_ h~UT~_) | equation |_ =3(_n~fl~_ | _=3(_ n~fl~_|_ =3(_n~fl~_ | | in meters**| | -- 1) + 1.5 | -- 1) + 1.5 | -- 1) + 1.5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | |_n~fl~_ for | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | outdoor UEs | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | _n~fl~_ for | _n~fl\ ~_ \~ | _n~fl\ ~_ \~ | _n~fl\ ~_ \~ | | | indoor UEs | uniform | uniform | uniform(1,_| | | | (1,_ N~fl~_) | (1,_ N~fl~_) | N~fl~_)^3)^ | | | | where | where | | | | | | | | | | | _N~fl~_ \~ | _N~fl~_ \~ | | | | | u | u | | | | | niform(4,8) | niform(4,8) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Indoor UE | | 80% | 80% | 80% | | fraction**| | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Clause-2 | | | | | | (note 2) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** UE | Outdoor UEs | uniform in | uniform in | uniform in | | d | | cell | cell | cell | | istribution | | | | excluding | | (in x-y | | | | high-rise | | plane)**| | | | building | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Indoor UEs | uniform in | uniform in | 50% of | | | | cell | cell | indoor UEs | | | | | | within 25m | | | | | | radius of | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | | | high-rise | | | | | | building | | | | | | center, | | | | | | rest are | | | | | | outside the | | | | | | 25m radius. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** ISD __| | 200m | 500m (not | 300m | | | | | precluded | | | | | | option: | | | | | | 200m) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Refers to | | | | | |_ d~2D~_ for | | | | | | outdoor UEs | | | | | | and | | | | | | _d~2D-out~_ | | | | | | for indoor | | | | | | UEs as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | Figure 3 | | | | | | and Figure | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | re | | | | | | spectively. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Assumptions | | | | | | in Clause-2 | | | | | | are for | | | | | | calibration | | | | | | purposes | | | | | | only in | | | | | | this SI.\ | | | | | | Assumptions | | | | | | in Clause-2 | | | | | | are to be | | | | | | revisited | | | | | | for | | | | | | evaluating | | | | | | relative | | | | | | p | | | | | | erformance\ | | | | | | of proposed | | | | | | solutions | | | | | | in future | | | | | | SIs | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: 50% | | | | | | of indoor | | | | | | UEs in a | | | | | | macro cell | | | | | | area are | | | | | | assumed to | | | | | | be inside a | | | | | | high-rise | | | | | | building | | | | | | and are | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with the | | | | | | same value | | | | | | of _N~fl~_. | | | | | | The height | | | | | | of a | | | | | | high-rise | | | | | | given by | | | | | | _N~fl~_ \~ | | | | | | unif | | | | | | orm(20,30). | | | | | | 50% of | | | | | | indoor UEs | | | | | | in a macro | | | | | | cell area | | | | | | are assumed | | | | | | to be | | | | | | outside the | | | | | | high-rise | | | | | | building | | | | | | and the | | | | | | associated | | | | | | _N~fl~_ for | | | | | | each UE \~ | | | | | | un | | | | | | iform(4,8). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | channel | | | | | | modeling of | | | | | | 3D-UMa-H | | | | | | was | | | | | | discussed | | | | | | in | | | | | | RAN1#74, | | | | | | RAN1#74b, | | | | | | RAN1#75, | | | | | | RAN1#76. | | | | | | Example of | | | | | | modeling | | | | | | discussions | | | | | | can be | | | | | | found in | | | | | | [11-15] | | | | | | and | | | | | | references | | | | | | within. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 6-2: 3D-InH scenario description
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Layout** | Indoor floor plan given below | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **UE mobility (movement in | 3km/h | | horizontal plane)** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **BS antenna height** | 3/6 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Total BS Tx Power** | 24dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Carrier frequency** | 2, 4 GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Min. UE-eNB 2D distance** | [3]m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **UE height (_h~UT~_) in | _h~UT~_ =1.5 | | meters** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **UE distribution (in x-y | Randomly and uniformly | | plane)** | distributed over floorplan area | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **ISD** | 2-site: 60m | | | | | | 3-site: 40m | | | | | | 6-site Case A: 20m | | | | | | 6-site Case B: 40m in | | | horizontal, 20m in vertical | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The layouts of indoor hotspot are listed as below:
{width="3.14375in" height="1.3868055555555556in"} {width="3.14375in"
height="1.3645833333333333in"}
Figure 6-1: Indoor hotspot 2-site and 3-site deployment.
{width="3.14375in" height="1.3125in"}{width="3.14375in"
height="1.3034722222222221in"}
Case A Case B
Figure 6-2: Indoor hotspot 6-site deployment.
{width="2.8631944444444444in" height="1.4256944444444444in"}
Figure 6-3: Indoor hotspot 12-site deployment.
Other typical usage scenaros of UE-specific elevation beamforming and FD- MIMO
are noted below:
**Heterogeneous Networks**
\- Channel models developed for Urban Micro cell with high UE density and
Urban Macro cell with high UE density scenarios shall support heterogeneous
deployment scenarios.
\- It is assumed that for heterogeneous deployment scenarios the macro BS
height is at 25m and the lower-power node is at 10m height.
\- The carrier frequency(s) for a macro can be 2 or 3.5 GHz or both if
multiple carriers are used.\ The carrier frequency(s) for a low power node can
be 2 or 3.5 GHz or both if multiple carriers are used.
\- The transmission power of a low power node can be 30/33 dBm for 10/20 MHz.
Urban micro/macro homogeneous networks with high UE density (similar to
3D-UMi/3D-UMa) using higher than 2 GHz carrier frequency
\- The carrier frequency can be 3.5 GHz.
# 7 3GPP evaluation methodology needed for Elevation Beamforming and FD-MIMO
evaluation
Editor\'s note: The study will consider as a starting point the ITU channel
model as described by the combination of A2.1.6 and Annex B in 36.814 [4] and
determine the additions that are needed to properly model the elevation
dimension of the channel to fit the elevation beamforming and FD-MIMO
purposes]
The applicable range of the 3D channel model is at least for 2-3.5 GHz.
## 7.1 Antenna modelling
\- 2D planar antenna array structure is the baseline, i.e., antenna elements
are placed in the vertical and horizontal direction as below, where N is the
number of columns, M is the number of antenna elements with the same
polarization in each column. Antenna numbering below assumes observation of
the antenna array from the front (with x-axis pointing towards broad-side and
increasing y-coordinate for increasing column number).
\- Antenna elements are uniformly spaced in the horizontal direction with a
spacing of _d~H~_ and in the vertical direction with a spacing of _d~V~_.
Figure 7.1-1: 2D planar antenna structure where each column is a cross-
polarized array
Figure 7.1-2: 2D planar antenna structure where each column is a uniform
linear array
Table 7.1-1: Antenna modelling parameters
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Applicability | Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Clause-1 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Number of | cross-pol | 2, 4, 8 | | horizontal antenna | | | | elements** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | co-pol | 1, 2, 4, 8 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Polarization slant | cross-pol | +/- 45^0^ | | angle** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | co-pol | 0^0^ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Horizontal antenna | | 0.5λ baseline (other | | element spacing | | values are not | |_d~H~_** | | precluded) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Antenna element | | | | vertical radiation | | | | pattern (dB)** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Antenna element | 3D-UMa, 3D-UMi, | | | horizontal radiation | | | | pattern (dB)** | LPN deployments | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 3D-UMi, LPN | Not precluded | | | deployments | option: | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Combining method | | | | for 3D antenna | | | | element pattern | | | | (dB)** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Maximum | | 8 dBi | | directional gain of | | | | an antenna element | | | |_G~E,max~_** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Clause-2 (note) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Vertical antenna | | 0.5λ, 0.8λ | | element spacing | | | |_d~V~_** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Number of antenna | | 10 baseline, other | | elements with the | | values are not | | same polarization in | | precluded | | each column M** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Complex weight for | | $w_{m} = \fr | | antenna element _m_ | | ac{1}{\sqrt{K}}\text | | in elevation** | | {exp}\left( - j\frac | | | | {2\pi}{\lambda}\left | | | | ( m - 1 \right)d_{V} | | | | \text{cos}\theta_{\t | | | | ext{etilt}} \right)$ | | | | | | | | where _m_ =1,...,K. | | | | is the | | | | | | | | electrical vertical | | | | steering angle | | | | defined between 0^0^ | | | | and 180^0^ | | | | | | | | (90^0^ represents | | | | perpendicular to the | | | | array). K = 1, M. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: Assumptions in | | | | clause-2 are for | | | | calibration of | | | | channel modelling | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 7.1.1 Modelling polarized antennas
**[Model-1]{.underline}** :
In case of polarized antenna elements assume $\zeta$ is the polarization slant
angle where $\zeta = 0$ degrees corresponds to a purely vertically polarized
antenna element and $\zeta\frac{\text{=+}}{- \text{45}}$degrees correspond to
a pair of cross polarized antenna elements. Then the antenna element field
components in the elevation and azimuth polarization directions are given by
$\begin{pmatrix} F_{\theta^{'}}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) \
F_{\varphi^{'}}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) \ \end{pmatrix} =
\begin{pmatrix} \+ \text{cos}\psi & \- \text{sin}\psi \ \+ \text{sin}\psi & \+
\text{cos}\psi \ \end{pmatrix}\begin{pmatrix} F_{\theta^{''}}\left(
\theta^{''},\varphi^{''} \right) \ F_{\varphi^{''}}\left(
\theta^{''},\varphi^{''} \right) \ \end{pmatrix}$ (7.1-1)
where ${\text{cos}\psi = {{\text{cos}\zeta\text{sin\ {}\theta}^{'} +
\text{sin}\zeta\text{sin\ {}\varphi}^{'}\text{cos\
{}\theta}^{'}\frac{}{\sqrt{1 - \left( \text{cos}\zeta\text{cos\ {}\theta
\middle| \middle| ' - \text{sin}\zeta\text{sin\ {}\varphi \middle| \middle|
'\text{sin\ {}\theta \middle| \middle| ' \right)^{2}}}$, $\text{sin}\psi =
\frac{{\text{sin}\zeta\text{cos\ {}\varphi}^{'}}{\sqrt{1 - \left(
\text{cos}\zeta\text{cos\ {}\theta \middle| \middle| ' -
\text{sin}\zeta\text{sin\ {}\varphi \middle| \middle| '\text{sin\ {}\theta
\middle| \middle| ' \right)^{2}}}$.
Note that the zenith and the azimuth field components
$F_{\theta^{'}}(\theta^{'},\varphi^{'})$,
$F_{\varphi^{'}}(\theta^{'},\varphi^{'})$,
$F_{\varphi^{''}}(\theta^{''},\varphi^{''})$ and
$F_{\varphi^{''}}(\theta^{''},\varphi^{''})$ are defined in terms of the
spherical basis vectors of an LCS as defined in clause 5.1.2. The difference
between the single-primed and the double-primed components is that the single-
primed field components account for the polarization slant and the double-
primed field components do not. For a single polarized antenna (purely
vertically polarized antenna) we can write $F_{\theta^{''}}\left(
\theta^{''},\varphi^{''} \right) = \sqrt{A^{''}(\theta^{''},\varphi^{''})}$
and $F_{\varphi^{''}}\left( \theta^{''},\varphi^{''} \right) = 0$ where
$A^{''}(\theta^{''},\varphi^{''})$is the 3D antenna element gain pattern as a
function of azimuth angle $\varphi^{''}$ and zenith angle $\theta^{''}$ in the
LCS. The 3D antenna element gain pattern $A^{''}(\theta^{''},\varphi^{''})$is
defined in Table 7.1-1.
[**Model-2** :]{.underline}
In case of polarized antennas, the polarization is modelled as angle-
independent in both azimuth and elevation, in an LCS. For a linearly polarized
antenna, the antenna element field pattern, in the vertical polarization and
in the horizontal polarization, are given by
$F_{\theta^{'}}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) =
\sqrt{A^{'}(\theta^{'},\varphi^{'}})\text{cos}\left( \zeta \right)$ (7.1-2)
and
$F_{\varphi^{'}}\left( \theta^{'},\varphi^{'} \right) =
\sqrt{A^{'}(\theta^{'},\varphi^{'}})\text{sin}\left( \zeta \right)$, (7.1-3)
respectively, where $\zeta$ is the polarization slant angle and
$A^{'}(\theta^{'},\varphi^{'})$is the 3D antenna element gain pattern as a
function of azimuth angle, $\varphi^{'}$ and elevation angle, $\theta^{'}$in
the LCS. Note that $\zeta = 0$ degrees correspond to a purely vertically
polarized antenna element. The vertical and horizontal field directions are
defined in terms of the spherical basis vectors, ${\hat{\theta}}^{'}$ and
${\hat{\varphi}}^{'}$ respectively in the LCS as defined in clause 5.1.2. Also
$A^{'}(\theta^{'},\varphi^{'})$=$A^{''}(\theta^{''},\varphi^{''})$,
$\theta^{'}$= $\theta^{''}$and $\varphi^{'}$= $\varphi^{''}$ as defined in
Table 7.1-1.
Typical antennas have polarization parallelity that is lower than the
polarization parallelity of dipoles and, in addition, typical antennas have
polarization parallelity close to zero in the main beam.\ This observation is
made from slide 5 in R1-140765 [6].
## 7.2 Pathloss, LOS probability and penetration modelling
### 7.2.1 Pathloss models
The pathloss models can be applied in the frequency range of 2 -- 6 GHz and
for different antenna heights. The pathloss models are summarized in Table
7.2-1 and the distance definitions are indicated in Figure 7.2-1 and Figure
7.2-2.\ Note that the distribution of the shadow fading is log-normal, and its
standard deviation for each scenario is given in Table 7.2-1.
Figure7.2-1: Definition of _d~2D~_ and _d~3D~_ \ for outdoor UEs
EMBED Visio.Drawing.11
Figure 7.2-2: Definition of _d~2D-out~_ , _d~2D-in~_ and _d~3D-out~_ ,
_d~3D-in~_ for indoor UEs.
Note that
$d_{\text{3D} - \text{out}} + d_{\text{3D} - \text{in}} = \sqrt{\left(
d_{\text{2D} - \text{out}} + d_{\text{2D} - \text{in}} \right)^{2} + \left(
h_{\text{BS}} - h_{\text{UT}} \right)^{2}}$
Table 7.2-1: Pathloss models
+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > Scenario | > LOS/NLOS | Pathloss | Shadow | Ap | | | | [dB], | | plicability | | | | _f~c~_ is | fading | range, | | | | in GHz and | | | | | | distance is | std | antenna | | | | in meters | [dB]^7)^ | height | | | | | | | | | | | | default | | | | | | values | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > 3D-UMi | > **LOS** | _PL_ **=** | _σ~SF\ ~_ = | 10m \ __NLOS_ _|__For |_ σ~SF~_= 4 | 10 m \  3D-UMa | > __LOS_ _|_ PL ___=__|_ σ~SF~_= 4 | 10m \  **NLOS** | _PL = |_ σ~SF~_= 6 | 10 m \  3D-RMa | > **LOS** | _PL~1~_ = | _σ~SF~_ = 4 | 10 m \ **NLOS** | _PL_ = | _σ~SF~_ = 8 | 10 m \ 3D-InH | > __LOS_ _|_ PL _= 16.9 |_ σ~SF~_= 3 | 3 m \  __NLOS_ _|_ PL _= 43.3 |_ σ~SF~_= 4 | 10 m \  Table 7.3-2: Scaling factors for AOA, AOD generation
* * *
scenario 3D-UMa, 3D-UMi, 3D-RMa 3D-InH  
_N_ 4 5 8 10 11 12 14 15 16 19 20 15 19 0.779 0.860 1.018 1.090 1.123 1.146
1.190 1.211 1.226 1.273 1.289 1.434 1.501
* * *
In the LOS case, $C_{\varphi}$ is dependent also on the Ricean K-factor $K$ in
[dB], as generated in Step 4. Additional scaling of the angles is required to
compensate for the effect of LOS peak addition to the angle spread.
Assign positive or negative sign to the angles by multiplying with a random
variable _X~n~_ with uniform distribution to the discrete set of {1,--1}, and
add component $Y_{n}\text{\textasciitilde}N\left( 0,\left( \text{ASA}/7
\right)^{2} \right)$ to introduce random variation
$\varphi_{n,\text{AOA}} = X_{n}\varphi_{n,\text{AOA}}^{'} + Y_{n} +
\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOA}}$, (7.3-11)
where _ϕ~LOS,AOA~_ is the LOS direction defined in the network layout
description, see Step1c.
_In the LOS case,_ substitute (7.3-11) by (7.3-12) to enforce the first
cluster to the LOS direction _ϕ~LOS,\ AOA~_
$\varphi_{n,\text{AOA}} = \left( X_{n}\varphi_{n,\text{AOA}}^{'} + Y_{n}
\right) - \left( X_{1}\varphi_{1,\text{AOA}}^{'} + Y_{1} -
\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOA}} \right)$. (7.3-12)
Finally add offset angles _α~m~_ from Table 7.3-3 to the cluster angles
$\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOA}} = \varphi_{n,\text{AOA}} +
c_{\text{ASA}}\alpha_{m}$, (7.3-13)
where $c_{\text{ASA}}$ is the cluster-wise rms azimuth spread of arrival
angles (cluster ASA) in Table 7.3-6 and Table 7.3-6a.
> Table 7.3-3: Ray offset angles within a cluster, given for 1 rms angle
> spread
* * *
Ray number _m_ Basis vector of offset angles _α~m~_ 1,2 ± 0.0447 3,4 ± 0.1413
5,6 ± 0.2492 7,8 ± 0.3715 9,10 ± 0.5129 11,12 ± 0.6797 13,14 ± 0.8844 15,16 ±
1.1481 17,18 ± 1.5195 19,20 ± 2.1551
* * *
The generation of AOD (_ϕ~n,m,~_ ~AOD~) follows a procedure similar to AOA as
described above.
[]{.underline}
The generation of ZOA assumes that the composite PAS in the zenith dimension
of all clusters is Laplacian. The ZOAs are determined by applying the inverse
Laplacian function
$\theta_{n,\text{ZOA}}^{'} = \frac{- \text{ZSA}\text{ln}\left(
P_{n}/\text{max}\left( P_{n} \right) \right)}{C_{\theta}}$ (7.3-14)
with input parameters $P_{n}$, RMS angle spread ZSA, while
$C_{\theta}$ is defined as
$C_{\theta} = \left{ \begin{matrix} C_{\theta}^{\text{NLOS}} \cdot \left(
1\text{.}\text{35} + 0\text{.}\text{0202}K - 0\text{.}\text{0077}K^{2} +
0\text{.}\text{0002}K^{3} \right) & \text{,\ for\ LOS} \
C_{\theta}^{\text{NLOS}} & \text{,\ for\ NLOS} \ \end{matrix} \right.\ $
(7.3-15)
where $C_{\theta}^{\text{NLOS}}$ is a scaling factor related to the total
number of clusters and is given in the following table.
> Table 7.3-4: Scaling factors for ZOA, ZOD generation
* * *
scenario 3D-UMa, 3D-UMi, 3D-InH, 3D-RMa  
_N_ 10 11 12 15 19 20 0.9854 1.013 1.04 1.1088 1.1764 1.1918
* * *
In the LOS case, $C_{\theta}$ is dependent also on the Ricean K-factor $K$ in
[dB], as generated in Step 4. Additional scaling of the angles is required to
compensate for the effect of LOS peak addition to the angle spread.
Assign positive or negative sign to the angles by multiplying with a random
variable _X~n~_ with uniform distribution to the discrete set of {1,--1}, and
add component $Y_{n}\text{\textasciitilde}N\left( 0,\left( \text{ZSA}/7
\right)^{2} \right)$ to introduce random variation
$\theta_{n,\text{ZOA}} = X_{n}\theta_{n,\text{ZOA}}^{'} + Y_{n} +
{\overline{\theta}}_{\text{ZOA}}$, (7.3-16)
where ${\overline{\theta}}_{\text{ZOA}} = \text{90}^{0}$ if the UT is located
indoors and ${\overline{\theta}}_{\text{ZOA}} =
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOA}}$if the UT is located outdoors. The LOS
direction is defined in the network layout description, see Step1c.
_In the LOS case,_ substitute (7.3-16) by (7.3-17) to enforce the first
cluster to the LOS direction _θ~LOS,ZOA~_
$\theta_{n,\text{ZOA}} = \left( X_{n}\theta_{n,\text{ZOA}}^{'} + Y_{n} \right)
- \left( X_{1}\theta_{1,\text{ZOA}}^{'} + Y_{1} -
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOA}} \right)$. (7.3-17)
Finally add offset angles _α~m~_ from Table 7.3-3 to the cluster angles
$\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}} = \theta_{n,\text{ZOA}} + c_{\text{ZSA}}\alpha_{m}$,
(7.3-18)
where $c_{\text{ZSA}}$ is the cluster-wise rms zenith spread of arrival
(cluster ZSA) in Tables 7.3-6 and 7.3-6a. Assuming that
$\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}}$is wrapped within [0,360^0^], if
$\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}} \in \lbrack\text{180}^{0},\text{360}^{0}\rbrack$,
then$\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}}$is set to $(\text{360}^{0} -
\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}})$.
The generation of ZOD follows the same procedure as ZOA described above except
equation (7.3-16) is replaced by
$\theta_{n,\text{ZOD}} = X_{n}\theta_{n,\text{ZOD}}^{'} + Y_{n} +
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOD}} + \mu_{\text{offset},\text{ZOD}}$, (7.3-19)
where variable _X~n~_ is with uniform distribution to the discrete set of {1,
--1}, $Y_{n}\text{\textasciitilde}N\left( 0,\left( \text{ZSD}/7 \right)^{2}
\right)$, $\mu_{\text{offset},\text{ZOD}}$is given in Tables 7.3-7, 7.3-8 and
equation (7.3-18) is replaced by
$\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}} = \theta_{n,\text{ZOD}} +
(\frac{3}{8})(\text{10}^{\mu_{\text{lgZSD}}})\alpha_{m}$ (7.3-20)
where $\mu_{\text{lgZSD}}$ is the mean of the ZSD log-normal distribution.
_In the LOS case,_ the generation of ZOD follows the same procedure as ZOA
described above using equation (7.3-17).
[]{.underline}
[Step 8]{.underline}: Coupling of rays within a cluster for both azimuth and
elevation
Couple randomly AOD angles _φ~n,m,AOD~_ to AOA angles _φ~n,m,AOA~_ within a
cluster _n_ , or within a sub-cluster in the case of two strongest clusters
(see Step 11 and Table 7.3-3). Couple randomly ZOD angles
$\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}}$ with ZOA angles $\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}}$using the
same procedure. Couple randomly AOD angles _φ~n,m,AOD~_ with ZOD angles
$\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}}$within a cluster _n_ or within a sub-cluster in the
case of two strongest clusters.
[]{.underline}
[Step 9]{.underline}: Generate XPRs
Generate the cross polarization power ratios (XPR) _κ_ for each ray _m_ of
each cluster _n_. XPR is log-Normal distributed. Draw XPR values as
$\kappa_{n,m} = \text{10}^{\frac{X_{n,m}}{\text{10}}}$, (7.3-21)
where
$X_{n,m}\text{\textasciitilde}N(\mu_{\text{XPR}},\sigma_{\text{XPR}}^{2})$ is
Gaussian distributed with $\sigma_{\text{XPR}}$ and $\mu_{\text{XPR}}$ from
Tables 7.3-6 and 7.3-6a. Note: $X_{n,m}$ is independently drawn for each ray
and each cluster.
**Coefficient generation:**
[Step 10]{.underline}: Draw initial random phases
Draw random initial phase $\left{
\Phi_{n,m}^{\text{θθ}},\Phi_{n,m}^{\text{θφ}},\Phi_{n,m}^{\text{φθ}},\Phi_{n,m}^{\text{φφ}}
\right}$ for each ray _m_ of each cluster _n_ and for four different
polarisation combinations (_θθ_ , _θϕ,_ _ϕθ,_ _ϕϕ_). The distribution for
initial phases is uniform within (-_π,π_).
_In the LOS case,_ draw also a random initial phase $\Phi_{\text{LOS}}$ for
both _θθ_ and _ϕϕ_ polarisations.
[]{.underline}
[Step 11]{.underline}: Generate channel coefficients for each cluster _n_ and
each receiver and transmitter element pair _u, s_.
_For the N -- 2 weakest clusters_ , say _n_ = 3, 4,..., _N_ , the channel
coefficients are given by:
$\begin{matrix} H_{u,s,n}(t) = \sqrt{P_{n}/M}\sum_{m = 1}^{M}\begin{bmatrix}
F_{\text{rx},u,\theta}\left( \theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOA}}
\right) \ F_{\text{rx},u,\varphi}\left(
\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOA}} \right) \
\end{bmatrix}^{T}\begin{bmatrix} \text{exp}\left( \text{jΦ}_{n,m}^{\text{θθ}}
\right) & \sqrt{\kappa_{{n,m}^{- 1}}}\text{exp}\left(
\text{jΦ}_{n,m}^{\text{θφ}} \right) \ \sqrt{\kappa_{{n,m}^{-
1}}}\text{exp}\left( \text{jΦ}_{n,m}^{\text{φθ}} \right) & \text{exp}\left(
\text{jΦ}_{n,m}^{\text{φφ}} \right) \ \end{bmatrix} \ \begin{bmatrix}
F_{\text{tx},s,\theta}\left( \theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOD}}
\right) \ F_{\text{tx},s,\varphi}\left(
\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOD}} \right) \
\end{bmatrix}\text{exp}\left( j2\text{πλ}_{0}^{- 1}\left(
{\hat{r}}_{\text{rx},n,m}^{T}\text{.}{\overline{d}}_{\text{rx},u} \right)
\right)\text{exp}\left( j2\text{πλ}_{0}^{- 1}\left(
{\hat{r}}_{\text{tx},n,m}^{T}\text{.}{\overline{d}}_{\text{tx},s} \right)
\right)\text{exp}\left( j2\text{πv}_{n,m}t \right) \ \end{matrix}$ (7.3-22)
where _F~rx,u,θ~_ and _F~rx,u,ϕ~_ are the receive antenna element _u_ field
patterns in the direction of the spherical basis vectors, $\hat{\theta}$ and
$\hat{\varphi}$ respectively, _F~tx,s,θ~_ and _F~tx,s,ϕ~_ are the transmit
antenna element _s_ field patterns in the direction of the spherical basis
vectors, $\hat{\theta}$ and $\hat{\varphi}$ respectively.
${\hat{r}}_{\text{rx},n,m}$ is the spherical unit vector with azimuth arrival
angle _ϕ~n,m,AOA~_ and elevation arrival angle _θ~n,m,ZOA~_ , given by
${\hat{r}}_{\text{rx},n,m} = \begin{bmatrix}
\text{sin}\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}}\text{cos}\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOA}} \
\text{sin}\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}}\text{sin}\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOA}} \
\text{cos}\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}} \ \end{bmatrix}$, (7.3-23)
where _n_ denotes a cluster and _m_ denotes a ray within cluster _n_.
${\hat{r}}_{\text{tx},n,m}$ is the spherical unit vector with azimuth
departure angle _ϕ~n,m,AOD~_ and elevation departure angle _θ~n,m,ZOD~_ ,
given by
${\hat{r}}_{\text{tx},n,m} = \begin{bmatrix}
\text{sin}\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}}\text{cos}\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOD}} \
\text{sin}\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}}\text{sin}\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOD}} \
\text{cos}\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}} \ \end{bmatrix}$, (7.3-24)
where _n_ denotes a cluster and _m_ denotes a ray within cluster _n_. Also,
${\overline{d}}_{\text{rx},u}$is the location vector of receive antenna
element _u_ and ${\overline{d}}_{\text{tx},s}$is the location vector of
transmit antenna element _s_ , _κ~n,m~_ is the cross polarisation power ratio
in linear scale, and _λ_ ~0~ is the wavelength of the carrier frequency. If
polarisation is not considered, the 2x2 polarisation matrix can be replaced by
the scalar $\text{exp}\left( \text{jΦ}_{n,m} \right)$ and only vertically
polarised field patterns are applied.
The Doppler frequency component _v~n,m~_ is calculated from the arrival angles
(AOA, ZOA), UT velocity vector $\overline{v}$with speed _v_ , travel azimuth
angle _ϕ~v~_ , elevation angle _θ~v~_ and is given by
$v_{n,m} =
\frac{{\hat{r}}_{\text{rx},n,m}^{T}\text{.}\overline{v}}{\lambda_{0}}\text{,where}\
\overline{v} = v\text{.}\left\lbrack
\text{sin}\theta_{v}\text{cos}\varphi_{v}\
\text{sin}\theta_{v}\text{sin}\varphi_{v}\ \text{cos}\theta_{v}
\right\rbrack^{T}$, (7.3-25)
_For the two strongest clusters_ , say _n_ = 1 and 2, rays are spread in delay
to three sub-clusters (per cluster), with fixed delay offset {0,5,10 ns} (see
Table 7.3-5). The delays of the sub-clusters are
$\begin{matrix} \tau_{n,1} = \tau_{n} + 0\text{ns} \ \tau_{n,2} = \tau_{n} +
5\text{ns} \ \tau_{n,3} = \tau_{n} + \text{10}\text{ns} \ \end{matrix}$
(7.3-26)
Twenty rays of a cluster are mapped to sub-clusters as presented in Table
7.3-5 below. The corresponding offset angles are taken from Table 7.3-3 with
mapping of Table 7.3-5.
Table 7.3-5: Sub-cluster information for intra cluster delay spread clusters
* * *
sub-cluster # mapping to rays power delay offset 1 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,19,20 10/20
0 ns 2 9,10,11,12,17,18 6/20 5 ns 3 13,14,15,16 4/20 10 ns
* * *
_In the LOS case,_ define $H_{u,s,n}^{'} = H_{u,s,n}$ and determine the
channel coefficients by adding a single line-of-sight ray and scaling down the
other channel coefficients generated by (7.3-22). The channel coefficients are
given by:
$\begin{matrix} H_{u,s,n}(t) = \sqrt{\frac{1}{K_{R} + 1}}H_{u,s,n}^{'}\left( t
\right) \ \+ \delta\left( n - 1 \right)\sqrt{\frac{K_{R}}{K_{R} +
1}}\begin{bmatrix} F_{\text{rx},u,\theta}\left(
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOA}},\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOA}} \right) \
F_{\text{rx},u,\varphi}\left(
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOA}},\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOA}} \right) \
\end{bmatrix}^{T}\begin{bmatrix} \text{exp}\left( \text{jΦ}_{\text{LOS}}
\right) & 0 \ 0 & \- \text{exp}\left( \text{jΦ}_{\text{LOS}} \right) \
\end{bmatrix} \ \begin{bmatrix} F_{\text{tx},s,\theta}\left(
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOD}} \right) \
F_{\text{tx},s,\varphi}\left(
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOD}} \right) \
\end{bmatrix}\text{.}\text{exp}\left(
j2\pi\frac{{\hat{r}}_{\text{rx},\text{LOS}}^{T}\text{.}{\overline{d}}_{\text{rx},u}}{\lambda_{0}}
\right)\text{.}\text{exp}\left(
j2\pi\frac{{\hat{r}}_{\text{tx},\text{LOS}}^{T}\text{.}{\overline{d}}_{\text{tx},s}}{\lambda_{0}}
\right)\text{.}\text{exp}\left(
j2\pi\frac{{\hat{r}}_{\text{rx},\text{LOS}}^{T}\text{.}\overline{v}}{\lambda_{0}}t
\right) \ \end{matrix}$ (7.3-27)
where _δ_(**^.^**) is the Dirac\'s delta function and _K~R~_ is the Ricean
K-factor as generated in Step 4 converted to linear scale.
[Step 12]{.underline}: Apply pathloss and shadowing for the channel
coefficients.
Note that when multi-band simulation is needed, i.e., evaluating different
frequencies for a certain BS-UT link at the same time, additional correlation
modelling across different frequencies should be taken into account. To be
specific, the propagation conditions generated in Step 2 (LOS states), the
parameters generated in Step 4, the cluster delays and angles generated in
Steps 5-7 are the same for all frequency bands. Other parameters and steps are
independent for the frequency bands. Note that this additional correlation
modelling applies for bands below 6GHz.
Table 7.3-6: Channel model parameters for 3D-UMi and 3D-UMa
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **S |** 3D- | **3D- | | | | | | | cenar | UMi** | UMa**| | | | | | | ios** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | ** | **N | ** | ** |** N | ** | | | | LOS**| LOS** | O2I**| LOS** | LOS**| O2I** | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Delay | _μ_ ~ | -7.19 | -6.89 | -6.62 | -7.03 | -6.44 | -6.62 | | s | lgDS~ | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | (DS) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | lgDS | | | | | | | | | =log~ | | | | | | | | | 10~(D | | | | | | | | | S/1s) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~ | 0.40 | 0.54 | 0.32 | 0.66 | 0.39 | 0.32 | | | lgDS~ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | AOD | _μ_ ~l | 1.20 | 1.41 | 1.25 | 1.15 | 1.41 | 1.25 | | s | gASD~ | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | (ASD) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | gASD= | | | | | | | | | log~1 | | | | | | | | | 0~(AS | | | | | | | | | D/1°) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~l | 0.43 | 0.17 | 0.42 | 0.28 | 0.28 | 0.42 | | | gASD~ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | AOA | _μ_ ~l | 1.75 | 1.84 | 1.76 | 1.81 | 1.87 | 1.76 | | s | gASA~ | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | (ASA) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | gASA= | | | | | | | | | log~1 | | | | | | | | | 0~(AS | | | | | | | | | A/1°) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~l | 0.19 | 0.15 | 0.16 | 0.20 | 0.11 | 0.16 | | | gASA~ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ZOA | _μ_ ~l | 0.60 | 0.88 | 1.01 | 0.95 | 1.26 | 1.01 | | s | gZSA~ | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | (ZSA) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | gZSA= | | | | | | | | | log~1 | | | | | | | | | 0~(ZS | | | | | | | | | A/1°) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~l | 0.16 | 0.16 | 0.43 | 0.16 | 0.16 | 0.43 | | | gZSA~ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | _σ | 3 | 4 | 7 | 4 | 6 | 7 | | hadow | ~SF~_ | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | (SF) | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | K-f | * | 9 | N/A | N/A | 9 | N/A | N/A | | actor | μ~K~_| | | | | | | | (_ K _) | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | * | 5 | N/A | N/A | 3.5 | N/A | N/A | | | σ~K~_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cro | _ASD_ | 0.5 | 0 | 0.4 | 0.4 | 0.4 | 0.4 | | ss-Co | vs | | | | | | | | rrela | _DS_ | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ASA_ | 0.8 | 0.4 | 0.4 | 0.8 | 0.6 | 0.4 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _DS_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ASA_ | -0.4 | -0.4 | 0 | -0.5 | 0 | 0 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _SF_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ASD_ | -0.5 | 0 | 0.2 | -0.5 | -0.6 | 0.2 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _SF_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _DS_ | -0.4 | -0.7 | -0.5 | -0.4 | -0.4 | -0.5 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _SF_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ASD_ | 0.4 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0.4 | 0 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _ASA_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ASD_ | -0.2 | N/A | N/A | 0 | N/A | N/A | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _K_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ASA_ | -0.3 | N/A | N/A | -0.2 | N/A | N/A | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _K_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _DS_ | -0.7 | N/A | N/A | -0.4 | N/A | N/A | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _K_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _SF_ | 0.5 | N/A | N/A | 0 | N/A | N/A | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _K_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _SF_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ | 0 | 0 | 0 | -0.8 | -0.4 | 0 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _SF_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0 | N/A | N/A | 0 | N/A | N/A | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _K_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ | 0 | N/A | N/A | 0 | N/A | N/A | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _K_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0 | -0.5 | -0.6 | -0.2 | -0.5 | -0.6 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _DS_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ | 0.2 | 0 | -0.2 | 0 | 0 | -0.2 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _DS_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0.5 | 0.5 | -0.2 | 0.5 | 0.5 | -0.2 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _ASD_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ | 0.3 | 0.5 | 0 | 0 | -0.1 | 0 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _ASD_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0 | 0 | 0 | -0.3 | 0 | 0 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _ASA_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ | 0 | 0.2 | 0.5 | 0.4 | 0 | 0.5 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _ASA_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0 | 0 | 0.5 | 0 | 0 | 0.5 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _ZSA_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Delay | Exp | Exp | Exp | Exp | Exp | Exp | | | di | | | | | | | | | strib | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | AoD | Wr | Wr | | | | | | | and | apped | apped | | | | | | | AoA | Gau | Gau | | | | | | | di | ssian | ssian | | | | | | | strib | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ZoD | Lapl | Lapl | | | | | | | and | acian | acian | | | | | | | ZoA | | | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | | | strib | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Delay | 3.2 | 3 | 2.2 | 2.5 | 2.3 | 2.2 | | | sc | | | | | | | | | aling | | | | | | | | | para | | | | | | | | | meter | | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | | r~τ~_| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | XPR |_ μ _| 9 | 8.0 | 9 | 8 | 7 | 9 | | [ | ~XPR~ | | | | | | | | dB], | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | note | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ σ _| 3 | 3 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 5 | | | ~XPR~ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | 12 | 19 | 12 | 12 | 20 | 12 | | | umber | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | clu | | | | | | | | | sters | | | | | | | | | $N$ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | 20 | 20 | 20 | 20 | 20 | 20 | | | umber | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | rays | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | | | uster | | | | | | | | | $M$ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cl | 3 | 10 | 5 | 5 | 2 | 5 | | | uster | | | | | | | | |_ ASD _| | | | | | | | | (! | | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | | th="0 | | | | | | | | | .3194 | | | | | | | | | 44444 | | | | | | | | | 44444 | | | | | | | | | 44in" | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | ight= | | | | | | | | | "0.25 | | | | | | | | | in"}) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | deg] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cl | 17 | 22 | 8 | 11 | 15 | 8 | | | uster | | | | | | | | |_ ASA _| | | | | | | | | (! | | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | | th="0 | | | | | | | | | .3194 | | | | | | | | | 44444 | | | | | | | | | 44444 | | | | | | | | | 44in" | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | ight= | | | | | | | | | "0.25 | | | | | | | | | in"}) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | deg] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cl | 7 | 7 | 3 | 7 | 7 | 3 | | | uster | | | | | | | | |_ ZSA _| | | | | | | | | (! | | | | | | | | | {wid | | | | | | | | | th="0 | | | | | | | | | .3194 | | | | | | | | | 44444 | | | | | | | | | 44444 | | | | | | | | | 44in" | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | ight= | | | | | | | | | "0.25 | | | | | | | | | in"}) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | [d | | | | | | | | | eg], | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | note | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Per | 3 | 3 | 4 | 3 | 3 | 4 | | | cl | | | | | | | | | uster | | | | | | | | | shad | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | std ζ | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | C |_ DS _| 7 | 10 | 10 | 30 | 40 | 10 | | orrel | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | | | tance | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | horiz | | | | | | | | | ontal | | | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [m], | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | note | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ ASD _| 8 | 10 | 11 | 18 | 50 | 11 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ ASA _| 8 | 9 | 17 | 15 | 50 | 17 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ SF _| 10 | 13 | 7 | 37 | 50 | 7 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ K _| 15 | N/A | N/A | 12 | N/A | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ ZSA _| 12 | 10 | 25 | 15 | 50 | 25 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ ZSD _| 12 | 10 | 25 | 15 | 50 | 25 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | |_ DS _| | | | | | | | | = rms | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | | read, | | | | | | | | |_ ASD _| | | | | | | | | = rms | | | | | | | | | az | | | | | | | | | imuth | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | depa | | | | | | | | | rture | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | gles, | | | | | | | | |_ ASA _| | | | | | | | | = rms | | | | | | | | | az | | | | | | | | | imuth | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | gles, | | | | | | | | |_ ZSD _| | | | | | | | | = rms | | | | | | | | | z | | | | | | | | | enith | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | depa | | | | | | | | | rture | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | gles, | | | | | | | | |_ ZSA _| | | | | | | | | = rms | | | | | | | | | z | | | | | | | | | enith | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | gles, | | | | | | | | |_ SF _| | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hadow | | | | | | | | | fa | | | | | | | | | ding, | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | |_ K _= | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | icean | | | | | | | | | K-fa | | | | | | | | | ctor. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hadow | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | so | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | pos | | | | | | | | | itive | | | | | | | | | SF | | | | | | | | | means | | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | eived | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | at UT | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | pred | | | | | | | | | icted | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | odel. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | cross | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrel | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | | ZSD_ , | | | | | | | | | _ZSA_ | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | WI | | | | | | | | | NNER+ | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | so | | | | | | | | | urces | | | | | | | | | WIN | | | | | | | | | NER+, | | | | | | | | | R1-1 | | | | | | | | | 34221 | | | | | | | | | ,R1-1 | | | | | | | | | 34222 | | | | | | | | | ,R1-1 | | | | | | | | | 34795 | | | | | | | | | , | | | | | | | | | R1-1 | | | | | | | | | 31861 | | | | | | | | | , | | | | | | | | | R1-13 | | | | | | | | | 2543, | | | | | | | | | R1-13 | | | | | | | | | 2544, | | | | | | | | | R1-1 | | | | | | | | | 33525 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | adjus | | | | | | | | | tment | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | made | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nsure | | | | | | | | | pos | | | | | | | | | itive | | | | | | | | | def | | | | | | | | | inite | | | | | | | | | ness. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | ZSA | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | | | uster | | | | | | | | | ZSA | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | eused | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | Win | | | | | | | | | ner+. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | All | | | | | | | | | large | | | | | | | | | scale | | | | | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | have | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrel | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | diff | | | | | | | | | erent | | | | | | | | | flo | | | | | | | | | ors.\ | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | simpl | | | | | | | | | icity | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | lack | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | alt | | | | | | | | | hough | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | repr | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | rea | | | | | | | | | lity. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | XPR | | | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | ndard | | | | | | | | | devi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | O2I | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | D-UMi | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | O2I | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | D-UMa | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | anged | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | 11 dB | | | | | | | | | to 5 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | discu | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R1-15 | | | | | | | | | 0894. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 7: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | | (_μ_ ~ | | | | | | | | | lgX~= | | | | | | | | | mean{ | | | | | | | | | log~1 | | | | | | | | | 0~(X) | | | | | | | | | }) | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | ndard | | | | | | | | | devi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | (_σ_ | | | | | | | | | ~lgX~ | | | | | | | | | =std{ | | | | | | | | | log~1 | | | | | | | | | 0~(X) | | | | | | | | | }) is | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | log | | | | | | | | | arith | | | | | | | | | mized | | | | | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | X. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
[]{.underline}
Table 7.3-6a: Channel model parameters for 3D-InH
+------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Scenarios | Indoor Hotspot | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | LOS | NLOS | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Delay spread | _μ_ ~lgDS~ | --7.70 | --7.41 | | (DS) | | | | | | | | | | lgD | | | | | S=log~10~(DS/1s) | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | _σ_ ~lgDS~ | 0.18 | 0.14 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | AOD spread (ASD) | _μ_ ~lgASD~ | 1.60 | 1.62 | | | | | | | lgASD | | | | | =log~10~(ASD/1°) | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | _σ_ ~lgASD~ | 0.18 | 0.25 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | AOA spread (ASA) | _μ_ ~lgASA~ | 1.62 | 1.77 | | | | | | | lgASA | | | | | =log~10~(ASA/1°) | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | _σ_ ~lgASA~ | 0.22 | 0.16 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | ZOA spread (ZSA) | _μ_ ~lgZSA~ | 1.22 | 1.26 | | | | | | | lgZSA | | | | | =log~10~(ZSA/1°) | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | _σ_ ~lgZSA~ | 0.23 | 0.67 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Shadow fading | _σ~SF~_ | See Table 7.2-1 | | | (_SF_) [dB] | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | K-factor (_K_) | _μ~K~_ | 7 | N/A | | [dB] | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | _σ~K~_ | 4 | N/A | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Cr | ASD vs DS | 0.6 | 0.4 | | oss-Correlations | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ASA vs DS | 0.8 | 0 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ASA vs SF | --0.5 | --0.4 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ASD vs SF | --0.4 | 0 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | DS vs SF | --0.8 | --0.5 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ASD vs ASA | 0.4 | 0 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ASD vs _K_ | 0 | N/A | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ASA vs _K_ | 0 | N/A | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | DS vs _K_ | --0.5 | N/A | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | SF vs _K_ | 0.5 | N/A | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSD vs SF | 0.2 | 0 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSA vs SF | 0.3 | 0 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSD vs K | 0 | N/A | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSA vs K | 0.1 | N/A | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSD vs DS | 0.1 | -0.27 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSA vs DS | 0.2 | -0.06 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSD vs ASD | 0.5 | 0.35 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSA vs ASD | 0 | 0.23 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSD vs ASA | 0 | -0.08 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSA vs ASA | 0.5 | 0.43 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSD vs ZSA | 0 | 0.42 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Delay | Exp | | | | distribution | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | AoD and AoA | Laplacian | | | | distribution | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | ZoD and ZoA | Laplacian | | | | distribution | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Delay scaling | 3.6 | 3 | | | parameter _r~τ~_ | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | XPR [dB] | _μ_ ~XPR~ | 11 | 10 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | _σ_ ~XPR~ | 3 | 3 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Number of | 15 | 19 | | | clusters $N$ | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Number of rays | 20 | 20 | | | per cluster $M$ | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Cluster ASD | 5 | 5 | | | (![] | | | | | (media/image45.w | | | | | mf){width="0.319 | | | | | 4444444444444in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.25in"}) | | | | | in [deg] | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Cluster ASA | 8 | 11 | | | (![] | | | | | (media/image46.w | | | | | mf){width="0.319 | | | | | 4444444444444in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.25in"}) | | | | | in [deg] | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Cluster ZSA | 9 | 9 | | | (![] | | | | | (media/image47.w | | | | | mf){width="0.319 | | | | | 4444444444444in" | | | | | h | | | | | eight="0.25in"}) | | | | | in [deg] | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Per cluster | 6 | 3 | | | shadowing std ζ | | | | | [dB] | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Correlation | DS | 8 | 5 | | distance in the | | | | | horizontal plane | | | | | [m] | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ASD | 7 | 3 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ASA | 5 | 3 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | SF | 10 | 6 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | _K_ | 4 | N/A | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSA | 4 | 4 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | ZSD | 4 | 4 | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: _DS_ = | | | | | rms delay | | | | | spread, _ASD_ = | | | | | rms azimuth | | | | | spread of | | | | | departure | | | | | angles, _ASA_ = | | | | | rms azimuth | | | | | spread of | | | | | arrival angles, | | | | | _ZSD_ = rms | | | | | zenith spread of | | | | | departure | | | | | angles, _ZSA_ = | | | | | rms zenith | | | | | spread of | | | | | arrival angles, | | | | | _SF_ = shadow | | | | | fading, and _K_ | | | | | = Ricean | | | | | K-factor. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The sign | | | | | of the shadow | | | | | fading is | | | | | defined so that | | | | | positive SF | | | | | means more | | | | | received power | | | | | at UT than | | | | | predicted by the | | | | | path loss model. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | following | | | | | notation for | | | | | mean | | | | | (_μ_ ~lgX~ | | | | | =mean{log~10~(X) | | | | | }) and standard | | | | | deviation | | | | | (_σ_ ~lgX | | | | | ~=std{log~10~(X) | | | | | }) is used for | | | | | logarithmized | | | | | parameters X. | | | | +------------------+----------------+-----------------+--------+
Table 7.3-6b: Channel model parameters for 3D-RMa
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Scenarios | Rural | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | LOS | NLOS | O2I | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Delay spread | _μ_ ~lgDS~ | -7.49 | -7.43 | -7.47 | | (DS) | | | | | | | | | | | | lgDS | | | | | | =log~10~(DS/1s) | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~lgDS~ | 0.55 | 0.48 | 0.24 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | AOD spread | _μ_ ~lgASD~ | 0.90 | 0.95 | 0.67 | | (ASD) | | | | | | | | | | | | lgASD= | | | | | | log~10~(ASD/1°) | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~lgASD~ | 0.38 | 0.45 | 0.18 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | AOA spread | _μ_ ~lgASA~ | 1.52 | 1.52 | 1.66 | | (ASA) | | | | | | | | | | | | lgASA= | | | | | | log~10~(ASA/1°) | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~lgASA~ | 0.24 | 0.13 | 0.21 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | ZOA spread | _μ_ ~lgZSA~ | 0.47 | 0.58 | 0.93 | | (ZSA) | | | | | | | | | | | | lgZSA= | | | | | | log~10~(ZSA/1°) | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~lgZSA~ | 0.40 | 0.37 | 0.22 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Shadow fading | _σ~SF~_ | See Table 7.2-1 | 8 | | | (_SF_) [dB] | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | K-factor (_K_) | _μ~K~_ | 7 | N/A | N/A | | [dB] | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _σ~K~_ | 4 | N/A | N/A | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Cro | _ASD_ vs _DS_ | 0 | -0.4 | 0 | | ss-Correlations | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ASA_ vs _DS_ | 0 | 0 | 0 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ASA_ vs _SF_ | 0 | 0 | 0 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ASD_ vs _SF_ | 0 | 0.6 | 0 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _DS_ vs _SF_ | -0.5 | -0.5 | 0 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ASD_ vs _ASA_ | 0 | 0 | -0.7 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ASD_ vs _K_ | 0 | N/A | N/A | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ASA_ vs _K_ | 0 | N/A | N/A | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _DS_ vs _K_ | 0 | N/A | N/A | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _SF_ vs _K_ | 0 | N/A | N/A | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Cro | _ZSD_ vs _SF_ | 0.01 | -0.04 | 0 | | ss-Correlations | | | | | | ^1)^ | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ vs _SF_ | -0.17 | -0.25 | 0 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ vs _K_ | 0 | N/A | N/A | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ vs _K_ | -0.02 | N/A | N/A | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ vs _DS_ | -0.05 | -0.10 | 0 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ vs _DS_ | 0.27 | -0.40 | 0 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ vs _ASD_ | 0.73 | 0.42 | 0.66 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ vs _ASD_ | -0.14 | -0.27 | 0.47 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ vs _ASA_ | -0.20 | -0.18 | -0.55 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ vs _ASA_ | 0.24 | 0.26 | -0.22 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ vs _ZSA_ | -0.07 | -0.27 | 0 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Delay | Exp | | | | | distribution | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | AoD and AoA | Wrapped | | | | | distribution | Gaussian | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | ZoD and ZoA | Laplacian | | | | | distribution | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Delay scaling | 3.8 | 1.7 | 1.7 | | | parameter | | | | | | _r~τ~_ | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | XPR [dB] | _μ_ ~XPR~ | 12 | 7 | 7 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~XPR~ | 4 | 3 | 3 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Number of | 11 | 10 | 10 | | | clusters $N$ | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Number of rays | 20 | 20 | 20 | | | per cluster $M$ | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Cluster ASD | 2 | 2 | 2 | | | ({width="0.3194 | | | | | | 444444444444in" | | | | | | he | | | | | | ight="0.25in"}) | | | | | | in [deg] | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Cluster ASA | 3 | 3 | 3 | | | ({width="0.3194 | | | | | | 444444444444in" | | | | | | he | | | | | | ight="0.25in"}) | | | | | | in [deg] | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Cluster ZSA | 2 | 2.5 | 3 | | | ({width="0.3194 | | | | | | 444444444444in" | | | | | | he | | | | | | ight="0.25in"}) | | | | | | in [deg] | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Per cluster | 3 | 3 | 3 | | | shadowing std ζ | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Correlation | _DS_ | 50 | 36 | 36 | | distance in the | | | | | | horizontal | | | | | | plane [m] | | | | | | | | | | | | XPR [dB] | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ASD_ | 25 | 30 | 30 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ASA_ | 35 | 40 | 40 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _SF_ | 37 | 120 | 120 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _K_ | 40 | N/A | N/A | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ | 15 | 50 | 50 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ | 15 | 50 | 50 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | NOTE 1: _DS_ = | | | | | | rms delay | | | | | | spread, _ASD_ = | | | | | | rms azimuth | | | | | | spread of | | | | | | departure | | | | | | angles, _ASA_ = | | | | | | rms azimuth | | | | | | spread of | | | | | | arrival angles, | | | | | | _ZSD_ = rms | | | | | | zenith spread | | | | | | of departure | | | | | | angles, _ZSA_ = | | | | | | rms zenith | | | | | | spread of | | | | | | arrival angles, | | | | | | _SF_ = shadow | | | | | | fading, and _K_ | | | | | | = Ricean | | | | | | K-factor. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | sign of the | | | | | | shadow fading | | | | | | is defined so | | | | | | that positive | | | | | | SF means more | | | | | | received power | | | | | | at UT than | | | | | | predicted by | | | | | | the path loss | | | | | | model. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | following | | | | | | notation for | | | | | | mean | | | | | | (_μ_ ~lgX~= | | | | | | mean{log~10~(X) | | | | | | }) and standard | | | | | | deviation | | | | | | (_σ_ ~lgX~ | | | | | | =std{log~10~(X) | | | | | | }) is used for | | | | | | logarithmized | | | | | | parameters X. | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+
Table 7.3-7: ZSD and ZoD offset parameters for 3D-UMa
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Scenarios | 3D-UMa | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | LOS | NLOS | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ZOD spread | _μ_ ~lgZSD~ | max[-0.5, | max[-0.5, | | (ZSD) | | -2.1 | -2.1 | | | | (_d~2D~_ /1000) | (_d~2D~_ /1000) | | lgZSD=l | | -0.01 | -0 | | og~10~(ZSD/1°) | | (_h~UT\ ~_ \- | .01(_h~UT\ ~_ \- | | | | 1.5)+0.75] | 1.5)+0.9] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _σ_ ~lgZSD~ | 0.40 | 0.49 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ZoD offset | * | 0 | -10\^{-0.6 | | | µ~offset,ZOD~_| | 2log10(max(10, | | | | |_ d~2D | | | | | ~_))+1.93-0.07 | | | | | (_ h~UT~*-1.5)} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | proposed | | | | | average ESD is | | | | | smaller than | | | | | that of | | | | | Winner+ | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | ZSD parameters | | | | | for O2I links | | | | | are the same | | | | | parameters | | | | | that are used | | | | | for outdoor | | | | | links, | | | | | depending on | | | | | the LOS | | | | | condition of | | | | | the outdoor | | | | | link part. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 7.3-8: ZSD and ZoD offset parameters for 3D-UMi
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Scenarios | 3D-UMi | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | LOS | NLOS | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ZOD spread | _μ_ ~lgZSD~ | max[-0.5, | max[-0.5, | | (ZSD) | | -2.1(_d | -2.1 | | | | ~2D~_ /1000)+0. | (_d~2D~_ /1000) | | lgZSD=l | | 01\|_h~UT\ ~_ \- | +0.01 | | og~10~(ZSD/1°) | | _h | max(_ h~UT\ ~_\- | | | | ~BS~_ \|+0.75] | _h~BS~_ ,0) | | | | | +0.9] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _σ_ ~lgZSD~ | 0.4 | 0.6 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ZoD offset | * | 0 | -10\^{-0.5 | | | µ~offset,ZOD~_| | 5log10(max(10, | | | | |_ d~2D~*))+1.6} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | proposed | | | | | average ESD is | | | | | smaller than | | | | | that of | | | | | Winner+ | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | height | | | | | dependence of | | | | | ZOD offset | | | | | observed from | | | | | the | | | | | ray-tracing | | | | | data in | | | | | R1-135765, | | | | | R1-135999 and | | | | | R1-135588 is | | | | | not showing a | | | | | common and | | | | | strong trend. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | ZSD parameters | | | | | for O2I links | | | | | are the same | | | | | parameters | | | | | that are used | | | | | for outdoor | | | | | links, | | | | | depending on | | | | | the LOS | | | | | condition of | | | | | the outdoor | | | | | link part. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 7.3-9: ZSD and ZoD offset parameters for 3D-RMa
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Scenarios | 3D-RMa | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | LOS | NLOS | O2I | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ZOD spread | _μ_ ~lgZSD~ | max[-1, | max[-1, | max[-1, | | (ZSD) | | -0.17(_d | -0.19(_ d | -0.19(_d | | | |_ ~2D~/1000) | _~2D~/1000) |_ ~2D~/1000) | | lgZSD=log~ | | | | | | 10~(ZSD/1°) | | -0 | -0 | -0 | | | | .01(_h_ ~UT~ | .01(_h_ ~UT~ | .01(_h_ ~UT~ | | | | - 1.5) + | - 1.5) + | - 1.5) + | | | | 0.22] | 0.28] | 0.28] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | _σ_ ~lgZSD~ | 0.34 | 0.30 | 0.30 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ZoD offset | _µ~o | 0 | arctan((35 | arctan((35 | | | ffset,ZOD~_ | | - | - | | | | | 3. | 3. | | | | | 5)/_d_ ~2D~) | 5)/_d_ ~2D~) | | | | | | | | | | | -arctan((35 | -arctan((35 | | | | | - | - | | | | | 1. | 1. | | | | | 5)/_d_ ~2D~) | 5)/_d_ ~2D~) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 7.3-10: ZSD and ZoD offset parameters for 3D-InH
+-----------------------+-----------------+------+------+ | Scenarios | 3D-InH | | | +-----------------------+-----------------+------+------+ | | LOS | NLOS | | +-----------------------+-----------------+------+------+ | ZOD spread (ZSD) | _μ_ ~lgZSD~ | 1.02 | 1.08 | | | | | | | lgZSD=log~10~(ZSD/1°) | | | | +-----------------------+-----------------+------+------+ | | _σ_ ~lgZSD~ | 0.41 | 0.36 | +-----------------------+-----------------+------+------+ | ZoD offset | _µ~offset,ZOD~_ | 0 | 0 | +-----------------------+-----------------+------+------+
# 8 Simulations
Editor\'s note:: This clause includes baseline simulation results
(corresponding to a number of antenna ports and transmission scheme supported
by Rel-11) with the modified evaluation methodology
## 8.1 RSRP calculation formula
For channel model calibration and baseline performance evaluation, the
following RSRP calculation formula for Tx antenna port _p_ needed for UE
attachment is used (applying _K~R\ ~_ = 0 for NLOS UE). Note that the TX power
is CRS transmitted power per RE. The notation below is according to equation
(7.3-22). $w_{s}$(_s_ =1, ..., _S_) represents a complex weight vector used
for virtualization of port _p_ and _U_ is the number of receive antenna
elements.
$\text{RSRP}_{p} = \text{PL} \cdot \text{SF} \cdot \sum_{u = 1}^{U}\left(
\left| \alpha_{0,u,p} \right|^{2} + \sum_{n = 1}^{N}{\sum_{m = 1}^{M}\left|
\alpha_{n,m,u,p} \right|^{2}} \right) \cdot
\frac{\text{TX}_{\text{power}}}{U}$, (8.1-1)
where for NLOS path for n=1, ..., N,
$\begin{matrix} \alpha_{n,m,u,p} = \sqrt{\frac{P_{n}}{M\left( K_{R} + 1
\right)}}\begin{bmatrix} F_{\text{rx},u,\theta}\left(
\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOA}} \right) \
F_{\text{rx},u,\varphi}\left( \theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOA}}
\right) \ \end{bmatrix}^{T}\begin{bmatrix} \text{exp}\left(
\text{jΦ}_{n,m}^{\text{θθ}} \right) & \sqrt{\kappa_{{n,m}^{-
1}}}\text{exp}\left( \text{jΦ}_{n,m}^{\text{θφ}} \right) \
\sqrt{\kappa_{{n,m}^{- 1}}}\text{exp}\left( \text{jΦ}_{n,m}^{\text{φθ}}
\right) & \text{exp}\left( \text{jΦ}_{n,m}^{\text{φφ}} \right) \ \end{bmatrix}
\ \begin{bmatrix} F_{\text{tx},p,\theta}\left(
\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOD}} \right) \
F_{\text{tx},p,\varphi}\left( \theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOD}}
\right) \ \end{bmatrix} \ \end{matrix}$ (8.1-2)
and for LOS path
$\begin{matrix} \alpha_{0,u,p} = \ \sqrt{\frac{K_{R}}{K_{R} +
1}}\begin{bmatrix} F_{\text{rx},u,\theta}\left(
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOA}},\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOA}} \right) \
F_{\text{rx},u,\varphi}\left(
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOA}},\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOA}} \right) \
\end{bmatrix}^{T}\begin{bmatrix} \text{exp}\left( \text{jΦ}_{\text{LOS}}
\right) & 0 \ 0 & \- \text{exp}\left( \text{jΦ}_{\text{LOS}} \right) \
\end{bmatrix}\ \begin{bmatrix} F_{\text{tx},p,\theta}\left(
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOD}} \right) \
F_{\text{tx},p,\varphi}\left(
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOD}} \right) \
\end{bmatrix} \ \end{matrix}$ (8.1-3)
with
$F_{\text{tx},p,\theta}\left( \theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOD}}
\right) = \sum_{}^{}{w_{s}\text{exp}\left( j2\text{πλ}_{0}^{- 1}\left(
{\hat{r}}_{\text{tx},n,m}^{T}\text{.}{\overline{d}}_{\text{tx},s} \right)
\right)F_{\text{tx},s,\theta}\left(
\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOD}} \right)}$ (8.1-4)
and
$F_{\text{tx},p,\varphi}\left(
\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOD}} \right) =
\sum_{}^{}{w_{s}\text{exp}\left( j2\text{πλ}_{0}^{- 1}\left(
{\hat{r}}_{\text{tx},n,m}^{T}\text{.}{\overline{d}}_{\text{tx},s} \right)
\right)F_{\text{tx},s,\varphi}\left(
\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOD}} \right)}$. (8.1-5)
## 8.2 Simulation results
Geographical distance based and radio distance based wrapping methods
R1-140842 [7] are used for simulations.\ A different large scale parameter map
(for generating correlated large-scale parameters from Table 7.3-6) is
associated with each site including the wrapping candidate sites, e.g.
19x7=133 LSP maps for radio-distance based wrap or 61 LSP maps for
geographical distance-based wrap can be used for a 19-site wrap-around.
The simulation results in this subclause are according to TR36.873 V12.0.0 --
specifically, it is assumed that the XPR standard deviation in Table 7.3-6 for
O2I 3D-UMi and O2I 3D-UMa cases is 11dB.
### 8.2.1 Phase-1 calibration
Phase-1 calibration results do not consider a fast-fading model.
Table 8.2-1: Simulation assumptions for phase-1 calibration
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scenarios | 3D-UMa, 3D-UMi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configurations | config 1) K=M=10, with 0.5λ | | | vertical antenna spacing | | | | | | config 2) K=1, M=1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downtilt | 102 degrees electrical tilt for | | | antenna configuration 1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Handover margin (for | 0dB | | calibration) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE attachment | Based on pathloss considering | | | LOS angle | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Fast fading channel | Fast fading channel is not | | | modelled | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Wrapping method | 1) Geographical distance based | | | (mandatory) | | | | | | 2) Radio distance based | | | (optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Metrics | 1) Coupling loss -- serving | | | cell (based on LOS pathloss) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 2) Geometry (based on LOS | | | pathloss) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 3) CDF of LOS EOD -- serving | | | cell | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
{width="3.5458333333333334in" height="2.6180555555555554in"}
Figure 8.2-1: Coupling loss with geographical distance based wrap averaged
over 18 sources (see R1-140843 [8])
{width="3.536111111111111in" height="2.6381944444444443in"}
Figure 8.2-2: Coupling loss with radio distance based wrap averaged over 9
sources (see R1-140843 [8])
{width="3.536111111111111in" height="2.6381944444444443in"}
Figure 8.2-3: Geometry with geographical distance based wrap averaged over 18
sources (see R1-140843 [8])
{width="3.536111111111111in" height="2.6381944444444443in"}
Figure 8.2-4: Geometry with geographical distance based wrap averaged over 9
sources (see R1-140843 [8])
{width="3.536111111111111in" height="2.6381944444444443in"}
Figure 8.2-5: LOS ZOD with geographical distance based wrap averaged over 18
sources (see R1-140843 [8])
{width="3.536111111111111in" height="2.6381944444444443in"}
Figure 8.2-6: LOS ZOD with geographical distance based wrap averaged over 18
sources (see R1-140843 [8])
### 8.2.2 Phase-2 calibration
Table 8.2-2: Simulation assumptions for phase-2 calibration
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scenarios | 3D-UMa, 3D-UMi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna configurations | Config 1: K=1, M=2, N=2, ULA, | | | 0.5λ H/V spacing | | | | | | Config 2: K=M=10, N=2, X-pol | | | (+/-45), 0.5λ H/V, θ~etilt~ = | | | 102 degrees | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS port mapping | Config 1: the 4 antenna ports | | | are mapped such that [0, 2; 1, | | | 3] | | | | | | Config 2: the 4 antenna ports | | | are mapped such that [0, 2, 1, | | | 3] where 0/1 are -45 degree | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MS antenna configurations | Config 1: 2 Rx ULA 0.5λ H | | | spacing | | | | | | Config 2: 2Rx X-pol (0/+90) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | System bandwidth | 10MHz (50RBs) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE attachment | Based on RSRP (formula) from CRS | | | port 0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | 2GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE distribution | According to Table 6-1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Polarized antenna modelling | Model-1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE array orientation | Ω _~UT,α ~_ uniformly distributed | | | on [0,360] degree, Ω _~UT,β~_ = | | | 90 degree, Ω _~UT,γ~_ = 0 degree | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna pattern | Isotropic antenna gain pattern | | | $A^{ | | | ''}(\theta^{''},\varphi^{''})$=1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Wrapping method | 1) Geographical distance based | | | (mandatory) | | | | | | 2) Radio distance based | | | (optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cluster elimination step 6 | scaling factor not changed after | | | cluster elimination | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Handover margin (for | 0 dB | | calibration) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Metrics | Wideband SINR before receiver -- | | | determined from RSRP (formula) | | | from CRS port 0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | CDF of ZSD from the serving cell | | | (according to circular angle | | | spread definition of TR 25.996 | | | [9] -- Annex A and assuming an | | | omni antenna pattern | | | for$P_{n,m}$ determination) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | CDF of ZSA from the serving cell | | | (according to circular angle | | | spread definition of TR 25.996 | | | [9] -- Annex A and assuming an | | | omni antenna pattern | | | for$P_{n,m}$ determination) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | CDF of largest (1st) singular | | | value (serving cell) in PRBs at | | | t=0 plotted in 10*log10 scale | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | CDF of smallest (2nd) singular | | | value (serving cell) in PRBs at | | | t=0 plotted in 10*log10 scale | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | CDF of the ratio between the | | | largest singular value and the | | | smallest singular value (serving | | | cell) in PRBs at t=0 plotted in | | | 10*log10 scale | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | CDF of coupling loss (serving | | | cell) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
{width="3.5055555555555555in" height="2.629166666666667in"}
Figure 8.2-7: Coupling loss with geographical distance based wrap, median from
18 sources (see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5055555555555555in" height="2.629166666666667in"}
Figure 8.2-8: Coupling loss with radio distance based wrap, median from 7
sources (see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 8.2-9: Wideband SINR with geographical distance based wrap, median from
21 sources (see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 8.2-10: Wideband SINR with radio distance based wrap, median from 7
sources (see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 8.2-11: ZSD CDF with geographical distance based wrap, median from 21
sources (see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 8.2-12: ZSD CDF with radio distance based wrap, median from 7 sources
(see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 8.2-13: ZSA CDF with geographical distance based wrap, median from 21
sources (see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 8.2-14: ZSA CDF with radio distance based wrap, median from 7 sources
(see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 8.2-15: Ratio of singular values CDF with geographical distance based
wrap, median from 21 sources (see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 8.2-16: Ratio of singular values CDF with radio distance based wrap,
median from 7 sources (see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 8.2-17: Largest singular value CDF with geographical distance based
wrap, median from 21 sources (see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 8.2-18: Largest singular value CDF with radio distance based wrap,
median from 7 sources (see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 8.2-19: Smallest singular value CDF with geographical distance based
wrap, median from 21 sources (see R1-143469 [10])
{width="3.5in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 8.2-20: Smallest singular value CDF with radio distance based wrap,
median from 7 sources (see R1-143469 [10])
### {#section .list-paragraph}
### 8.2.3 Baseline calibration
Table 8.2-3: Simulation assumptions for baseline
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scenarios | 3D-UMa, 3D-UMi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna configurations | K=M=10, N=2, X-pol (+/-45), 0.5λ | | | H/V, θ~etilt~ = 102 degrees | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS port mapping | The 4 antenna ports are mapped | | | such that [0, 2, 1, 3] where | | | 0/1 are -45 degree | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MS antenna configurations | 2Rx X-pol (0/+90) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | System bandwidth | 10MHz (50RBs) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE attachment | Based on RSRP (formula) from CRS | | | port 0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | 2GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Duplex | FDD | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Network sync | Synchronized | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of UEs per cell | 10 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE distribution | According to Table 6-1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE speed | 3km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Polarized antenna modelling | 1) Model-1 | | | | | | 2) Model-2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE array orientation | Ω _~UT,α ~_ uniformly distributed | | | on [0,360] degree, Ω _~UT,β~_ = | | | 90 degree, Ω _~UT,γ~_ = 0 degree | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna pattern | Isotropic antenna gain pattern | | | $A^{ | | | ''}(\theta^{''},\varphi^{''})$=1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Wrapping method | 1) Geographical distance based | | | (mandatory) | | | | | | 2) Radio distance based | | | (optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cluster elimination step 6 | scaling factor not changed after | | | cluster elimination | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Handover margin (for | 0 dB | | calibration) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic model | Full-buffer | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scheduler | PF, 1 UE per TTI allocation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Receiver | Ideal channel estimation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Ideal interference modelling | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | MMSE-IRC receiver | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interference model | Ideal interference from PDSCH | | | which can be measured from IMR | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Hybrid ARQ | Maximum 4 transmissions | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Feedback | PUSCH 3-1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | CQI and PMI reporting triggered | | | per 5ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Feedback delay is 5 ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Rel-8 4Tx codebook | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Overhead | 3 symbols for DL CCHs, 4 CRS | | | ports and DM-RS with 12 REs per | | | PRB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Transmission scheme | TM10, single CSI process, | | | SU-MIMO with rank adaptation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interference model | Ideal interference from PDSCH, | | | can be measured from IMR | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Metrics | Cell average SE | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 5% cell-edge SE | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 8.2-4: Baseline simulation results
**Contribution number** | 
> **R1-143030**
|
> **R1-142908**
|
> **R1-142869**
|
> **R1-140423**
|
> **R1-142859**
|
> **R1-142992**
|
> **R1-143111**
|
> **R1-142936**
|
> **R1-143199**
|
> **R1-142970**
|
> **R1-143232**
|
> **R1-143237**
|
> **R1-140767**
|
> **R1-143144**
|
> **R1-143257**
|
> **R1-143120**
| **Mean** |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
3D-UMa - geo-dist, polarization model-1 | avg SE | 2.19 | 1.87 | 2.13 | 1.98 | 1.81 | 2.05 | 2.03 | 2.03 | 2.06 | 2.30 | 1.89 |  | 1.94 | 2.18 | 2.23 | 2.04 | **2.05**  
| 5% SE | 0.07 | 0.05 | 0.07 | 0.05 | 0.05 | 0.05 | 0.05 | 0.04 | 0.06 | 0.06 | 0.05 |  | 0.04 | 0.06 | 0.06 | 0.05 | **0.05**  
3D-UMa - geo-dist, polarization model-2 | avg SE | 2.20 | 1.91 | 2.06 | 1.95 | 1.79 | 1.99 | 1.97 | 1.97 | 2.07 | 2.28 | 1.88 | 2.00 | 1.94 | 2.18 | 2.24 | 2.04 | **2.03**  
| 5% SE | 0.07 | 0.05 | 0.06 | 0.05 | 0.04 | 0.05 | 0.05 | 0.04 | 0.06 | 0.06 | 0.04 | 0.06 | 0.04 | 0.06 | 0.06 | 0.05 | **0.05**  
3D-UMa - radio-dist, polarization model-1 | avg SE |  | 1.81 | 2.09 |  | 1.79 | 2.06 |  |  | 2.08 |  |  |  | 1.90 | 2.28 |  |  | **2.00**  
| 5% SE |  | 0.04 | 0.06 |  | 0.05 | 0.06 |  |  | 0.06 |  |  |  | 0.04 | 0.06 |  |  | **0.05**  
3D-UMa - radio-dist, polarization model-2 | avg SE |  | 1.87 | 2.06 |  | 1.75 | 1.99 |  |  | 2.09 |  |  |  | 1.91 | 2.28 |  |  | **1.99**  
| 5% SE |  | 0.04 | 0.05 |  | 0.04 | 0.05 |  |  | 0.05 |  |  |  | 0.04 | 0.06 |  |  | **0.05**  
3D-UMi - geo-dist, polarization model-1 | avg SE | 2.19 | 1.87 | 2.14 | 1.92 | 1.72 | 2.01 | 2.01 | 1.95 | 2.07 | 2.25 | 1.83 |  | 1.87 | 2.12 | 2.13 | 2.00 | **2.01**  
| 5% SE | 0.07 | 0.04 | 0.06 | 0.05 | 0.04 | 0.05 | 0.05 | 0.04 | 0.05 | 0.06 | 0.04 |  | 0.04 | 0.05 | 0.06 | 0.04 | **0.05**  
3D-UMi - geo-dist, polarization model-2 | avg SE | 2.20 | 1.90 | 2.09 | 1.88 | 1.71 | 1.96 | 1.96 | 1.89 | 2.08 | 2.23 | 1.83 | 1.92 | 1.88 | 2.12 | 2.15 | 2.00 | **1.99**  
| 5% SE | 0.07 | 0.05 | 0.05 | 0.04 | 0.04 | 0.05 | 0.05 | 0.04 | 0.05 | 0.06 | 0.04 | 0.05 | 0.04 | 0.05 | 0.06 | 0.04 | **0.05**  
3D-UMi - radio-dist, polarization model-1 | avg SE |  | 1.78 | 2.12 |  | 1.70 | 1.96 |  |  | 2.03 |  |  |  | 1.78 | 2.17 |  |  | **1.93**  
| 5% SE |  | 0.04 | 0.06 |  | 0.04 | 0.05 |  |  | 0.05 |  |  |  | 0.03 | 0.05 |  |  | **0.05**  
3D-UMi - radio-dist, polarization model-2 | avg SE |  | 1.80 | 2.08 |  | 1.66 | 1.91 |  |  | 2.05 |  |  |  | 1.79 | 2.17 |  |  | **1.92**  
| 5% SE |  | 0.04 | 0.05 |  | 0.04 | 0.05 |  |  | 0.05 |  |  |  | 0.03 | 0.05 |  |  | **0.05**  
#