# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report on TR on LTE Device to Device
Proximity Services (UE).
The purpose of the present document is to study the radio requirements LTE
Device to Device Proximity Services as part of the Rel-12 work item. The
normative requirements resulting from the present document will be addressed
in the applicable release 12 Technical Specifications (TS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
_[3] 3GPP_ TR 36.843 V1.2: \"Study on LTE Device to Device Proximity Services;
Radio Aspects\".
_[4] Recommendation_ ITU--R M.2015: \"Frequency arrangements for public
protection and disaster relief radiocommunication systems in UHF bands in
accordance with Resolution 646 (Rev.WRC-12)\".
_[5] Report_ ITU--R M.2033: \"Radiocommunication objectives and requirements
for public protection and disaster relief (2003)\".
_[6] 3GPP_ TR 36.942: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
_[7] 3GPP_ TS 23.303: \"Proximity-based services (ProSe); Stage 2\".
_[8] 3GPP_ TR 25.814: \"Physical layer aspect for evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA)\".
_[9] 3GPP_ TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\".
_[10] 3GPP_ TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical channels and modulation\".
_[11]_ SP-120456: \"Additional information: Group Communications & Proximity-
based Services\", Critical Communications Broadband Group (CCBG).
_[12]_ S1-121247: \"Information about the system improvements requirements for
the adoption of LTE for mission/business critical communications\", ETSI TC
TETRA.
_[13]_ R4-141214: \"WF on D2D Coexistence", Qualcomm, Ericsson, Motorola
solutions, LGE.
_[14]_ S3-142355: \"Response LS on parameter synchronization for ProSe/D2D\",
Qualcomm.
[15] C1-140748: \"New WID on CT aspects of Proximity-based Services (ProSe)\",
Qualcomm.
[16] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[17] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[18] Recommendation ITU-R SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[19] 3GPP TS 36.814: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Further advancements for E-UTRA physical layer aspects\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
D2D Device to Device
D2DSS D2D Synchronization Signal
PD2DSCH Physical D2D Synchronization Channel
PD2DSS Primary D2D Synchronization Signal
ProSe Proximity based Services
PS Public Safety
PSBCH Physical Sidelink Broadcast CHannel
PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control CHannel
PSDCH Physical Sidelink Discovery CHannel
PSS Primary Synchronization Signal
PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared CHannel
PSSS Primary Sidelink Synchronization Signal
SD2DSS Secondary D2D Synchronization Signal
SSS Secondary Synchronization Signal
SSSS Secondary Sidelink Synchronization Signal
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
Proximity-based applications and services represent an emerging social-
technological trend. The introduction of a Proximity Services (ProSe)
capability in LTE allows the 3GPP industry to serve this developing market,
and, at the same time, serve the urgent needs of several Public Safety
communities that are jointly committed to LTE (see SP-120456 (MoU between
TETRA & Critical Communications Association (TCCA) & the National Public
Safety Telecommunications Council), and S1-121247 (TCCA)).
Additionally, the study on LTE Device to Device Proximity Services
(FS_LTE_D2D_Prox, TR 36.843) has shown that with the current status of work,
adding D2D discovery and broadcast communication techniques is considered
compatible to the LTE standard. Meanwhile, normative work on proximity
services has been *completed* in SA2 (SA2 TS 23.303) and a corresponding WID
for stage-3 work (C1-140748) is also being submitted for approval.
ProSe specification is important to enable economy of scale advantages, i.e.
the resulting system can be used for both Public Safety and non-Public-Safety
services, as much as possible.
## 4.2 Objective
The objective of this work item is to enable device to device discovery in
network coverage (intra-cell and inter-cell) and communication in network
coverage (intra-cell and inter-cell), in partial network coverage and outside
network coverage. The communication part is targeted to apply only to public
safety use. The partial network coverage and out of network coverage scenarios
apply only to public safety use. The work will proceed from the starting point
of the agreements and working assumptions reached during the study item as
captured in TR 36.843.
In particular:
1) Define physical signals and channels and related UE behaviors for D2D
discovery and broadcast communication [RAN1]:
a) Specify synchronization signal (D2DSS) and, if supported, synchronization
channel (PD2DSCH)
b) Specify modifications, if any, of PUSCH for D2D discovery and broadcast
communication (data and scheduling assignments).
c) Specify control needed for physical layer signal transmission/reception for
broadcast communication.
2) Specify resource allocation mechanisms for D2D discovery and broadcast
communication [RAN1, RAN2]:
a) Distributed resource allocation mechanisms from allocated resource pool(s),
for D2D discovery and broadcast communication [RAN1, RAN2].
b) eNB resource allocation mechanisms, for D2D discovery and broadcast
communication [RAN2, RAN1].
3) Specify resource allocation mechanisms for synchronization signals and, if
supported, synchronization channels for D2D discovery and broadcast
communication [RAN1, RAN2]:
4) Specify synchronization procedure for inter-cell, in partial network
coverage and outside network coverage [RAN1].
5) Specify higher layer (AS layers) protocols for D2D discovery and
communication [RAN2]:
a) Procedures, header format, signaling flows for D2D discovery and
communication.
6) Specify physical layer and higher layer techniques to enable the LTE
network to manage, and continuously control D2D discovery and communication
[RAN1, RAN2].
**7) Define solutions related to lawful interception for D2D discovery and
communication as defined by SA3-LI, if they impact the RAN specification
[RAN2].**
8) Study co-existence between D2D enabled LTE-network and victim network
operating in adjacent carrier frequencies [RAN4]:
a) If a need is identified by RAN4, specify potential means to mitigate
interference [RAN1].
9) Define Tx and Rx RF requirements for the UE [RAN4].
10) Define RRM core requirements [RAN4, RAN1, RAN2].
The impact of D2D on cellular traffic, spectrum and on the QoS of other
services from the same operator should be studied and minimized. The specified
solutions should enable device to device discovery and communication on the
same or on different LTE carrier(s) than that used for WAN communication by
the UE, for both FDD and TDD.
# 5 Deployment and co-existence studies
## 5.1 General
The purpose of this clause is to address deployment and co-existence studies
for D2D enabled E-UTRA networks.
D2D is designed to support two associated features D2D_discovery and
D2D_communications in three possible coverage scenarios; in network coverage,
partial network coverage and out of network coverage. . These deployment
scenarios are summarized in Figure 5.1-1 below. In Rel-12, D2D_discovery
operation is limited to in network coverage, while D2D communications is
possible in all three coverage scenarios. Further, D2D_communications is
limited to PS use in Rel-12.
{width="6.843055555555556in" height="1.9354166666666666in"}
Figure 5.1-1: D2D co-existence / network scenarios
During release 12 development, no contributions were submitted to RAN4 to
change existing commercial receiver requirements for ProSe LTE D2D. It is
accepted that current interference levels and other parameters are
sufficiently specified to protect ProSe LTE public safety applications,
including D2D and critical communications, from non ProSe systems.
## 5.2 Operating bands
**Background**
The propagation characteristics of frequencies between 470 MHz and 1 GHz are
attractive for wide area, nationwide deployment of both PS and commercial
mobile broadband systems. This aspect has been recognized in the following
forums particularly in the case of PS deployment.
a) From a ITU perspective:
\- ITU--R M.2015 recommendations; bands below 1 GHz are identified in
Resolution 646 (Rev.WRC-12) for PS in certain regions in terms of guidance on
frequency arrangements
\- **ITU-R M.2033;** in some countries commercial broadband networks are
currently used by Public Safety organizations to supplement their own narrow
band systems, or in some cases to provide all their broadband communications
requirements, but not necessarily all PS (also called PPDR) specific features
as identified in ITU-R M.2033 Table 2 (PPDR applications and examples) and
Table 3 (User requirements)
b) From a national / regulatory perspective:
\- Currently USA, Australia, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Qatar and other countries
have all allocated dedicated PS broadband Spectrum in 700 or 800 MHz.
\- European Union set up FM 49 which shortlists 400 and 700 MHz as options for
PS broadband.
\- CITEL has made two recommendations for PS broadband spectrum allocations:
the US 700 MHz Plan and the APT700 (B28) band plan (with a suggestion to use
the lower part of the sub-band).
c) From a 3GPP perspective:
\- Analysis and co-existence work is based on bands using 700 MHz as an
example for both D2D_discovery and D2D communications for PS scenarios.
D2D_discovery and D2D communications also in B3 and B7 for PS.
\- Commercial deployment to provide D2D_discovery in B2, B4 and B41.
Therefore taking into account the above factors as the RF work is still
ongoing in R4; it was suggested that a subset consisting of B3, B7, B14, B20,
B26 and B28 for PS deployment of D2D_discovery and D2D_communications and B2,
B4, and B41 for commercial D2D_discovery. The proposed bands will be included
in the D2D TR in brackets, so that a running CR can be developed based on
these bands. As the work progress, RAN4 can then update Annex A to remove the
brackets and/also include additional bands. This bracket approach will help to
focus the work in R4 to meet the rel-12 timescales but also ensure D2D bands
are not included in the specification until all the RF work is completed for
the particular ProSe supported band.
**D2D operating bands**
E-UTRA D2D is designed to operate in the operating bands defined in Table
5.2-1.
Table 5.2-1: E-UTRA D2D operating bands
* * *
E‑UTRA D2D Band E‑UTRA Operating Band D2D UE transmit D2D UE receive D2D
Duplex Mode D2D Mode  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~ **Disc.** **Comm.**  
2 2 1850 MHz -- 1980 MHz 1850 MHz -- 1980 MHz HD [Yes]  
3 3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz HD [Yes] [Yes] 4 4 1710 MHz --
1755 MHz 1710 MHz -- 1755 MHz HD [Yes]  
7 7 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz HD [Yes] [Yes] 14 14 788 MHz --
798 MHz 788 MHz -- 798 MHz HD [Yes] [Yes] 20 20 832 MHz -- 862 MHz 832 MHz --
862 MHz HD [Yes] [Yes] 26 26 814 MHz -- 849 MHz 814 MHz -- 849 MHz HD [Yes]
[Yes] 28 28 703 MHz -- 748 MHz 703 MHz -- 748 MHz HD [Yes] [Yes] 31 31 452.5
MHz -- 457.5 MHz 452.5 MHz -- 457.5 MHz HD [Yes] [Yes] 41 41 2496 MHz -- 2690
MHz 2496 MHz -- 2690 MHz HD [Yes]
* * *
For PS operation, communications at PS incident site might also entail the use
of higher frequency bands and this FFS for both D2D_discovery and
D2D_communications.
## 5.3 Channel bandwidths
**Background**
E-UTRA supports both flexibility bandwidths smaller than 5 MHz i.e. 1.4 MHz
and 3 MHz and scalable bandwidths of 5, 10, 15 and 20 MHz. Data is allocated
to the UEs in terms of resource blocks, i.e. one UE can be allocated integer
multiples of one resource block in the frequency domain. In uplink, data is
allocated in multiples of one resource block. Both D2D_discovery and
D2D_communications assume a maximum signal bandwidth of 2RB.
**D2D channel bandwidth**
Channel bandwidths defined in TR 36.843 Table A2.1.1-1 assume a 10 MHz
allocation for both UL and DL for FDD (20 MHz for TDD) for both the general
and Public Safety scenarios. It is proposed to prioritize 10 MHz channel
bandwidth for D2D_communications, and all existing channel BWs per E-UTRA band
be baseline for D2D_discovery. For D2D_communications, other channel
bandwidths are FFS.
Table 5.3-1: E-UTRA band / D2D_discovery channel bandwidth
* * *
E-UTRA band / D2D_discovery channel bandwidth  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz [ ] **[Yes] ^*^** **[Yes]
^*^** **[Yes] ^*^** **[Yes] ^*^**
NOTE*: If currently supported for the E-UTRA band.
* * *
Table 5.3-2: E-UTRA band / D2D_communications channel bandwidth
* * *
E-UTRA band / D2D_communications channel bandwidth  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz [ ] **[Yes]**  
[31] [Yes]
* * *
## 5.4 Channel arrangements
## 5.5 Out of band co-existence
### 5.5.1 Coexistence scenarios
The purpose of this clause is to address the study on co-existence of D2D
enabled E-UTRA network with legacy E-UTRA networks operating in adjacent
channels.
The approved WID identifies D2D discovery in network coverage and D2D
communications in network coverage, outside network coverage, and in partial
network coverage as the focus for the Rel-12 work item. The methodology for
simulating the impact of D2D aggressor networks is based on the methodology
defined in TR 36.942 as per the WF defined in R4-141214. Note that the
simulation assumptions for D2D broadcast communication apply only to public
safety use cases in Release 12. The following coexistence scenarios are then
identified.
Table 5.5.1-1: D2D coexistence scenarios
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | D2D use case | Deployment scenario | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | In-network discovery | (Mandatory) General scenario | | | | | | (Optional) Public safety | | | scenario | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Out-of-network broadcast | (Mandatory) Public safety | | communications | scenario | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The details of the deployment scenarios are presented in the following
subclauses.
### 5.5.2 Deployment scenarios
Table 5.5.2-1: Details on deployment scenarios
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Scenario | Layout (in order of | Notes | | | priority) | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | General scenario | (Mandatory) Option 1: Urban | 1 | | | macro (500 m ISD) + 1 | | | | RRH/Indoor Hotzone per cell | | | | | | | | (Optional) Option 3: Urban | | | | macro (500 m ISD) (all UEs | | | | outdoor) | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Public safety scenario | (Mandatory) Option 5: Urban | 1 | | | macro (1732 m ISD), uniform | | | | (outdoor) drop | | | | | | | | (Optional) Option 5: Urban | | | | macro (1732 m ISD), | | | | indoor/outdoor drop | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | NOTE: Details on the | | | | deployment scenarios are | | | | specified in Table | | | | A.2.1.1-1 of TR 36.843. | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
### 5.5.3 Simulation Assumptions
#### 5.5.3.1 General
Table 5.5.3.1-1: Simulation assumptions: General
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | WAN UL scheduler algorithm | Round robin | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RBs allocated per active WAN UE | 16 PRBs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of active WAN UEs | 25 / cell | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Minimum coupling loss (for both | As per clause 4.5.1 in TR | | D2D & WAN UEs from eNodeB) | 36.942: | | | | | | - For layout options 1, 3: 70 | | | dB | | | | | | - For layout option 5: 80 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | WAN UE transmit power control | As per PC set 1 and PC set 2 of | | | TR 36.942 | | | | | | - Note that power control | | | algorithm parameters (PodBm, | | | CLxile) should be optimized for | | | different network layouts being | | | simulated. For simplicity, power | | | control algorithm parameters are | | | reused from TR 36.942 for all | | | network layouts. | | | | | | | | | -------- ------- -------------- | | | PC Set Gamma CLxile (dBm) | | | 1 1 112 | | | 2 0.8 129 | | | | | | -------- ------- -------------- | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE-eNodeB pathloss models | As per TR 36.843 | | | | | | (Note: As specified in TR | | | 36.843, layout options 1 and 3 | | | correspond to 3GPP Case 1, and | | | layout option 5 corresponds to | | | 3GPP Case 3. Pathloss models for | | | 3GPP case 1 and 3 are specified | | | in TR 36.814 and TR 25.814, and | | | provided here for completeness.) | | | | | | - For layout options 1, 3: Use | | | Table A.2.1.1.5-1, 3GPP Case 1 | | | | | | - For layout option 5: Use | | | Table A.2.1.1.5-1, 3GPP Case 3 | | | | | | - For fc of 700 MHz, a | | | correction factor of | | | 20log10(0.7/2) is applied | | | | | | - Penetration loss: As per | | | Table A.2.1.1-1 in TR 36.814. | | | | | | - Wall loss: For indoor users, | | | when present, additional wall | | | loss is specified in Table | | | A.2.1.1.5-1 | | | | | | - eNodeB antenna pattern: As | | | per Table A.2.1.1-2 in TR | | | 36.814. | | | | | |  | | |  | | |  | | | UE-eNodeB pathloss model | | | S | | | hadowing standard deviation | | | | PLoss | | | | Wall loss | | |   
---|---|---  
| | |  | | | PLLOS(R)= 103.4+24.2log10(R) | | | PLNLOS(R)= 131.1+42.8log10(R) | | | For 2GHz, R in km. | | | C | | | ase 1:Prob(R)=min(0.018/R,1)*(1- | | | exp(-R/0.063))+exp(-R/0.063) | | | Case 3: Pro | | | b(R)=exp(-(R-0.01)/1.0) | | | | 10 dB | | | | 20 dB | | | 20 dB (when UE in indoor) | | |   
| | |  | | |  | | | | | | (Note these match the system | | | calibration results in Figure | | | A.2.2-1 in TR 36.814 for Case 1, | | | 3D) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE RF parameters | Noise figure: 9 dB | | | | | | Antenna pattern: | | | Omni-directional with gain of | | | 0 dBi | | | | | | Number of antennas: 1 Tx, 2 Rx | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | eNodeB RF parameters | Noise figure: 5 dB | | | | | | Antenna pattern: From clause | | | 4.2.1.1 of TR 36.942 | | | | | | $\theta_{3\text{dB}}$= 65 | | | degrees, and | | | $A_{m} = \text{20}\text{dB}$ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel | AWGN | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SINR-to-rate mapping | As per link level performance | | | model in TR 36.942 (Table A.2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE ACLR model | For power class 3 UEs (23dBm max | | | transmit power) | | | | | | For narrowband D2D aggressors | | | (2RBs): | | | | | | ----------------------------- | | | -------------------------------- | | | -------- ----------------------- | | | Frequency offset between ag | | | gressor UE (2 RBs) and victim UE | | | (16RBs) ACIR value (dB/16RBs) | | | 0 RBs | | | | | | 30 | | | 16 RBs | | | | | | 43 | | | >=[32RBs] FFS | | | | | | [50] FFS | | | ----------------------------- | | | -------------------------------- | | | -------- ----------------------- | | | | | | - For WAN aggressors (16RBs): | | | As per TR 36.942 (two-step): | | | ACLR1/2 = 30/43 dB/BWaggressor | | | | | | For power class 1 UEs (31 dBm | | | max transmit power) | | | | | | - For narrowband D2D aggressors | | | (2RBs): 7 dBs tighter than ACLR | | | model for power class 3 UEs | | | | | | - For WAN aggressors (16RBs): | | | Two-step: ACLR1/2 = 37/50 | | | dB/BWaggressor | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.5.3.2 D2D discovery
Table 5.5.3.2-1: Simulation assumptions: D2D discovery
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Discovery signal bandwidth | 2 PRBs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Discovery resource allocation | 64 UL subframes every 10 sec | | | (can be updated based on | | | RAN1/RAN2 agreements on resource | | | allocation).\ | | | In discovery subframes, FDM | | | between D2D and PUCCH is | | | assumed. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of PUCCH regions | 6 PRBs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Discovery resource selection by | Type 1 discovery procedure is | | UE | assumed with baseline (random) | | | resource selection method by the | | | UE (can be updated based on RAN1 | | | agreements) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of D2D UEs participating | General Scenario | | in discovery per cell | | | | From Table A.2.1.1-1 of TR | | | 36.843 | | | | | | Option 1: 150 UEs / cell | | | | | | Public Safety Scenario | | | | | | For 23 dBm UE max transmit power | | | | | | Option 5: 150 UEs / cell | | | | | | For 31 dBm UE max transmit power | | | | | | Option 5: 32 UEs/cell | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | D2D UE transmit power control | Baseline: No power control (can | | | be updated based on RAN1 | | | agreement) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE max transmit power | For WAN UEs in victim network: | | | 23 dBm | | | | | | For D2D UEs in aggressor | | | network: | | | | | | For general scenario: 23 dBm | | | | | | For public safety scenario: 23 | | | dBm, 31 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.5.3.3 Public safety D2D communications
Table 5.5.3.3-1: Simulation assumptions: Public safety D2D communications
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | D2D signal bandwidth | 2 PRBs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Average number of D2D | Option 1: Average number of | | communication sessions per cell | broadcast transmitters per cell | | | is 3 | | | | | | Option 2: Average number of | | | broadcast transmitters per cell | | | is 6 | | | | | | Both Option 1 and 2 are | | | simulated. | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | a) Option 2 is being simulated | | | to study robustness of the | | | system in case of rare events. | | | | | | b) Only critical problems | | | identified with 12 Tx UEs, if | | | any, will be addressed in | | | rel-12. No optimization for 12 | | | TX UEs will be considered in | | | rel-12. | | | | | | These assumptions only apply to | | | public safety use cases and may | | | need to be revisited in RAN4 for | | | analysis of non-public safety | | | use case scenarios. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | D2D Traffic model | VoIP as defined in Table | | | A.2.1.3-1 in TR 36.843, with a | | | maximum of 4 HARQ transmissions | | | per packet (can be updated based | | | on RAN1 agreement on | | | number/periodicity of | | | transmissions) | | | | | | - Voice activity factor of 75% | | | | | | 5ms maximum periodicity in | | | transmissions (without activity | | | factor) | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | 1) Companies may provide | | | results for full buffer traffic | | | model as specified in TR 36.942 | | | for RAN4 information only. | | | | | | 2) Rel-12 specifications and | | | conclusions for Rel-12 D2D | | | coexistence study shall be based | | | on the VOIP model defined in TR | | | 36.843 in the case of | | | co-existence with adjacent | | | systems. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | D2D resource selection by UE | For Mode 2 when out-of-coverage: | | | Randomly selected per | | | transmission (can be updated | | | based on RAN1 agreements) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | D2D UE transmit power control | Baseline: No power control (can | | | be updated based on RAN1 | | | agreement) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE max transmit power | For WAN UEs in victim network: | | | 23 dBm | | | | | | For D2D UEs in aggressor | | | network: | | | | | | For general scenario: 23 dBm | | | | | | For public safety scenario: | | | 23 dBm, 31 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.5.4 Simulation Results
#### 5.5.4.1 D2D discovery
Table 5.5.4.1-1 Results from Qualcomm (R4-145178)
* * *
Deployment Scenario Layout Power control set UL Throughput Loss\ UL Throughput
Loss\  
(WAN-WAN only; No D2D) (Additional Increase over no-D2D)
                                                                             Avg.                     5% CDF                              Avg.    5% CDF
General Scenario Option 1\ PC set 1 2.22% 5.59% 0.00% 0.00% Indoor/Outdoor
drop
                                                         PC set 2            1.81%                    2.43%                               0.01%   0.02%
                                   Option 3\             PC set 1            4.62%                    6.79%                               0.00%   0.00%
                                   Outdoor drop
                                                         PC set 2            3.62%                    4.98%                               0.05%   0.06%
Public Safety Scenario\ Option 5\ PC set 1 1.91% 6.41% 0.00% 0.00% (23 dBm max
UE transmit power) Indoor/Outdoor drop
                                                         PC set 2            1.90%                    3.10%                               0.01%   0.02%
                                   Option 5\             PC set 1            4.26%                    7.25%                               0.00%   0.01%
                                   Outdoor drop
                                                         PC set 2            3.30%                    4.69%                               0.05%   0.05%
Public Safety Scenario\ Option 5\ PC set 1 1.91% 6.41% 0.00% 0.00% (31 dBm max
UE transmit power) Indoor/Outdoor drop
                                                         PC set 2            1.90%                    3.10%                               0.00%   0.00%
                                   Option 5\             PC set 1            4.26%                    7.25%                               0.00%   0.00%
                                   Outdoor drop
                                                         PC set 2            3.30%                    4.69%                               0.00%   0.00%
* * *
Table 5.5.4.1-2 Results from Ericsson (R4-144863)
* * *
Deployment Scenario Layout Power control set UL Throughput Loss\  
(with D2D)
                                                                             Avg.                  5% CDF
General Scenario Option 1\ PC set 1 2.10% 2.40% Indoor/Outdoor drop
                                                         PC set 2            2.60%                 4.30%
                                   Option 3\             PC set 1            1.50%                 2.50%
                                   Outdoor drop
                                                         PC set 2            1.40%                 1.50%
Public Safety Scenario\ Option 5\ PC set 1 (23 dBm max UE transmit power)
Indoor/Outdoor drop
                                                         PC set 2
                                   Option 5\             PC set 1                                   
                                   Outdoor drop
                                                         PC set 2
Public Safety Scenario\ Option 5\ PC set 1 (31 dBm max UE transmit power)
Indoor/Outdoor drop
                                                         PC set 2
                                   Option 5\             PC set 1            0.60%                 5.50%
                                   Outdoor drop
                                                         PC set 2            0.90%                 7.40%
* * *
Based on these results, it is concluded that the UL throughput degradation due
to in-network discovery on co-existing adjacent channel services will be
within acceptable operating limits for general scenarios with 150 UE\'s per
cell and public safety scenarios with 32 UE\'s per cell transmitting at a
power of 31 dBm.
#### 5.5.4.2 Public safety D2D communications
##### 5.5.4.2.1 VoIP traffic model
Table 5.5.4.2.1-1:
VOIP Results |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | Company Name | Coolpad | Ericsson | Motorola Solutions | Qualcomm | STD | **SPAN** | **AVE** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **Reference** | (R4-145294)1 | (R4-144864)2 | R4-144170 | R4-145179 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
> **Avg # of D2D comm. sessions per cell**
|
> **UE max transmit power**
| **Layout / Drop** | **Power control set** | **UL Throughput Loss** | **UL Throughput Loss** | **UL Throughput Loss** | **UL Throughput Loss** | **UL Throughput Loss** | **UL Throughput Loss** | **UL Throughput Loss** |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  | **Avg.** | **5% CDF** | **Avg.** | **5% CDF** | **Avg.** | **5% CDF** | **Avg.** | **5% CDF** | **Avg.** | **5% CDF** | **Avg.** | **5% CDF** | **Avg.** | **5% CDF**  
> Option 1  
>  (Nb = 3/cell)
|
> 23dBm
| Option 5  
Indoor/Outdoor drop | PC set 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0.30% | 0.84% |  |  | 0.00% | 0.00% | 0.30% | 0.84%  
|  |  | PC set 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0.92% | 1.46% |  |  | 0.00% | 0.00% | 0.92% | 1.46%  
|  | Option 5  
Outdoor drop | PC set 1 | 1.00% | 5.00% |  |  | 0.72% | 0.60% | 0.88% | 1.28% | 0.14% | 2.37% | 0.28% | 4.40% | 0.87% | 2.29%  
|  |  | PC set 2 |  |  |  |  | 3.30% | 4.50% | 2.56% | 3.62% | 0.52% | 0.62% | 0.74% | 0.88% | 2.93% | 4.06%  
|
> 31dBm
| Option 5  
Indoor/Outdoor drop | PC set 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0.34% | 1.04% |  |  | 0.00% | 0.00% | 0.34% | 1.04%  
|  |  | PC set 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0.91% | 1.47% |  |  | 0.00% | 0.00% | 0.91% | 1.47%  
|  | Option 5  
Outdoor drop | PC set 1 | 0.94% | 6.50% | 1.90% | 9.30% |  |  | 1.07% | 1.75% | 0.52% | 3.82% | 0.96% | 7.55% | 1.30% | 5.85%  
|  |  | PC set 2 | **** | **** | 2.10% | 9.70% |  |  | 3.09% | 4.39% | 0.70% | 3.75% | 0.99% | 5.31% | 2.60% | 7.05%  
> Option 2  
>  (Nb = 6/cell)
|
> 23dBm
| Option 5  
Indoor/Outdoor drop | PC set 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0.60% | 1.23% |  |  | 0.00% | 0.00% | 0.60% | 1.23%  
|  |  | PC set 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1.48% | 2.13% |  |  | 0.00% | 0.00% | 1.48% | 2.13%  
|  | Option 5  
Outdoor drop | PC set 1 | 1.25% | 8.50% |  |  | 1.50% | 1.05% | 1.74% | 3.23% | 0.25% | 3.83% | 0.49% | 7.45% | 1.50% | 4.26%  
|  |  | PC set 2 |  |  |  |  | 6.00% | 6.75% | 5.05% | 6.99% | 0.67% | 0.17% | 0.95% | 0.24% | 5.53% | 6.87%  
|
> 31dBm
| Option 5  
Indoor/Outdoor drop | PC set 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0.70% | 1.81% |  |  | 0.00% | 0.00% | 0.70% | 1.81%  
|  |  | PC set 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1.85% | 3.06% |  |  | 0.00% | 0.00% | 1.85% | 3.06%  
|  | Option 5  
Outdoor drop | PC set 1 | 1.25% | 8.75% | 2.50% | 11.40% |  |  | 1.97% | 3.24% | 0.63% | 4.16% | 1.25% | 8.16% | 1.91% | 7.80%  
|  |  | PC set 2 | **** | **** | 2.50% | 10.60% |  |  | 5.73% | 7.83% | 2.28% | 1.96% | 3.23% | 2.77% | 4.12% | 9.22%  
Note 1: Results are read from Figures 1 and 2 in R4-145294 at ACIR or 30dB (for 23 dBm Tx power) and 37 dB (for 31 dBm Tx power). Note 2: Results are at ACIR of 37dB (for 31 dBm Tx power). |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Based on these results, the following conclusions were drawn:
\- Average UL throughput degradation due to out-of-network broadcast
communication for public safety use cases was observed to be within operating
limits of 5% loss. In some simulation results presented, UL throughput for
5%-tile cell-edge UEs was observed to exceed operating limit of 5% loss in
some outdoor scenarios (with 4 HARQ retransmissions and max power
transmissions of 31dBm (Nb=3/cell, 6/cell) and 23dBm (Nb=6/cell)).
\- For out-of-network broadcast communications for public safety use case, the
maximum number of broadcast D2D transmitters should be limited to 6/cell
assuming 4 blind HARQ transmissions per packets and max power transmissions.
##### 5.5.4.2.2 Full buffer traffic model
The results presented in this clause are for information only (as agreed in
the simulation assumptions in clause 5.5.3.3).
Table 5.5.4.2.2-1
* * *
Full Buffer Results **(For Information Only)**
**Company Name** **Coolpad** **Motorola Solutions** **AVE**
**Reference** R4-143334 R4-144170
**Avg # of D2D comm. sessions per cell** **UE max transmit power** **Layout /
Drop** **Power control set** **UL Throughput Loss** **UL Throughput Loss**
**UL Throughput Loss**
                                                                                                                           **Avg.**                 **5% CDF**               **Avg.**                 **5% CDF**   **Avg.**   **5% CDF**
Option 1\ 23 dBm Option 5\ PC set 1 4.80% 4.00% 4.80% 4.00% (Nb = 3/cell)
Outdoor drop
                                                                                                   PC set 2                                                                  22.00%                   30.00%       22.00%     30.00%
                                                   31 dBm                      Option 5\           PC set 1                2.61%                    20.95%                                                         2.61%      20.95%
                                                                               Outdoor drop
                                                                                                   PC set 2                ** **                    ** **
Option 2\ 23 dBm Option 5\ PC set 1 10.00% 7.00% 10.00% 7.00% (Nb = 6/cell)
Outdoor drop
                                                                                                   PC set 2                                                                  40.00%                   45.00%       40.00%     45.00%
                                                   31 dBm                      Option 5\           PC set 1                3.13%                    23.51%                                                         3.13%      23.51%
                                                                               Outdoor drop
                                                                                                   PC set 2                ** **                    ** **
* * *
## 5.6 Impact on cellular traffic
For D2D out-of-coverage communications, the adjacent channel studies performed
by 3GPP assumed up to 6 UEs operating D2D in a single cell coverage area, all
operating at maximum output power, with VoIP traffic model and 75% traffic
activity factor. In the case when higher numbers of UEs are present in the
area, and/or UEs operate with higher activity factor, there may be larger
interference impact on operators\' cellular networks operating in an adjacent
channel (which may impact cellular performance), which may require further
improvement in UE Tx ACLR and/or reduction in UE Tx output power. However
these impacts have not been studied by 3GPP.
## 5.7 Additional scenarios
Void
# 6 D2D transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the transmitter characteristics are specified at the
antenna connector of the UE with a single or multiple transmit antenna(s). For
UE with integral antenna only, a reference antenna with a gain of 0 dBi is
assumed.
RAN4 analysis of the support of a dedicated D2D carrier in combination with a
second separate WAN carrier will be part of FFS D2D work, possibly as part of
a new WID.
## 6.2 Transmit power
### 6.2.1 Void
### 6.2.2 UE maximum output power
UE power classes are used to define the maximum output power for any
transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth. The period of measurement
is at least one sub frame (1 ms).
UE power classes 1 and 3 are currently specified in TS 36.101.
It is proposed that for ProSe transmissions, the maximum output power for any
transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth is as specified in Table
6.2.2-1 in TS 36.101. The period of measurement is at least one sub frame (1
ms).
### 6.2.3 UE maximum output power for modulation / channel bandwidth
Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) is specified as the maximum allowed power
reduction to the maximum output power (for UE power class 1 and 3) due to
higher order modulation and transmit bandwidth configuration (resource
blocks).
It is proposed that to meet the existing UE Tx emission (in-band, out-of-band,
and spurious) requirements, the allowed MPR for D2D physical channels (PSDCH,
PSCCH, PSSCH, and PSBCH) shall be as specified for PUSCH for the corresponding
modulation and transmission BW. The allowed MPR for PSSS shall be as specified
for PUSCH QPSK modulation for the corresponding transmission BW.
**MPR for SSSS**
For SSSS (sidelink secondary synchronization signal), physical layer design is
as follows:
**Sequence:** is same as Rel-8 SSS (M sequence) of length 62. There are a
total of 336 SSSS sequences divided into two sets of 168 sequences each
corresponding to an in-coverage set and an out-of-coverage set.
**Waveform:** SC-FDM without DFT-precoding with reduced power with respect to
PSSS.
**Physical mapping:** SSSS sequences are of length 62 are centered on d.c.
SSSS is transmitted on two symbols per subframe (with SF0 sequence of Rel-8
SSS sequence transmitted on both the symbols) as shown in Figure 6.2.3-1
below. The two symbols with SSSS are adjacent and specified as follows:
\- Normal CP: _l = 4 and 5_ in the second slot
\- Extended CP: _l = 3 and 4_ in the second slot
Figure 6.2.3-1: Subframe with transmission of D2D synchronization signals.
Table 6.2.3-1: PA simulation results on MPR for SSSS
* * *
Company Simulation Results MPR for SSSS (dB) / Channel bandwidth (MHz)  
1.4 MHz 3.0 MHz 5.0 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Qualcomm (R4-150189) ≤ 4 ≤ 4 ≤ 4
≤ 4
Average ≤ [4] ≤ [4] ≤ [4] ≤ [4]
* * *
The above proposal applies when the UE is either in-coverage, or when the UE
is out-of-coverage and is provisioned with preconfigured radio parameters that
are associated with Geographical Area.
### 6.2.4 UE maximum output power with additional requirements
Additional ACLR and spectrum emission requirements can be signalled by the
network to indicate that the UE shall also meet additional requirements in a
specific deployment scenario. To meet these additional requirements,
additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR) is allowed for the output power.
The regional emission requirements signaled by the network need to be met for
both WAN and D2D transmissions.
It is proposed that to meet the existing UE Tx emission (in-band, out-of-band,
and spurious) requirements under the specified NS_x, the allowed A-MPR for D2D
physical channels (PSDCH, PSCCH, PSSCH, and PSBCH) shall be as specified for
PUSCH for the corresponding modulation and transmission BW. The allowed A-MPR
for D2D physical signals PSSS and SSSS shall be as specified for PUSCH QPSK
modulation for the corresponding transmission BW.
The above proposal applies when the UE is either in-coverage, or when the UE
is out-of-coverage and is provisioned with preconfigured radio parameters that
are associated with Geographical Area.
### 6.2.5 Configured transmitted power
The UE is allowed to set its configured maximum output power P~CMAX,_c_ ~ for
serving cell _c_. This clause specifies the lower bound (P~CMAX_L,_c_ ~) and
upper bound (P~CMAX_H,_c_ ~) on the configured output power P~CMAX,_c_ ~, and
the corresponding bounds on the measured configured maximum output power
P~UMAX,_c_ ~.
It is proposed that for the configured maximum output power P~CMAX,_c_ ~ and
power boundary requirement specified in subclause 6.2.5 shall apply to UE
supporting ProSe, where:
\- MPR _~c~_ is specified in subclause 6.2.3
\- A-MPR _~c~_ is specified in subclause 6.2.4
For {width="0.7652777777777777in" height="0.26944444444444443in"}
and$P_{\text{CMAX},\text{PSCCH}}$, P~EMAX,_c_ ~ is the value given by IE _P-
Max_ for serving cell c, defined by TS 36.331 [16], when present. P~EMAX,c~ is
the value given by IE _maxTxPower_ , defined by TS 36.331 [16], when the UE is
not associated with a serving cell on the ProSe carrier .
For$P_{\text{CMAX},\text{PSDCH}}$, P~EMAX,_c_ ~ is the value given by the IE
discMaxTxPower in TS 36.331 [16].
For$P_{\text{CMAX},\text{PSBCH}}$, P~EMAX,_c_ ~ is the value given by the IE
_maxTxPower_ in TS 36.331 [16] when the ProSe UE is not associated with a
serving cell on the ProSe carrier. When the UE is associated with a serving
cell, then P~EMAX,_c_ ~ is the value given by the IE _P-Max_ when PSBCH/SLSS
transmissions is triggered for ProSe Direct communication as specified in TS
36.331 [16], and is the value given by the IE _discMaxTxPower_ in TS 36.331
[16] otherwise.
For$P_{\text{CMAX},\text{SSSS}}$, the value is as calculated for
$P_{\text{CMAX},\text{PSBCH}}$ and applying the MPR for SSSS as specified in
clause 6.2.3.
## 6.3 Output power dynamics
### 6.3.1 (Void)
### 6.3.2 Minimum output power
The minimum controlled output power of the UE is defined as the broadband
transmit power of the UE, i.e. the power in the channel bandwidth for all
transmit bandwidth configurations (resource blocks), when the power is set to
a minimum value.
It is proposed that no changes to the existing requirements for minimum output
power required are required for D2D.
### 6.3.3 Transmit OFF power
Transmit OFF power is defined as the mean power when the transmitter is OFF.
The transmitter is considered to be OFF when the UE is not allowed to transmit
or during periods when the UE is not transmitting a sub-frame. During DTX and
measurements gaps, the UE is not considered to be OFF.
It is proposed that no changes to the existing requirements for transmit OFF
power are required for D2D.
### 6.3.4 ON/OFF time mask
The ON/OFF time mask defines the observation period between Transmit OFF and
ON power and between Transmit ON and OFF power. ON/OFF scenarios include; the
beginning or end of DTX, measurement gap, contiguous, and non‑contiguous
transmission
The OFF power measurement period is defined in a duration of at least one sub-
frame excluding any transient periods. The ON power is defined as the mean
power over one sub-frame excluding any transient period.
For D2D discovery and D2D communications, the general ON/OFF time mask
requirements shall apply. Additionally, specific requirements for D2D physical
layer channels need to be specified. This includes the case when a
transmission gap of 1 symbol is present at the end of the subframe.
Proposal is to include additional requirements for D2D discovery and D2D
communications data carrying physical layer channel as shown in figure
6.3.4-1.
EMBED Word.Picture.8 {width="6.714583333333334in"
height="2.0277777777777777in"}
Figure 6.3.4-1: D2D physical channel time mask with transmission gap\ in the
last symbol of a subframe
**PSSS/SSS Time mask**
The PSSS time mask / SSSS time mask defines the observation period between the
Transmit OFF and ON power and between Transmit ON and OFF power for PSSS/SSSS
transmissions in a subframe when not multiplexed with PSBCH in that subframe.
**Following time masks for PSSS/SSSS were proposed.**
Figure 6.3.4-2: PSSS time mask for normal CP transmission (when not time-
multiplexed with PSBCH)
Figure 6.3.4-3: PSSS time mask for extended CP transmission (when not time-
multiplexed with PSBCH)
EMBED Word.Picture.8 {width="6.715972222222222in"
height="2.0118055555555556in"}
Figure 6.3.4-4: SSSS time mask (when not time-multiplexed with PSBCH)
**PSSS / SSSS / PSBCH time mask**
The PSSS/SSSS/PSBCH time mask defines the observation period between SSSS and
adjacent PSSS/PSBCH symbols in a subframe, with last symbol punctured to
create a guard period.
Following time mask for PSSS/SSSS/PSBCH were proposed.
EMBED Word.Picture.8 {width="6.715972222222222in"
height="2.0118055555555556in"}
Figure 6.3.4-5: PSSS/SSSS/PBCH time mask for normal CP transmission
EMBED Word.Picture.8 {width="6.715972222222222in"
height="2.0118055555555556in"}
Figure 6.3.4-6: PSSS/SSSS/PBCH time mask for extended CP transmission
**PSSCH / SRS time mask**
The PSSCH/SRS time mask defines the observation period between sounding
reference symbol (SRS) and an adjacent PSSCH symbol and subsequent sub-frame.
It was proposed that the PSSCH/SRS time mask shall follow the PUSCH/PUCCH/SRS
time mask as specified in subclause 6.3.4.4 in TS 36.101.
### 6.3.5 Power control
For D2D transmissions, RAN1 has agreed the following on D2D power control.
\- Either \'no power control\' OR \'open-loop power control\' may be employed
for D2D transmissions (as configured by the network).
\- For D2D discovery and communications, parameters for open-loop power
control (Po, alpha) are configured via SIB signaling (e.g., part of discovery
resource pool parameters) or via dedicated RRC reconfiguration message.
\- For D2D communications Mode 1, additionally, 1-bit TPC is agreed as a part
of the new DCI format (DCI format 5) that allocates D2D resources for the UE.
The TPC bit chooses between \'no power control\' OR \'open-loop power
control\'.
Hence only absolute power tolerance requirements apply. Relative and absolute
power tolerance requirements that apply for closed-loop power control (power
up/down TPC commands) are not currently supported for D2D.
#### 6.3.5.1 Absolute power tolerance
Absolute power tolerance is the ability of the UE transmitter to set its
initial output power to a specific value for the first sub-frame at the start
of a contiguous transmission or non-contiguous transmission with a
transmission gap larger than 20 ms. This tolerance includes the channel
estimation error (the absolute RSRP accuracy requirement specified in
subclause 9.1 of TS 36.133 [17]).
It is proposed that existing absolute power tolerance requirements shall apply
to D2D transmissions in each subframes.
#### 6.3.5.2 Relative Power tolerance
The relative power tolerance is the ability of the UE transmitter to set its
output power in a target sub-frame relatively to the power of the most
recently transmitted reference sub-frame if the transmission gap between these
sub-frames is ≤ 20 ms.
This requirement is not applicable for D2D transmission (can be revisited if
closed-loop power control is introduced).
#### 6.3.5.3 Aggregate power control tolerance
Aggregate power control tolerance is the ability of a UE to maintain its power
in non-contiguous transmission within 21 ms in response to 0 dB TPC commands
with respect to the first UE transmission, when the power control parameters
specified in TS 36.213 are constant.
This requirement is not applicable for D2D transmissions (can be revisited if
closed-loop power control is introduced).
## 6.4 Void
## 6.5 Transmit signal quality
### 6.5.1 Frequency error
The current requirements for frequency error of the UE modulated carrier
frequency is specified with respect to the carrier frequency received from the
E-UTRA Node B. The current requirements specify that the UE modulated carrier
frequency shall be accurate to within ±0.1 PPM observed over a period of one
time slot (0.5 ms) compared to the carrier frequency received from the E-UTRA
Node B.
For D2D, UE may synchronize to another D2D capable UE transmitting the D2D
specific synchronization signals (D2DSS) when operating out-of-network
coverage.
The following agreements have been made in RAN1 with regard to D2D
synchronization:
**\- Synchronization source selection:** Before starting to transmit D2DSS, a
UE scans for D2D Synchronization Sources. If a D2D Synchronization Source is
detected, the UE may synchronize its receiver to it before it may transmit
D2DSS. If no D2D Synchronization Source is detected, a UE may nevertheless
transmit D2DSS. D2D Synchronization Sources which are eNodeBs have a higher
priority than D2D Synchronization Sources which are UEs. D2D Synchronization
Sources which are UEs in-coverage have a higher priority than D2D
Synchronization Sources which are UEs out-of-coverage; After giving priority
to D2D Synchronization Sources which are eNodeBs, followed by _UEs in-
coverage,_ selection of D2D Synchronization Source could be based on received
D2DSS quality.
**\- Decision to become a synchronization source:** For out-of-coverage UE, it
may become a D2D Synchronization Source if received signal strength of all
received D2DSS(s) by the UE are below a threshold. For in-coverage UE, it can
become a D2D Synchronization Source at least if it is configured to do so by
the eNB.
It is proposed is to set the modulated carrier frequency error requirements
when another D2D capable UE is chosen as a synchronization source to be the
same as the current requirements where the synchronization source is the
E-UTRA Node B (i.e. within ±0.1 ppm observed over a period of one time slot).
### 6.5.2 Transmit modulation quality
Transmit modulation quality defines the modulation quality for expected in-
channel RF transmissions from the UE. The transmit modulation quality is
specified in terms of:
\- Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) for the allocated resource blocks (RBs)
\- EVM equalizer spectrum flatness derived from the equalizer coefficients
generated by the EVM measurement process
\- Carrier leakage (caused by IQ offset)
\- In-band emissions for the non-allocated RB
#### 6.5.2.1 Error Vector Magnitude
The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the
reference waveform and the measured waveform. This difference is called the
error vector. Before calculating the EVM the measured waveform is corrected by
the sample timing offset and RF frequency offset. Then the IQ origin offset
shall be removed from the measured waveform before calculating the EVM.
The measured waveform is further modified by selecting the absolute phase and
absolute amplitude of the Tx chain. The EVM result is defined after the front-
end IDFT as the square root of the ratio of the mean error vector power to the
mean reference power expressed as a %.
_Rationale for proposal:_
\- D2D physical channels (PSDCH, PSCCH, PSSCH, and PSBCH) use SCFDMA and PUSCH
structure.
\- From UE implementation point of view, the transmitter chain (i.e. PA, band-
specific filtering etc.) will be the same for WAN and D2D transmissions.
\- Similar to SRS and PRACH, EVM measurements for D2D synchronization signals
(PSSS, SSSS) that are one-symbol sequences are not required.
\- When D2D transmissions are shortened due to transmission gap of 1 symbol at
the end of the subframe, the EVM measurement interval is reduced by one
symbol, accordingly.
It is proposed that the EVM requirements for D2D physical channels (PSDCH,
PSCCH, PSSCH, and PSBCH) shall be as specified for PUSCH for the corresponding
modulation and transmission BW. When D2D transmissions are shortened due to
transmission gap of 1 symbol at the end of the subframe, the EVM measurement
interval is reduced by one symbol, accordingly.
This requirement is not applicable for D2D physical synchronization signals
(PSSS, SSSS).
For PSBCH, the number of symbols per subframes is FFS in RAN1 and will likely
be less than 12 (as for PUSCH; due to symbol multiplexing between PSBCH, PSSS,
SSSS, and possibly DMRS). Hence the duration for which the EVM is averaged is
required to be increased to [10 x 12/(#symbols for PSBCH in a subframe)]
subframes. This is similar to 10 subframes averaging used for PUSCH, while 60
(= 10x12/2) subframe averaging used for DMRS.
It is proposed that for PSBCH, the duration over which EVM is averaged shall
be [10 x 12/(#symbols for PSBCH in a subframe)] subframes.
#### 6.5.2.2 Carrier leakage
Carrier leakage (The IQ origin offset) is an additive sinusoid waveform that
has the same frequency as the modulated waveform carrier frequency. The
measurement interval is one slot in the time domain.
It is proposed that no changes to the existing carrier leakage requirements
are required for D2D.
#### 6.5.2.3 In-band emissions
The in-band emission is defined as the average across 12 sub-carrier and as a
function of the RB offset from the edge of the allocated UL transmission
bandwidth. The in-band emission is measured as the ratio of the UE output
power in a non--allocated RB to the UE output power in an allocated RB.
The basic in-band emissions measurement interval is defined over one slot in
the time domain.
_Rationale for proposal:_
\- D2D physical channels (PSDCH, PSCCH, PSSCH, and PSBCH) use SCFDMA and PUSCH
structure.
\- From UE implementation point of view, the transmitter chain (i.e. PA, band-
specific filtering, etc.) will be the same for WAN and D2D transmissions.
\- Similar to PRACH and SRS, IBE requirements for D2D synchronization signals
(PSSS, SSSS) that are one-symbol sequences cannot be tested (that is less than
measurement interval for IBE of one slot).
\- When D2D transmissions are shortened due to transmission gap of 1 symbol at
the end of the subframe, the IBE measurement interval is reduced by one
symbol, accordingly.
\- RAN1 D2D design and simulations have used the existing in-band emission
requirements for the UE.
It is proposed that the IBE requirements for D2D physical channels (PSDCH,
PSCCH, PSSCH, and PSBCH) shall be as specified for PUSCH for the corresponding
modulation and transmission BW. When D2D transmissions are shortened due to
transmission gap of 1 symbol at the end of the subframe, the IBE measurement
interval is reduced by one symbol, accordingly.
This requirement is not applicable for D2D physical signals PSSS and SSSS.
#### 6.5.2.4 EVM equalizer spectrum flatness
The zero-forcing equalizer correction applied in the EVM measurement process
(as described in Annex F of TS 36.101) must meet a spectral flatness
requirement for the EVM measurement to be valid. The EVM equalizer spectrum
flatness is defined in terms of the maximum peak-to-peak ripple of the
equalizer coefficients (dB) across the allocated uplink block. The basic
measurement interval is the same as for EVM.
It is proposed that no changes to the existing EVM equalizer spectrum flatness
requirements are required for D2D.
## 6.6 Output RF spectrum emissions
The output UE transmitter spectrum consists of the three components; the
emission within the occupied bandwidth (channel bandwidth), the Out Of Band
(OOB) emissions and the far out spurious emission domain.
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="2.5729166666666665in"}
Figure 6.6-1: Transmitter RF spectrum
_Rationale for proposal:_
\- UE RF performance will remain unchanged between D2D Tx and WAN Tx.
> \- D2D physical channels use SCFDMA and PUSCH structure.
>
> \- From UE implementation point of view, the transmitter chain (i.e. PA,
> band-specific filtering etc.) will be the same for WAN and D2D
> transmissions.
\- Spectrum emission mask requirements relate to regulatory requirements that
are applicable to any UE transmissions (WAN or D2D). In other words, for D2D
transmissions on ProSe band, the spurious emission requirements of the
corresponding E-UTRA band shall apply.
\- D2D coexistence study was done using the existing UE ACLR requirements.
\- UE coexistence requirements in spurious emissions are applicable to any UE
transmissions (WAN or D2D).
It is proposed that the existing requirements on Output RF spectrum emissions
(clause 6.6 in TS 36.101) shall apply for D2D transmissions.
### 6.6.1 Occupied bandwidth
Occupied bandwidth is defined as the bandwidth containing 99 % of the total
integrated mean power of the transmitted spectrum on the assigned channel.
No change to the existing requirements on occupied bandwidth was identified
for D2D.
### 6.6.2 Out of band emission
The Out of band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the
assigned channel bandwidth resulting from the modulation process and non-
linearity in the transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. This out of
band emission limit is specified in terms of a spectrum emission mask and an
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio.
It is proposed that the existing requirements for out-of-band emissions shall
apply for D2D transmissions.
### 6.6.3 Spurious emissions
Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter
effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emissions, intermodulation
products and frequency conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions
unless otherwise stated. The spurious emission limits are specified in terms
of general requirements inline with Recommendation ITU-R SM.329 [18] and
E-UTRA operating band requirement to address UE co-existence.
To improve measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution
bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the result should be
integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent
noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.
It is proposed that for D2D transmissions on a ProSe band, the spurious
emission requirements of the corresponding E‑UTRA band shall apply.
## 6.7 Transmit intermodulation
The transmit intermodulation performance is a measure of the capability of the
transmitter to inhibit the generation of signals in its non-linear elements
caused by presence of the wanted signal and an interfering signal reaching the
transmitter via the antenna.
_Rationale for the proposal:_
\- From network perspective (i.e. eNodeB protection), the requirement should
be the same for any UE transmission (WAN or D2D).
\- UE RF performance (e.g. IIP2, IIP3, etc.) will remain unchanged between D2D
Tx and WAN Tx.
\- Transmitter chain (i.e. PA, band-specific filtering, etc.) will be the same
for WAN and D2D transmissions.
\- Rx to Tx isolation is the same irrespective of the UE transmissions (WAN of
D2D).
\- Rx to Tx isolation is the same irrespective of the UE transmissions (WAN of
D2D).
It is proposed that for the case of D2D-WAN on single component carrier, no
change to the existing Transmit Intermodulation requirements are required for
D2D.
# 7 D2D receiver characteristics
## 7.1 General
Unless otherwise stated the receiver characteristics are specified at the
antenna connector(s) of the UE. For UE(s) with an integral antenna only, a
reference antenna(s) with a gain of 0 dBi is assumed for each antenna port(s).
UE with an integral antenna(s) may be taken into account by converting these
power levels into field strength requirements, assuming a 0 dBi gain antenna.
For UEs with more than one receiver antenna connector, identical interfering
signals shall be applied to each receiver antenna port if more than one of
these is used (diversity).
For a UE that supports both D2D discovery and D2D communications, the RF
receiver characteristics for D2D communications shall apply for D2D Rx.
### 7.1.1 D2D reception next to UL channel
D2D operates on the UL resource, i.e. UL spectrum for FDD bands and UL
subframes for TDD bands. Hence, as depicted in Figure 7.1.1-1 below, D2D
reception is hence subject to interference from:
a) D2D UEs operating on the same channel due to in-band emissions.
b) LTE UEs operating on adjacent channel due to both Tx emissions from the LTE
UEs and the receiver blocking of the D2D UE (LTE UE is the blocker).
Figure 7.1.1-1: Interference consideration for D2D Rx on UL
Given the decentralized resource allocation schemes (Type 1 discovery and Mode
2 communications), the nature of interference from both (a) and (b) is
uncoordinated. The mitigation schemes designed to deal with (a) will hence
apply directly to mitigation of (b) (also reaffirmed in simulations below).
The viewpoint of the analysis is hence to compare (b) with (a), the following
analysis is presented:
\- Deterministic analysis comparing (a) and (b) with respect to the
desensitization of D2D Rx.
\- Stochastic analysis to investigate the impact of by varying (b) (e.g. by
varying blocking performance of D2D Rx UE) in the presence of (a) as per
existing IBE requirements for the D2D UEs.
**Deterministic analysis**
Following assumptions are made in the calculations below:
\- For handheld devices -10 dBi antenna gain (includes head and hand loss) is
assumed for handheld. For PS device the antenna gain is expected to be higher
due to only hand losses.
\- For a vehicle device, a -1d Bi antenna gain is assumed which includes cable
losses.
\- The interfering UE always has -10 dBi antenna gain (including head + hand
loss).
\- Spectrum Emission Mask (SEM) of -10 dBm/MHz and -13 dBm/MHz are based on
3GPP TS 36.101 specification for the adjacent UL Tx channels/ frequency
offset.
\- IBE of -2.55 dBm/MHz from D2D UEs is based on transmission BW of 2 RBs and
IBE floor of 30 dBc per unallocated RB per TS 36.101 specifications (23 dBm --
10*log10(2) -- 30 = -10 dBm/RB = -2.55 dBm/MHz)
\- Free space path loss between devices is assumed.
Following tables calculate the minimum physical separation between the D2D Rx
UE and the interference (co-channel D2D UE or LTE UE on adjacent channel)
needed in order to cause less or equal to 3 dB of desense.
Table 7.1.1-1: D2D Rx UE (handheld) desense due to (a) co-channel D2D UE,\ or
(b) LTE UE on adjacent channel
{width="6.676388888888889in" height="1.5895833333333333in"}
Table 7.1.1-2: D2D Rx UE (vehicle) desense due to (a) co-channel D2D UE,\ or
(b) LTE UE on adjacent channel
{width="6.676388888888889in" height="1.5958333333333334in"}
From the above results, it can be seen that the desense due to IBE from D2D
UEs operating co-channel (399 m for handheld, 1124 m for vehicle UE for B14)
is much higher than due to interference from LTE UEs operating on adjacent
channels (21 m for handheld, 60 m for vehicle UE for B14).
**Observation:** D2D system-level performance will be dominated by IBE from
D2D UEs operating co-channel as compared to interference from LTE UEs
operating on adjacent channels.
**Stochastic analysis**
Following assumptions are made in the simulations below:
\- Agreed simulation assumption for R4 coexistence study as captured in Sec
5.5.3 of TR 36.877.
\- Layout Option 1 (indoor/outdoor drop; D2D carrier frequency 2 GHz) for D2D
discovery system simulations.
\- Layout Option 5 (with indoor/outdoor drop; D2D carrier frequency 700 MHz)
for D2D communication system simulations.
\- Full-buffer traffic for WAN UEs is assumed to simulate the worst-case
persistence of jammers.
\- Ideal WAN UE transmissions (no out-of-channel emissions) was assumed. Thus
the effect of receiver selectivity was analyzed.
The following simulation results show to impact of interference of nearby LTE
UEs operating on adjacent channel on the D2D Rx performance. The interference
level from nearby LTE UEs is varied by varying the D2D Rx blocking performance
(selectivity to blocker) and can also be reinterpreted as Tx emissions from
LTE UEs.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.45in" | | height="2.9034722222222222in"} | height="2.9027777777777777in"} | | | | | Figure 7.1.1-2: D2D discovery | Figure 7.1.1-3: D2D | | performance (#UE discovered) | communications performance | | w.r.t. receiver selectivity. | (successful VoIP D2D links) | | | w.r.t. receiver selectivity. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
As shown in the figures above, the system-level D2D performance is resilient
to interference from nearby LTE UEs operating on adjacent channels. This is
consistent with the analysis presented in clause 2.1 (deterministic analysis).
Analyzing the simulation results w.r.t. D2D UE receiver selectivity to jammer
requirements, it is seen that \~12 dB (for discovery) and \~18 dB (and
communications) are sufficient to meet greater than 95% of the peak
performance. Comparing with the existing UE requirements for receiver
selectivity to jammer requirements, the following observation is made.
**Observation:** Current receiver selectivity to jammer requirements exceed
those required to ensure the desired D2D system-level performance.
### 7.1.2 D2D Rx requirements for E-UTRA TDD bands
D2D operates on the UL spectrum (of FDD bands) or UL subframes (of TDD bands).
With respect to receiver RF core requirements:
\- For TDD bands: from the viewpoint on UE implementation, there is no change
required to the UE RF architecture to enable D2D on TDD band.
\- For FDD bands: UE is now required to Rx on FDD UL, and receiver
characteristics need to be specified.
For D2D-WAN on single E-UTRA TDD band:
\- For D2D on E-UTRA TDD bands, it is proposed that no new requirements for UE
RF core receiver characteristics (apart for possibly Maximum input level) is
required for D2D. Note that this is aligned with the current specifications
where WAN Rx core requirements are specified w.r.t. one RMC (QPSK, rate 1/3,
fully allocated), and are not repeated for different RMCs (e.g. no RefSens for
16QAM, etc.). For all other RMCs, demodulation performance requirements are
specified.
\- For maximum input level, if the requirements for D2D differ than existing
requirement of -25 dBm, then the additional requirement for maximum input
level for D2D shall be specified w.r.t. D2D RMC.
## 7.2 Diversity characteristics
The requirements in clause 7 assume that the receiver is equipped with two Rx
port as a baseline. These requirements apply to all UE categories unless
stated otherwise. Requirements for 4 ports are FFS. With the exception of
subclause 7.9 all requirements shall be verified by using both (all) antenna
ports simultaneously.
## 7.3 Reference sensitivity power level
The reference sensitivity power level REFSENS is the minimum mean power
applied to both the UE antenna ports at which the throughput shall meet or
exceed the requirements for the specified reference measurement channel.
It was agreed that no relaxation (delta_Rib) to the WAN REFSENS for an E-UTRA
band is allowed due to support of D2D on that band.
**D2D specific reference measurement channel (RMC):** The D2D specific RMC
will differ from the existing DL reference measurement channels since it will
be PUSCH modulated and possibly narrowband (e.g. 2 RBs for D2D discovery use
case).
**In-channel noise (OCNG):**
Since WAN DL uses OFDMA, for partially allocated reference channel, the
current specifications (TS 36.101) include in-channel noise (OCNG) as defined
in clause A.5 of TS 36.101 to emulate DL allocation to virtual UEs. For D2D,
this is no longer applicable since its SCFDMA, and it is proposed to not use
any \'OCNG\' for the partially allocated D2D reference measurement channels
when defining the receiver characteristics. This is consistent with the
current BS specifications where no in-channel noise is added for partially
allocated reference channels.
It is proposed that for the partially allocated D2D reference measurement
channels, if no in-channel noise (\'OCNG\') shall be added (consistent with BS
specifications), RefSens for D2D to receive on FDD UL can be derived as
follows:
* * *
RefSens**~D2D~** = RefSens**~WAN~** \+ + ∆SNR**~D2D-WAN~** \+ ∆IL**~UL-DL~**
\+ 10log10(L~CRB~/NRB) (1) Where  
RefSens**~D2D:~** Reference sensitivity for D2D (Rx on FDD UL) with new
reference measurement channels RefSens**~WAN~** : Reference sensitivity for
WAN (Rx on FDD DL) currently specified in TS 36.101.
∆SNR**~D2D-WAN~** : Difference in decoding SNR requirements between the new
reference measurement channels for D2D and currently specified WAN DL
reference measurement channels. ∆IL**~UL-DL~** : Difference in insertion loss
on the UL receive path compared to the DL received path, and includes the
difference of the UL filter compared to the DL filter of the band-duplexer and
two switches on the UL path. L~CRB~: Transmission BW of the new D2D reference
measurement channel NRB: Transmission BW configuration (since DL reference
measurement channels are fully allocated)
* * *
Note that the factor 10log10(L~CRB~/NRB) in the D2D RefSens will pull down the
RefSens by a large factor, depending on the transmission bandwidth of the D2D
RMC and channel BW. For example, for a 10 MHz system and 2RB D2D RMC, this
factor is \~-14 dB. With respect to susceptibility to spurs in UE\'s
transceiver, D2D RefSens on FDD UL is a tighter requirement that current WAN
RefSens.
Table 7.3-1 below lists some filter vendor data on and two switches on the UL
path of band duplexer for E-UTRA FDD bands.
Table 7.3-1: Filter vendor data on ∆IL~UL-DL~
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | E | Diffe | IL of | Total | ∆IL~U | | | | | -UTRA | rence | addit | Loss | L-DL~ | | | | | band | in IL | ional | (wi | to be | | | | | | be | swi | thout | used | | | | | | tween | tches | s | for | | | | | | UL | on UL | hared | RE | | | | | | and | path | pain) | FSENS | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | fi | | | | | | | | | lters | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Dup | | | | | | | | | lexer | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | | V | V | V | Av | | | | | | endor | endor | endor | erage | | | | | | A | B | C | over | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | endor | | | | | | | | | data | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 2 | -0.5 | -0.2 | -0.4 | -0.4 | 0.6 | 0.2 | [ | | | | | | | | | 0.1] | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 3 | -0.3 | 0.5 | -0.9 | -0.2 | 0.6 | 0.2 | [ | | | | | | | | | 0.1] | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 4 | -0.4 | 0 | -0.3 | -0.2 | 0.6 | 0.2 | [ | | | | | | | | | 0.1] | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 7 | 0.6 | 0.1 | -0.2 | +0.2 | 0.6 | 0.8 | [ | | | | | | | | | 0.4] | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 14 | | -0.2 | 0 | -0.1 | 0.4 | 0.3 | [ | | | | | | | | | 0.1] | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 20 | -0.5 | -0.3 | -0.5 | -0.4 | 0.4 | 0 | [0] | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 26 | 0 | 0.4 | 0 | +0.1 | 0.4 | 0.5 | [ | | | | | | | | | 0.2] | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 28 | (A) | (A) | (A) | (A) | 0.4 | (A) | [ | | | 0\ | 1 | -0.3\ | +0.2 | | 0.6 | 0.3] | | | (B) 0 | | (B) | | | | | | | | (B) | 0.3 | (B) | | (B) | | | | | 0.6 | | 0.3 | | 0.7 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 31 | | | | [0] | 0.4 | 0.4 | [ | | | | | | | | | 0.2] | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+
## 7.4 Maximum input level
This is defined as the maximum mean power received at the UE antenna port, at
which the specified relative throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirements for the specified reference measurement channel.
It is proposed that the maximum input level for D2D Rx shall be [-22]dBm and
shall be specified with respect to D2D RMC (as agreed in clause 9.1).
## 7.5 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to
receive an E-UTRA signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of
an adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre
frequency of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the receive filter
attenuation on the assigned channel frequency to the receive filter
attenuation on the adjacent channel(s).
It is proposed that existing requirements on ACS shall be reused for D2D Rx on
UL spectrum of E-UTRA FDD bands and specify with respect to the D2D RMC.
It is proposed that the modulated interferer shall be QPSK modulated PUSCH
containing data and reference symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is used. The data
content shall be uncorrelated to the wanted signal and modulated according to
clause 5 of TS 36.211.
## 7.6 Blocking characteristics
The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive
a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of the spurious response
or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted input signal causing a
degradation of the performance of the receiver beyond a specified limit. The
blocking performance shall apply at all frequencies except those at which a
spurious response occur.
For D2D Rx on FDD UL, it is proposed to reuse the existing receiver
selectivity requirements (in terms of jammer-to-signal power ratio) using D2D
specific reference measurement channel. This includes ACS, blocking, wideband
intermodulation and spurious response requirements.
For D2D Rx on FDD UL, it is proposed that the modulated interferer (in the
case of ACS, in-band blocking and wideband intermodulation) shall be QPSK
modulated PUSCH containing data and reference symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is
used. The data content shall be uncorrelated to the wanted signal and
modulated according to clause 5 of TS 36.211.
For D2D Discovery Rx on FDD UL, it is proposed that the interferer level for
blocking (in-band, out-of-band, narrowband), wideband intermodulation, and
spurious response are specified by increasing the power in the transmission BW
configuration by 10log10(NRB/L~CRB~), where L~CRB~ = 2 RBs is the transmission
BW of D2D Discovery RMC, as compared to existing specification.
### 7.6.1 In-band blocking
For D2D Rx on UL spectrum of E-UTRA FDD bands, in-band blocking requirements
can be specified as follows. The following notation is used for the ease of
exemplification below:
Table 7.6.1-1: Notation
+-----------+-----------------------------+------------------------+ | Notation | Value (dB) | | +-----------+-----------------------------+------------------------+ | | ProSe Direct Communications | ProSe Direct Discovery | | | | | | | | (L~CRB~ = 2) | +-----------+-----------------------------+------------------------+ | [P_5] | 0 | 10log10(25/L~CRB~) | +-----------+-----------------------------+------------------------+ | [P_10] | 0 | 10log10(50/L~CRB~) | +-----------+-----------------------------+------------------------+ | [P_15] | 0 | 10log10(75/L~CRB~) | +-----------+-----------------------------+------------------------+ | [P_20] | 0 | 10log10(100/L~CRB~) | +-----------+-----------------------------+------------------------+
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes TBD with parameters specified in
Tables 7.6.1-2 and 7.6.1-3.
Table 7.6.1-2: In band blocking parameters for ProSe
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | para | | annel | | | | | | | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | dBm | REFS | | | | | | | in | | ENS~P | | | | | | | Tr | | roSe~ | | | | | | | ansmi | | + | | | | | | | ssion | | ch | | | | | | | Band | | annel | | | | | | | width | | band | | | | | | | Con | | width | | | | | | | figur | | spe | | | | | | | ation | | cific | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | 6+ | 6+ | 7+ | 9+ | | | | | | P~ | P~ | P~ | P~ | | | | | | Inter | Inter | Inter | Inter | | | | | | ferer | ferer | ferer | ferer | | | | | | ,\ of | ,\ of | ,\ of | ,\ of | | | | | | fset~ | fset~ | fset~ | fset~ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **BW~ | MHz | | | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | | Inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | \ ~** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | MHz | | | 7.5+0 | 7.5+0 | 7.5+0 | 7.5+0 | | _F~Io | | | | .0125 | .0025 | .0075 | .0125 | | ffset | | | | | | | | | ,\ ca | | | | | | | | | se\ 1 | | | | | | | | | \ ~__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | MHz | | | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | |_ F~Io | | | | 2.5+0 | 2.5+0 | 2.5+0 | 2.5+0 | | ffset | | | | .0075 | .0125 | .0025 | .0075 | | ,\ ca | | | | | | | | | se\ 2 | | | | | | | | | \ ~** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P~ | dB | | | [P | [P\ | [P\ | [P\ | | Inter | | | | _5] | _10] | _15] | _20] | | ferer | | | | | | | | | ,\ of | | | | | | | | | fset~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Void | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | sym | | | | | | | | | bols. | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | ormal | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | yclic | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | refix | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | un | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 5 of | | | | | | | | | TS 36 | | | | | | | | | .211. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1-3: In-band blocking for ProSe
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | E-UTRA band | Parameter | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | P | dBm | -56 | -44 | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | =-BW/2 -- | ≤-BW/2 -- | | | ~Interferer~ | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | (offset) | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | =+BW/2 + | ≥+BW/2 + | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | ... | F | MHz | (Note 2) | F~DL_low~ | | | ~Interferer~ | | | -- 15 | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL_high~ | | | | | | + 15 | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | certain | | | | | | bands, the | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal may | | | | | | not fall | | | | | | inside the | | | | | | UE receive | | | | | | band, but | | | | | | within the | | | | | | first 15 MHz | | | | | | below or | | | | | | above the UE | | | | | | receive | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | each carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is valid for | | | | | | two | | | | | | frequencies: | | | | | | | | | | | | a. the | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | -BW/2 - | | | | | | F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | | | b. the | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | +BW/2 + | | | | | | F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | | | range values | | | | | | for unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | center | | | | | | frequencies. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: Case | | | | | | 3 and Case 4 | | | | | | only apply | | | | | | to assigned | | | | | | UE channel | | | | | | bandwidth of | | | | | | 5 MHz. | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
For the UE which supports inter band CA configuration in Table 7.3.1-1A in TS
36.101 [2], P~Interferer~ power defined in Table 7.6.1-3 is increased by the
amount given by ΔR~IB~ in Table 7.3.1-1A in TS 36.101 [2].
### 7.6.2 Out-of-band blocking
Out-of-band band blocking is defined for an unwanted CW interfering signal
falling more than 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band. For the first 15
MHz below or above the UE receive band the appropriate in-band blocking or
adjacent channel selectivity in subclause 7.5.1 TS 36.101 [2], and subclause
7.6.1 TS 36.101 [2] shall be applied.
For D2D Rx on UL spectrum of E-UTRA FDD bands, out-of-band blocking
requirements can be specified as follows.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes TBD with parameters specified in
Tables 7.6.2-1 and 7.6.2-2.
For Table 7.6.2-2 in frequency range 1, 2 and 3, up to $\text{max}$exceptions
are allowed for spurious response frequencies in each assigned frequency
channel when measured using a 1MHz step size, where $N_{\text{RB}}$ is the
number of resource blocks in the transmission bandwidth configuration (see
Figure 5.6-1). For these exceptions the requirements of subclause 7.7 Spurious
response are applicable.
For Table 7.6.2-2 in frequency range 4, up to $\text{max}$exceptions are
allowed for spurious response frequencies in each assigned frequency channel
when measured using a 1MHz step size, where $N_{\text{RB}}$ is the number of
resource blocks in the transmission bandwidth configurations (see Figure
5.6-1) and $L_{\text{CRBs}}$ is the number of resource blocks allocated in the
uplink. For these exceptions the requirements of clause 7.7 spurious response
are applicable.
Table 7.6.2-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters for ProSe
* * *
Rx Parameter Units Channel bandwidth  
1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Power in Transmission Bandwidth
Configuration dBm REFSENS~ProSe~ + channel bandwidth specific value below  
6++ P~Interferer,\ offset~ 6++ P~Interferer,\ offset~ 7++ P~Interferer,\
offset~ 9++ P~Interferer,\ offset~ P~Interferer,\ offset~ dB [P_5] [P_10]
[P_15] [P_20] NOTE: Void
* * *
Table 7.6.2-2: Out of band blocking for ProSe
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | P | Units | F | | | | band | arameter | | requency | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | ... | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | | | | -60 | -85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | | UE which | | | | | | | supports | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | Band 11 | | | | | | | and Band | | | | | | | 21 the | | | | | | | out of | | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | | is FFS. | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
### 7.6.3 Narrow band blocking
This requirement is measure of a receiver\'s ability to receive an E-UTRA
signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an unwanted narrow
band CW interferer at a frequency, which is less than the nominal channel
spacing.
For D2D Rx on UL spectrum of E-UTRA FDD bands, narrowband blocking
requirements can be specified as follows.
The relative throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the
reference measurement channels as specified in Annexes TBD with parameters
specified in Table 7.6.3-1
Table 7.6.3-1: Narrow-band blocking for ProSe
+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Para | Unit | Ch | | | | | | | meter | | annel | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P~w~ | dBm | P~ | | | | | | | | | REFSE | | | | | | | | | NS_P | | | | | | | | | roSe~ | | | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | 16+ | 13+ | 14+ | 16+ | | | | | | P~ | P~ | P~ | P~ | | | | | | Inter | Inter | Inter | Inter | | | | | | ferer | ferer | ferer | ferer | | | | | | ,\ of | ,\ of | ,\ of | ,\ of | | | | | | fset~ | fset~ | fset~ | fset~ | +-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P~uw~ | dBm | | | -55 | -55 | -55 | -55 | | (CW) | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P~ | dB | | | [P | [P\ | [P\ | [P\ | | Inter | | | | _5] | _10] | _15] | _20] | | ferer | | | | | | | | | ,\ of | | | | | | | | | fset~ | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | F~uw~ | MHz | | | 2 | 5 | 7 | 10 | | (o | | | | .7075 | .2125 | .7025 | .2075 | | ffset | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | _∆f_ | | | | | | | | | = 15 | | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | F~uw~ | MHz | | | | | | | | (o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | or _* | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |_ ∆f* | | | | | | | | | = 7.5 | | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Void | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
For the UE which supports inter-band CA configuration in Table 7.3.1-1A in TS
36.101 [2], P~UW~ power defined in Table 7.6.3-1 is increased by the amount
given by ΔR~IB~ in Table 7.3.1-1A in TS 36.101 [2].
## 7.7 Spurious response
Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a wanted
signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a given degradation
due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering signal at any other
frequency at which a response is obtained i.e. for which the out of band
blocking limit as specified in subclause 7.6.2 is not met.
For D2D Rx on UL spectrum of E-UTRA FDD bands, spurious response requirements
can be specified as follows.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes TBD with parameters specified in
Tables 7.7-1 and 7.7-2.
Table 7.7-1: Spurious response parameters for ProSe
* * *
Rx parameter Units Channel bandwidth  
1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Power in Transmission Bandwidth
Configuration dBm REFSENS~ProSe~ + channel bandwidth specific value below  
6+ P~Interferer,\ offset~ 6+ P~Interferer,\ offset~ 7+ P~Interferer,\ offset~
9+ P~Interferer,\ offset~ P~Interferer,\ offset~ dB [P_5] [P_10] [P_15] [P_20]
NOTE 1: Void
* * *
Table 7.7-2: Spurious response for ProSe
+---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Level | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | P~Interferer~ | dBm | -44 | | | | | | (CW) | | | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | F~Interferer~ | MHz | Spurious response frequencies | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+
For the UE which supports inter-band CA configuration in Table 7.3.1-1A in TS
36.101 [2], P~interferer~ power defined in Table 7.7-2 is increased by the
amount given by ΔR~IB~ in Table 7.3.1-1A in TS 36.101 [2],.
## 7.8 Intermodulation characteristics
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receiver a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific frequency
relationship to the wanted signal.
### 7.8.1 Wide band intermodulation
The wide band intermodulation requirement is defined following the same
principles using modulated E-UTRA carrier and CW signal as interferer.
For D2D Rx on UL spectrum of E-UTRA FDD bands, wideband intermodulation
requirements can be specified as follows.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes TBD with parameters specified in
Table 7.8.1-1 for the specified wanted signal mean power in the presence of
two interfering signals.
Table 7.8.1-1: Wide band intermodulation for ProSe
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | Para | | annel | | | | | | | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | dBm | REFS | | | | | | | in | | ENS~P | | | | | | | Tr | | roSe~ | | | | | | | ansmi | | + | | | | | | | ssion | | ch | | | | | | | Band | | annel | | | | | | | width | | band | | | | | | | Con | | width | | | | | | | figur | | spe | | | | | | | ation | | cific | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | 6+ | 6+ | 7+ | 9+ | | | | | | P~ | P~ | P~ | P~ | | | | | | Inter | Inter | Inter | Inter | | | | | | ferer | ferer | ferer | ferer | | | | | | ,\ of | ,\ of | ,\ of | ,\ of | | | | | | fset~ | fset~ | fset~ | fset~ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **P~I | dBm | -46 | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | 1~** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **( | | | | | | | | | CW)** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **P~I | dBm | -46 | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | 2~** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **(Mo | | | | | | | | | dulat | | | | | | | | | ed)** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P~ | | | | [P | [P\ | [P\ | [P\ | | Inter | | | | _5] | _10] | _15] | _20] | | ferer | | | | | | | | | ,\ of | | | | | | | | | fset~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | | | | 5 | | | | | _BW~I | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | 2~__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__F~I | MHz | | | -BW/2 | | | | | nterf | | | | -- | | | | | erer\ | | | | 7.5 | | | | | 1~__| | | | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | (Offs | | | | +BW/2 | | | | | et)__| | | | + 7.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__F~I | MHz |__2 | | | | | | | nterf | | *F~I | | | | | | | erer\ | | nterf | | | | | | | 2~__| | erer\ | | | | | | | | | 1~__| | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | (Offs | | | | | | | | | et)_ * | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Void | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | sym | | | | | | | | | bols. | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | ormal | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | yclic | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | refix | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | un | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 5 of | | | | | | | | | TS 36 | | | | | | | | | .211. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 7.9 Spurious emissions
The spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or amplified
in a receiver that appear at the UE antenna connector.
For D2D Rx on UL spectrum of E-UTRA FDD bands, it is proposed to reuse the
existing requirement on spurious emissions as specified for WAN DL.
## 7.10 Receiver image
Receiver image rejection is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to reject the
image signal while receiving a wanted signal. The requirement in TS 36.101 is
currently specified only for intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation, and
specified as the ratio of the wanted received power on a sub-carrier being
measured to the unwanted image power received on the same sub-carrier when
both sub-carriers are received with equal power at the UE antenna connector.
This requirement is not applicable for D2D in Rel-12.
# 8 Other specification impacts (if applicable)
Void
# 9 Performance requirements
## 9.1 Reference measurement channels for D2D RF receiver characteristics
Following two aspects that are relevant in defining and simulating the D2D
RMCs:
\- For D2D UE Tx, the last symbol for D2D physical channels (including PSDCH
and PSSCH) is punctured.
\- For D2D UE Rx, the first few symbols (1 for QPSK, 2-3 for higher order
modulation) per subframe are required for AGC and cannot be used for
demodulation.
For ProSe discovery, RMC specified in Table 9.1-1 shall be used for all Rx
characteristics (when applicable).
Table 9.1-1: D2D discovery reference measurement channel for receiver
requirements
+-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Para | Unit | Value | | | | | | | meter | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ch | MHz | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Allo | | | | [2] | [2] | [2] | [2] | | cated | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | | | | 12 | \ | \ | \ | | ubcar | | | | | [12] | [12] | [12] | | riers | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Allo | | | | [1] | [1] | [1] | [1] | | cated | | | | | | | | | subf | | | | | | | | | rames | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | Disc | | | | | | | | | overy | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | eriod | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DFT | | | | \ | \ | \ | \ | | -OFDM | | | | [11] | [11] | [11] | [11] | | Sy | | | | | | | | | mbols | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | | | frame | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | note) | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Modul | | | | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Tran | | | | [ | [ | [ | [ | | sport | | | | 224] | 224] | 224] | 224] | | Block | | | | | | | | | Size | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Tran | Bits | | | \ | \ | \ | \ | | sport | | | | [24] | [24] | [24] | [24] | | block | | | | | | | | | CRC | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ma | | | | [1] | [1] | [1] | [1] | | ximum | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | umber | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | HARQ | | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | | nsmis | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B | Bits | | | [ | [ | [ | [ | | inary | | | | 528] | 528] | 528] | 528] | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | Bits | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | note) | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Max. | kbps | | | [ | [ | [ | [ | | Throu | | | | TBD] | TBD] | TBD] | TBD] | | ghput | | | | | | | | | ave | | | | | | | | | raged | | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | Disc | | | | | | | | | overy | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | eriod | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | UE | | | | [≥ | [≥ | [≥ | [≥ | | Cat | | | | 1] | 1] | 1] | 1] | | egory | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Note: | | | | | | | | | PSDCH | | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | | nsmis | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | ra | | | | | | | | | te-ma | | | | | | | | | tched | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [12] | | | | | | | | | DFT | | | | | | | | | -OFDM | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | mbols | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | subf | | | | | | | | | rame, | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | last | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ymbol | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | punc | | | | | | | | | tured | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | | 36 | | | | | | | | | .211. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Edit | | | | | | | | | or\'s | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | | Throu | | | | | | | | | ghput | | | | | | | | | (in | | | | | | | | | kbps) | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | epend | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | disc | | | | | | | | | overy | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | eriod | | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | | igura | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Edit | | | | | | | | | or\'s | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | | Fu | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | tails | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ifica | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | disc | | | | | | | | | overy | | | | | | | | | pool | | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | | igura | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | tc.). | | | | | | | | | How | | | | | | | | | ever, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | tails | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | suffi | | | | | | | | | cient | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | | ulate | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | RMCs. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Edit | | | | | | | | | or\'s | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | | TBS | | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | rease | | | | | | | | | by 1 | | | | | | | | | byte | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | addit | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | bits | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | disc | | | | | | | | | overy | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | | ested | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | SA3 | | | | | | | | | [S3 | | | | | | | | | -1423 | | | | | | | | | 55]. | | | | | | | | +-------+------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+
For ProSe communications on FDD bands, RMC specified in Table 9.1-2 shall be
used for all D2D Rx characteristics, expect for maximum input power
Table 9.1-2: D2D communications reference measurement channel for receiver
requirements (FDD)
+---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Pa | Unit | Value | | | | | | | rameter | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Channel | MHz | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | ba | | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Al | | | | [25] | [50] | | | | located | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Subc | | | | 12 | 12 | | | | arriers | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Packets | | | | [TBD] | [TBD] | | | | per SA | | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Mod | | | | \ | \ | | | | ulation | | | | [QPSK] | [QPSK] | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Tr | | | | \ | \ | | | | ansport | | | | [2216] | [4392] | | | | Block | | | | | | | | | Size | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Tr | Bits | | | [24] | [24] | | | | ansport | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | CRC | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Maximum | | | | [4] | [4] | | | | number | | | | | | | | | of HARQ | | | | | | | | | transm | | | | | | | | | issions | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Binary | Bits | | | \ | [ | | | | Channel | | | | [7200] | 14400] | | | | Bits | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Max. | kbps | | | [TBD] | [TBD] | | | | Thr | | | | | | | | | oughput | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | veraged | | | | | | | | | over 1 | | | | | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | UE | | | | [≥ 1] | [≥ 1] | | | | C | | | | | | | | | ategory | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Note: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | PSSCH | | | | | | | | | transm | | | | | | | | | ission, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | last | | | | | | | | | symbol | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | pu | | | | | | | | | nctured | | | | | | | | | as per | | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | | 36.211. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ed | | | | | | | | | itor\'s | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | | Thr | | | | | | | | | oughput | | | | | | | | | (in | | | | | | | | | kbps) | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | depend | | | | | | | | | on SA | | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | | configu | | | | | | | | | ration. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ed | | | | | | | | | itor\'s | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | | Further | | | | | | | | | details | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | specifi | | | | | | | | | cations | | | | | | | | | will be | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equired | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | SA and | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | pool | | | | | | | | | configu | | | | | | | | | ration, | | | | | | | | | etc.). | | | | | | | | | H | | | | | | | | | owever, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | | details | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | suf | | | | | | | | | ficient | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | imulate | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | RMCs. | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+
For ProSe communications on FDD bands, RMC specified in Table 9.1-3 and Table
9.1-4 shall be used for maximum input power, depending on UE category. Note
that RMCs below assume the TBS size is supported by D2D UE, and is pending
final agreement in RAN1 on the maximum aggregate data rate for D2D (RAN1
agreement, \"The maximum aggregate data rate that a D2D UE is expected to
receive is limited to [X]\", RAN1#78bis).
Table 9.1-3: D2D communications reference measurement channel\ for maximum
input power for UE categories 2-8 (FDD)
+---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Pa | Unit | Value | | | | | | | rameter | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Channel | MHz | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | ba | | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Al | | | | [25] | [50] | | | | located | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Subc | | | | 12 | 12 | | | | arriers | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Packets | | | | [TBD] | [TBD] | | | | per SA | | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Mod | | | | [ | [ | | | | ulation | | | | 16QAM] | 16QAM] | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Tr | | | | \ | [ | | | | ansport | | | | [9912] | 18336] | | | | Block | | | | | | | | | Size | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Tr | Bits | | | [24] | [24] | | | | ansport | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | CRC | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Maximum | | | | [4] | [4] | | | | number | | | | | | | | | of HARQ | | | | | | | | | transm | | | | | | | | | issions | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Binary | Bits | | | [ | [ | | | | Channel | | | | 14400] | 28800] | | | | Bits | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Max. | kbps | | | | | | | | Thr | | | | | | | | | oughput | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | veraged | | | | | | | | | over 1 | | | | | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | PSSCH | | | | | | | | | transm | | | | | | | | | ission, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | last | | | | | | | | | symbol | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | pu | | | | | | | | | nctured | | | | | | | | | as per | | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | | 36.211. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | | | If more | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | Code | | | | | | | | | Block | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | resent, | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | add | | | | | | | | | itional | | | | | | | | | CRC | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | equence | | | | | | | | | of L = | | | | | | | | | 24 Bits | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ttached | | | | | | | | | to each | | | | | | | | | Code | | | | | | | | | Block | | | | | | | | | (ot | | | | | | | | | herwise | | | | | | | | | L = 0 | | | | | | | | | Bit). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ed | | | | | | | | | itor\'s | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | | Thr | | | | | | | | | oughput | | | | | | | | | (in | | | | | | | | | kbps) | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | depend | | | | | | | | | on SA | | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | | configu | | | | | | | | | ration. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ed | | | | | | | | | itor\'s | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | | Further | | | | | | | | | details | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | specifi | | | | | | | | | cations | | | | | | | | | will be | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equired | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | SA and | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | pool | | | | | | | | | configu | | | | | | | | | ration, | | | | | | | | | etc.). | | | | | | | | | H | | | | | | | | | owever, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | | details | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | suf | | | | | | | | | ficient | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | imulate | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | RMCs. | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+
Table 9.1-4: D2D communications reference measurement channel\ for maximum
input power for UE category 1 (FDD)
+---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Pa | Unit | Value | | | | | | | rameter | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Channel | MHz | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | ba | | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Al | | | | [25] | [24] | | | | located | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Subc | | | | 12 | 12 | | | | arriers | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Packets | | | | [TBD] | [TBD] | | | | per SA | | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Mod | | | | [ | [ | | | | ulation | | | | 16QAM] | 16QAM] | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Tr | | | | \ | [ | | | | ansport | | | | [9912] | 10296] | | | | Block | | | | | | | | | Size | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Tr | Bits | | | [24] | [24] | | | | ansport | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | CRC | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Maximum | | | | [4] | [4] | | | | number | | | | | | | | | of HARQ | | | | | | | | | transm | | | | | | | | | issions | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Binary | Bits | | | [ | [ | | | | Channel | | | | 14400] | 13824] | | | | Bits | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Max. | kbps | | | [TBD] | [TBD] | | | | Thr | | | | | | | | | oughput | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | veraged | | | | | | | | | over 1 | | | | | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | PSSCH | | | | | | | | | transm | | | | | | | | | ission, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | last | | | | | | | | | symbol | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | pu | | | | | | | | | nctured | | | | | | | | | as per | | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | | 36.211. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | | | If more | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | Code | | | | | | | | | Block | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | resent, | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | add | | | | | | | | | itional | | | | | | | | | CRC | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | equence | | | | | | | | | of L = | | | | | | | | | 24 Bits | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ttached | | | | | | | | | to each | | | | | | | | | Code | | | | | | | | | Block | | | | | | | | | (ot | | | | | | | | | herwise | | | | | | | | | L = 0 | | | | | | | | | Bit). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ed | | | | | | | | | itor\'s | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | | Thr | | | | | | | | | oughput | | | | | | | | | (in | | | | | | | | | kbps) | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | depend | | | | | | | | | on SA | | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | | configu | | | | | | | | | ration. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ed | | | | | | | | | itor\'s | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | | Further | | | | | | | | | details | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | specifi | | | | | | | | | cations | | | | | | | | | will be | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equired | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | SA and | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | pool | | | | | | | | | configu | | | | | | | | | ration, | | | | | | | | | etc.). | | | | | | | | | H | | | | | | | | | owever, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | | details | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | suf | | | | | | | | | ficient | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | imulate | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | RMCs. | | | | | | | | +---------+------+-------+---+---------+---------+----+----+
#