# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Machine-Type Communication (MTC) is an important revenue stream for operators
and has a huge potential from the operator perspective. There are several
industry fora working on an efficient M2M system with some industry members
developing a new access technology dedicated for MTC. However, it is more
efficient for operators to be able to serve MTC UE using already deployed
radio access technology. Therefore it is important for operators to understand
whether LTE could be a competitive radio access technology for efficient
support of MTC. It is envisaged that MTC UE\'s will be deployed in huge
numbers, large enough to create an eco-system on its own. Lowering the cost of
MTC UE\'s is an important enabler for implementation of the concept of
\"internet of things\". MTC UE\'s used for many applications will require low
operational power consumption and are expected to communicate with infrequent
small burst transmissions.
In addition, there is a substantial market for the M2M use cases of devices
deployed deep inside buildings which would require coverage enhancement in
comparison to the defined LTE cell coverage footprint.
This TR captures various features and their modifications to reduce cost and
improve coverage along with various hardware simplifications that will enable
production of low-cost MTC UE\'s. EGPRS multi-slot class 2 is assumed as a
benchmark for cost comparison and minimum data rate capability.
# 1 Scope
As LTE deployments evolve, operators would like to reduce the cost of overall
network maintenance by minimising the number of RATs. Machine-Type
Communications (MTC) is a market that is likely to continue expanding in the
future. Many MTC UE\'s are targeting low-end (low average revenue per user,
low data rate) applications that can be handled adequately by GSM/GPRS. Owing
to the low-cost of these devices and good coverage of GSM/GPRS, there is very
little motivation for MTC UE suppliers to use modules supporting the LTE radio
interface. As more and more MTC UE\'s are deployed in the field, this
naturally increases the reliance on GSM/GPRS networks. This will cost
operators not only in terms of maintaining multiple RATs, but it will also
prevent operators from reaping the maximum benefit out of their spectrum
(given the non-optimal spectrum efficiency of GSM/GPRS). Given the likely high
number of MTC UE\'s, the overall resource they will need for service provision
may be correspondingly significant, and inefficiently assigned.
Therefore, it is necessary to find a solution to ensure that there is a clear
business benefit to MTC UE vendors and operators for migrating low-end MTC
UE\'s from GSM/GPRS to LTE networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities; Release 10\".
[3] 3GPP TS 45.912: \"Feasibility study for GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
(GERAN)\".
[4] R1-120008: \"Email Discussion Summary on Coverage Issues Identification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures; Release 10\".
[6] R1-080614: \"Half Duplex FDD Operation in LTE\", RAN1#51bis, Seville,
Spain, January 2008.
[7] RP-111776: \"Enhanced downlink control channel(s) for LTE\".
[8] R1-122527: \"Analysis and evaluation of reduction of supported downlink
transmission modes\", RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May 2012.
[9] R1-122055: \"Discussion on reduction of supported downlink transmission
modes for low-cost MTC LTE UEs\", RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th
May 2012.
[10] R1-122117: \"Evaluation/analysis on reduction of supported downlink
Transmission Modes and Text Proposal\", RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic,
21st-25th May 2012.
[11] R1-122431: \"Analysis of reduction of supported downlink transmission
modes for low-cost MTC\", RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May
2012.
[12] R1-122638: \"Discussion on reduction of supported downlink transmission
modes for low-cost MTC UEs\", RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May
2012.
[13] R1-122169: \"Analysis of transmission mode support for MTC devices\",
RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May 2012.
[14] R1-122263: \"Reduction of downlink transmission modes for MTC devices\",
RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May 2012.
[15] R1-122280: \"Analysis of Spatial Multiplexing Processing Reduction\",
RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May 2012.
[16] R1-123072: \"E-mail discussion summary for TP to clause 7 of 3GPP TR
36.888\", RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May 2012.
[17] RP-121441: \"Updated SID on: Study on Provision of low-cost MTC UEs based
on LTE\"
[18] 3GPP TR 36.824: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
LTE coverage enhancements\".
[19] 2011 Census: Population and household estimates for England and Wales
http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/rel/census/2011-census/population-and-household-
estimates-for-england-and-wales/rft-h01.xls
[20] TOKYO STATISTICAL YEARBOOK http://www.toukei.metro.tokyo.jp/tnenkan/tn-
eindex.htm
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
For the purposes of the present document, the term \"Category 1 LTE UE\" is
also referred to as \"normal LTE UE\".
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
MTC UE/Device: an UE equipped for Machine Type Communication
NOTE: In the scope of this TR , an MTC UE communicates with an Access Network
capable of multiple cells with different characteristics (e.g., e-NodeBs, Home
e-NodeBs, e-UTRA Relays).
# 4 Objectives of study
Solutions using, or evolved from, LTE RAN specifications up to and including
Rel-10 shall be investigated and evaluated to clearly understand the
feasibility of creating a type of terminal that would permit the cost of
terminals tailored for the low-end of the MTC market to be competitive with
that of GSM/GPRS terminals targeting the same low-end MTC market with improved
coverage.
The study shall evaluate at least the following aspects:
  * Benefit of developing methods for reducing RF component cost in the devices, including (for example) simplifications and reductions in support of bands/RATs/RF chains/antenna ports, transmission power, maximum channel bandwidth less than the maximum specified for respective frequency band, and support of half-duplex FDD mode.
  * Benefit of developing methods for reducing the processing in the device, additionally considering baseband-RF conversion aspects, significantly lower peak data rate support, no support of spatial processing mode in uplink/downlink, and reduced radio protocol processing.
  * A method to guarantee that any features recommended as part of this study to allow cost reduction, but which also bring a reduction in LTE system performance, shall be restricted to devices which only operate as MTC devices not requiring high data rates and/or low latency, after further careful study.
  * Impact to the system spectral efficiency from techniques that allow coverage improvement techniques up to the target improvement figure - considering that a relatively small proportion of traffic requires the coverage improvement and the traffic can be scheduled at quiet times.
  * In identifying solutions, any other related work agreed for Rel-12 should be taken into account.
As part of the analysis of the different solutions, any impacts on backwards
compatibility with existing LTE network shall be evaluated and justified, as
well as impact on the operation of legacy LTE Release 8-10 UEs and Release
8-10 LTE system performance.
NOTE: This study assesses, from a 3GPP standpoint, the technical feasibility
of low-cost LTE devices for MTC.\ Given that factors outside 3GPP
responsibility influence the cost of a modem/device, this study item (and the
text above) cannot guarantee, or be used as a guarantee, that such
modem/device will be low-cost in the market.
# 5 Requirements and methodology
## 5.1 Requirements
Solutions studied for provisioning of low-cost MTC UE based on LTE should
support below as a minimum requirement.
  * Support data rates equivalent to that supported by [R\'99 E-GPRS] with an EGPRS multi-slot class 2 device (2 downlink timeslots (118.4 Kbps), 1 uplink timeslots (59.2 Kbps), and a maximum of 3 active timeslots) as a minimum. This does not preclude the support of higher data rates provided the cost targets are not compromised.
  * Enable significantly improved average spectrum efficiency for low data rate MTC traffic compared to that achieved for R99 GSM/EGPRS terminals in GSM/EGPRS networks today, and ideally comparable with that of LTE. Optimisations for low-cost MTC UEs should minimise impact on the spectrum efficiency achievable for other terminals (normal LTE terminals) in LTE Release 8-10 networks.
  * Ensure that service coverage footprint of low-cost MTC UE based on LTE is not any worse than the service coverage footprint of GSM/EGPRS MTC device (in an GSM/EGPRS network) or that of \"normal LTE UEs\" (in an LTE network) assuming on the same spectrum band.
  * Coverage improvement of 20dB should be targeted for low-cost MTC UEs in comparison to defined LTE cell coverage footprint as engineered for \"normal LTE UEs.- Ensure that overall power consumption is no worse than existing GSM/GPRS based MTC devices.
  * Ensure good radio frequency coexistence with legacy (Release 8-10) LTE radio interface and networks.
  * Target operation of low-cost MTC UEs and legacy LTE UEs on the same carrier.
  * Re-use the existing LTE/SAE network architecture.
  * Solutions should be specified in terms of changes to the Rel 10 version of the specifications
  * The study item shall consider optimizations for both FDD and TDD mode.
  * The initial phase of the study shall focus on solutions that do not necessarily require changes to the LTE base station hardware.
  * Low-cost MTC device support limited mobility (i.e. no support of seamless handover; ability to operate in networks in different countries) and are low power consumption modules
## 5.2 Evaluation methodology
Based on the possibility that candidate solutions recommended as part of this
study to allow cost reduction and coverage improvement may also bring a
reduction in LTE system performance, methodology for both performance
evaluation cost and coverage analysis is needed.
In order to achieve objective comparison of diverse analysis results for
performance cost and coverage improvements from different companies, it is
important to align the basic assumption for a reference LTE modem. The
following is assumed:
  * System bandwidth is 20MHz
  * Category-1 LTE UE
  * Single RAT
  * Single band
  * TDD/Full duplex FDD
  * Direct DL and UL wide-area-network access from MTC devices to eNB
### 5.2.1 Methodology for performance evaluation
An evaluation methodology is provided for performance analysis of power
consumption, coverage, and cell spectral efficiency.
#### 5.2.1.1 Power consumption analysis
Power consumption is a function of many factors, such as active transmission
time, transmit power level and PA efficiency, sleep mode duration, active
reception time, receiver processing time/complexity. Some factors, like sleep
mode duration, may depend on network configuration and traffic/signalling
patterns, and some other factors, such as PA efficiency and receiver
processing may be implementation specific.
Power consumption of the RF module can be estimated by:
  * Reception time
  * Transmission time and total UE transmit power during the transmitting time
  * DC power consumption of Power Amplifier / PA efficiency
Power estimation for most baseband integrated circuits is usually implemented
by commercial power estimation tools. In order to obtain the baseband power
consumption conveniently, it is recommended to use the following method
instead:
  * Baseband complexity evaluation or comparison
#### 5.2.1.2 Coverage analysis
A link budget is a reasonable method for coverage analysis. The following link
budget tables capture the reference Maximum Coupling Loss (MCL) that can be
used when comparing with that of a low-cost LTE MTC device, for example, to
compare the MCL of MTC devices to the reference MCL in GSM/GPRS when assessing
if service coverage provided to low-cost MTC UE is not worse than GSM/GPRS, or
to compare the MCL of MTC devices to the reference MCL in LTE when assessing
if the same defined LTE cell coverage footprint as engineered for \"normal LTE
UEs\" can be ensured.
The values of some of the parameters of the link budget need to be common to
all candidate solutions, and any solution-specific parameter values have to be
determined by analysis or by simulation.
The link budget for GSM/EGPRS as benchmark should be assessed. Required SINR
is from [3] , 5dB Rx processing gain is considered, and 4 dB back off is
assumed when 8PSK is involved. The Maximum Coupling Loss (MCL) calculations
for GSM/EGPRS are presented in Table 5.2.1.2-1. The minimal MCL in Table
5.2.1.2-1 is minimal coverage requirement for low-cost UE.
Table 5.2.1.2-1: **MCL calculation** for GSM/EGPRS
+---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | Physical channel name | UL | DL | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **Data rate(kbps)** | 20 (1 TSL) | 20 (2 TSL) | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **Transmitter** | | | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **(1) Tx power (dBm)** | 29 | 43 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **Receiver** | | | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | (2) Thermal noise density (dBm/Hz) | -174 | -174 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | (3) Receiver noise figure (dB) | 5 | 9 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | (4) Interference margin (dB) | 0 | 0 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | (5) Occupied channel bandwidth (Hz) | 180000 | 180000 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | (6) Effective noise power | -116.4 | -112.4 | | | | | | = (2) + (3) + (4) + 10 log((5)) (dBm) | | | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | (7) Required SINR (dB) | 11 | 7 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **(8) Receiver sensitivity** | **-105.4** | -105.4 | | | | | | **= (6) + (7) (dBm)** | | | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **(9) Rx processing gain** | 5 | 0 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **(10) MCL** | 139.4 | 148.4 | | | | | | = (1) −(8) + (9) (dB) | | | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+
The MCL calculations for normal LTE FDD are given in Table 5.2.1.2-2. PHICH is
neglected and the function of PHICH can be implemented by PDCCH in case of
cell edge.
Table 5.2.1.2-2: **MCL calculation** for normal LTE FDD (see Note 1)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Phy | PUCCH | PRACH | PUSCH | PDSCH | PBCH | SCH | PDCCH | | sical | | | | | | | | | ch | (1a) | | | | | | (1A) | | annel | | | | | | | | | name | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | | | 20 | 20 | | | | | _Data | | | | | | | | | ra | | | | | | | | | te(kb | | | | | | | | | ps)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__Tra | | | | | | | | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | ter_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__Max | 23 | 23 | 23 | 46 | 46 | 46 | 46 | | Tx | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | (d | | | | | | | | | Bm)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__(1) | 23.0 | 23.0 | 23.0 | 32.0 | 36.8 | 36.8 | 42.8 | | A | | | | | | | | | ctual | | | | | | | | | Tx | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | (d | | | | | | | | | Bm)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | | | | | | | | Recei | | | | | | | | | ver_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (2) | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | | Th | | | | | | | | | ermal | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | nsity | | | | | | | | | (dB | | | | | | | | | m/Hz) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (3) | 5 | 5 | 5 | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | | Rec | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (4) | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | In | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | argin | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (5) | 1 | 10 | 3 | 3 | 10 | 10 | 43 | | Occ | 80000 | 80000 | 60000 | 60000 | 80000 | 80000 | 20000 | | upied | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (Hz) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (6) | - | - | - | - | - | - | -98.6 | | Effe | 116.4 | 108.7 | 113.4 | 109.4 | 104.7 | 104.7 | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (2) | | | | | | | | | + (3) | | | | | | | | | + (4) | | | | | | | | | + 10 | | | | | | | | | log | | | | | | | | | ((5)) | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (7) | -7.8 | -10.0 | -4.3 | -4.0 | -7.5 | -7.8 | -4.7 | | Req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | SINR | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | -1 | - | - | - | - | - | -1 | | (8)__| 24.24 | 118.7 | 117.7 | 113.4 | 112.2 | 112.5 | 03.34 | |__Rec | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | sen | | | | | | | | | sitiv | | | | | | | | | ity_ _| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (6) | | | | | | | | | + (7) | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__(9) | 147.2 | 141.7 | 140.7 | 145.4 | 149.0 | 149.3 | 146.1 | | MCL_ * | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (1) | | | | | | | | | − (8) | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | eNB | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | 2 Tx | | | | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | | | Rx in | | | | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | | | | sys | | | | | | | | | tems. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
The MCL calculations for normal LTE TDD are summarized in Table 5.2.1.2-3.
Table 5.2.1.2-3: MCL calculation for normal LTE TDD (see Note 2)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Phy | PUCCH | PRACH | PUSCH | PDSCH | PBCH | SCH | PDCCH | | sical | | | | | | | | | ch | (1a) | | | | | | (1A) | | annel | | | | | | | | | name | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | | | 20 | 20 | | | | | _Data | | | | | | | | | ra | | | | | | | | | te(kb | | | | | | | | | ps)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__Tra | | | | | | | | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | ter_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__(0) | 23 | 23 | 23 | 49 | 49 | 49 | 49 | | Max | | | | | | | | | Tx | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | (d | | | | | | | | | Bm)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__(1) | 23.0 | 23.0 | 23.0 | 32.0 | 36.8 | 36.8 | 42.8 | | A | | | | | | | | | ctual | | | | | | | | | Tx | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | (d | | | | | | | | | Bm)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | | | | | | | | Recei | | | | | | | | | ver_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (2) | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | | Th | | | | | | | | | ermal | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | nsity | | | | | | | | | (dB | | | | | | | | | m/Hz) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (3) | 5 | 5 | 5 | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | | Rec | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (4) | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | In | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | argin | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (5) | 1 | 10 | 3 | 3 | 10 | 10 | 43 | | Occ | 80000 | 80000 | 60000 | 60000 | 80000 | 80000 | 20000 | | upied | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (Hz) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (6) | - | - | - | - | - | - | -98.6 | | Effe | 116.4 | 108.7 | 113.4 | 109.4 | 104.7 | 104.7 | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (2) | | | | | | | | | + (3) | | | | | | | | | + (4) | | | | | | | | | + 10 | | | | | | | | | log | | | | | | | | | ((5)) | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (7) | -10 | -15 | -11.0 | -6.7 | -7.5 | -7.8 | -5.5 | | Req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | SINR | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | | (8)__| 126.4 | 123.7 | 124.4 | 116.1 | 112.2 | 112.5 | 104.1 | |__Rec | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | sen | | | | | | | | | sitiv | | | | | | | | | ity_ _| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (6) | | | | | | | | | + (7) | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__(9) | 149.4 | 146.7 | 147.4 | 148.1 | 149.0 | 149.3 | 146.9 | | MCL_ * | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (1) | | | | | | | | | − (8) | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | eNB | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | 8 Tx | | | | | | | | | and 8 | | | | | | | | | Rx in | | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | stems | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
.
The transmission mode for LTE FDD and TDD downlink channel is Transmission
Mode 2. UE is assumed with 1 Tx and 2 Rx in both FDD and TDD systems. 1 OFDM
symbol is used for PDCCH. The required SINRs of PDSCH and PUSCH for both FDD
and TDD systems are obtained by simulation. The required SINRs of control
channels for FDD in Table 5.2.1.2-2 are averages from all the sourcing
companies in [4] excluding source 10. The required SINRs of control channels
for TDD in Table 5.2.1.2-3 are from source 10 in [4]. For remaining
parameters, refer to [4].
#### 5.2.1.3 Cell spectral efficiency
Two approaches can be used to compute the average spectral efficiency:
(1) Cell spectral efficiency is determined through system simulation.
(2) Relative spectral efficiency reduction to Rel -8-10 LTE or increase to R99
GSM/EGPRS is determined analytically.
The reference spectral efficiency of GSM/EGPRS is 0.3bit/s/Hz/site for
downlink and 0.1bit/s/Hz/site for uplink.
The reference spectral efficiency of LTE FDD is 1.5 bit/s/Hz/site for downlink
and 1.2 bit/s/Hz/site for uplink and the reference spectral efficiency of LTE
TDD is 2.0 bit/s/Hz/site for downlink and 1.7 bit/s/Hz/site for uplink, based
on the system simulation under the following assumptions:
1) Simulation scenario is 3GPP case1.
2) Full duplex FDD @ 900MHz. Half duplex TDD @ 2.6GHz
3) 10MHz system bandwidth.
4) UEs are uniformly distributed with average 10 UEs per sector.
5) Traffic model is full buffer.
6) Channel model is SCM.
7) Scheduling algorithm is PF (Proportional Fairness).
8) FDD DL: 2 Tx, 2 Rx (Transmission Mode 6). UL: 1 Tx, 2 Rx.
9) TDD: DL: 8 Tx, 2 Rx (Transmission Mode 7). UL: 1 Tx, 8 Rx
Other informative parameters for simulation are summarized in Table 5.2.1.3.
Table 5.2.1.3: Parameters for simulation
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Assumptions | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Duplex method and bandwidths | TDD: configuration 1: DL:SP:UL = | | | 2:1:2 | | | | | | Special subframe: DwPTS 11 | | | symbol, GP 1 symbol, UpPTS 2 | | | symbol | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE speed | 3km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink transmission scheme | LTE Rel-8 SIMO | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downlink HARQ scheme | HARQ-CC | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Link adaptation | CQI/SRS: 5ms delay 10ms period; | | | FDD: PUCCH 1-1; TDD: PUCCH 2-0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration at Base | Correlated cross-polarized | | Station | antenna | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration at UE | Vertically-polarized, with 0.5 | | | lambda spacing | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Overhead assumption | DL overhead: 3 OFDM symbols for | | | DL CCHs, 2 port CRS for TM6, and | | | 1 port CRS and 1 port DMRS for | | | TM7. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Propagation model | L=I + 37.6log10(R), R in | | | kilometers | | | | | | I=130.5--2.6GHz, | | | I=120.9--900MHz. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The cell spectrum efficiency is expected to have a range that depends on the
ratio of MTC and non-MTC devices, ranging from at least that achieved by R99
GSM/EGPRS to that achieved by Rel-10 LTE. Note that the reference spectral
efficiencies assume no MTC devices. Potential cost reduction techniques
captured in the TR that will have any impact to spectral efficiency should
present spectrum efficiency as well as cost analysis. The average spectral
efficiency for MTC and non-MTC UEs can be computed separately, so as to
capture the different impact on MTC and non-MTC UEs.
### 5.2.2 Methodology for cost analysis
The cost drivers are broadly categorized into two parts, RF components and
processing, which may need different analysis methodology. The ADC/DAC and
L2/L3 protocol support are included within the processing category. The cost
analysis methodology should identify the percentage cost of each of the two
parts, and, for each cost reduction technique, the relative percentage cost
reduction to that of the reference LTE modem.
#### 5.2.2.1 Baseband cost/complexity analysis
Baseband cost can be represented to some extent by the required baseband
operations. In addition, resource occupied on chip can also be considered. A
baseband cost/complexity metric relevant to the analyzed cost reduction
technique should be used. It should be noted that the impact of complexity
reduction on cost and/or performance is dependent on various factors including
implementation.
Examples of possible metrics include:
(1) Complexity (in absolute or relative terms)
> Although the complexity of the baseband module is implementation dependent,
> it can be estimated according to
  * Elapsed time
  * Number of LLR values
  * Number of baseband signal operations/sec
  * Number of higher layer radio protocol processing operations/sec
  * Number of basic baseband operations per information bit
(2) Resource occupied on chip (in absolute or relative terms)
  * Buffer size
  * Number of ASIC/FPGA gates
#### 5.2.2.2 RF cost analysis
Under the basic assumption for LTE modem, it is recommended to use the
following RF cost metric:
  * Number of RF chains/antenna ports
  * Replacing of some components by less expensive components
```{=html}
``` \- Replacing duplexer with switch
  * Removing PA
Instead of an absolute cost in terms of number of components, the cost can be
expressed as a relative cost compared to the reference LTE modem.
## 5.3 Cost drivers of reference LTE modem
The table below reflects the current cost structure of a reference category 1
LTE UE modem implemented with the current state of the art and the cost may
evolve over time. Components such as I/O and processors are excluded in below.
Table 5.3.1: Fractional cost breakdown relative to RF and Baseband functions
for reference LTE UE modem
Functional block | Source 1 | Source 2 | Source 3 | Source 4 | Source 5 | Source 6 | Source 7 | Source 8 | Source 9 | Recommended (for Evaluation)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Duplex mode | FDD | FDD | FDD | FDD | TDD | FDD | FDD | FDD | FDD |   
Frequency Band assumed | Sub GHz | 2 Sub GHz | 2 GHz | Sub GHz | 2 GHz | Sub GHz | Sub GHz | Sub GHz | Sub GHz |   
Ratio of RF to baseband cost | 40:60 | 40:60 | 40:60 | 40:60 | 40:60 | 40:60 | 50:50 | 30:70 | 40:60 | 40:60  
| RF |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Power amplifier | 25% | 25% | 30% | 25-30% | 25-30% | 10-15% | 15% | 25% | ~25% | 25%-30%  
Filters | 10% | 10% | 10% | 5-10% | 5-10% | (included in RF transceiver ) | 10% | 10% | (included in RF transceiver) | 5%-10%  
RF transceiver (including LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator) | 40% | 45% | 35% | ~50% | 50%-55% | 50% (Includes Filter) | 40% | 45% | ~50% | 40%-50%  
Duplexer / Switch | 25% | 20% | 25% | 15-20% | 15% (switch) | 30% | 15% | 20% | ~20% | 15%-25%  
Other | ~0% | ~0% | 0% | NA | NA | 5-10% | 20% (Cost for 2 antennas) | 0% | ~0% | 0%-10%  
Total | 100% | 100% | 100% | 95%~110% | 95%-110% | 95-105% | 100% | 100% | ~95% | 95%-110%  
Functional block | Source 1 | Source 2 | Source 3 | Source 4 | Source 5 | Source 6 | Source 7 | Source 8 | Source 9 | Recommended (for Evaluation)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Baseband |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
ADC / DAC | 10% | ~10% | 10% | 15-20% (Includes digital front-end) | 10% (Includes digital front-end) | NA | 15% | 10% | 10% | 10%  
FFT/IFFT | 5% | ~5% | 10% | ~5% | ~5% | NA | 5% | 5% | 5-10% | 5%  
Post-FFT data buffering | 15% | ~10% | 10% | 10-15% | 15% | NA | 10% | 10% | NA (included in RX processing block) | 10%-15%  
Receiver processing block | 35% | ~25% (Including CSI measurement and channel estimation) | 30% (Includes "MIMO specific processing") | ~20% (Includes "MIMO specific processing") | ~20% (Includes "MIMO specific processing") | 40-45% (includes subframe buffering) | 20% | 35% (includes subframe buffering and MIMO specific processing) | 40% (include subframe buffering, Include MIMO specific processing) | 20%-35%  
Turbo decoding | 5% | 10%~15% ( Including turbo decoding and demodulation) | 10% | ~10% (LLR computation is part of Rx processing) | 10%~15% | NA | 10% | 5% | 5%~10% | 5%-15%  
HARQ buffer | 15% | ~10% | 10% | ~10% | 15% | 10% | 10% | 15% | 15% | 10%-15%  
DL control processing & decoder | 5% | 5%~10% (Including convolution decoding and demodulation) | 5% | ~5% | 5% | NA | 5% | 5% | ~5% | 5%  
Synchronization / cell search block | 10% | ~10% | 10% | 10-15% | 10-15% | 10-15% | 10% | 10% | ~10% | 10%-15%  
UL processing block |  The cost savings are due to reduced requirements for UL processing, turbo
> decoding, and HARQ buffering.
  1. Restricting the number of PRBs in an assignment/grant
> The cost savings are due to reduced requirements for UL processing, turbo
> decoding, and HARQ buffering.
  1. Restricting the maximum modulation order
The cost savings are due to less restrictive power amplifier EVM requirements,
local oscillator of RF transceiver, less precision needed for the ADC,
simplification of the UL processing block, turbo decoding, post-FFT data
buffering, and HARQ buffering.
Table 6.4.3 summarizes the cost savings for Techniques 1, 2 and 3 according to
the recommended values for evaluation. In Technique 1, cost savings are
derived from the reference Category-1 UE with reduction of maximum TB size for
DL or UL to 1000 bits. In Technique 2, cost savings are derived from the
reference Category-1 UE restricted to 6PRBs in 20MHz bandwidth carrier (4392
bits downlink and 2600 bits uplink supported TB size). In Technique 3, cost
savings are derived from the reference Category-1 UE with restricting the
maximum modulation to QPSK for DL or UL. Note that the cost savings estimation
is not tied to an individual company evaluation.
Table 6.4.3: Relative cost savings estimation for Technique 1, 2 and 3
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Functional | Recommended | Technique 1 | Technique 2 | Technique 3 | | block | (for | | | | | | Evaluation) | (Relative | (Relative | (Relative | | (Ratio of | | savings) | savings) | savings) | | RF to | | | | | | baseband | | | | | | cost 40:60) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RF | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Power | 25%-30% | NA | NA | 0-20% | | amplifier | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Filters | 5%-10% | NA | NA | NA | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RF | 40%-50% | NA | NA | 0-10% | | transceiver | | | | | | | | | | | | (including | | | | | | LNAs, | | | | | | mixer, and | | | | | | local | | | | | | oscillator) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Duplexer | 15%-25% | NA | NA | NA | | /Switch | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Other | 0%-10% | NA | NA | NA | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Total of RF | 95%-110% | NA | NA | 0%-6% for | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | | | | 0%-5% for | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | | | | 0%-11% for | | | | | | both | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Baseband | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ADC / DAC | 10% | NA | NA | 30% | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | FFT/IFFT | 5% | NA | NA | NA | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Post-FFT | 10%-15% | NA | NA | 17%-33% | | data | | | | | | buffering | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Receiver | 20%-35% | NA | NA | NA | | processing | | | | | | block | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Turbo | 5%-15% | 90% | 57% | NA | | decoding | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | HARQ buffer | 10%-15% | 90% | 57% | NA | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DL control | 5% | NA | NA | NA | | processing | | | | | | & decoder | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Sync | 10%-15% | NA | NA | NA | | hronization | | | | | | / cell | | | | | | search | | | | | | block | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UL | 5%-10% | 81% | 50% | 10% | | processing | | | | | | block | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MIMO | 5%-15% | NA | NA | NA | | specific | | | | | | processing | | | | | | blocks | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Other | 0% | NA | NA | NA | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Total of | 90%-110% | 4%-8% for | 2.5%-5% for | 0.5%-1% for | | Baseband | | UL | UL | UL | | | | | | | | | | 13.5%-27% | 8.5%-17% | 4.5%-8% for | | | | for DL | for DL | DL | | | | | | | | | | 17.5%-35% | 11%-22% for | 5%-9% for | | | | for both | both | both | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Overall | | 2.5%-5% for | 1.5%-3% for | 0%-3% for | | relative | | UL | UL | UL | | cost | | | | | | savings | | 8%-16% for | 5%-10.5% | 3%-7% for | | | | DL | for DL | DL | | | | | | | | | | 10.5%-21% | 6.5%-13.5% | 3%-10% for | | | | for both | for both | both | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The mechanism for peak rate reduction could have some additional small savings
not considered here. For example, eliminating the processing for more than one
turbo code block or reducing the number of HARQ processes.
## 6.5 Reduction of transmit power
### 6.5.1 Description
Reducing the output power or completely removing the power amplifier stage of
an MTC UE is expected to provide cost savings. A reduction in transmit power
adversely impacts uplink coverage performance and spectral efficiency. Power
consumption will be affected and there will be an impact on specifications. By
simply removing the final power amplifier stage, a device\'s output power is
likely to be reduced to the range of 0dBm to +5dBm. Additional chip redesign
may allow for a significantly higher output power (exactly how high is FFS).
### 6.5.2 Analysis/evaluation of performance against requirements
#### 6.5.2.1 Coverage analysis
Reducing the transmit power of a device has a direct impact on the uplink link
budget, reducing the uplink coverage of the device compared to a higher
transmit power device, meaning coverage requirements cannot be met assuming
direct downlink and uplink wide area network access from MTC devices to eNBs.
All uplink physical channels will be similarly affected, further contributing
to a downlink/uplink link budget imbalance. For example, with the COST231-Hata
model, the cell radius reduces 78.2% if the PA is removed and the UE output
power is of the order of 0 dBm. Depending on the amount of transmit power
reduction, the coverage may be worse than for GSM/EGPRS.
#### 6.5.2.2 Power consumption
Reducing the transmit power may result in a reduction in the device power
consumption. State of the art power amplifier devices include self-bias
functions that reduce the DC power consumption as the transmit power reduces,
however once the power amplifier reaches its minimum bias level, further
reductions in transmit power will not result in further reductions in DC power
consumption. In order to achieve further reductions in DC power consumption,
the removal of the power amplifier can be considered.
For the case of reduced UE transmit power, a reduced MCS would be required in
an attempt to restore the uplink link budget, however this would increase the
UE transmit duty cycle thus potentially increasing power consumption.
Furthermore any schemes used in an effort to restore the uplink link budget
may in themselves contribute to an increase in power consumption in the UE.
#### 6.5.2.3 Impact on specification
The reduction of UE transmit power would require the creation of a single or
multiple new UE power class(es) with additional definition of related
requirements such as MPR and A-MPR levels. This would have impacts on TSG RAN
WG4 specifications. It would also be necessary to ensure that existing RF
requirements are met.
Restoring uplink coverage would require analysis and support in TSG RAN WG1
and TSG RAN WG2. Unless sufficient uplink coverage can be restored through
protocol changes then improved performance requirements for the eNB and/or the
UE will need to be considered in TSG RAN WG4.
#### 6.5.2.4 Cell spectral efficiency
If the transmit power for MTC UEs is reduced, lower uplink MCSs have to be
used in order to retain LTE uplink coverage. However lower uplink MCSs cause
uplink cell spectral efficiency reduction. Furthermore, a reduced transmit
power may limit the transmission of UCI thus affecting the downlink cell
spectral efficiency. Low-cost MTC UEs with a reduced transmit power are
unlikely to meet the spectral efficiency requirement stated in subclause 5.1.
The estimated uplink spectral efficiency reduction provided by the sourcing
companies is summarized in Table 6.5.2.4.1.
Table 6.5.2.4.1 Uplink spectral efficiency reduction estimation for reduction
of transmit power
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Maximum | Spectral | Source 1 | Source 2 | Source 3 | | Transmit | efficiency | | | | | power | calculation | (see note | (see note | (see note | | | | 1) | 2) | 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 17dBm | Cell | | | 5% (3GPP | | | | | | Case 1) | | | | | | | | | | | | 65% (3GPP | | | | | | Case 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Cell-edge | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10dBm | Cell | 19% (3GPP | 18% (3GPP | | | | | Case 1) | Case 1) | | | | | | | | | | | | 60% (3GPP | | | | | | Case 3) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Cell-edge | 85% (3GPP | 86% (3GPP | | | | | Case 1) | Case 1) | | | | | | | | | | | | 100% (3GPP | | | | | | Case 3) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0dBm | Cell | 59% (3GPP | | | | | | Case 1) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Cell-edge | 98% (3GPP | | | | | | Case 1) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Analysis | | | | | | assumes TDD | | | | | | in 10MHz | | | | | | with 8 | | | | | | receive | | | | | | antennas at | | | | | | the eNB. | | | | | | Full buffer | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | model. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Analysis | | | | | | assumes FDD | | | | | | in 10MHz | | | | | | with 4 | | | | | | receive | | | | | | antennas at | | | | | | the eNB. | | | | | | Full buffer | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | model. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Analysis | | | | | | assumes FDD | | | | | | in 5MHz | | | | | | with 2 | | | | | | receive | | | | | | antennas at | | | | | | the eNB. | | | | | | Regular | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | model | | | | | | (clause | | | | | | A.1). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 6.5.3 Analysis/evaluation of cost reduction
The estimated cost savings provided by the sourcing companies are summarized
in Table 6.5.3.1. The power amplifier accounts for 25-30% of the cost of the
RF module of the reference LTE modem with the RF functional block accounting
for 40% of the total cost of the modem. Removal of the power amplifier will
result in a 10-12% overall relative cost saving and an output power in the
order of 0dBm. A lower saving is seen when the power amplifier is retained but
there is a reduction in output power and relaxation in linearity: in this case
the saving amounts to 2-7%.
Table 6.5.3.1 Relative cost saving estimation for a reduction of transmit
power
Functional block (Ratio of RF to baseband cost 40:60) | Recommended cost breakdown (for Evaluation) | Source 1 | Source 2 | Source 3 | Source 4 | Source 5 | Source 6 | Source 7 | Source 8  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Transmit power reduction scheme |  | Maximum transmit power = 10dBm | Remove the power amplifier: Maximum transmit power = 0dBm | Remove the power amplifier | Remove the power amplifier | Remove the power amplifier | Reduction in output power and relaxation in linearity | Remove the power amplifier | Reduction in output power and relaxation in linearity  
RF |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Power amplifier | 25%-30% | 50% | 100% |  | 100% | 100% |  | 100% | 30%  
Filters | 5%-10% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
RF transceiver ( including LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator) | 40%-50% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  | 15%  
Duplexer /Switch | 15%-25% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
Other | 0%-10% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
_Total of RF_ | _**95%-110%**_ | _**12.5-15%**_ | _**25-30%**_ | _**30%**_ | _**25%**_ | _**25%**_ | _**5%**_ | _**13%**_ | _**13.5-16.5%**_  
Baseband |  |  |  |  |  | NA |  |  |   
ADC / DAC | 10% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
FFT/IFFT | 5% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
Post-FFT data buffering | 10%-15% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
Receiver processing block | 20%-35% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
Turbo decoding | 5%-15% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
HARQ buffer | 10%-15% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
DL control processing & decoder | 5% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
Synchronization / cell search block | 10%-15% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
UL processing block | 5%-10% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
MIMO specific processing blocks | 5%-15% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
Other | 0% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
_Total of Baseband_ | _**90%-110%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_  
Overall relative cost savings |  | **5-6%** | **10-12%** | **11%** | **10%** | **10-12%** | **2%** | **5%** | **5-7%**  
## 6.6 Half duplex operation
### 6.6.1 Description
Half duplex FDD (HD-FDD) operation is a technique that can lower the cost of
an MTC UE by simplifying the RF implementation. By not requiring simultaneous
transmission and reception, an HD-FDD MTC UE does not require a duplexer: in
place of a duplexer a switch is used. It is noted that the eNB still uses full
duplex FDD (FD-FDD) operation and will be required to ensure that there are no
scheduling conflicts for HD-FDD MTC UEs. This requirement will mean the
scheduler needs to consider data and control traffic in both directions when
making scheduling decisions for an MTC UE. It is noted that this requirement
can add to the complexity of the scheduler. For full duplex UEs, such
scheduling restrictions are not needed: this can make concurrent support more
complicated. When not in DRX, the MTC UE will continuously receive downlink
physical channels except when instructed by the network to transmit in the
uplink or when transmitting unscheduled (contention-based) PRACH. A switching
time will need to be observed by HD-FDD MTC UEs when transitioning from
receive to transmit and vice versa -- this will need to be taken into account
by the scheduler.
It is noted that TDD UEs do not transmit and receive at the same time and are
inherently half duplex in nature. The cost and performance advantages
identified in this subclause already apply to Release 8 TDD LTE UEs.
### 6.6.2 Analysis/evaluation of performance against requirements
#### 6.6.2.1 Coverage analysis
Half duplex operation will result in no loss of coverage. In order to
accommodate the UE switching time between downlink subframes that are
immediately followed by uplink subframes, the UE may choose not to receive
symbols at the end of the downlink subframe, thereby increasing the PDSCH SINR
requirements. This SINR loss can be avoided by the scheduler and is
compensated for by the improved noise figure of a switch-based receiver RF
chain. The scheduler can schedule UEs such that uplink transmissions do not
immediately follow downlink transmissions: in this case the UE may receive all
the symbols within the downlink subframe. The noise figure of a switch-based
receiver RF chain is less than that of a duplexer-based receiver RF chain,
allowing HD-FDD UE receivers to be more sensitive than FD-FDD UE receivers. In
summary the downlink coverage of an HD-FDD UE is expected to be at least as
good as that of an FD-FDD UE.
#### 6.6.2.2 Power consumption
Compared to the reference category 1 LTE modem, power consumption is likely to
be reduced. The insertion loss of the switch in the HD-FDD UE is less than in
the duplexer of an FD-FDD UE: reducing the electrical power required to
produce a certain amount of radiated RF power. Half duplex operation means
some components can be put in a reduced power state until required. It is
recognised that RF and baseband power consumption is often dictated by
implementation.
#### 6.6.2.3 Impact on specification
Some support for half duplex operation was introduced in LTE Release 8.
However some further specification work may be required.
TSG RAN WG4 specifications will need to be updated to define at least the
following:
  * HD-FDD UE performance requirements for the switching time for the downlink-to-uplink and uplink-to-downlink transitions, if deemed necessary by further study in TSG RAN WG1 as explained below.
  * In the case of UE implementation where operation is restricted to half-duplex only:
    * Bands in which HD-FDD UEs can operate.
    * Performance requirements for HD-FDD UEs.
From the perspective of TSG RAN WG1, it is recognised that further study is
required. This study may lead to specification changes, but some issues may be
resolved by implementation. Aspects to consider may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
  * UE switching times
    * Switching time for the _downlink-to-uplink_ transition is created by allowing the UE to DRX the last OFDM symbols in a downlink subframe immediately preceding an uplink subframe. Whether the switching time should be explicitly defined in the specifications is FFS at the time of introduction..
    * Switching time for the _uplink-to-downlink_ transition is handled by setting the appropriate amount of timing advance in the UE. This switching time is important when the UE is close to the cell centre (with near zero timing advance). The same adjustment of the uplink timing from the eNB perspective is also applied to full duplex UEs [6]. It should be further investigated whether specification change is needed to facilitate the eNB in deciding the appropriate amount of timing advance (e.g. by defining UE requirement on maximum allowed switching time).
`{=html} ` \- Managing of conflict between downlink and uplink
transmissions. HD-FDD operation is implemented as a scheduler constraint,
implying the scheduler ensures that a UE is not scheduled simultaneously in
the downlink and uplink. There are occasions that downlink and uplink
transmissions cannot be avoided by scheduler constraints, for example when the
UE transmits an unscheduled (contention-based) PRACH that cannot be predicted
by the eNB. It is possible that the UE may transmit a PRACH at the same time
that it is scheduled via PDCCH/PDSCH in the downlink. In this case the UE will
not be able to receive the PDCCH/PDSCH.
#### 6.6.2.4 Cell spectral efficiency
It is apparent that since HD-FDD MTC UEs cannot transmit and receive in the
same subframe, there is an impact on the sustained data rates that can be
provided to/from a single device. Furthermore in order to accommodate the
required switching times for downlink-to-uplink transition at the UE, DRX
during the switching times at the UE results in a reduction in downlink
capacity. This problem is further compounded given that the switching time for
the uplink-to-downlink transition is handled by timing advance that will
further impact on the downlink transmissions. The RF noise figure of an HD-FDD
UE may be less than for an FD-HDD UE since the HD-FDD UE uses a switch rather
than a duplexer. The lower HD-FDD UE noise figure may compensate for the
capacity loss associated with the DRX during switching times.
An eNB that supports HD-FDD UEs operates in full duplex mode irrespective of
the capabilities of the UEs it is supporting. Given a sufficient number of HD-
FDD UEs supported in a cell, the eNB is able to efficiently schedule HD-FDD
UEs such that all the PRBs in the subframe can be allocated. Under this
assumption it is expected that cell spectral efficiency is not impacted when
HD-FDD MTC UEs are supported.
Since there are insignificant cell spectrum efficiency impacts from the
support of LTE HD-FDD UEs, the spectral efficiency of an LTE cell is unlikely
to be degraded through supporting LTE HD-FDD UEs. Its spectral efficiency is
likely to be significantly greater than can be achieved in a GSM/EGPRS network
supporting GSM/EGPRS terminals.
### 6.6.3 Analysis/evaluation of cost reduction
This subclause considers the potential cost saving from implementing a half
duplex LTE MTC UE.
A half duplex mode UE does not need a duplexer. Instead of a duplexer a half
duplex LTE MTC modem uses a switch. Additional savings from reduced complexity
and memory may also be possible in the baseband module. This is because in
half duplex mode there is no need to provision processing power and memory for
concurrent downlink and uplink operations.
Given that a switch represents a small percentage of the cost of the duplexer,
then a high proportion of the cost associated with the duplexer / switch in
the RF module can be saved. Given that the duplexer cost is in the range of
15-25% of the RF module (which is 40% of the total LTE reference modem cost),
HD-FDD mode provides an overall cost saving based on the reference LTE modem
of 4-8%. It is further noted that the potential relative cost reduction may be
even larger for multi-band devices (that may have multiple duplexers) than for
the assumed single-band reference modem.
The estimated cost savings provided by the sourcing companies are summarized
in Table 6.6.3.1. If it is assumed that some cost saving could be achieved due
to reduced computational requirements then a 5-10% cost saving may be made in
the baseband module: this results in an overall cost saving of 9-12% from
source 6. Also if it is assumed that some cost saving could be achievable with
RF components optimized for HD-FDD operation that take advantage of relaxation
in performance and/or functional requirements (the absence of self transmitter
blocking and interference easing filtering rejection requirements) then this
results in an overall cost saving of 12-19% from source 7.
Table 6.6.3.1 Relative cost saving estimation for half duplex operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Funct | R | S | S | S | S | S | S | S | | ional | ecomm | ource | ource | ource | ource | ource | ource | ource | | block | ended | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | | | cost | | | | | | | | | ( | brea | | | | | | | | | Ratio | kdown | | | | | | | | | of RF | | | | | | | | | | to | (for | | | | | | | | | bas | E | | | | | | | | | eband | valua | | | | | | | | | cost | tion) | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | | 0:60) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | RF | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | 25 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | ampl | %-30% | | | | | | | | | ifier | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Fi | 5 | | | NA | NA | | | 20% | | lters | %-10% | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | RF | 40 | | | NA | NA | | | 20% | | t | %-50% | | | | | | | | | ransc | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (incl | | | | | | | | | | uding | | | | | | | | | | LNAs, | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | ixer, | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | local | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | scill | | | | | | | | | | ator) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Dup | 15 | | 80% | 67% | 90% | 7 | | 80% | | lexer | %-25% | | | | | 0-80% | | | | /S | | | | | | | | | | witch | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Other | 0 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | | %-10% | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | **_9 |_** 1 | **_2 | ** |_** 2 | ** | **_1 | ** | | Total | 5%-11 | 5%_** | 0%**_|_ 10-1 | 0%**_|_ 10-2 | 5%**_|_ 20-3 | | of | 0%**_| | | 7%_**| | 0%**_| | 2%_**| | RF _| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Bas | | | | | | | | | | eband | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ADC / | 10% | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | DAC | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | FFT | 5% | | | NA | NA | | | 30% | | /IFFT | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Pos | 10 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | t-FFT | %-15% | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | buff | | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rec | 20 | | | NA | NA | | | 20% | | eiver | %-35% | | | | | | | | | proce | | | | | | | | | | ssing | | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Turbo | 5 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | dec | %-15% | | | | | | | | | oding | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | HARQ | 10 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | b | %-15% | | | | | | | | | uffer | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DL | 5% | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | co | | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | | proce | | | | | | | | | | ssing | | | | | | | | | | & | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | coder | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Synch | 10 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | roniz | %-15% | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | earch | | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | UL | 5 | | | NA | NA | | | 20% | | proce | %-10% | | | | | | | | | ssing | | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MIMO | 5 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | spe | %-15% | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | | proce | | | | | | | | | | ssing | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Other | 0% | | | NA | NA | | | NA | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | _**9 | *** | *** | *** | NA | *** | * | **_6\. | | Total | 0%-11 | 0%_** | 0%**_| 0%_** | | 0%**_|_ *5-1 | 5-10. | | of | 0%**_| | | | | | 0%_**| 5%**_| | Base | | | | | | | | | | band_ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ov | | * | * | **4 | * |** 4 | **9- |** 12- | | erall | | _6%__|_ 8%**| -7%** | _8%__| -8%__| 12%__| 19%_ * | | rel | | | | | | | | | | ative | | | | | | | | | | cost | | | | | | | | | | sa | | | | | | | | | | vings | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 6.7 Reduction of supported downlink transmission modes
### 6.7.1 Description
For a reference Rel-10 Cat-1 UE, the maximum number of supported layers for
spatial multiplexing in downlink is one, and the supportable transmission
modes for a reference LTE Rel-10 Cat-1 UEs are TM1-TM9. One potential
technique for low-cost MTC UEs is to reduce the supportable downlink
transmission modes with a view to eliminating the redundant transmission
schemes supported by different TMs and simplifying MTC UE\'s implementation
complexity.
TM1 and TM2 are needed as the basic TMs for backward compatibility.
### 6.7.2 Analysis/evaluation of performance against requirements
#### 6.7.2.1 Coverage analysis
The reduction of supported downlink transmission modes will not bring link
performance loss on PDCCH, but the link performance of PDSCH may be impacted.
However, as described in the subclause 6.3, the bottleneck of coverage in
downlink is the control channel rather than the data channel, so the downlink
coverage for MTC UEs would not be impacted by the reduction of supported
downlink transmission modes.
#### 6.7.2.2 Power consumption
Baseband power consumption may be reduced by eliminating the need to support
precoding. However, some performance degradation due to the absence of
precoding may cause a possible increase of power consumption for MTC UEs.
Overall there is not expected to be significant impact on power consumption by
the reduction of supported downlink transmission modes.
#### 6.7.2.3 Impact on specification
To support MTC UEs with the reduction of supported downlink transmission
modes, minor specification changes may be expected. The feature of reduced
downlink transmission modes may appear as a property of the UE category that
is mentioned in subclause 6.4, and some modifications on the IEs _UE-EUTRA-
Capability_ and _AntennaInfoDedicated_ in TS 36.331 may be needed.
#### 6.7.2.4 Cell spectral efficiency
There may be some downlink performance degradation due to the lack of
precoding gain. Table 6.7.2.4 gives performance degradation results provided
by multiple sources. Although performance degradation is expected due to the
reduced downlink transmission modes, the impact of downlink performance
degradation may be lessened considering the typical MTC traffic model as
described in annex A. Moreover, the cell spectral efficiency in the case of
MTC UEs with the reduction of supported downlink transmission modes is larger
than that of GSM/GPRS.
Table 6.7.2.4: Performance degradation results compared to TM2
| Cell average | Cell edge |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Source 1 [8] | Source 2 [9] | Source 3 [10] | Source 4 [11] | Source 5 [12] | Source 1 [8] | Source 2 [9] | Source 3 [10] | Source 4 [11] | Source 5 [12]  
FDD: TM6 | 3.69% | NA | 21% | 20% (2Tx) 40% (4Tx) | 16.6% (2Tx) 33.1% (4Tx) | 15.8% | NA | 41% | 35% (2Tx) 63% (4Tx) | 41% (2Tx) 82.9% (4Tx)  
TDD: TM7 | 18% (4Tx2Rx) | 15.4% (8Tx1Rx) | 10% (8Tx2Rx) | NA | NA | 46.3% | 43% | 26% | NA | NA  
### 6.7.3 Analysis/evaluation of cost reduction [ ]{.underline}
Potential cost reduction with reduced transmission modes may come from
removing DMRS based channel estimation if DMRS based precoding is not
supported, no PMI computation if PMI feedback is not supported (either CRS or
CSI-RS based PMI) and simplified MIMO detection/equalization algorithm.
Note that the support of DMRS based transmission (which is needed e.g., for
ePDCCH and/or new carrier type) may negate cost saving that might be obtained
by removing DMRS based transmission scheme(s) for PDSCH. According to the cost
breakdown given in subclause 5.3 for the reference LTE modem, Table 6.7.3
gives relative cost saving estimations for the reduction of supported downlink
transmission modes from multiple input sources. Note that different cost
saving estimations from different sources may be based on different reduction
assumptions.
From Table 6.7.3, the range of relative total cost saving with the technique
of reduction of supported downlink transmission modes is about 2-10%.
Table 6.7.3: Relative cost saving estimations for reduction of supported
downlink transmission modes
+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Fun | Reco | Source | Source | Source | Source | Source | | ctional | mmended | | | | | | | block | cost | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | | | br | | | | | | | (Ratio | eakdown | [8] | [13] | [11] | [14] | [15] | | of RF | | | | | | | | to | (for | | | | | | | b | Eval | | | | | | | aseband | uation) | | | | | | | cost | | | | | | | | 40:60) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | RF | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Power | 25%-30% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | am | | | | | | | | plifier | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Filters | 5%-10% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | RF | 40%-50% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | tran | | | | | | | | sceiver | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | cluding | | | | | | | | LNAs, | | | | | | | | mixer, | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | local | | | | | | | | osci | | | | | | | | llator) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | D | 15%-25% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | uplexer | | | | | | | | /Switch | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Other | 0%-10% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Total | 9 | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | | of RF | 5%-110% | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | B | | | | | | | | aseband | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | ADC / | 10% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | DAC | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | F | 5% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | FT/IFFT | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | P | 10%-15% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | ost-FFT | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | bu | | | | | | | | ffering | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | R | 20%-35% | 48% | 30% | 11% | 25% | 15% | | eceiver | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | cessing | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Turbo | 5%-15% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | d | | | | | | | | ecoding | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | HARQ | 10%-15% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | buffer | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | DL | 5% | NA | NA | NA | 30% | NA | | control | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | cessing | | | | | | | | & | | | | | | | | decoder | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | S | 10%-15% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | ynchron | | | | | | | | ization | | | | | | | | / cell | | | | | | | | search | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | UL | 5%-10% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | pro | | | | | | | | cessing | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | MIMO | 5%-15% | 30% | NA | NA | NA | NA | | s | | | | | | | | pecific | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | cessing | | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Other | 0% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Total | 9 | 16.2% | 6-10.5% | 2-4% | 6. | 5% | | of | 0%-110% | | | | 5-10.2% | | | B | | | | | | | | aseband | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Overall | | * | **3.6 |** 2%**|** 3.9 | **3%** | | r | | _9.7%__| -6.3%__| | -6.3%_ * | | | elative | | | | | | | | cost | | | | | | | | savings | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+
# 7 Cost reduction evaluation summary
Text below provides summary of cost reduction gains and associated coverage
and spectral efficiency impacts. Coverage impacts have been analysed for
individual and combination of cost reduction techniques in [16] and is
summarised in the table 7.1 and the spectral efficiency impact in text below
the table 7.1.
Table 7.1: Summary cost and performance (coverage/spectral efficiency) impacts
of techniques for cost reduction
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Average degradation | Average overall UE | | | to cell coverage | cost reduction gains | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Half Duplex FDD | None | 7%-10% | | (HD-FDD) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Uplink Tx power | >5dB in UL and is | 10%-12% | | Reduction | proportional to the | | | | Tx power reduction | (If PA is removed) | | | | | | | | 2%-7% | | | | | | | | (If PA is retained) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmission mode | None | 2%-10% | | (TM) reduction (E.g. | | | | TM1/TM2 + TM8/9 | | | | (Rank 1) only) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | None | 10.5%-21% | | (TBS 1000 bits) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reduced bandwidth | 1\~3dB | \~39% | | (BW) for both RF and | | | | baseband for DL and | | | | UL. | | | | | | | | DL-1/UL-1 BW | | | | Reduction | | | | | | | | (1.4 MHz) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reduced BW for | 1\~3dB | \~28% | | baseband only for DL | | | | and no BW reduction | | | | for UL. | | | | | | | | DL-2/UL-2 BW | | | | Reduction | | | | | | | | (1.4 MHz) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reduced BW for only | None | \~19% | | data and only in | | | | baseband. No BW | | | | reduction for UL | | | | | | | | DL-3/UL-2 BW | | | | Reduction | | | | | | | | (1.4 MHz) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Single receive RF | 4dB | 24%-29% | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | Same as for Single | 42% | | (TBS) + Single | receive RF (4dB) | | | receive RF | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | Same as for BW | 44% | | (TBS) + DL-1/UL-1 BW | reduction (1\~3dB) | | | Reduction | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | Same as for BW | 36% | | (TBS) + DL-2/UL-2 BW | reduction (1\~3dB) | | | Reduction | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | None | 26% | | (TBS) + DL-3/UL-2 BW | | | | Reduction | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | 5\~9 dB | 59% | | (TBS) + DL-1/UL-1 BW | | | | Reduction + Single | | | | receive RF | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | Same as for BW | 56% | | (TBS) + DL-2/UL-2 BW | reduction + Single | | | Reduction + Single | receive RF | | | receive RF | | | | | (5\~9dB) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | Same as for Single | 50% | | (TBS) + DL-3/UL-2 BW | receive RF | | | Reduction + Single | | | | receive RF | (4 dB) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TM(1/2+9) + Peak | Same as for BW | 37% | | Rate reduction (TBS) | reduction (1\~3dB) | | | + DL-2/UL-2 BW | | | | Reduction | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TM(1/2+9) + Peak | Same as for BW | 56% | | Rate reduction (TBS) | reduction + Single | | | + DL-2/UL-2 BW | receive RF | | | Reduction+ Single | | | | receive RF | (5\~9dB) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: Analysis of | | | | coverage degradation | | | | is for downlink | | | | unless explicitly | | | | indicated. | | | | Transmission | | | | bandwidth is reduced | | | | to 1.4 MHz for BW | | | | reduction techniques | | | | unless explicitly | | | | specified. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Single receive RF is expected to be the main technique that, in addition to
coverage, impacts spectral efficiency. Impact on spectral efficiency with
single receive RF chain has been analyzed in subclause 6.3 with degradation of
approx 23% to 25% for FDD and approx 17% for TDD and is dependent on the
frequency band.
# 8 Specification aspects to restrict techniques to only low performance MTC
UE.
This clause captures possible solutions to ensure by specification that the
techniques discussed in clause 6 and adopted for low-cost MTC UEs are
restricted to only low-cost MTC UEs with low data rate and/or high latency
tolerance. This restriction is needed in order to ensure that the existing
transmission and reception characteristics and performance requirements of
non-MTC LTE UEs are not affected by the MTC-specific specification
developments. Without this restriction, any simplification may be applied to
non-MTC UEs.
## 8.1 Restricting the techniques to a new UE category
The aim of introducing a new MTC-specific UE category would be to restrict any
adopted MTC-related low-cost technique affecting the UE and/or network
performance to this new UE category only.
This solution makes sure the existing UE categories are not affected by the
simplifications intended for low-cost MTC UEs, by:
  * defining a new UE category specifically for low-cost MTC devices, and;
  * restricting any simplification technique affecting the UE and/or > network performance to operate only with this UE category.
This solution allows the network to identify the UEs which use simplifications
affecting the UE or network performance, since the UE reports its category
upon initial connection.
This identification would, for example, enable the network to apply specific
scheduling policies or specific service handling to these UEs, in order to
limit their potential adverse impact on the network performance, or
alternatively, it could be considered whether the network can decide to block
the UEs from this UE category in case their subscription information does not
match with MTC.
In addition, further study would be needed to enable the network to
unambiguously bind UEs of the new UE category to only certain MTC-applicable
services. Detailed mechanisms for such binding are out of scope of RAN.
The peak rate of the new UE category, as discussed in subclause 6.4, could,
for example, be set targeting an appropriate cost reduction objective. It is
worth noting that even if peak rate reduction is not finally specified,
defining a new UE category as discussed in this subclause could still be
justified by the need to identify the UEs with degraded radio performance
compared with non-MTC UEs.
# 9 Coverage improvement
## 9.1 Description
Some MTC UEs are installed in the basements of residential buildings or
locations shielded by foil-backed insulation, metalized windows or traditional
thick-walled building construction, and these UEs would experience
significantly greater penetration losses on the radio interface than normal
LTE devices. The MTC UEs in the extreme coverage scenario might have
characteristics such as very low data rate, greater delay tolerance, and no
mobility, and therefore some messages/channels may not be required.
Performance evaluation of coverage improvement techniques shall be analyzed in
terms of: coverage, power consumption, cell spectral efficiency, specification
impacts and, cost or complexity analysis.
Not all UEs will require coverage enhancement, or require it to the same
amount. It should be possible to enable the techniques only for the UEs that
need it.
## 9.2 Coverage Analysis
An additional coverage requirement of a 20dB improvement in comparison to
\"category 1 UEs\" is targeted. Table 9.2.1-1 lists the MCL table for category
1 UEs.
Table 9.2.1-1 Summary of MCL from Table 5.2.1.2-2 and Table 5.2.1.2-3 in
subclause 5.2.1.2 (unit:dB)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Phy | PUCCH | PRACH | PUSCH | PDSCH | PBCH | SCH | PDCCH | | sical | (1A) | | | | | | (1A) | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | name | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MCL | 147.2 | 141.7 | 140.7 | 145.4 | 149.0 | 149.3 | 146.1 | | (FDD) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MCL | 149.4 | 146.7 | 147.4 | 148.1 | 149.0 | 149.3 | 146.9 | | (TDD) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | eNB | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | 2 Tx | | | | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | | | Rx in | | | | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | | | | sys | | | | | | | | | tems. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | eNB | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | 8 Tx | | | | | | | | | and 8 | | | | | | | | | Rx in | | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | | sys | | | | | | | | | tems. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | PHICH | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | negl | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | fun | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | PHICH | | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mplem | | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | PDCCH | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | edge. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
From Table 9.2.1-1, it can be expected when the amount of coverage improvement
becomes larger, all channels listed in Table 9.2.1-1 need to be improved. For
example, if the amount equals 20dB, all uplink and downlink channels need to
be enhanced because the gap between maximum MCL and minimum MCL is 8.6 dB for
FDD and 2.7dB for TDD.
Given that single receive RF and bandwidth reduction might be used for MTC
UEs, and these techniques would decrease downlink coverage, additional
coverage improvement needs to be considered to compensate this coverage loss.
Assuming an x dB coverage improvement is desired, the limiting channel from
Table 9.2.1-1 with the minimum MCL will need to be improved by x dB. Note that
x dB coverage improvement is with respect to category 1 UE at the data rate of
20 kbps. The other channels will require less improvement, with the overall
amount of compensation equal to x dB reduced by the difference between the MCL
and the minimum MCL. The overall amount of compensation should also include
the application of low-cost MTC techniques: single receive RF chain would
require additional coverage compensation for all downlink channels, and
reduction of maximum bandwidth may require additional coverage compensation
for the (E)PDCCH and PDSCH.
## 9.3 Required system functionality
Required system functionality for MTC UEs in enhanced coverage mode is assumed
to include functionality needed for synchronisation, cell search, power
control, random access procedure, channel estimation, measurement reporting
and DL/UL data transmission (including DL/UL resource allocation).
Channels and signals associated with Multimedia broadcast services and
location services are not included in the initial phase of study and are
excluded from the analysis for coverage improvement.
A MTC user who moves around is unlikely to be out of coverage for long. Study
target of coverage improvement is primarily for delay tolerant low-cost MTC
device which are not mobile and detailed analysis/evaluation of mobility
procedures are excluded from the analysis in this TR
System functionality requirement for large delay tolerant MTC UE requiring
enhanced coverage may be relaxed or simplified in comparison to that required
by normal LTE UE. Channels associated with such system functionality can then
be excluded from detailed analysis/evaluation for study of coverage
improvement.
HARQ Ack/Nack for PUSCH transmission is carried by PHICH. Dependent on the
technique(s) for coverage improvement PHICH may or may not be required.
Control Format Indicator (CFI) in PCFICH is transmitted in each subframe and
indicates the number of OFDM symbols used for transmission of control channel
information. With some additional complexity in UE (e.g. decoding of control
channel assuming different CFI) or higher-layer signalling (e.g. pre-
configuration of CFI), PCFICH may be eliminated. Techniques for coverage
improvement for PHICH and PCFICH are therefore excluded from analysis in this
TR.
## 9.4 Concepts for coverage improvement
This subclause provides the concepts on coverage improvement techniques
focused in this study, and also lists some additional techniques. Analysis and
evaluation of the techniques and whether they meet the requirements can be
found in subclause 9.5. The list of examples provided in this subclause should
not be considered as an exhaustive one.
### 9.4.1 TTI bundling/ HARQ retransmission/ Repetition/ Code spreading/ RLC
segmentation/ Low rate coding/ Low modulation order/ New Decoding Techniques
More energy can be accumulated to improve coverage by prolonging transmission
time. The existing TTI bundling and HARQ retransmission in data channel can be
helpful. Note that since the current maximum number of UL HARQ retransmission
is 28 and TTI bundling is up to 4 consecutive subframes, TTI bundling with
larger TTI bundle size (such as extensively investigated in TR 36.824 [18])
may be considered and the maximum number of HARQ retransmissions may be
extended to achieve better performance. Other than TTI bundling and HARQ
retransmission, repetition can be applied by repeating the same or different
RV multiple times. In addition, code spreading in the time domain can also be
considered to improve coverage. MTC traffic packets could be RLC segmented
into smaller packets; very low rate coding, lower modulation order (BPSK) and
shorter length CRC may also be used. New decoding techniques (e.g. correlation
or reduced search space decoding) can be used to improve coverage by taking
into account the characteristics of the particular channels (e.g., channel
periodicity, rate of parameter changes, channel structure, limited content,
etc.) and the relaxed performance requirements (e.g. delay tolerance).
### 9.4.2 Power boosting / PSD boosting
More power can be used by the eNB on the DL transmission to a MTC UE (i.e.,
power boosting), or a given level of power can be concentrated into a reduced
bandwidth at the eNB or the UE (i.e., PSD boosting). The application of power
boosting or PSD boosting will depend on the channel or signal under
consideration.
### 9.4.3 Relaxed requirement
The performance requirements for some channels can be relaxed considering the
characteristics (e.g., greater delay tolerance) of MTC UEs at extreme
scenarios. For the synchronization signal, MTC UEs can accumulate energy by
combining PSS or SSS multiple times, but this will prolong acquisition time.
For PRACH, a loosened PRACH detection threshold rate and a higher false alarm
rate at eNB could be considered.
### 9.4.4 Design new channels or signals
New design of channels or signals for better coverage is possible if
implementation based schemes cannot meet coverage improvement requirement.
These channels and signals, together with other possible link-level solution
for coverage enhancement, are summarized in Table 9.5-1.
### 9.4.5 Small cells for coverage improvements
Coverage enhancements using link improvements must be provided for scenarios
where no small cells have been deployed by the operator. An operator may
deploy traditional coverage improvement solutions using small cells (including
Pico, Femto, RRH, relays, repeaters, etc.) to provide coverage enhancements to
MTC and non-MTC UE\'s alike. In deployments with small cells, the path loss
from the device to the closest cell is reduced. As a result, for MTC devices,
the required link budget can be reduced for all channels. Depending on the
small cell location/density, the coverage enhancement in subclause 9.2 of this
TR may still be required, although possibly to a smaller degree.
For deployments that already contain small cells, there may be a benefit to
further allow decoupled UL and DL for delay tolerant MTC UEs. For UL, the best
serving cell is chosen based on the least coupling loss. For DL, due to the
large Tx power imbalance (including antenna gains) between the Macro and LPN,
the best serving cell is the one with maximum received signal power. This
UL/DL decoupled association is feasible for MTC traffic especially for
services without tight delay requirements. To enable UL/DL decoupled operation
either in a UE-transparent or non-transparent manner, macro serving cell and
potential LPNs may need to exchange information for channel (e.g. RACH, PUSCH,
SRS) configurations and to identify the suitable LPN. A different RACH
configuration may be needed with decoupled UL/DL, from that without decoupled
UL/DL.9.4.6.
### 9.4.6 Additional techniques
Existing solutions that are deployed for coverage improvement for \"normal LTE
UE\" such as directional antennas, and external antennas can improve coverage
for MTC UE and normal UE alike. Further enhancements to such solutions to
improve MTC UE coverage exploiting the specific MTC UE application
characteristics are not excluded.
## 9.5 Analysis of Physical Channels and Signals
This subclause provides analysis of coverage improvement techniques for
various physical channels. List of possible link-level solutions for coverage
enhancement of various physical channels are summarised in Table 9.5-1
Table 9.5-1: Possible link-level solutions for coverage enhancement of
physical channels and signals
+-----------+---------+-------+-------+----------+--------+-------+ | Channel | PSS/SSS | PBCH | PRACH | (E)PDCCH | PDSCH/ | PUCCH | | s/Signals | | | | | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | Solutions | | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+----------+--------+-------+ | PSD | **x** | **x** | **x** | **x** | **x** | | | boosting | | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+----------+--------+-------+ | Relaxed | **x** | | **x** | | | | | re | | | | | | | | quirement | | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+----------+--------+-------+ | Design | **x** | **x** | **x** | **x** | **x** | | | new | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | s/signals | | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+----------+--------+-------+ | R | | **x** | **x** | **x** | **x** | **x** | | epetition | | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+----------+--------+-------+ | Low rate | | **x** | | **x** | **x** | **x** | | coding | | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+----------+--------+-------+ | TTI | | | | | **x** | | | bundl | | | | | | | | ing/Retra | | | | | | | | nsmission | | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+----------+--------+-------+ | Spreading | | **x** | | | **x** | | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+----------+--------+-------+ | RS power | | **x** | | **x** | **x** | | | boosting | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | increased | | | | | | | | RS | | | | | | | | density | | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+----------+--------+-------+ | New | | **x** | | | | | | decoding | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | echniques | | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+----------+--------+-------+
### 9.5.1 PSS/SSS
#### 9.5.1.1 Coverage enhancement
According to subclause 9.2 of this TR, the coverage for PSS/SSS needs to be
improved 11.4 dB for FDD and 17.4 dB for TDD in order to achieve an overall
coverage enhancement target of 20 dB.
Simulations based on the assumptions listed in Table 9.5.1.1-1 show that this
coverage improvement can be achieved by non-coherent accumulation of the
existing PSS/SSS signals with a longer sync acquisition time than that for
normal LTE UEs. Initial synchronization (i.e., timing, frequency, and cell ID
acquisition) requires up to 2 seconds per center carrier frequency for FDD,
and possibly longer than this for TDD which needs about 6 dB more coverage
improvement for PSS/SSS. Re-synchronization can be performed quicker than
initial synchronization.
Table 9.5.1.1-1: Simulation assumptions for PSS/SSS evaluation
* * *
Parameter Value System bandwidth 1.4 MHz Frame type FDD or TDD Carrier
frequency 2.0 GHz for FDD / 2.6 GHz for TDD Antenna configuration 2x2, low
correlation for FDD / 8x2, low correlation for TDD Channel model EPA Doppler
spread 1 Hz or 2 Hz Frequency error 1 kHz or 20 kHz Performance target 10%
miss probability
* * *
Furthermore, PSD boosting can be considered a complementary solution. A new
PSS/SSS signal may need to be considered if the longer sync acquisition time
and associated power consumption increase are not considered acceptable.
#### 9.5.1.2 Impact on specification
Sync acquisition based on the existing PSS/SSS signals requires no changes in
RAN1 specifications. Note that there is no direct requirement in RAN4 on
synchronization acquisition time which is only part of the inter- or intra-
frequency RSRP/RSRQ measurement requirement defined in 3GPP TS 36.133 for
mobility support. MTC devices in need of coverage enhancement may have no
mobility.
PSD boosting can be considered a network implementation choice, but it should
be noted that it will also affect legacy UEs.
Introduction of a new PSS/SSS signal for enhanced coverage mode would have
specification impact in particular in RAN1.
#### 9.5.1.3 Other impacts
UE power consumption for sync acquisition is related to the required number of
repetitions that need to be received. Cell spectral efficiency and UE cost are
unaffected by a longer acquisition time.
Introduction of a new PSS/SSS signal for enhanced coverage mode will degrade
cell spectral efficiency and increase cost as the existing PSS/SSS signals are
anyway required for non-MTC UEs and non-enhanced coverage MTC UEs.
### 9.5.2 PBCH
#### 9.5.2.1 Coverage enhancement
The coverage target of PBCH may be addressed by
1) A combination of repetition of the current PBCH in subframe #0 of a radio
frame onto every subframe of that radio frame (i.e., a new PBCH structure) and
PSD boosting (e.g., 4 dB) within 40 ms (for FDD systems)
\-- The repetition alone cannot meet the coverage target for the current PBCH
where MIB changes every 40ms due to SFN update (e.g., as many as 36\~95
repetitions of the current PBCH in a radio frame are needed).
2) A new PBCH design (for TDD and FDD systems)
\-- A new design can consider techniques such as: a longer period, reduced
legacy MIB content, intermittent transmission. Repetitions and/or PSD boosting
may be helpful for new design in order to meet the coverage target.
\-- Also other system information that is required to be broadcasted to
enhanced coverage MTC UEs beside MIB contents can be considered in the new
PBCH design.
\-- Other low rate coding schemes or spreading can be considered for new
design.
3) A complementary PBCH decoding technique (e.g., correlation decoder or
reduced search space decoder).
The coverage target for PBCH according to subclause 9.2 of this TR is 11.7 dB
for FDD and 17.7 dB for TDD. Observable diminishing returns are summarized in
Table 9.5.2.1-1 with realistic channel estimation.
Table 9.5.2.1-1: Observable diminishing returns for PBCH repetitions and / or
PSD boosting
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source | Source | Source | Source | Source | | 1^*^ | 2^**^ | 3^***^ | 4^**^ | 5^**^ | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | With 4dB | Without PSD | PSD | With 3dB | With 3dB | | PSD | boosting: | boosting | CRS | PSD | | boosting | | (only | boosting: | boosting | | (both CRS | 80 | PBCH): | | (both CRS | | and PBCH): | repetitions | | 40 | and PBCH): | | | / 11.8 dB | 6 PRBs / | repetitions | | | 40 | | 1.9 dB | / 11.7 dB | 10 | | tr | 40 | | | repetitions | | ansmissions | repetitions | 18 PRBs / | 11 | / 11.1 dB | | / 12 dB | / 10.1 dB | 3.3 dB | repetitions | | | | | | / 6.7 dB | 5 | | 20 | 20 | 42 PRBs / | | repetitions | | tr | r | 4.7 dB | | / 8.5 dB | | ansmissions | epetitions/ | | | | | / 10 dB | 7.8 dB | | | 2 | | | | | | repetitions | | 8 | | | | / 5.7 dB | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | / 6.5 dB | | | | | | | | | | | | Without PSD | | | | | | boosting: | | | | | | | | | | | | 110 | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | / 11.7 dB | | | | | | | | | | | | 47 | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | / 8.7 dB | | | | | | | | | | | | 24 | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | / 6.7 dB | | | | | | | | | | | | 11 | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | / 3.7 dB | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE：
*: The pair X / Y indicates the number X of transmissions of a single subframe of the current PBCH and the achieved gain Y relative to the current PBCH (4 subframes).
**: The pair X / Y indicates the number X of repetitions of four subframes of
the current PBCH and the achieved gain Y relative to the current PBCH.
***: The pair X / Y indicates the number X of PRBs ( other than the central 6
PRBs) that need to be unloaded and the achieved gain Y relative to an
unboosted PBCH. The channel estimation is based on unboosted CRS.
#### 9.5.2.2 Impact on specification
For repetition of the current PBCH in a new structure or a new PBCH design,
the resources for mapping repetitions are required to be specified. It may
impact the resource mapping of other channels (e.g., (E)PDCCH/PDSCH) when they
also map to the center 6 PRBs
For a new design, depending on the considered techniques, specification impact
may include the length of a longer period, the content conveyed in the new
broadcast channel design, parameters used for intermittent transmission (e.g.,
duration and gap of transmission intervals), and spreading or other low rate
coding schemes.
Further study could determine if there is impact on specifications of using UE
implementation-based solutions such as decoding techniques.
#### 9.5.2.3 Other impacts
Power consumption will be increased and cell spectral efficiency will be
decreased due to additional resources required to transmit the PBCH. To meet
the coverage target in subclause 9.2 of this TR, repetition of the current
PBCH in a new mapping structure (or even in certain new PBCH designs) could
consume substantial resources in the center 6 PRBs (e.g., an increase from one
subframe per radio frame to all the 10 subframes in the radio frame, and with
additional 4dB boosting). PSD boosting by unloading other PRBs may degrade
cell spectral efficiency. Note that spectral efficiency is defined based on
full cell loading. Lightly-loaded network, where spectral efficiency may not
be the main concern, may have spare resource to accommodate the large PBCH
overhead.
The general techniques of repetition and PSD boosting are not expected to
increase UE cost. Depending on the new PBCH design, there may be some
additional UE cost.
Further study could determine if there are impacts on power consumption, and
UE cost of using UE implementation-based solutions such as decoding
techniques. The current analysis shows that no cell spectral efficiency
degradation is expected for UE implementation-based solutions (e.g., decoding
techniques), but more study is required.
### 9.5.3 PRACH
#### 9.5.3.1 Coverage enhancement
Subclause 9.2 of this TR indicates that PRACH coverage needs to be enhanced by
19dB (FDD) and 20 dB (TDD), when 20dB extra overall coverage enhancement is
targeted. PRACH can use techniques such as: repetition, design new preamble
format, and relaxed requirement.
• The extra coverage target of PRACH can be achieved as an example, by
preamble repetition of about 200 times and/or new preamble format.
• PRACH performance is characterized by probability of miss (Pmiss) and
probability of false alarm (Pfa). Relaxing Pfa would cost additional downlink
resources to transmit random access response (RAR) for false detection.
Relaxing Pmiss will make it easier to meet the coverage target, and can be
used in addition to repetition and/or new preamble format. PRACH coverage
target can be met by about 100 repetitions combined with relaxing Pmiss from
1% to 10%.
• It can be observed that relaxing Pmiss from 1% to 10% and with about 32
sequence repetitions, 17dB coverage enhancement target could be achieved, and
with about 10 sequence repetitions and 4 sequence repetitions 14 dB and 11dB
coverage enhancement target can be achieved respectively.
It should also be noted that:
• In order to avoid excessive repetitions, the number of repetitions may be
adjusted based on the UE\'s actual coverage status. PRACH can be used to
inform eNB on the amount of coverage enhancement a low-cost MTC UE needs. For
example, the system/eNB can pre-define/broadcast the mapping between PRACH
resource and the amount of necessary coverage enhancement.
• As a complement to the other techniques, PSD boosting over a narrower
bandwidth could be further studied. Initial simulation results show PSD
boosting provides no coverage enhancement benefit.
#### 9.5.3.2 Impact on specification
Coexistence with legacy UEs (e.g. collisions probability, resource allocation)
is required to be considered when discussing schemes like preamble repetition
and/or new preamble format. The number of repetitions as well as the starting
subframe should be predefined or configured by higher layer signalling. The
latency of PRACH would be increased by applying preamble repetition and/or new
preamble format and relaxed requirement of Pmiss. In order to reduce collision
probability between coverage limited MTC UEs and legacy UEs, dedicated
resource for coverage limited MTC UEs is expected. PSD boosting over a
narrower bandwidth may result in a new sequence design.
#### 9.5.3.3 Other impacts
Other than specification impact, impacts such as power consumption, cell
spectral efficiency and analysis/evaluation of cost reduction were identified:
• UE power consumption: Power consumption will be increased by preamble
repetition or sequence repetition.
• Cell spectral efficiency: Cell spectral efficiency is decreased dependent on
the percentage of coverage limited MTC UEs and the number of preamble or
sequence repetitions.
• Analysis/evaluation of cost reduction: The general techniques of preamble
repetition, new preamble format, relaxing PRACH performance and PSD boosting
are not expected to significantly impact the related UE Tx side cost. On the
eNB Rx side, new PRACH resources are needed.
### 9.5.4 (E)PDCCH
#### 9.5.4.1 Coverage enhancement
PDCCH (format 1a) needs to be enhanced by 14.6 dB for FDD and 19.6dB for TDD,
similarly for EPDCCH with similar number of REs. The coverage target can be
achieved by repetition of (E)PDCCH across multiple subframes. Other
techniques, for example, PSD boosting, compact DCI, higher aggregation level,
can help to reduce the required number of repetition.
Repetition of (E)PDCCH across multiple subframes may be required to achieve
the coverage enhancement target. Simulation results show that around 100-200
repetitions at the aggregation level of 8 CCEs can achieve the coverage target
of PDCCH (format 1a). Similar result is expected on EPDCCH. Other new design
of downlink control channel can help to reduce the required number of
repetitions, but repetition may still be needed based on the study. For
example, compact DCI format and higher aggregation level can reduce the
required number of repetitions from 100 (8 CCEs and 29 bits DCI payload) to 20
(16 CCEs and 9 bits DCI payload). PSD boosting, on (E)PDCCH or the
demodulation RS, can also help to reduce the required number of repetitions.
Compact DCI formats can improve the coverage, e.g., about 1.7-2.4 dB coverage
gain can be provided by reducing DCI format size from 29/27 bits to 9/10 bits.
Increasing aggregation level from 8 CCE to 16 CCE can provide 2-2.8 dB gain.
9dB PSD boosting of PDCCH can provide up to 5.1 dB coverage extension when
channel estimation is based on non-power boosted CRS.
#### 9.5.4.2 Impact on specification
In order to support repetition of (E)PDCCH across multiple subframes,
specification impact is expected, given that (E)PDCCH is currently sent in one
subframe. Specification impact may include specification of starting subframe
of first transmission and the maximum number of repetitions. With repetition
required for (E)PDCCH and PDSCH, the current timing relationship between PDSCH
and (E)PDCCH (i.e., both are encapsulated in the same subframe except for SPS)
also needs to be revisited. The same may also apply to the (E)PDCCH and PUSCH
timing relationship.
For EPDCCH, PSD boosting may be applied with no specification impact due to
the use of DMRS. For PDCCH, the degree of specification impact would depend on
the details of how PSD boosting is introduced (i.e., on CRS and/or data), even
though the UE does not need to be aware of CRS boosting for QPSK demodulation.
RAN4 specification impact from PSD boosting on PDCCH/EPDCCH or the
demodulation RS could arise from the larger variation in transmit power across
subcarriers and its effects on EVM requirements.
Compact DCI formats or higher aggregation levels will have some specification
impact, such as for definition of new DCI format and redesign of search space
to support higher aggregation levels.
#### 9.5.4.3 Other impacts
Repetition of (E)PDCCH across multiple subframes will result in increased
latency and increased overhead for the actual traffic payload to be conveyed.
Small MTC packet payload may result in an even larger proportional overhead
for control channel and CRC. The control overhead needs further analysis,
concerning the overall system efficiency optimization.
The impact on power consumption due to (E)PDCCH processing is expected to come
from prolonged reception time in RF and baseband due to repetition across
subframes.
The cost impact of MTC UEs may largely depend on the buffer size required to
store received data and LLRs. Depending on the processing time and the gap
between repetitions, MTC UEs may need some additional buffer in the case
(E)PDCCH is repeated across subframes.
### 9.5.5 PUCCH
#### 9.5.5.1 Coverage enhancement
The coverage target for PUCCH (format 1a) is 13.5 dB for FDD and 17.3 dB for
TDD. Time domain repetition can be applied to PUCCH for coverage improvement.
The exact repetition number depends on the PUCCH format employed. For PUCCH
format 1a, simulation results show 50\~ 100 times repetition is needed for FDD
based on different BLER target.
PUCCH carries UCI which includes Scheduling Request (SR), HARQ-ACK and CSI.
Repetition times could be shortened if some of these contents are reduced or
eliminated. In general, the necessity of supporting PUCCH for MTC UEs in
extreme coverage scenario could be further evaluated.
#### 9.5.5.2 Impact on specification
To support time domain repetition, minor specification impact on HARQ-ACK
timing is expected. If some or all of the contents of PUCCH is reduced or
eliminated, some specification impacts could be anticipated. For example, if
HARQ-ACK is eliminated, impact on HARQ retransmission is expected. With SR
elimination, impact on PRACH collisions probability may need to be considered.
There could also be impact on corresponding downlink control information (DCI)
optimization.
#### 9.5.5.3 Other impacts
No significant impact on UE cost and complexity is expected with time domain
repetition. Other impacts, such as increased UE power consumption, decreased
cell spectral efficiency and longer demodulation latency at eNB could be
expected.
### 9.5.6 PDSCH
#### 9.5.6.1 Coverage enhancement
Repetition in time domain, RS power boosting, increased RS density and PSD
boosting can be applied to PDSCH for coverage improvement.
The estimated repetition times provided by the sourcing companies to achieve
PDSCH coverage improvement target are summarized in Table 9.5.6.1-1 for FDD
and Table 9.5.6.1-2 for TDD. The evaluation assumptions are listed in Table
9.5.6.1-3.
Table 9.5.6.1-1: Repetition times to achieve PDSCH coverage improvement target
for FDD
* * *
Source Source 1 Source 2 Source 3 Source 4 Source 5 Source 6 Source 7 Source 8
Source 9 Source 10 Source 11 Repetition times 55 100\~200 330 80 145 65 400
200 42 100 100
* * *
NOTE 1: Source 8 assumes 20Hz frequency error and all other sources assume
100Hz frequency error
NOTE 2: Source 2 and Source 9 use single subframe channel estimation, other
sources use realistic cross-subframes channel estimation.
Table 9.5.6.1-2: Repetition times to achieve PDSCH coverage improvement target
for TDD
* * *
Source Source 1 Source 2 Source 3 **Repetition times** 160 256 290
* * *
NOTE 3: All sources use realistic cross-subframes channel estimation.
Table 9.5.6.1-2: Simulation assumptions of PDSCH
* * *
Parameter Value UL-DL configuration (For TDD) 0 Carrier frequency 2GHz for
FDD/2.6GHz for TDD Antenna configuration 2x2, low correlation for FDD; 8x2,
low correlation for TDD Channel model EPA Doppler spread 1Hz MCS 0 Number of
DL RBs 6 Transmission mode TM2 Frequency tracking error 100Hz Performance
target 10% iBLER Channel estimation Realistic cross-subframes or single-
subframe channel estimation The minimum required SINR -19.3dB for FDD; -25.3
dB for TDD
* * *
Evaluation results vary among sourcing companies due to different receiver
processing algorithms including different cross-subframe channel estimation
algorithms.
The observations from these evaluation results provided in Table 9.5.6.1-1 and
Table 9.5.6.1-2 are summarized as follows:
  * The coverage target for PDSCH can be met by time domain repetition
  * The average repetition time to achieve the coverage improvement target is 100\~200 for FDD and 200\~300 for TDD
  * Cross-subframe channel estimation requires less number of repetition times than single-subframe channel estimation.
In addition, RS power boosting and/or increased RS density may further improve
the channel estimation performance. Initial evaluation results from 2 sourcing
companies show about 1dB gain from 3dB CRS power boosting or doubled CRS
density. PSD boosting can help to improve the coverage. Initial evaluation
results from one sourcing company show 5dB gain from 9dB PSD boosting based on
CRS without CRS power boosting and 8.4dB gain from 9dB PDSCH and DM-RS
boosting.
#### 9.5.6.2 Impact on specification
Some specification impact is expected due to time domain repetition depending
on the specific schemes, e.g. TTI bundling, HARQ retransmission etc. TTI
bundling needs to be introduced in downlink if it is adopted to achieve time
domain repetition which will impact TSG RAN1, RAN2 and/or RAN4 in terms of,
for example, configuration of bundling window, composition of repeated
subframes, etc. Also, (E)PDCCH overhead optimization may also have impacts on
PDSCH specification.
RS power boosting and PSD boosting are currently supported. If higher RS power
boosting or PSD boosting is introduced, some specification impacts on TSG
RAN1, RAN2 and/or RAN4 are expected. Increasing RS density is expected to
cause significant impact on TSG RAN1 specifications.
#### 9.5.6.3 Other impacts
Time domain repetition prolongs UE reception time which will cause more UE
power consumption. RS power boosting, increased RS density or PSD boosting is
not expected to cause more UE power consumption.
Time domain repetition will cause significant cell spectral efficiency
degradation since more physical resources will be occupied for a single packet
transmission. CRS power boosting, increased CRS density or PSD boosting will
degrade cell spectral efficiency since the power of other REs is reduced or
even eliminated as long as the power at eNB is not increased. DM-RS power
boosting or increased DM-RS density may not necessarily degrade cell spectral
efficiency depending on the concrete design.
The UE cost is not expected to significantly increase by adopting time domain
repetition, RS power boosting, PSD boosting or increased RS density.
### 9.5.7 PUSCH
#### 9.5.7.1 Coverage improvement
Repetition, increased DMRS density, PSD boosting, frequency hopping (during
repetition), shorter length CRC and code spreading are identified as
techniques to enhance PUSCH for coverage. One or more solutions among those
identified techniques can be used for enhanced PUSCH coverage. It is expected
however that repetition technique may be needed regardless of other techniques
applied or not to achieve coverage enhancement.
The estimated repetition times to achieve PUSCH coverage improvement target
are analyzed and summarized in Table 9.5.7.1-1 for FDD and Table 9.5.7.1-2 for
TDD. The evaluation assumptions are listed in Table 9.5.7.1-3.
Table 9.5.7.1-1 Repetition times to achieve PUSCH coverage improvement target
for FDD
Source | Source 1 | Source 2 | Source 3 | Source 4 | Source 5 | Source 6 | Source 7 | Source 8 | Source 9  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Repetitions/TBS/ achieved SINR | 219/20/  
-21.3dB 559/104/  
-21.2dB | 300/16/  
-20.7dB | 620/32/  
-21.3dB 730/56/  
-21.3dB 1160/104/  
-21.3dB | 300/16/  
-22dB | 1050/16/  
-19.3dB | 250/16/  
-21.3dB | 1000/160/-19dB | 93/42/  
-19.3dB | 100/16/  
-19.5dB 150/32/  
-20.5dB 150/32/  
-20dB 150/40/  
-19.8dB  
NOTE 1: Source 2 and Source 8 use single subframe channel estimation, other
sources use realistic cross-subframes channel estimation.
Table 9.5.7.1-2 Repetition times to achieve PUSCH coverage improvement target
for TDD
+-------------------------------+--------------+ | Source | Source 1 | +-------------------------------+--------------+ | Repetitions/TBS/achieved SINR | 210/56/-27dB | | | | | | 90/24/-25dB | +-------------------------------+--------------+
##### NOTE 2: Source 1 uses realistic cross-subframes channel estimation.
Table 9.5.7.1-3 Simulation assumptions of PUSCH
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | System bandwidth | > 10MHz | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | UL-DL configuration (For TDD) | > 0 | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | > 2GHz for FDD/2.6GHz for TDD | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration | > 1x2, low correlation for FDD; | | | > 1x8, low correlation for TDD | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Channel model | > EPA | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Doppler spread | > 1Hz | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Number of UL RBs | > 1 | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Transmission mode | > TM1 | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Frequency tracking error | > 100Hz | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Performance target | > 10% iBLER | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Channel estimation | > Realistic cross-subframe channel | | | > estimation or single-subframe | | | > channel estimation | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | The minimum required SINR | > -24.3 dB for FDD; -30.3 dB for | | | > TDD; note that this minimum | | | > required SINR is achieved by 2 | | | > PRBs transmission | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
Evaluation results vary among sourcing companies due to difference on achieved
SINR, selection of TBS and different receiver processing/algorithm in terms of
cross-subframe channel estimation.
The observations from these evaluation results provided in Table 9.5.7.1-1 and
Table 9.5.7.1-2 are summarized as follows:
• The coverage target for PUSCH can be met by repetition
\- For 1 PRB carrying 16-104 bits (i.e., required SINR = -21.3dB for FDD and
-27.3dB for TDD), repetition time to achieve the coverage improvement target
is within a range of around 200\~1200 (relatively larger amount of repetition
is required compared to PDSCH)..
\- The required number of repetition also depends on the selected TBS and the
number of transmission PRBs.
\- Cross-subframe channel estimation requires less number of repetition times
than single-subframe channel estimation.
\- Selection of TBS needs to consider the spectral efficiency and channel
coding gain.
In addition, PSD boosting (e.g., by allocating 1 PRB instead of 2 PRBs or by
using fewer than 12 subcarriers in each PRB) may further reduce the number of
repetitions (initial evaluation results show about 20% \~ 30% repetition can
be saved by using 1 PRB than 2 PRBs). Increased DMRS density (e.g., doubled
DMRS symbols) can also reduce the number of repetitions to achieve coverage
gain.
In addition, frequency hopping (during repetition) and shorter length CRC can
bring additional coverage gain. Code spreading can also be considered to
improve the coverage.
#### 9.5.7.2 Impact on specification
For the support of repetition, PSD boosting, and frequency hopping, some
specification impact is expected while some corresponding fundamental
operation such as TTI bundling, PSD boosting, frequency hopping are already
being supported in current specification. Introduction of extended PUSCH
bundling window and corresponding UL HARQ timeline and/or design of frequency
hopping pattern combined with repetition will impact RAN1, RAN2 and/or RAN4.
For the support of increased DMRS density, code spreading, and shorter length
CRC, relatively larger specification impact is expected since those solutions
may have to go with new design, further evaluations and/or estimation on
potential impacts. Those solutions are expected to cause some impacts on RAN1,
RAN2 and RAN4 while design of increased DMRS density or code spreading will
mainly impact RAN1 and introduction of shorter length CRC will mainly impact
RAN2.
#### 9.5.7.3 Other impacts
Repetition and code spreading prolongs UE transmission time which will cause
more UE power consumption. Increased DMRS density, PSD boosting, frequency
hopping, and shorter length CRC is not expected to cause more UE power
consumption.
Repetition will cause significant cell spectral efficiency degradation since
more physical resources will be occupied for a single packet transmission to
accumulate more energy or obtain more coding gain. Increased DMRS density, PSD
boosting, frequency hopping, and shorter length CRC are not expected to cause
significant cell spectral efficiency degradation. Code spreading may cause
spectral efficiency degradation depending on scheduling in eNB (i.e. whether
multiple UEs with different code are to be multiplexed within a same PRB) or
limited supportable packet size (e.g. up to 20 bits if existing PUCCH format 3
design is reused).
The UE cost/complexity is not expected to significantly increase by adopting
repetition, increased DMRS density, PSD boosting, frequency hopping, shorter
length CRC and code spreading.
Besides, impact to the eNB receiver is expected, for example, for schemes like
long code spreading and changes to DMRS density.
# 10 Conclusion and recommendations
Cost reduction techniques have individually been analyzed in clause 6 and
further cumulative reduction has been analyzed, for cost reduction and
coverage impact in clause 7 of this TR.
There are uplink and/or downlink coverage impacts for some of the proposed
cost reduction techniques. E.g. Reduction in uplink transmit power
significantly impacts uplink coverage performance and single receive RF chain
impacts downlink coverage performance.
Uplink transmit power reduction impacts UL spectral efficiency in comparison
to normal LTE operation. Single receive antenna may have impact on DL spectral
efficiency depending on the frequency band and antenna performance in
comparison to normal LTE operation. Spectral efficiency for both UL and DL is
expected to be better for low data rate MTC traffic with either or both of
these techniques compared to that achieved for R99 GSM/EGPRS terminals in
GSM/EGPRS networks today.
Some bandwidth reduction options have relatively large impact on specification
of Radio Interface architecture and protocols; some of these aspects may be
covered by the Enhanced DL control channel(s) work item. Reduced uplink
transmit power and single receive RF chain may have relatively large impact
for specification of radio performance aspect\'s.
No eNodeB hardware upgrade is envisaged for any of the studied techniques.
Support of cost reduction techniques is also envisaged to reduce power
consumption cumulatively. Among the techniques studied, except for half duplex
FDD, no other techniques result in degradation to latency for HARQ operation.
Bill Of Material cost of LTE UE modem would be comparable to EGPRS modem if
e.g. downlink bandwidth is reduced to 1.4 MHz, if downlink transmission modes
are reduced, half duplex FDD is adopted, peak data rate is reduced with TBS
restricted to 1000 bits and Single Rx chain is adopted.
Among the three techniques studied for peak data rate reduction, reduction of
maximum transport block sizes for DL and UL (technique 1) has higher cost
savings compared to other two techniques. Note that technique 3 (\"restricting
the maximum modulation order\") is not a recommended technique.
At least Peak rate reduction with TBS restricted to 1000 bits and bandwidth
reduction with transmission bandwidth reduced to 1.4 MHz are recommended as
cost reduction techniques for low-cost MTC UE. Transmission bandwidths of 3MHz
and 5 MHz are not excluded if there is severe degradation in coverage when
combined with other techniques e.g. single receive RF, though it is desired to
preserve the cost savings. Half duplex FDD is expected to be supported at
least as an optional feature for UE category specified for low-cost MTC
devices. Since peak uplink transmission power reduction cannot meet the
coverage requirements defined in the study item: it is not recommended as a
cost saving technique for a low-cost MTC device. In addition, coverage
reduction should be entirely compensated to ensure same service coverage as
LTE for the coverage limiting channel(s) with other techniques as a pre-
requisite for adopting single receive RF chain or combinations including them.
In addition, it is recommended to introduce an MTC-specific UE category and to
restrict any MTC-related low-cost adopted technique to this new UE category
only, as described in subclause 8.1.
Coverage improvement techniques that can improve coverage for delay tolerant
MTC UE in FDD and TDD systems have been studied and link level solution(s) to
improve coverage for various physical channels and signals have been analysed
in clause 9 of this TR. For deployments where small cells are already
deployed, an additional technique for coverage improvement based on UL/DL
decoupling is studied in subclause 9.4.5 of this TR.
The analysis of coverage improvement from various techniques for the studied
physical channels show additional coverage improvement target of 20dB targeted
by the study can be achieved with techniques studied in subclause 9.4 of this
TR.
Protocol and RF Specification impact for each of the techniques applicable to
respective physical channels/signals has been analysed in subclause 9.5 of
this TR along with other impacts such as UE power consumption, UE cost
sensitivity of the technique and spectral efficiency impact. Required system
functionality has been analysed in subclause 9.3 of this TR.
Not all delay tolerant MTC UE\'s are expected to be in bad coverage or require
the same coverage improvement. A mechanism to identify and inform eNB the
amount of coverage the MTC device requires is studied in subclause 9.5.3.1 of
this TR. It is desirable that technique(s) for coverage improvement support
scalability of spectral efficiency impact and also the mechanism allow that.
The larger the required improvement to coverage, and for some channels larger
the number of MTC UE\'s in bad coverage, larger is the spectrum efficiency
impact (although it has been found that this is not necessarily a linear
relationship),specification impact and cost/power consumption impact. It is
recommended that further work on techniques should consider these factors.
The coverage enhancement target should be balanced with other considerations
(e.g., spectral efficiency, power consumption, cost impact and specification
impacts). Considering the spectrum efficiency, specification impact and
standardization effort, possible target of coverage enhancement in terms of
trade off could be 15 dB at least for FDD.
###### ### Annex A: Traffic model for Machine-Type Communications
Traffic characteristics may be required for cost analysis for comparing
features of an MTC UE set against the environment in which the device is
expected to work. A traffic model is valuable when it comes to other aspects
of the analysis that are within the scope of the study item, particularly
relating to the quantification of spectrum efficiency.
Some of the typical MTC type Traffic are characterised by small packets in
downlink and uplink. Certain applications are in addition characterised by
heavy access load in uplink. Below clause A.1 is based on traffic
characteristics specified in TR 37.868.
End to End latency achievable should be determined from analysis/evaluation
and should be no worse than (E)GPRS and preferably comparable to LTE The
analysis/evaluation shall determine the number of UE\'s that can report. When
considering the 20dB improvement in coverage in comparison to defined LTE cell
coverage footprint engineered for \"normal LTE UEs\", latency from trigger to
response 5 seconds in the exception report scenario and 10 seconds in the
triggered report scenario is allowed.
For reference, in the analysis of smart metering applications, the three
scenarios/use cases below are useful.
{width="6.395833333333333in" height="1.8854166666666667in"}
A. Command-response traffic (triggered reporting) between base station and WAN
module; \~20bytes for command (Downlink) & \~100 bytes for response (uplink)
with a latency of 10seconds from command sent from eNB to response received by
eNB. 10 seconds of round trip latency is shared between downlink and uplink
message with frequency of daily to monthly. Example use case: Energization
status message, Consumer messaging.
B. Exception reported by WAN module; Report (Uplink) could be \~100 bytes with
latency of 3-5 seconds from event at the WAN module. Example use case: Meter
alerts (Tamper, fire) etc. with frequency of daily to monthly
C. Periodic reports or Keep alive; \~100 bytes (Uplink) and not sensitive to
latency (E.g. tolerance of 1 hour) with frequency of daily to monthly. Example
use case:, Power (Kw), Volume (gas e.g. m3 ), Micro generation read, etc. with
frequency of daily to monthly
For reference, numbers of smart meters assuming household density from London
[19] and Tokyo [20] census data are shown below.
London:
* * *
Case Household Density per Sq km ISD (m) Number of device within a home Number
of homes within a cell Dense Urban [4275] [500]m 3 [926] Urban [1517] [1732]m
3 [3941]
* * *
Tokyo:
* * *
Case Household Density per Sq km ISD (m) Number of device within a home Number
of homes within a cell Dense Urban [7916] [500]m 3 [1714] Urban [2316] [1732]m
3 [6017]
* * *
# A.1 MTC Traffic model/characteristics regular reporting
Table A.1: UL regular reporting traffic characteristics for low-cost MTC
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Use cases | UL interval | Packet (bits) | Mobility | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **No | 1min | 1000, optional | Static, | | mobility** | (optional) | 10000 | | | | | | Pedestrian | | | 5min, 30min, | | (optional, no | | | | | seamless | | | 1hour | | handover | | | | | requirement) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Limited | 5s (optional) | 1000 | Vehicular (no | | mobility** | | | seamless | | | 10s,30s | | handover | | | | | requirement) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# A.2 MTC Traffic model/characteristics triggered reporting
Below is a generic traffic model modeling both UL and DL.
Table A.2 -- MTC traffic model
* * *
Traffic model parameter (UL and DL) Value Traffic volume size distribution
(Triggered) 256 bits,1000 bits Traffic inter-arrival time (Triggered)
Exponential: Mean = 30secs*
* * *
* It should be noted from Table A.2.1 that the values for 'Traffic transmission time\' and 'Traffic inter-arrival time\' result in a tractable simulation run time but may not represent the behavior of all traffic types.
#