# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
At present, sustainable development is a long-term commitment for all people
in the world. This means not only development but also innovation. People
should do their best to handle the resource shortage and environment
deterioration. Therefore, how to improve the power efficiency and realize the
power saving becomes a significant issue.
In the telecom area, most mobile network operators aim at decreasing the power
consumption without too much impact on their network. In this case, the
greenhouse emissions are reduced, while the OPEX of operators is saved.
Thus, the power efficiency in the infrastructure and terminal becomes an
essential part of the cost-related requirements in network, and there is a
strong need to investigate possible network energy saving solutions.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report for the study item Study on
Energy Saving Enhancement for E-UTRAN [2] which was approved at TSG RAN#58.
The objectives of this study item are to identify potential solutions for
energy saving scenarios for the LTE coverage layer scenario and the overlaid
scenario and to perform their initial evaluation so that a subset of them can
be used as the basis for further investigation and standardization.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-122035: \"Study on Energy Saving Enhancement for E-UTRAN \", CMCC.
[3] 3GPP TR 36.927: "Potential solutions for energy saving for E-UTRAN".
[4] R3-130862: "Discussion on the twin state ES solution for LTE coverage
layer", Fujitsu.
[5] R3-130972: "Energy Saving Enhancement Study on LTE Coverage Layer
Scenarios", NEC.
[6] R3-131335: \"Hybrid TX power optimization for LTE coverage layer\",
Mitsubishi Electric.
[7] INFSO-ICT-247733 EARTH Deliverable D2.3: "Energy efficiency analysis of
the reference systems, areas of improvements and target breakdown".
[8] R3-140983: "Introduction of reference features for Energy Saving",
Ericsson.
[9] R3-130669: "Transmission power optimization for non-overlapping macro
deployments", Nokia Siemens Networks, CMCC.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CN Core Network
DL Down Link
eNB enhanced NodeB
EPC Evolved Packet Core
EPS Evolved Packet System
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
ES Energy Savings
IE Information Element
IoT Interference over Thermal
LTE Long Term Evolution
MDT Minimizing Drive Testing
MRO Mobility Robustness Optimization
MTC Machine Type Communication
OAM Operations, Administration, Maintenance
OPEX Operating Expenses
PRB Physical Resource Block
QoS Quality of Service
RAN Radio Access Network
RRH Remote Radio Head
SON Self-Organizing Networks
TX Transmission
UE User Equipment
UL Up Link
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Inter-eNB energy saving **enhancement for overlaid scenario**
## 4.1 Study on inter-eNB scenario
### 4.1.1 Description of scenario
The scenario for inter-eNB energy saving enhancement for overlaid scenario and
corresponding requirements are similar to the scenario 1 for inter-eNB energy
saving as described in TR 36.927 [3], but with the addition that different
cells may offer different QoS and the QoS requirements of the UEs may be
considered when switching on/off the capacity booster cell(s). For LTE network
deployment, one possible application scenario of energy saving is described
hereafter.
Figure 4.1-1: Overlaid scenario
Figure 4.1-1 shows the overlaid scenario in which E-UTRAN Cells C, D, E, F and
G are covered by the E-UTRAN Cells A and B. Here, Cells A and B have been
deployed to provide basic coverage, while the other E-UTRAN cells boost the
capacity. When some cells providing additional capacity are no longer needed,
they may be switched off for energy optimization. Conversely, the switched off
cells may be activated when the network can benefit from the additional
capacity they provide.
In principle, inter-eNB energy saving mechanisms should preserve the basic
coverage in the network.
### 4.1.2 Solutions description
#### 4.1.2.1 Different ES actions for different UEs
**Problem description**
An operator may offer different types of subscriptions to differentiate users
along the offered QoS. Hence, the operator may want to apply a different
trade-off for different subscriber types. It may also be beneficial for an
operator to use different energy saving strategies for different subscription
types using specific devices, e.g. MTC devices, low cost MTC devices, and
Public Safety Devices.
Currently QoS is indicated by the EPS by means of standardised S1AP IEs.
Further possibilities to efficiently support different energy saving
strategies for different subscriber types could be studied.
The study should be limited to Energy Saving specific scenarios, since the
impact of switching off one or more cells is greater than in other scenarios
where cells are not switched off.
**Solutions**
The E-UTRAN utilises information provided by the CN to decide whether and
which ES action (switch on/off) should be taken. The information provided by
the CN could be as follows:
1) Using an explicit indicator in order to indicate that certain ES actions
are allowed to be taken when the UE is RRC_CONNECTED. The ES actions to be
taken by the E-UTRAN are subject to implementation and deployment and may be
also subject to configuration. The explicit indication may be either done by
introducing new signalling information on S1-MME or by configuring a specific
SPID code point.
2) Alternatively, E-UTRAN may use the existing QoS information for RABs in
order to determine whether certain ES actions are allowed to be performed.
Usage of the QoS information by the eNB is implementation specific.
#### 4.1.2.2 Switch On enhancement
**Problem Description**
When load increases in an area served by E-UTRAN coverage cells and several
E-UTRAN hotspot cells in that area are not active, the eNB owning the E-UTRAN
coverage cells may decide to switch on E-UTRAN hotspot cells including those
which are not able to serve the users causing high load. This may result in
waste of energy.
**Solution 1: UE detection of DL signalling from the hotspot cell**
The solution is based on UE detection of DL signals transmitted from the
hotspot cell. The coverage eNB identifies the appropriate hotspot cells based
on the UE measurements.
The coverage eNB predicts that it is likely that the coverage cell needs
resources in the time and requests dormant hotspot cells to transmit at least
downlink reference signals in order to allow UEs to perform measurements which
may help to determine which hotspot cells are able to serve UEs currently
served by the coverage cell. A sufficiently long period of time is required to
collect respective information. It is assumed that existing UE measurements
are suitable for that purpose. The hotspot cell autonomously decides to
transition to dormant mode after a while or may decide to operate in active
mode if the coverage cell offloads UEs to that particular hotspot cell.
The following issues have been identified:
Issue 1
How to mitigate intra-frequency interference caused by the hotspot cell?
Additional interference due to probing only occurs during the period of time
taken to make a decision as to which hotspot cell should accept traffic. By
using CRS interference handling, Release 11 UEs can mitigate intra-frequency
interference caused by the probing hotspot cell.
Issue 2
> What is the typical trigger for the coverage cell to request proximity
> detection considering that the coverage cell needs to predict the need of
> resources?
**Solution 2: IOT measurement by the hotspot cell**
The solution is based on analysis of the IoT measurements reported from
inactive hotspot cells to the coverage eNB. Based on these IoT figures, the
controller eNB of the coverage cell may be able to identify the proper hotspot
cell(s) that is (are) able to serve the UEs causing the high load. The
strategy to activate hotspot cells could be to activate the cells one by one.
In case the near-overload situation is not resolved, the next target could be
chosen.
The following issues have been identified:
Issue 1
What is the likelihood that the proximity of a UE is detected and the most
appropriate hotspot cell is activated?
Issue 2
How would the IoT measurements be calibrated among the nodes?
Issue 3
How would it be possible to distinguish the proximity of several interferers
from IoT?
Issue 4
How does this work in TDD where (as discussed in eIMTA) the DL of an eNB
interferes on the UL of neighbour eNBs?
Issue 5
What is the advantage compared to solution 1 in terms of energy saved and
speed of detecting the right hotspot cell?
Issue 6
If considered, is it feasible and advantageous to limit IoT measurements to
particular PRBs?
Issue 7
Will the solution have any additional impacts if hotspot cell is deployed with
a different carrier frequency as compared to the coverage cell?
Issue 8
What is the typical trigger for the coverage cell to request proximity
detection considering that the coverage cell needs to predict the need of
resources?
Issue 9
How much time is required in order to collect the information (order of
seconds, tens of seconds, minutes or more)?
**Solution 3: Detection of UL signals by the hotspot cell**
The solution is based on using specific uplink signals to be detected by the
hotspot cell.
The solution is composed of three steps:
Step 1: The coverage eNB determines and configures UEs for uplink
transmission.
Step 2: The coverage eNB sends the uplink signals configuration to the hotspot
eNB by new IE on X2AP.
Step 3: The hotspot eNB detects the configured nearby UEs by monitoring the
uplink signals. After detecting uplink signalling with the signalled
configuration, it can use this information for switch on decisions. It can
also send the detection information to the coverage eNB, over new IEs or X2-AP
messages, which can make the switch-on decision and signal this to the hotspot
eNB.
The following issues have been identified:
Issue1
It needs to be discussed whether this mechanism needs to change UE behaviour.
Issue 2
The operational state of the hotspot cell needs to be clarified.
Issue3
What is the advantage compared to solution 1 in terms of energy saved and
speed of detecting the right hotspot cell?
Issue 4
What is the typical trigger for the booster cell to start proximity detection
considering that the coverage cell needs to predict the need of resources?
Issue 5
How much time is required in order to collect the information (order of
seconds, tens of seconds, minutes or more)?
#### 4.1.2.3 eNodeB self-detection and self-tagging for energy savings mode
**Problem description**
In the Energy Savings scenarios considered in this study item it is assumed
that the operators have to individuate and authorize through OAM the eNodeBs
able to enter Energy Savings mode. This process relies on qualified human
efforts (OPEX) to identify the candidate sites for sleep mode, verify these
choices through coverage predictions using an operational planning tool, and
manually tag these candidate sites at OAM level. Moreover the global coverage
map could evolve during the life of the network, due to equipment
configuration modification (e.g. tilt, network densification, amplifier
change...) or geographical environment changes (e.g. buildings in dense
areas). In this case the operator needs to modify the Energy Savings
configuration of the involved sites, adding new OPEX costs.
The study should describe solutions for E-UTRAN to automatically self-
configure itself in terms of eNodeB selection and authorization for Energy
Savings mode.
**Solutions**
**Solution 1: Centralized solution based on MDT:**
In this case, mobile devices report their best server and the second best
server along with the corresponding RSRP and the RSRQ values. A centralized
processing allows identifying the capacity booster cells based on neighbouring
cell information reported within MDT:
\- If for a given eNodeB, all users that reported a cell belonging to this
eNodeB as the best server, have also reported a cell belonging to another
eNodeB as a neighbour with a good RSRP, this eNodeB is considered as a
candidate site to sleep mode
\- These measurements have to be performed for a sufficiently long time
The RSRQ information is useful for evaluating the level of interference,
knowing that this information has to be post-processed as it contains the
interference from the site that is candidate to sleep mode.
**Solution 2: Distributed solution within eNodeBs based on ANR feature:**
In this case, the neighbouring cells information available due to the ANR SON
feature could be used in order to determine the RSRP and RSRQ levels received
from different neighbours. The same processing as for the MDT case can be
used. However, the main difference here is that this ANR information is not
centralized, but locally available within eNodeBs. This solution will thus
need exchanges between sites via X2 interface in order to make global
decisions.
Both solutions adopt a statistical approach so the algorithm does not react to
single measurements.
### 4.1.3 Solutions evaluation
This section compares and evaluates the following solutions for inter-eNB
energy saving enhancements for overlaid scenario:
\- Different ES actions for different UEs (table 4.1.3-1)
\- Switch on enhancement (table 4.1.3-2).
Table 4.1.3-1: Comparison of solutions for Different ES actions for different
UEs
* * *
                         Solution-1                                                                                                                                                                                                            Solution-2
Complexity A new ES specific indicator (or re-using the SPID) would bring RAN
specific handling to the CN and subscription data. Since this solution reuses
presently defined and established concepts, additional configurations would
not be required. But this may make it difficult to get a coherent behaviour
from RAN nodes from different vendors in the coverage and capacity layer
Potential ES gain This has not been evaluated This has not been evaluated
Specification impact Medium, requires changes for defining the new parameter
(or modify the definition of SPID) and updating relevant specifications in all
working groups. There might also be impacts to core network specifications..
None OAM impact Requires that OAM configures both CN and RAN (in the same way
as for SPID). none eNB impact A new indicator which should be stored and
transferred during HO or the SPID may be re-used. Impact is lower for this
solution since no new information is added, only additional processing of
already available information. UE impact None None
* * *
For Switch on enhancement, the evaluation of the Potential ES gain takes the
following aspects into account:
\- Energy consumption in the booster cell when collecting or assisting in
collecting UE proximity information.
\- The reduction in energy consumption in the coverage providing cell when
moving UEs to the booster cell.
Further potential aspects for evaluation:
\- To which extent the potential ES gain needs to be corrected if cases are
taken into account where the proximity mechanism has either no information
available when needed or makes an incorrect decision.
\- To which extent the potential ES gain needs to be corrected if a typical
smart phone behaviour is taken into account where UEs change between idle and
connected mode frequently.
Table 4.1.3-2: Comparison of solutions for Switch on enhancement
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution-1 | Solution-2 | Solution-3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Complexity | This method | The solution | This method | | | re-uses | uses existing | uses existing | | | existing | radio | capabilities | | | signalling on | signalling and | of the UE and | | | the radio | hardware. The | ES cell and | | | interface and | enhancements | only requires | | | existing UE | to the | that the | | | measurement | existing X2 | receiver of | | | procedures. | signalling | the ES cell is | | | | that are | active. The UE | | | Some X2 | needed (IoT | performs the | | | signalling is | report at | usual process | | | needed to | least) will | for | | | determine the | create an | transmitting | | | proper booster | additional | the uplink | | | cell. | signalling | signal and the | | | | phase before | ES cell | | | | HO preparation | receives the | | | | (off-loading | uplink signals | | | | HO). | in the same | | | | | way it would | | | | | usually. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | enhancements | | | | | to X2 | | | | | signalling | | | | | that are | | | | | needed allow a | | | | | coverage eNB | | | | | to provide | | | | | uplink signal | | | | | transmission | | | | | parameters to | | | | | ES cells and | | | | | allow ES cells | | | | | to report | | | | | uplink signal | | | | | information to | | | | | a coverage | | | | | eNB. This X2 | | | | | signalling | | | | | occurs before | | | | | ES cells are | | | | | switched on | | | | | and offloading | | | | | handovers are | | | | | performed. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Potential ES | No | No | No | | gain | quantitative | quantitative | quantitative | | | analysis has | analysis has | analysis has | | | been | been | been | | | performed. | performed. | performed. | | | | | | | | Amongst | This method | This method | | | others, the ES | allows the ES | allows the ES | | | gain depends | cell's | cell's | | | on the ratio | transmitter to | transmitter to | | | of probing | remain off. | remain off. | | | time to the | The number of | | | | actual on time | ES cells | The number of | | | before | ultimately | ES cells | | | switching off, | switched on is | ultimately | | | how accurate | limited to | switched on is | | | the detection | those that | limited to | | | is, and how | detect a | those that | | | much energy | significant UE | detect a | | | would be | load based on | significant UE | | | wasted by not | the uplink IoT | resource load | | | admitting a UE | received. | based on the | | | to the small | | uplink signals | | | cell. | Amongst | received. | | | | others, the ES | | | | | gain depends | Amongst | | | | on how much | others, the ES | | | | energy would | gain depends | | | | be required | on how much | | | | for the cells | energy would | | | | to detect the | be required | | | | presence of | for the cells | | | | UEs in its | to detect the | | | | proximity, how | presence of | | | | accurate the | UEs in its | | | | detection is, | proximity how | | | | and how much | accurate the | | | | energy would | detection is, | | | | be wasted by | and how much | | | | not admitting | energy would | | | | a UE to the | be wasted by | | | | small cell. | not admitting | | | | | a UE to the | | | | | small cell. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Specification | Signalling | At least | At least | | impact | similar to | signalling for | signalling for | | | inter-RAT | the IoT | providing | | | probing | reporting is | uplink signal | | | solution (Rel. | needed. | transmission | | | 11) may be | | parameters and | | | needed but was | | for reporting | | | not discussed | | uplink signal | | | in depth | | information is | | | during the | | needed. | | | study item. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | OAM impact | Possible | Possible | Possible | | | switch ON | switch ON | threshold for | | | thresholds | thresholds | potential ES | | | need to be | need to be | Cell load | | | defined in | defined in | needs to be | | | OAM. The | OAM. The | added in OAM | | | impact would | impact would | for a coverage | | | be that OAM | be that OAM | eNB to | | | has to | has to | determine when | | | maintain these | maintain these | an ES cell | | | thresholds and | thresholds and | should be | | | their | their | switched on. | | | configuration. | configuration. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | eNB impact | During the | For the case | The ES cell's | | | probing period | where an ES | uplink signal | | | the eNB | cell cannot | receiver is | | | transmits the | operate in a | configured | | | DL signals | frequency used | according to | | | necessary for | by the | parameters | | | a UE to | coverage cell, | received from | | | measure on the | additional | the coverage | | | cell and | receiver | eNB. | | | report to the | resources are | | | | coverage cell. | needed. | For the case | | | | | where an ES | | | | | cell cannot | | | | | operate in a | | | | | frequency used | | | | | by the | | | | | coverage cell, | | | | | additional | | | | | receiver | | | | | resources are | | | | | needed. | | | | | | | | | | Tight | | | | | s | | | | | ynchronization | | | | | may be needed | | | | | for SRS | | | | | detection. | | | | | | | | | | Active UEs | | | | | that perform | | | | | uplink | | | | | transmissions | | | | | may consume | | | | | additional | | | | | uplink | | | | | resources from | | | | | the coverage | | | | | eNB | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UE impact | For intra | None | No UE | | | frequency | | modifications | | | deployments, | | are required. | | | UE may | | Additional | | | experience | | uplink | | | interference. | | signalling may | | | For inter | | be required | | | frequency the | | when ES cells | | | UEs need to be | | are to be | | | reconfigured | | switched on. | | | and measure on | | | | | other | | | | | frequencies. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 4.1.4 Conclusions
Following conclusions can be formulated:
1\. For different ES actions for different UEs:
The study aimed at evaluating whether and how far ES solutions can provide
gains when taking QoS requirements of subscribers into account. Two solutions,
with additional signalling compared to already existing signalling, were
proposed. One solution is to re-use existing QoS parameters and the other
solution is to specify a new indicator sent from CN to the eNB. But the study
has not evaluated the benefits of these additional signalling.
2\. For switch-on enhancement:
New energy saving solutions for switch-on enhancement were identified, but
there was no agreement possible if the proposed solutions outperform existing
switch-on solutions. It has been identified that the achievable ES gain also
depends on the energy consumption in the coverage cell and the energy
consumption during collection of proximity information.
3\. For eNodeB self-detection and self-tagging for energy savings mode:
The simulation results for this specific scenario show some gains which are
interesting for some operators.
# 5 Energy **saving scenarios for LTE coverage layer**
Scenarios for energy saving are scenarios where a LTE layer deployed according
to network planning to provide coverage may offer opportunities to reduce the
overall energy consumption.
Energy saving scenarios includes cells switching off with compensation
provided by neighbour cells and/or other energy saving methods, e.g. energy
saving with Tx power optimization.
The Compensation in the context of Energy Saving denotes a method where
accessibility to the network in a coverage area of a cell to be moved in
Energy Saving mode is provided by the coverage of one or more other cells.
Note: It is an operator task to provide a compensation which respects the
local regulatory constraints (e.g. power, throughputs, ...).
_It is operator\'s concern to select appropriate areas where these methods can
be applicable. Possible candidate areas are characterised by a network
deployment that enables the extension of cells (i.e. not coverage limited) and
areas where the traffic variation in time puts different requirements on the
capacity (e.g. office areas, sports arenas)_.
## 5.1 Common requirements and constraints
The basic requirements for energy saving scenarios for LTE coverage layer are
included in the scope of the study item on Network Energy Saving for E-UTRAN
(TR 36.927 [3]). The following requirements are added:
a) Avoid coverage compensation if it is not necessary
b) Interference levels shall be approximately equal or lower when the network
enters energy saving mode
c) UE QoS experience should be taken into consideration when developing energy
saving solutions
The energy savings gain for LTE coverage layer scenarios may be limited by the
increase in transmission power of compensation cells. As studied in [4], [5] a
constraint for this scenario is that the energy saving action employed by the
compensation cells should not increase their transmit power beyond the limit
within which energy savings is achievable.
## 5.2 Single compensating eNB deployment scenario
### 5.2.1 Scenario description
Figure 5.2.1-1: Single compensating eNB
A coverage layer of E-UTRAN cells is deployed. At off-peak time, energy saving
cells which may belong to different eNBs (e.g., cell4 of eNB2, cell5 of eNB3
and cell6 of eNB4 in Figure 5.2.1-1) may enter dormant mode, while the basic
coverage is provided by one or more cells of one eNB (e.g., cell 1, 2 and 3 of
eNB1). Adjacent areas to the coverage provided by eNB1, eNB2 and eNB3 (cell
1-6) may have E-UTRAN coverage provided by eNBs not shown in Figure 5.2.1-1.
### 5.2.2 Solutions description
OAM configures which cells are switched off to reduce the power consumption
and which cells are either switched on or re-configured to provide coverage
replacing the coverage of the cells that are switched off.
OAM provides alternative configuration data to cells reconfigured to provide
coverage originally provided by the switched off cells.
It is assumed that the different coverage configurations are obtained by
careful network planning and testing.
It is assumed that only a very limited number of coverage configurations are
realistic (e.g. only two).
The following issues have been addressed:
**Issue 1**
By modifying the coverage, the MRO algorithm in neighbour cells may be
impacted.
When a cell is switched off or when a cell extended its coverage for
compensation, neighbour cells HO relation may change. New cell neighbour
relations and new HO parameters setting and optimization may be necessary.
[Solution 1.1:]{.underline} A new indicator is introduced to inform neighbours
over X2 interface of the configuration change.
Step 1: The eNB controlling the cells that extend their coverage keep the same
cell identifications (ECGI/PCI) for the cells with extended coverage as for
the cells in normal coverage mode.
Step 2: In order to handle neighbour cell relations and mobility parameters
properly, the extended coverage cell state is distinguished from the normal
coverage cell state with an explicit indicator provided within the X2 eNB
Configuration Update procedure.
Step 3: The eNBs affected by the coverage change may need to adjust mobility
parameters.
[Solution 1.2:]{.underline} The compensating cell appears as a different cell
(with different ECGI and possibly also different PCI).
Step 1: The eNB controlling the cells that extend their coverage configure the
extended cells with cell identifications (i.e. different ECGI and possibly
also different PCI) and other necessary configuration data different from the
configuration data used for the cell in normal coverage mode. There are
benefits of re-using the PCI, but this requires a solution to avoid possible
PCI/ECGI ambiguity creating inter-RAT mobility problems and problems with RLF
indication.
Step 2: The eNB controlling the cells that extend their coverage informs its
neighbour eNBs with the existing X2 eNB Configuration Update procedure of the
configuration change.
Step 3: Typically, the mobility parameters applicable for the respective
configuration are stored in the eNB. However, if necessary, the eNBs affected
by the coverage change may adjust mobility parameters.
[Solution 1.3:]{.underline} The OAM configures the cells with respective MRO
parameters. And eNB informs OAM of MRO parameters optimization.
**Issue 2**
How to inform neighbours about the configuration change of the cell that will
provide the compensation.
[Solution 2.1:]{.underline} In case the compensating cell appears as a
different cell (with different ECGI and possibly also different PCI): Existing
messages (eNB configuration update) can be re-used to inform neighbours about
the configuration change.
[Solution 2.2:]{.underline} In case the compensating cell appears as the same
cell (with the same ECGI/PCI). An explicit indicator is introduced to inform
neighbours about the configuration change.
**Issue 3**
How to provide continuous service to RRC-Connected UEs served by the cell
which will move to Energy Saving Mode during the transition to ES.
[Solution 3.1:]{.underline} Energy saving cell and compensation cell
coordinate with each other about the time of state transition. Tx ramping of
compensating cells (in one direction) and of ES cells (in the opposite
direction) are coordinated with timers.
[Solution 3.2:]{.underline} Use handover preparation to at least enable RRC
re-establishment in the new cell.
Step 1: ES cell initiates handover preparation procedure for the cell to
compensating cell.
Step 2: ES cells are switched off while the coverage of the compensation cells
is extended.
Step 3: Handover failure happens due to the discontinuity of coverage.
Step 4: UEs perform RRC Re-establishment in the compensating cell and the Re-
establishment would succeed since the compensating cell has the UE context.
[Solution 3.3:]{.underline} Compensation cells and energy saving cells
coordinate the usage of their carriers in a 4-steps process:
Step 1: Energy saving cells hand over users on a carrier different from a
carrier f,
Step 2: Compensation cells increase the coverage of carrier f,
Step 3: Energy saving cells hand over UEs to compensation cells, and
Step 4: Energy saving cells switch off radio transmissions, compensation cells
extend other carriers coverage.
[Solution 3.4:]{.underline} Compensation cell expands its coverage before
energy saving cell switches off. The co-channel interference is mitigated by
configuring some ABS subframes for energy saving cells in the compensation
cell. UEs served by ES cells can be handed over after or during compensation
cell changes its coverage.
Step 1: Compensation cell configure some ABS subframes and inform energy
saving cell through Load Indication message.
Step 2: Compensation cell expands its coverage.
Step 3: Energy saving cell use the ABS subframes to send handover command to
the UEs.
Step 4: After handing over all UEs to compensation cells, energy saving cells
switched off.
[Solution 3.5:]{.underline} Compensation cells and Energy Saving cells
exchange parameters allowing them to coordinate their TX power adaptation,
taking into account SINR perceived by active UEs [6]. The solution is
applicable to multi-compensation cells and multi-ES cells.
**Issue 4**
If the compensating cell appears as a different cell (with different
ECGI/PCI): How to provide continuous service to RRC-Connected UEs served by
the compensation cell during the transition to ES.
[Solution 4.1:]{.underline} Solution based on an extra available carrier on
compensation cell.
Step 1: The compensation cell on carrier f hands over UEs to a cell C on a
carrier different from the carrier f. Cell C is controlled by the same eNB as
the compensation cell.
Step 2: The compensation cells switches off.
Step 3: The compensation cell switches on, still using carrier f, with
extended coverage and with a different PCI/ECGI. ABS is used in the
compensation cell to mitigate interference of UEs served by the ES cells to be
switched off (cf. solution 3.4).
Step 4: The UEs that were handed over to cell C are handed over to the
compensation cell, and energy saving cells hand over UEs to the compensation
cells.
Step 5: The ES cells are switched off.
[Solution 4.2:]{.underline} based on extra available carrier on both
compensation cell and ES cell.
Step 1: The compensation cell on carrier f hands over UEs to a cell C on a
carrier different from the carrier f. Cell C is controlled by the same eNB as
the compensation cell.
Step 2: The compensation cells switches off and notifies the ES cell(s).
Step 3: The ES cell(s) on carrier f handover UEs to cells Di using the other
carrier. The cells Di are controlled by the same eNB(s) as the ES cell(s).
Step 4: The compensation cell switches on, still using carrier f, with
extended coverage and with a different PCI/ECGI.
Step 5: The UEs are handed over from cells C and Di to the compensation cell.
Step 6: The ES cell(s) are switched off.
**Issue 5**
The signalling mechanism to be used for switch on/off cells requires a
definition.
OAM has pre-configured a set of coverage configurations for a limited number
(typically 2) of network states for a given geographical area.
[Solution 5.1:]{.underline} OAM decides based on information from eNBs.
### 5.2.3 Solutions evaluation
**Issue 1**
The solutions for this issue are evaluated and compared in the table 5.2.3-1
below.
Table 5.2.3-1 Evaluation of solutions for issue 1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution 1.1 | Solution 1.2 | Solution 1.3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Complexity** | There are two | There is only | There are two | | | coverage | one coverage | coverage | | | states visible | state visible | states for one | | | over the X2, | over the X2 | PCI/ECGI. OAM | | | and the change | per ECGI. | stores these | | | of state needs | | and (re-) | | | to be notified | The solution | configures all | | | to neighbour | is based on | impacted nodes | | | cells. | existing | accordingly. | | | | signalling and | | | | It is assumed | functionality. | | | | that one X2 | | | | | message pair | | | | | needs to be | | | | | exchanged to | | | | | update the MRO | | | | | state | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Potential ES | N/A | N/A | N/A | | gain** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | * | New RNL | None. | New OAM | | _Specification | Signalling | | requirements | | impact_ _| would need to | | could be | | | reflect the | | captured in | | | cell | | 36.300. | | | statesImpact | | | | | on MRO.Load | | SA5 | | | Information, | | specification | | | Neighbour Cell | | impact not | | | Information, | | assessable by | | | UE History may | | RAN3 | | | be impacted. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ |__OAM impact_ _| OAM will be | OAM is | At state | | | involved in | required to | transition, | | | cell state | configure more | store | | | configuration. | ECGIs and, | parameters of | | | | dependent on | the state that | | | | the solution | is left, and | | | | chosen, also | re-configure | | | | more PCIs | the eNB | | | | | according to | | | | | the state that | | | | | it entered. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ |__eNB impact_ _| The eNB needs | The eNB needs | At state | | | to take into | to maintain | transition, | | | account | two logical | the eNB needs | | | neighbour cell | cells (with | to store MRO | | | states and | different IDs) | parameters for | | | perform | for each | the state that | | | respective | physical | is left and | | | signalling. | compensation | re-configure | | | | cell and | the eNB | | | | perform | according to | | | | respective | the state that | | | | signalling. | it entered. | | | | | | | | | Note: If the | | | | | same PCI is | | | | | reused in | | | | | these two | | | | | logical cells, | | | | | the IRAT | | | | | neighbour | | | | | relationships | | | | | may be | | | | | affected and | | | | | cause mobility | | | | | failure. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ |__UE impact_ * | None | None | None | | | identified | identified | identified | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
**Issue 2**
As solutions 2.1 and 2.2 for this issue are basically the same as solutions
1.2 and 1.1 of issue 1 respectively, the evaluation of solutions 1.2 and 1.1
in table 5.2.3-1 apply to solutions 2.1 and 2.2 respectively.
**Issue 3**
The solutions for this issue are evaluated and compared in the table 5.2.3-3
below.
Table 5.2.3-3 Evaluation of solutions for issue 3
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Solution | Solution | Solution | Solution | Solution | | | 3.1 | 3.2 | 3.3 | 3.4 | 3.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Comp | Depends | The | The UEs | This | Similar | | lexity** | on | source | served | solution | to | | | planning | eNB will | by ES | relies | Solution | | | and test | trigger | cell | on | 3.1 with | | | effort. | handover | need to | existing | UE | | | Depends | pre | be | eICIC | mea | | | on | paration | handed | me | surement | | | whether | to | over | chanism. | taken | | | an OAM | multiple | twice. | | into | | | or | target | | | account. | | | si | eNBs | An extra | | | | | gnalling | | carrier | | | | | solution | N | is | | | | | is | eighbour | r | | | | | en | eNBs may | equired. | | | | | visaged. | be | | | | | | | informed | The | | | | | | about | solution | | | | | | the | is based | | | | | | upcoming | on | | | | | | change | existing | | | | | | | si | | | | | | Extra | gnalling | | | | | | si | and | | | | | | gnalling | functi | | | | | | in X2 | onality. | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | needed | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | perform | | | | | | | handover | | | | | | | prep | | | | | | | aration. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | is based | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | existing | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | gnalling | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | functi | | | | | | | onality. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **P | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | otential | | | | | | | ES | | | | | | | gain** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Speci | Depends | None. | None. | None. | Further | | fication | on the | | | | ev | | impact** | actual | | | | aluation | | | solution | | | | of the | | | (OAM or | | | | method | | | sign | | | | is | | | alling). | | | | needed. | | | | | | | New | | | In case | | | | si | | | of | | | | gnalling | | | signalli | | | | need to | | | ng-based | | | | be | | | s | | | | in | | | olution, | | | | troduced | | | it is | | | | for the | | | required | | | | coord | | | to | | | | ination. | | | maintain | | | | | | | tight | | | | It is | | | time | | | | required | | | synchron | | | | to | | | ization, | | | | maintain | | | which is | | | | tight | | | not | | | | time | | | gu | | | | synchron | | | aranteed | | | | ization, | | | n | | | | which is | | | owadays. | | | | not | | | | | | | gu | | | | | | | aranteed | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | owadays. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **OAM | If an | None | OAM | OAM is | RF | | impact** | OAM | | i | required | Pa | | | method | | nitiates | to | rameters | | | is used, | | the | pre-c | for each | | | RF | | reconfi | onfigure | ramping | | | Pa | | guration | the ABS | step | | | rameters | | in the | subframe | need to | | | for each | | c | pattern | be | | | ramping | | oncerned | for the | c | | | step | | eNBs. | ES cell | arefully | | | need to | | | and the | planed | | | be | | | comp | and | | | c | | | ensating | tested. | | | arefully | | | cell. | | | | planed | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | tested. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **eNB | Both the | The | The ES | None. | Both the | | impact** | ES eNB | source | eNB is | | ES eNB | | | and | eNB | required | | and the | | | comp | triggers | to | | comp | | | ensating | handover | support | | ensating | | | eNB need | pre | multi- | | eNB need | | | to | paration | carriers | | to take | | | perform | to | overlaid | | into | | | Tx | multiple | with the | | account | | | ramping | target | ES cell. | | the UE | | | in a | eNBs | | | SINR. | | | syn | | | | | | | chronous | | | | Multi-it | | | way, and | | | | erations | | | are | | | | of | | | required | | | | coor | | | to | | | | dination | | | perform | | | | on Tx | | | power | | | | power | | | ramping | | | | might be | | | along a | | | | needed | | | c | | | | between | | | arefully | | | | the two | | | planned | | | | eNBs. | | | and | | | | | | | tested | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | chedule. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **UE | No | No | No | Impact | No | | impact** | req | req | req | on UE | req | | | uirement | uirement | uirement | f | uirement | | | on UE | on UE | on UE | eatures: | on UE | | | f | f | f | | f | | | eatures. | eatures. | eatures. | The UEs | eatures. | | | | | | served | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | ES cell | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | required | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | eICIC | | | | | | | feature | | | | | | | (Rel-11 | | | | | | | UEs). | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Impact | Impact | Impact | Impact | Impact | | | on UE | on UE | on UE | on UE | on UE | | | power | power | power | power | power | | | cons | cons | cons | cons | cons | | | umption: | umption: | umption: | umption: | umption: | | | | UEs need | UEs need | | | | | One time | to | to | One time | One time | | | handover | attempt | execute | h | handover | | | | r | handover | andover. | | | | | e-establ | twice. | | | | | | ishment. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
**Issue 4**
The solutions for this issue are evaluated and compared in the table 5.2.3-4
below.
Table 5.2.3-4 Evaluation of solutions for issue 4
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Solution 4.1 | Solution 4.2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Complexity** | All the UEs served | All the UEs served | | | by the compensation | by the compensation | | | cell need to be | cell and the ES cell | | | handed over to | need to be handed | | | another carrier. | over to another | | | | carrier. | | | An extra available | | | | carrier is required. | Two extra available | | | | carriers are | | | The solution is | required. | | | based on existing | | | | signalling and | The solution is | | | functionality | based on existing | | | | signalling and | | | | functionality | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Potential ES | N/A | N/A | | gain** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Specification | None | None | | impact** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **OAM impact** | OAM needs to | None | | | pre-configure the | | | | required ABS | | | | subframe | | | | configurations for | | | | the ES cell and the | | | | compensating cell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **eNB impact** | The compensating eNB | Both the | | | is required to be | compensating eNB and | | | deployed extra | the ES eNB are | | | carriers overlaid | required to be | | | with the | deployed extra | | | compensation cell. | carriers overlaid | | | | with the concerned | | | | cells. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **UE impact** | Impact on UE | No requirement on UE | | | features: | features. | | | | | | | The UEs served by | | | | the compensation | | | | cell are required to | | | | support eICIC | | | | feature (Rel-11 | | | | UEs). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Impact on UE power | Impact on UE power | | | consumption: | consumption: | | | | | | | UEs served by | UEs served by | | | compensation cell | compensation cell | | | need to execute | and ES cell need to | | | twice handovers. | execute handover | | | | twice. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
**Issue 5**
The solution for this issue is evaluated in the table 5.2.3-5 below.
Table 5.2.3-5 Evaluation of solution for issue 5
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | | Solution 5.1 | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | **Complexity** | The eNBs should inform OAM of necessary | | | information (e.g. load status) to enable | | | the OAM to make switch off/on decision. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | **Potential ES gain** | N/A | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | **Specification impact** | None for RAN specs. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | **OAM impact** | OAM is required to make switch off/on | | | decision based on information (e.g. the | | | load status) from the ES cells and | | | compensation cells. | | | | | | Signalling used to exchange cell load | | | information and switch off/on command | | | needs to be defined over management | | | interface. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | **eNB impact** | The eNBs should inform OAM of necessary | | | information (load status) of the | | | concerned cells, and be ready to handle | | | the switch off/on command from OAM. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | **UE impact** | None. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.4 Conclusions
Following conclusions can be formulated:
1\. All the issues related to compensation scenario can be resolved with
existing X2AP signalling.
2\. If the discussion on MRO support for dynamic deployment changes (TR
37.822) concludes that new X2AP signalling is beneficial, that signalling may
be reused for ES purposes.
3\. There are benefits of re-using the PCI in the compensation cell, but this
requires a solution to avoid possible PCI/ECGI ambiguity creating inter-RAT
mobility problems and problems with RLF indication.
## 5.3 Multiple compensating eNBs deployment scenario
### 5.3.1 Scenario description
Figure 5.3.1-1: Multiple compensating eNBs deployment scenario
A coverage layer of E-UTRAN cells is deployed. At off-peak time, one or more
cells (e.g., cell 1, 2 and 3 of eNB1 in Figure 5.3.1-1) of one or more eNB
enter(s) dormant energy saving mode and two or more adjacent compensation
cells belonging to different eNBs e.g., cell4 of eNB2, cell5 of eNB3 and cell6
of eNB4 in Figure 5.3.1-1) extend their coverage to provide basic coverage to
UEs in dormant cells area. Adjacent areas to the coverage provided by eNB1,
eNB2 and eNB3 (cell 1-6) may have E-UTRAN coverage provided by eNBs not shown
in Figure 5.3.1-1.
### 5.3.2 Solutions description
OAM configures which cells are switched off to reduce the power consumption
and which cells are either switched on or are re-configured to provide
coverage replacing the coverage of the cells that are switched off.
OAM provides alternative configuration data to cells reconfigured to provide
coverage originally provided by the switched off cells.
It is assumed that the different coverage configurations are obtained by
careful network planning and testing.
It is assumed that only a very limited number of coverage configurations are
realistic (e.g. only two).
The following issues have been addressed:
**Issue 1.**
By modifying the coverage, the MRO algorithm in the neighbour cells may be
impacted.
When a cell is switched off or when a cell extended its coverage for
compensation, neighbour cells HO relation may change. New cell neighbour
relations and new HO parameters setting and optimization may be necessary.
[Solution 1.1:]{.underline} A new indicator is introduced to inform neighbours
over X2 interface of the configuration change.
Step 1: The eNB controlling the cells that extend their coverage keep the same
cell identifications (ECGI/PCI) for the cells with extended coverage as for
the cells in normal coverage mode.
Step 2: In order to handle neighbour cell relations and mobility parameters
properly, the extended coverage cell state is distinguished from the normal
coverage cell state with an explicit indicator provided within the X2 eNB
Configuration Update procedure.
Step 3: The eNBs affected by the coverage change may need to adjust mobility
parameters.
[Solution 1.2:]{.underline} The compensating cell appears as a different cell
(with different ECGI/PCI).
Step 1: The eNB controlling the cells that extend their coverage configure the
extended cells with cell identifications (ECGI/PCI) and other necessary
configuration data different from the configuration data used for the cell in
normal coverage mode.
Step 2: The eNB controlling the cells that extend their coverage informs its
neighbour eNBs with the existing X2 eNB Configuration Update procedure of the
configuration change.
Step 3: Typically, the mobility parameters applicable for the respective
configuration are stored in the eNB. However, if necessary, the eNBs affected
by the coverage change may adjust mobility parameters.
[Solution 1.3:]{.underline} The OAM configures the cells with respective MRO
parameters. And eNB informs OAM of MRO parameters optimization.
**Issue 2**
How to inform neighbours about the configuration change of the cell that will
provide the compensation.
[Solution 2.1:]{.underline} In case the compensating cell appears as a
different cell (with different ECGI/PCI). Existing messages (eNB configuration
update) can be re-used to inform neighbours about the configuration change.
[Solution 2.2:]{.underline} In case the compensating cell appears as the same
cell (with the same ECGI/PCI). An explicit indicator is introduced to inform
neighbours about the configuration change.
**Issue 3**
How to provide continuous service to RRC-Connected UEs served by the cell
which will move to Energy Saving Mode during the transition to ES.
[Solution 3.1:]{.underline} Energy saving cell and compensation cell
coordinate with each other about the time of state transition. Tx ramping of
compensating cells (in one direction) and of ES cells (in the opposite
direction) are coordinated with timers.
[Solution 3.2:]{.underline} Use handover preparation to at least enable RRC
re-establishment in the new cell.
Step 1: ES cell initiates handover preparation procedure for the cell to
compensating cell.
Step 2: ES cells are switched off while the coverage of the compensation cells
is extended.
Step 3: Handover failure happens due to the discontinuity of coverage.
Step 4: UEs perform RRC Re-establishment in the compensating cell and the Re-
establishment would succeed since the compensating cell has the UE context.
[Solution 3.3:]{.underline} Compensation cells and energy saving cells
coordinate the usage of their carriers in a 4-steps process:
step 1: Energy saving cells hand over users on a carrier different from a
carrier f,
step 2: Compensation cells increase the coverage of carrier f,
step 3: Energy saving cells hand over UEs to compensation cells, and
step 4: Energy saving cells switch off radio transmissions, compensation cells
extend other carriers coverage.
[Solution 3.4:]{.underline} Compensation cell expands its coverage before
energy saving cell switches off. The co-channel interference is mitigated by
configuring some ABS subframes for energy saving cells in the compensation
cell. UEs served by ES cells can be handed over after or during compensation
cell changes its coverage.
Step 1: Compensation cell configure some ABS subframes and inform energy
saving cell through Load Indication message.
Step 2: Compensation cell expands its coverage.
Step 3: Energy saving cell use the ABS subframes to send handover command to
the UEs.
Step 4: After handing over all UEs to compensation cells, energy saving cells
switched off.
[Solution 3.5:]{.underline} Compensation cells and Energy Saving cells
exchange parameters allowing them to coordinate their TX power adaptation,
taking into account SINR perceived by active UEs [6]. The solution is
applicable to multi-compensation cells and multi-ES cells.
**Issue 4**
If the compensating cell appears as a different cell (with different
ECGI/PCI): How to provide continuous service to RRC-Connected UEs served by
the compensation cell during the transition to ES.
[Solution 4.1:]{.underline} Solution based on an extra available carrier on
compensation cell.
Step 1: The compensation cell on carrier f hands over UEs to a cell C on a
carrier different from the carrier f. Cell C is controlled by the same eNB as
the compensation cell.
Step 2: The compensation cells switches off.
Step 3: The compensation cell switches on, still using carrier f, with
extended coverage and with a different PCI/ECGI. ABS is used in the
compensation cell to mitigate interference of UEs served by the ES cells to be
switched off (cf. solution 3.4).
Step 4: The UEs that were handed over to cell C are handed over to the
compensation cell, and energy saving cells hand over UEs to the compensation
cells.
Step 5: The ES cells are switched off.
[Solution 4.2:]{.underline} based on extra available carrier on both
compensation cell and ES cell.
Step 1: The compensation cell on carrier f hands over UEs to a cell C on a
carrier different from the carrier f. Cell C is controlled by the same eNB as
the compensation cell.
Step 2: The compensation cells switches off and notifies the ES cell(s).
Step 3: The ES cell(s) on carrier f handover UEs to cells Di using the other
carrier. The cells Di are controlled by the same eNB(s) as the ES cell(s).
Step 4: The compensation cell switches on, still using carrier f, with
extended coverage and with a different PCI/ECGI.
Step 5: The UEs are handed over from cells C and Di to the compensation cell.
Step 6: The ES cell(s) are switched off.
**Issue 5**
It has been discussed whether multiple configurations should be defined to
enable compensation by different subsets of neighbouring compensation cells.
It is recommended to do not use multiple configurations to enable compensation
by different subsets of neighbouring compensation cells.
Note: It is possible to use multiple configurations (more than 2) to enable
compensation by different subsets of neighbouring compensation cells. This may
provide multiple choices for much more flexible energy compensation depending
on for example the load of the compensating cells. This will require more
complex signalling for switch on/off and will require much more work for
coverage optimization.
**Issue 6**
The signalling mechanism to be used for switch on/off cells requires a
definition.
OAM has pre-configured a set of coverage configurations for a limited number
(typically 2) of network states for a given geographical area.
[Solution 6.1:]{.underline} OAM decides based on information from eNBs.
### 5.3.3 Solutions evaluation
The analysis performed in section 5.2.3 for the single compensating eNB
deployment also applies for the multiple compensating eNB deployment.
### 5.3.4 Conclusions
Following conclusions can be formulated:
1\. All the issues related to compensation scenario can be resolved with
existing X2AP signalling.
2\. If the discussion on MRO support for dynamic deployment changes (TR
37.822) concludes that new X2AP signalling is beneficial, that signalling may
be reused for ES purposes.
3\. There are benefits of re-using the PCI in the compensation cell, but this
requires a solution to avoid possible PCI/ECGI ambiguity creating inter-RAT
mobility problems and problems with RLF indication.
## 5.4 Transmission power optimization scenario
### 5.4.1 Scenario description
The scenario assumes the TX power of LTE cells can be reduced. This approach
to save energy is to optimize the transmission power of all or most cells, so
that without switching off any cell, overall energy consumption is minimized.
### 5.4.2 Solutions description
**[Solution 1]{.underline}**
A distributed scheme where eNBs use mobility measurement (and possibly MDT
measurements) collected from the UEs to estimate if there is any scope for TX
power optimisation. There is no need to forward measurements between eNB. It
is assumed that the allowed range of the power adjustment is controlled by
OAM. The allowed range of the power adjustment guarantees a stable system,
i.e. any combination of values selected by the eNBs involved in that scheme
should not result in coverage holes, etc.
The following issue has been addressed:
**Issue 1**
The need to negotiate or inform about changes of the transmit power between
eNBs and which power to negotiate was discussed.
If a cell changes its transmission power of the reference signal, the border
with neighbour cells may be shifted. The following two solutions are
identified with regard to informing neighbour cells or not:
[Solution 1.1:]{.underline} Do not inform neighbours about changes in power
[Solution 1.2:]{.underline} Inform about changes to the power usage of
reference signal.
**[Solution 2]{.underline}**
A centralized approach is used where OAM performs the transmit power
adjustment with the help of MDT measurements collected by the eNB and
forwarded to OAM.
### 5.4.3 Solutions evaluation
The solutions for Issue 1 in Solution 1 are evaluated and compared in the
table 5.4.3-1 below.
Table 5.4.3-1 Evaluation of solutions for issue 1 in Solution1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Solution 1.1 | Solution 1.2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Complexity** | No | Only related to the | | | | needed signalling | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Potential ES | An eNB may decrease | An eNB may reduce | | gain** | its TX power only as | its TX power as much | | | much as the coverage | as own and | | | allows. | neighbour's | | | | measurements allow. | | | Note: The potential | | | | gains depend on the | Note: The potential | | | margins that have | gains depend on the | | | been taken for the | margins that have | | | initial deployment. | been taken for the | | | | initial deployment. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Specification | No | X2AP signalling to | | impact** | | inform about allowed | | | | margins | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **OAM impact** | Usual OAM operation | Usual OAM operation | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **eNB impact** | An eNB must analyse | An eNB must analyse | | | reports from the UEs | reports from the UEs | | | to decide how much | and the neighbours | | | it can reduce its TX | to decide how much | | | power | it can reduce its TX | | | | power | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **UE impact** | No specific impact | No specific impact | | | (existing HO | (existing HO | | | reporting) | reporting) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The solutions for transmission power optimization scenario are evaluated and
compared in the table 5.4.3-2 below.
Table 5.4.3-2 Evaluation of solutions for Transmission power optimization
scenario
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Solution 1 | Solution 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Complexity** | See above (Table | OAM must collect and | | | 5.4.3-1) | compare, the MDT | | | | measurements and | | | | current TX settings | | | | at eNBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Potential ES | See above (Table | The OAM is able to | | gain** | 5.4.3-1) | optimize the TX | | | | power as much as | | | | each eNB's settings | | | | allow. | | | | | | | | Note: The potential | | | | gains depend on the | | | | margins that have | | | | been taken for the | | | | initial deployment. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Specification | See above (Table | ItfN to enable | | impact** | 5.4.3-1) | synchronized TX | | | | power setting | | | | modification | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **OAM impact** | See above (Table | The OAM must be | | | 5.4.3-1) | enhanced with a full | | | | new functionality | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **eNB impact** | See above (Table | eNBs must report | | | 5.4.3-1) | their settings to | | | | the OAM. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **UE impact** | See above (Table | MDT measurements are | | | 5.4.3-1) | needed. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE: The mechanism is based on long term statistics to determine the possible
margin of Tx power.
### 5.4.4 Conclusions
Following conclusions can be formulated:
1\. The gain offered by the TX power optimization depends on the network
deployment margins;
2\. If the margins are low, the gain may be too low to justify the effort
needed to implement automatic optimisation;
3\. If such optimisation is decided justifiable, the solution must provide
mechanism to guarantee cell border stability and user accessibility.
###### ### Annex A: Requirements for Rel-12 energy saving solutions
Table A.1: Requirements for Rel-12 energy saving solutions
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+ | Requirements | Description | +---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+ | Feasibility | Candidate solutions should be easily implemented | | | with existing technology or realistic changes to | | | the standards. | | | | | | F1: Aligned to previous agreements in 3GPP | | | (architecture, principles, ...) | | | | | | F2: If a negative impact on other functionality | | | (e.g. OTDOA, PWS, MRO, ...) is identified a | | | solution for the issue is provided | | | | | | F3: Solutions shall be backwards compatible | +---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+ | Applicability | Verification against the scope of the SI as added | | | in the TR. | | | | | | A1: User accessibility should be guaranteed when a | | | cell transfers to energy saving mode | | | | | | A2: Solutions provided shall enable ES gain also | | | for deployments with legacy UEs. | | | | | | A3: Solutions shall not impact the Uu physical | | | layer | | | | | | A4: Avoid coverage compensation if it is not | | | necessary. | | | | | | A5: Interference levels shall be approximately | | | equal or lower when the network enters energy | | | saving mode. | | | | | | A6: UE QoS experience should be taken into | | | consideration when developing energy saving | | | solutions. | | | | | | Requirements A4, A5 and A6 are applicable to LTE | | | Coverage Layer Solutions only. | +---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
###### ### Annex B: Evaluation Criteria for Rel-12 energy saving solutions
Table B.1: Evaluation Criteria for Rel-12 energy saving solutions
* * *
Criteria Description Complexity Candidate solutions should not be too complex
when implemented in practice. This criterion evaluates on how many messages
exchanging or calculations or network/eNodeB states visible in the interfaces
are needed for the solutions. Potential ES gain The potential gain of
candidate solutions for saving the energy should be evaluated. Quantitative
indication based rough calculation of ES gain should be added relative to the
energy saving scenarios described in TR36.887. Specification impact The
specification impact shall be described and evaluated. OAM impact The OAM
impact shall be described and evaluated. eNB impact The eNB impact shall be
described and evaluated. UE impact The UE impact and requirement for optional
UE features shall be described and evaluated. The aspect of UE power
consumption shall be taken into account.
* * *
###### ### Annex C: Model of Power Consumption in the eNB
This Annex introduces a model of the eNodeB power consumption as described in
[7].
A TRX comprises an antenna interface, a power amplifier, a radio frequency
small-signal transceiver section, a baseband interface including a receiver
(uplink) and transmitter (downlink) section, a DC-DC power supply, an active
cooling system and an AC-DC unit (main supply) for connection to the
electrical power grid.
The relations between relative RF output power Pout and BS power consumption
P~in~ is nearly linear (Figure 13 in [7]) and hence a linear approximation of
the power model is justified.
P~max~: Maximum RF output power at maximum load.
P~0~: The linear model parameter to represent power consumption at the zero RF
output power.
∆~p~: The slope of the load dependent power consumption.
P~sleep~: Power consumption when components in the TRX enter sleep mode (power
amplifier stage deactivation switches into sleep mode at zero load).
N~TRX~ : Number of TRXs.
Table C.1: Power model parameters:
* * *
BS type N~TRX~ P~max~ [W] P~0~ [W] ∆~p~ P~sleep~ [W] Wide Area 6 20 130.0 4.7
75.0 Wide Area with RRH 6 20 84.0 2.8 56.0 Medium Range 2 6.3 56.0 2.6 39.0
Local Area 2 0.13 6.8 4.0 4.3
* * *
###### ### Annex D: Other building blocks for power saving
An energy saving solution may be based on the combination of different
building blocks ranging from improved cell and antenna hardware, radio
interface and transmission techniques, up to techniques acting on the network
level. Some examples are provided:
**Improved cell hardware:** Power amplifiers based on operating point
adaptation and on deactivation of amplifier stages. An adaptive power supply
unit enables the adaptation and deactivation of the transceiver components and
the PA. The Small Signal RF transceiver allows the deactivation of some of its
components during time periods of no signal transmission. Finally, the digital
transceiver provides the signal conditioning features and the control signals
to the transceiver components for their adaptation and deactivation.
**Antenna muting (** radio transmission technique with relation to MIMO**):**
Antenna port 1-3 are muted or all signals are added and transmitted by one
physical antenna or signals on antenna ports 0 and 1 are added and transmitted
by one physical antenna. The activation and de-activation of antennas operate
virtually on a packet-by-packet basis or in the order of a few tens of
milliseconds. If any UE is connected and actively receiving data muting of
antenna ports is typically not made. Hence in practice there is no impact on
the coverage in active mode. (Note: The method does not require any cell
reconfiguration). eNB implementations need to mitigate the impact on coverage
for UEs in idle mode.
**Micro DTX (discontinuous transmission):** This radio interface technique,
enabled by improved cell hardware as described above, allows when no user data
is transmitted, to deactivate the radio (micro sleep mode) between
transmissions of cell specific reference symbols.
**Adaptive sectorisation:** Switching between omni and sector modes, the cell
in omni mode having its own E-CGI. In case of low utilization and lack of
interference, the sector antennas can be connected to a single transceiver.
Impact on coverage can be mitigated for example by increasing the DL RS power.
Problems/solutions related to cell splitting/merging in AAS-based deployments
may apply (cf. TR 37.822 [8] section 4.2).
It is noticeable that the above theoretically possible list options for power
saving rely on techniques which depend on vendor specific hardware
implementation and deployment. Therefore, their availability and thus
effectiveness in the real network is hard to assess here.
The following models roughly describe the expected power consumption.
**Notation**
β: The ratio between power consumption for the TRX in low load when the
transmitter is switched off and P~0~ (see Figure X below), related to antenna
muting or adaptive sectorisation.
A: The area where the eNodeB provides coverage.
d: The minimum amount of signals that needs to be provided in the area in
order to provide coverage (reference signals).
P~max~: Maximum RF output power at maximum load.
P~0~: The linear model parameter to represent power consumption at the zero RF
output power.
∆~p~: The slope of the load dependent power consumption.
P~sleep~: Power consumption when components in the TRX enter micro sleep (e.g.
power amplifier stage deactivation switches into micro sleep at zero load
during a fraction of a subframe).
N~TRX~: Number of TRXs
{width="4.159722222222222in" height="3.1152777777777776in"}
Figure E-1: The figure shows how the parameter β relates to the maximum output
power and the parameter P0 in the eNodeB power model. β shows the power
reduction when the power amplifier is switched off. For a description of the
particular selection of β = 0.43 used see [8]
**Reference model**
**TRX uses micro sleep (DTX)**
When micro sleep is used the equipment not used in the TRX is switched off.
**Power amplifier is switched off (antenna muting)**
If the load in the cell is low one of the power amplifiers in the sector,
which is part of the TRX, can be switched off while other parts of the TRX are
kept active in order to not impact the uplink performance negatively (such as
Rx chain). To be noted that the mitigation of coverage impact has not been
taken into account (i.e. the increase of transmit power of DL RS).
**Adaptive sectorisation**
When the load in the area covered by an eNodeB is low it is possible to change
to an omni cell where the three sectors use the same power amplifier. The
remaining five power amplifiers are switched off. In order to not negatively
impact the uplink, parts of the TRX are kept active consuming the energy
βP~0~. To be noted that the mitigation of coverage impact has not been taken
into account (e.g. the increase of transmit power of DL RS).
###### ### Annex E: Simulation results for "capacity oriented" deployment
**Study description:**
In this scenario, power consumption gains that can be achieved for the
overlaid scenario have been studied.
For this simulation we used an operational tool made for coverage
optimization. We first observe that, in dense urban areas, the coverage of LTE
base stations largely overlaps. This is due to the fact that the sites are
deployed for capacity purposes. In low traffic periods, i.e. when the capacity
of the sites is largely under-utilized, these capacity sites can be
deactivated with very low impact on the coverage (around 2-3% in our
simulation).For the simulations we implemented deep sleep mode on a site level
principle. Deep sleep mode consists in deactivating all radio functions (for
both layers); however the X2 interface is maintained active. We select sites
and deactivation time so that coverage and capacity are preserved; remaining
sites will offload the traffic that is no more covered by the deactivated
site. This is done in two steps:
Offline step: selection of sites that are candidate to sleep mode, i.e. sites
whose covered area is completely overlapping with that of other sites. This is
done using a network planning tool and the operator's knowledge about the
deployment process of the base stations.
Online step: activate/deactivate automatically candidate sites based on
traffic observation, and using only local traffic information exchanges via
the X2 interface (load of neighbouring cells). The deactivation process is
performed autonomously taking into account the load of neighbouring cells
while activation is required by a neighbouring site whose load starts
increasing beyond a critical threshold.
Two different layers (e.g. 800MHz and 2600MHz) can be deployed in the same
area. In this case the low coverage impact can be avoided. The deep sleep mode
selection process will be based on the 2600MHz layer. In case of deactivation
of a site due to low traffic, both layers are deactivated. But due to
different propagation rules, the 2-3% coverage hole will be covered by the
800MHz layer.
**Results:**
Our results (see table D.1 and figure D-1) show that active surrounding
neighbours can serve traffic belonging to a candidate deep-sleep mode site
along with their own traffic without compromising coverage as well as QoS
(user throughput). As of energy consumption gains, 19% power savings are
achieved when the load threshold (for activating a dormant site) is equal to
60%.
Table E.1: Total network consumption and energy savings for one day duration
{width="5.4534722222222225in" height="2.540277777777778in"}
{width="5.4840277777777775in" height="2.384027777777778in"}
Figure E-1: Total network energy savings during the day
###### ### Annex F: Potential Energy Savings for Envisaged Solutions for the
Non-Overlapping Scenario
This annex presents the potential overall energy saving gains, based on the
simulation results, that could be expected from compensation and Tx power
optimisation techniques compared to a high load-only deployment scenario. Note
that due to the complexity of network level simulations, simulation models
(i.e., simulation parameters or detailed scenarios) are not specified for this
study. Calibration exercise is not performed. The simulations are not based on
a common reference deployment scenario against which the energy saving gains
are shown.
**Compensation of ES cells**
In an interference-limited typical deployment scenario, when the network
capacity is decreased (spectrum efficiency at cell edge is reduced). [5]
showed that some energy saving gain can be achieved with an increase of
transmit power in the compensation cell of up to 70%. Savings in power
consumption can range from 22% (assuming no compensation) to 12 % (assuming
30% compensation) [5].
**Tx power optimisation**
In [9], for Tx power optimisation solution, under the assumption of a dense
macro deployment (ISD\<500m) and with rather relaxed power planning, and that
all eNBs are subject to Tx power reduction, it is argued that with 3db
decrease in Tx power (which is assumed to not affect coverage or performance),
energy savings up to 22% at full load, and 4% at zero load might be possible.
Assuming 8 hours of low traffic per day, this leads to a potential overall
gain of 16%.
#