# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum performance requirements for
A-GNSS (including A-GPS) for FDD or TDD mode of E-UTRA for the User Equipment
(UE).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.571-1: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification
for UE positioning; Part 1: Terminal conformance\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.355: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); LTE
Positioning Protocol (LPP)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.302: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Services provided by the physical layer\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer; Measurements\".
[7] ETSI TR 102 273-1-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum
Matters (ERM); Improvement on Radiated Methods of Measurement (using test
site) and evaluation of the corresponding measurement uncertainties; Part 1:
Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment characteristics;
Sub-part 2: Examples and annexes\".
[8] IS-GPS-200, Revision D, Navstar GPS Space Segment/Navigation User
Interfaces, March 7^th^, 2006.
[9] P. Axelrad, R.G. Brown, \"GPS Navigation Algorithms\", in Chapter 9 of
\"Global Positioning System: Theory and Applications\", Volume 1, B.W.
Parkinson, J.J. Spilker (Ed.), Am. Inst. of Aeronautics and Astronautics Inc.,
1996.
[10] S.K. Gupta, \"Test and Evaluation Procedures for the GPS User
Equipment\", ION-GPS Red Book, Volume 1, p. 119.
[11] 3GPP TS 36.509: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Packet Core (EPC); Special conformance testing functions for User
Equipment (UE)\".
[12] IS-GPS-705, Navstar GPS Space Segment/User Segment L5 Interfaces,
September 22, 2005.
[13] IS-GPS-800, Navstar GPS Space Segment/User Segment L1C Interfaces,
September 4, 2008.
[14] IS-QZSS, Quasi Zenith Satellite System Navigation Service Interface
Specifications for QZSS, Ver.1.1, July 31, 2009.
[15] Galileo OS Signal in Space ICD (OS SIS ICD), Draft 0, Galileo Joint
Undertaking, May 23^rd^, 2006.
[16] Global Navigation Satellite System GLONASS Interface Control Document,
Version 5.1, 2008.
[17] Specification for the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), US Department
of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, DTFA01-96-C-00025, 2001.
[18] BeiDou Navigation Satellite System Signal In Space Interface Control
Document Open Service Signal B1I(Version 1.0), China Satellite Navigation
Office, December 2012.
[19] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 36.101 [1], 3GPP TS 36.104 [2] and the following apply:
**Horizontal Dilution Of Precision (HDOP):** measure of position determination
accuracy that is a function of the geometrical layout of the satellites used
for the fix, relative to the receiver antenna
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
B1I BeiDou B1I navigation signal with carrier frequency of 1561.098 MHz.
E1 Galileo E1 navigation signal with carrier frequency of 1575.420 MHz.
E5 Galileo E5 navigation signal with carrier frequency of 1191.795 MHz.
E6 Galileo E6 navigation signal with carrier frequency of 1278.750 MHz.
G1 GLONASS navigation signal in the L1 sub-bands with carrier frequencies 1602
MHz ± k × 562.5 kHz.
G2 GLONASS navigation signal in the L2 sub-bands with carrier frequencies 1246
MHz ± k × 437.5 kHz.
k GLONASS channel number, k = -7...13.
L1 C/A GPS or QZSS L1 navigation signal carrying the Coarse/Acquisition code
with carrier frequency of 1575.420 MHz.
L1C GPS or QZSS L1 Civil navigation signal with carrier frequency of 1575.420
MHz.
L2C GPS or QZSS L2 Civil navigation signal with carrier frequency of 1227.600
MHz.
L5 GPS or QZSS L5 navigation signal with carrier frequency of 1176.450 MHz.
**G** Geometry Matrix.
Measured pseudo-range of satellite _i_ of GNSS~m~.
**W** Weighting Matrix.
Line of sight unit vector from the user to the satellite _i_ of GNSS~m~.
State vector of user position and clock bias.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
A-GNSS Assisted Global Navigation Satellite System
A-GPS Assisted - Global Positioning System
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BDS BeiDou Navigation Satellite System
C/A Coarse/Acquisition
DUT Device Under Test
ECEF Earth Centred, Earth Fixed
ECI Earth-Centered-Inertial
E-SMLC Enhanced Serving Mobile Location Centre
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GEO Geostationary Earth Orbit
GLONASS GLObal\'naya NAvigatsionnaya Sputnikovaya Sistema (Engl.: Global
Navigation Satellite System)
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
GPS Global Positioning System
GSS GPS System Simulator
HDOP Horizontal Dilution Of Precision
ICD Interface Control Document
IGSO Inclined Geosynchronous Satellite Orbit
IS Interface Specification
LOS Line Of Sight
LPP LTE Positioning Protocol
MEO Medium Earth Orbit
QZSS Quasi-Zenith Satellite System
RRC Radio Resource Control
SBAS Space Based Augmentation System
SFN System Frame Number
SS FDD System simulator
SV Space Vehicle
TDD Time Division Duplex
TLM TeLeMetry word. It contains an 8-bits preamble (10001011)
TOW Time Of Week
TTFF Time To First Fix
UE User Equipment
WLS Weighted Least Square
WGS‑84 World Geodetic System 1984
## 3.4 Test tolerances
The requirements given in the present document make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification 3GPP TS 36.571-1 [3] defines
test tolerances. These test tolerances are individually calculated for each
test. The test tolerances are then added to the limits in the present document
to create test limits. The measurement results are compared against the test
limits as defined by the shared risk principle.
Shared Risk is defined in ETR 273-1-2 [7], subclause 6.5.
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The present document defines the minimum performance requirements for both UE
based and UE assisted FDD or TDD A-GNSS (including A‑GPS) terminals.
### 4.1.1 Applicability of requirements in this specification version
For UE category M1 and UE category M2, unless otherwise stated, A-GNSS minimum
performance requirements in Section 5 and 6 are applicable only to UEs
supporting VoLTE. UE Category M1, comprising both DL UE category M1 and UL UE
category M1, is defined in TS 36.306 [19]. UE Category M2, comprising both DL
UE category M2 and UL UE category M2, is defined in TS 36.306 [19].
## 4.2 Measurement parameters
### 4.2.1 UE based A-GNSS measurement parameters
In case of UE-based A-GNSS, the measurement parameters are contained in the
_GNSS‑LocationInformation_ IE which is included in the
_A‑GNSS‑ProvideLocationInformation_ IE provided in the LPP message of type
PROVIDE LOCATION INFORMATION. The measurement parameter in case of UE-based
A-GNSS is the horizontal position estimate reported by the UE and expressed in
latitude/longitude.
### 4.2.2 UE assisted A-GNSS measurement parameters
In case of UE-assisted A-GNSS, the measurement parameters are contained in the
_GNSS‑SingnalMeasurementInformation_ IE which is included in the
_A‑GNSS‑ProvideLocationInformation_ IE provided in the LPP message of type
PROVIDE LOCATION INFORMATION. The measurement parameters in case of UE-
assisted A-GNSS are the UE GNSS code phase measurements, as specified in 3GPP
TS 36.302 [5] and 3GPP TS 36.214 [6]. The UE GNSS code phase measurements are
converted into a horizontal position estimate using the procedure detailed in
Annex F.
## 4.3 Response time
Max Response Time is defined as the time starting from the moment that the UE
has received the LPP message of type REQUEST LOCATION INFORMATION, and ending
when the UE starts sending the LPP message of type PROVIDE LOCATION
INFORMATION on the Uu interface. The response times specified for all test
cases are Time-to-First-Fix (TTFF) unless otherwise stated, i.e. the UE shall
not re‑use any information on GNSS time, location or other aiding data that
was previously acquired or calculated and stored internally in the UE. A
dedicated test message \'RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION\' has been
defined in TS 36.509 [11] clause 6.9 for the purpose of deleting this
information and is detailed in subclause B.1.10.
## 4.4 Time assistance
Time assistance is the provision of GNSS time to the UE from the network via
LPP messages. Currently two different GNSS time assistance methods can be
provided by the network.
a) Coarse time assistance is always provided by the network and provides
current GNSS time to the UE. The time provided is within ±2 seconds of GNSS
system time. It is signalled to the UE by means of the _gnss‑DayNumber_ and
_gnss‑TimeOfDay_ fields in the _gnss-SystemTime_ IE.
b) Fine time assistance is optionally provided by the network and adds the
provision to the UE of the relationship between the GNSS system time and the
current E-UTRAN time. The accuracy of this relationship is ±10 μs of the
actual relationship. This addresses the case when the network can provide an
improved GNSS time accuracy. It is signalled to the UE by means of the _gnss-
SystemTime_ IE and the _gnss‑ReferenceTimeForCells_ IE.
The specific GNSS system time is identified through the _gnss‑TimeID_ field of
the _GNSS‑SystemTime_ IE. In case where several GNSSs are used in the tests,
only one _gnss‑TimeID_ is used to determine the Time of Day. For all the
constellations, the _gnss‑TimeModels_ IE shall be available at the system
simulator, as specified in Annex E.
### 4.4.1 Use of fine time assistance
The use of fine time assistance to improve the GNSS performance of the UE is
optional for the UE, even when fine time assistance is signalled by the
network. Thus, there are a set minimum performance requirements defined for
all UEs and additional minimum performance requirements that are valid for
fine time assistance capable UEs only. These requirements are specified in
subclause 5.1.2 for UEs that support A-GPS L1 C/A only and in clause 6.1.2 for
UEs that support other GNSSs.
## 4.5 RRC states
The minimum A-GNSS performance requirements are specified in clauses 5 and 6
for RRC_CONNECTED state. The test and verification procedures are separately
defined in annex B.
## 4.6 Error definitions
The 2D position error is defined by the horizontal difference in meters
between the ellipsoid point reported or calculated from the LPP message of
type PROVIDE LOCATION INFORMATION and the actual position of the UE in the
test case considered.
4.7 UEs supporting multiple constellations
Minimum performance requirements are defined for each global GNSS
constellation (GPS, Galileo, Modernized GPS, GLONASS and BDS). UEs supporting
multiple global constellations shall meet the minimum performance requirements
for a combined scenario where each UE supported constellation is simulated.
NOTE: For test cases where signals from "GPS" and "Modernized GPS" are
included, "GPS" and "Modernized GPS" are considered as a single constellation,
unless otherwise specified.
4.8 UEs supporting multiple signals
For UEs supporting multiple signals, different minimum performance
requirements may be associated with different signals. The satellite simulator
shall generate all signals supported by the UE. Signals not supported by the
UE do not need to be simulated. The relative power levels of each signal type
for each GNSS are defined in Table 4.1. The individual test scenarios in
clause 6 define the reference signal power level for each satellite. The power
level of each simulated satellite signal type shall be set to the reference
signal power level defined in each test scenario in clause 6 plus the relative
power level defined in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Relative signal power levels for each signal type for each GNSS
                                                           Galileo   GPS/Modernized GPS   GLONASS   QZSS      SBAS   BDS
* * *
Signal power levels relative to reference power levels E1 0 dB L1 C/A 0 dB G1
0 dB L1 C/A 0 dB L1 0 dB B1I D1 0 dB D2 +5 dB E6 +2 dB L1C +1.5 dB G2 -6 dB
L1C +1.5 dB  
E5 +2 dB L2C -1.5 dB L2C -1.5 dB  
L5 +3.6 dB L5 +3.6 dB
NOTE 1: For test cases which involve "Modernized GPS", the satellite simulator
shall also generate the GPS L1 C/A signal if the UE supports "GPS" in addition
to "Modernized GPS".
NOTE 2: The signal power levels in the Test Parameter Tables represent the
total signal power of the satellite per channel not e.g. pilot and data
channels separately.
NOTE 3: For test cases which involve \"BDS\", D1 represents MEO/IGSO
satellites B1I signal type and D2 represents GEO satellites B1I signal type.
# 5 A-GNSS minimum performance requirements (UE supports A-GPS L1 C/A only)
The minimum performance requirements specified in clause 5 apply for UEs that
support A-GPS L1 C/A only. The requirements for UEs that support other or
additional A-GNSSs are specified in clause 6.
The A-GNSS minimum performance requirements are defined by assuming that all
relevant and valid assistance data is received by the UE in order to perform
GPS L1 C/A measurements and/or position calculation. This clause does not
include nor consider delays occurring in the various signalling interfaces of
the network.
In the following subclauses the minimum performance requirements are based on
availability of the assistance data information and messages defined in
annexes D and E.
## 5.1 Sensitivity
A sensitivity requirement is essential for verifying the performance of A-GNSS
receiver in weak satellite signal conditions. In order to test the most
stringent signal levels for the satellites the sensitivity test case is
performed in AWGN channel. This test case verifies the _performance of the
first position estimate, when the UE is provided with only coarse time
assistance and when it is additionally supplied with fine time assistance._
### 5.1.1 Coarse time assistance
In this test case 8 satellites are generated for the terminal. AWGN channel
model is used.
Table 5.1: Test parameters
Parameters Unit Value
* * *
Number of generated satellites - 8 HDOP Range - 1.1 to 1.6 Propagation
conditions - AWGN GNSS Coarse time assistance error range seconds ±2 GPS L1
C/A Signal for one satellites dBm -142 GPS L1 C/A Signal for remaining
satellites dBm -147
#### 5.1.1.1 Minimum Requirements (Coarse time assistance)
The position estimates shall meet the accuracy and response time specified in
Table 5.2.
Table 5.2: Minimum requirements (coarse time assistance)
Success rate 2-D position error Max response time
* * *
95 % 100 m 20 s
### 5.1.2 Fine time assistance
This requirement is only valid for fine time assistance capable UEs. In this
requirement 8 satellites are generated for the terminal. AWGN channel model is
used.
Table 5.3: Test parameters for fine time assistance capable terminals
Parameters Unit Value
* * *
Number of generated satellites - 8 HDOP Range - 1.1 to 1.6 Propagation
conditions - AWGN GNSS Coarse time assistance error range seconds ±2 GPS L1
C/A Fine time assistance error range μs ±10 GPS L1 C/A Signal for all
satellites dBm -147
#### 5.1.2.1 Minimum Requirements (Fine time assistance)
The position estimates shall meet the accuracy and response time requirements
in Table 5.4.
Table 5.4: Minimum requirements for fine time assistance capable terminals
Success rate 2-D position error Max response time
* * *
95 % 100 m 20 s
## 5.2 Nominal Accuracy
Nominal accuracy requirement verifies the accuracy of A-GNSS position estimate
in ideal conditions. The primarily aim of the test is to ensure good accuracy
for a position estimate when satellite signal conditions allow it. This test
case verifies the performance of the first _position estimate_.
In this requirement 8 satellites are generated for the terminal. AWGN channel
model is used.
Table 5.5: Test parameters
Parameters Unit Value
* * *
Number of generated satellites - 8 HDOP Range - 1.1 to 1.6 Propagation
conditions - AWGN GNSS Coarse time assistance error range seconds ±2 GPS L1
C/A Signal for all satellites dBm -130
### 5.2.1 Minimum requirements (nominal accuracy)
The position estimates shall meet the accuracy and response time requirements
in Table 5.6.
Table 5.6: Minimum requirements
Success rate 2-D position error Max response time
* * *
95 % 30 m 20 s
## 5.3 Dynamic Range
The aim of a dynamic range requirement is to ensure that a GNSS receiver
performs well when visible satellites have rather different signal levels.
Strong satellites are likely to degrade the acquisition of weaker satellites
due to their cross‑correlation products. Hence, it is important in this test
case to keep use AWGN in order to avoid loosening the requirements due to
additional margin because of fading channels. This test case verifies the
_performance of the first position estimate._
In this requirement 6 satellites are generated for the terminal. AWGN channel
model is used.
Table 5.7: Test parameters
Parameters Unit Value
* * *
Number of generated satellites - 6 HDOP Range - 1.4 to 2.1 GNSS Coarse time
assistance error range seconds ±2 Propagation conditions - AWGN GPS L1 C/A
Signal for 1st satellite dBm -129 GPS L1 C/A Signal for 2nd satellite dBm -135
GPS L1 C/A Signal for 3rd satellite dBm -141 GPS L1 C/A Signal for 4th
satellite dBm -147 GPS L1 C/A Signal for 5th satellite dBm -147 GPS L1 C/A
Signal for 6th satellite dBm -147
### 5.3.1 Minimum requirements (dynamic range)
The position estimates shall meet the accuracy and response time requirements
in Table 5.8.
Table 5.8: Minimum requirements
Success rate 2-D position error Max response time
* * *
95 % 100 m 20 s
## 5.4 Multi-Path scenario
_The purpose of the test case is to_ verify the receiver\'s tolerance to
multipath while keeping the test setup simple. This test case verifies the
_performance of the first position estimate._
In this requirement 5 satellites are generated for the terminal. Two of the
satellites have one tap channel representing Line-Of-Sight (LOS) signal. The
three other satellites have two-tap channel, where the first tap represents
LOS signal and the second reflected and attenuated signal as specified in
Annex C.2.
Table 5.9: Test parameters
+----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | Parameters | Unit | Value | +============================+=========+============================+ | Number of generated | - | 5 | | satellites (Satellites 1, | | | | 2 unaffected by | | | | multi-path) | | | | | | | | (Satellites 3, 4, 5 | | | | affected by multi-path) | | | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | GNSS Coarse time | seconds | ±2 | | assistance error range | | | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | HDOP Range | - | 1.8 to 2.5 | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | GPS L1 C/A Signal for | dBm | -130 | | satellite 1, 2 | | | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | GPS L1 C/A Signal for | dBm | LOS signal of -130 dBm, | | satellite 3, 4, 5 | | multi-path signal of -136 | | | | dBm | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+
### 5.4.1 Minimum Requirements (multi-path scenario)
The position estimates shall meet the accuracy and response time requirements
in Table 5.10.
Table 5.10: Minimum requirements
Success rate 2-D position error Max response time
* * *
95 % 100 m 20 s
## 5.5 Moving scenario and periodic update
_The purpose of the test case is to verify_ the receiver\'s capability to
produce GNSS measurements or location fixes on a regular basis, and to follow
when it is located in a vehicle that slows down, turns or accelerates. A good
tracking performance is essential for a certain location services. A moving
scenario with periodic update is well suited for verifying the tracking
capabilities of an A-GNSS receiver in changing UE speed and direction. In the
requirement the UE moves on a rectangular trajectory, which imitates urban
streets. AWGN channel model is used. This test is not performed as a Time to
First Fix (TTFF) test.
In this requirement 5 satellites are generated for the terminal. The UE is
requested to use periodical reporting with a reporting interval of 2 seconds.
The UE moves on a rectangular trajectory of 940 m by 1 440 m with rounded
corner defined in Figure 5.1. The initial reference is first defined followed
by acceleration to final speed of 100 km/h in 250 m. The UE then maintains the
speed for 400 m. This is followed by deceleration to final speed of 25 km/h in
250 m. The UE then turn 90 degrees with turning radius of 20 m at 25 km/h.
This is followed by acceleration to final speed of 100 km/h in 250 m. The
sequence is repeated to complete the rectangle.
Table 5.11: Trajectory Parameters
Parameter Distance (m) Speed (km/h)
* * *
l11, l15, l21, l25 20 25 l12, l14, l22, l24 250 25 to 100 and 100 to 25 l13
400 100 l23 900 100
Figure 5.1: Rectangular trajectory of the moving scenario and periodic update
test case
Table 5.12: Test Parameters
Parameters Unit Value
* * *
Number of generated satellites - 5 HDOP Range - 1.8 to 2.5 Propagation
condition - AWGN GPS L1 C/A signal for all satellites dBm -130
### 5.5.1 Minimum Requirements (moving scenario and periodic update)
The position estimates shall meet the accuracy requirement of Table 5.13 with
the periodical reporting interval defined in Table 5.13 after the first
reported position estimates.
NOTE: In the actual testing the UE may report error messages until it has been
able to acquire GNSS measured results or a position estimate. The test
equipment shall only consider the first measurement report different from an
error message as the first position estimate in the requirement in Table 5.13.
Table 5.13: Minimum requirements
Success Rate 2-D position error Periodical reporting interval
* * *
95 % 100 m 2 s
# 6 A-GNSS minimum performance requirements (UE supports other or additional
GNSSs)
The minimum performance requirements specified in clause 6 apply for UEs that
support other A-GNSSs than GPS L1 C/A, or multiple A-GNSSs which may or may
not include GPS L1 C/A. The requirements for UEs that support A-GPS L1 C/A
only are specified in clause 5.
The A-GNSS minimum performance requirements are defined by assuming that all
relevant and valid assistance data is received by the UE in order to perform
GNSS measurements and/or position calculation. This clause does not include
nor consider delays occurring in the various signalling interfaces of the
network.
In the following subclauses the minimum performance requirements are based on
availability of the assistance data information and messages defined in
annexes D and E.
## 6.1 Sensitivity
A sensitivity requirement is essential for verifying the performance of A-GNSS
receiver in weak satellite signal conditions. In order to test the most
stringent signal levels for the satellites the sensitivity test case is
performed in AWGN channel. This test case verifies the _performance of the
first position estimate, when the UE is provided with only coarse time
assistance and when it is additionally supplied with fine time assistance._
### 6.1.1 Coarse time assistance
In this test case 6 satellites are generated for the terminal. AWGN channel
model is used.
Table 6.1: Test parameters
System Parameters Unit Value
* * *
                                                                                                  Number of generated satellites per system   \-        See Table 6.2
                                                                                                  Total number of generated satellites        \-        6
                                                                                                  HDOP range                                            1.4 to 2.1
                                                                                                  Propagation conditions                      \-        AWGN
                                                                                                  GNSS coarse time assistance error range     seconds   ±2
Galileo Reference high signal power level dBm -142 Reference low signal power
level dBm -147 GPS^(1)^ Reference high signal power level dBm -142 Reference
low signal power level dBm -147 GLONASS Reference high signal power level dBm
-142 Reference low signal power level dBm -147 BDS Reference high signal power
level dBm -136 Reference low signal power level dBm -145 NOTE 1: \"GPS\" here
means GPS L1 C/A, Modernized GPS, or both, dependent on UE capabilities.
Table 6.2: Power level and satellite allocation
                                                                                                                          Satellite allocation for each constellation
* * *
                                                                                                                          GNSS-1^(1)^                                   GNSS-2   GNSS-3
Single constellation High signal level 1 - - Low signal level 5 - - Dual
constellation High signal level 1 - - Low signal level 2 3 - Triple
constellation High signal level 1 - - Low signal level 1 2 2 Note 1: For GPS
capable receivers, GNSS-1, i.e. the system having the satellite with high
signal level, shall be GPS.
#### 6.1.1.1 Minimum Requirements (Coarse time assistance)
The position estimates shall meet the accuracy and response time specified in
Table 6.3.
Table 6.3: Minimum requirements (coarse time assistance)
System Success rate 2-D position error Max response time
* * *
All 95 % 100 m 20 s
### 6.1.2 Fine time assistance
This requirement is only valid for fine time assistance capable UEs. In this
requirement 6 satellites are generated for the terminal. AWGN channel model is
used.
Table 6.4: Test parameters
**System** **Parameters** **Unit** **Value**
* * *
                                                                                                  Number of generated satellites per system   \-         See Table 6.5
                                                                                                  Total number of generated satellites        \-         6
                                                                                                  HDOP range                                             1.4 to 2.1
                                                                                                  Propagation conditions                      \-         AWGN
                                                                                                  GNSS coarse time assistance error range     seconds    ±2
                                                                                                  GNSS fine time assistance error range       μs         ±10
Galileo Reference signal power level dBm -147 GPS^(1)^ Reference signal power
level dBm -147 GLONASS Reference signal power level dBm -147 BDS Reference
signal power level dBm -147 NOTE 1: \"GPS\" here means GPS L1 C/A, Modernized
GPS, or both, dependent on UE capabilities.
Table 6.5: Satellite allocation
                         Satellite allocation for each constellation
* * *
                         GNSS-1                                        GNSS-2   GNSS-3
Single constellation 6 - - Dual constellation 3 3 - Triple constellation 2 2 2
#### 6.1.2.1 Minimum Requirements (Fine time assistance)
The position estimates shall meet the accuracy and response time requirements
in Table 6.6.
Table 6.6: Minimum requirements for fine time assistance capable terminals
System Success rate 2-D position error Max response time
* * *
All 95 % 100 m 20 s
## 6.2 Nominal Accuracy
Nominal accuracy requirement verifies the accuracy of A-GNSS position estimate
in ideal conditions. The primarily aim of the test is to ensure good accuracy
for a position estimate when satellite signal conditions allow it. This test
case verifies the performance of the first _position estimate_.
In this requirement 6 satellites are generated for the terminal. If SBAS is to
be tested one additional satellite shall be generated. AWGN channel model is
used. The number of simulated satellites for each constellation is as defined
in Table 6.8.
Table 6.7: Test parameters
+--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+ | System | Parameters | Unit | Value | +====================+====================+=========+===============+ | | Number of | - | See Table 6.8 | | | generated | | | | | satellites per | | | | | system | | | +--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+ | | Total number of | - | 6 or 7^(2)^ | | | generated | | | | | satellites | | | +--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+ | | HDOP Range | - | 1.4 to 2.1 | +--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+ | | Propagation | - | AWGN | | | conditions | | | +--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+ | | GNSS coarse time | seconds | ±2 | | | assistance error | | | | | range | | | +--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+ | GPS^(1)^ | Reference signal | dBm | -128.5 | | | power level for | | | | | all satellites | | | +--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+ | Galileo | Reference signal | dBm | -127 | | | power level for | | | | | all satellites | | | +--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+ | GLONASS | Reference signal | dBm | -131 | | | power level for | | | | | all satellites | | | +--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+ | QZSS | Reference signal | dBm | -128.5 | | | power level for | | | | | all satellites | | | +--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+ | SBAS | Reference signal | dBm | -131 | | | power level for | | | | | all satellites | | | +--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+ | BDS | Reference signal | dBm | -133 | | | power level for | | | | | all satellites | | | +--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: \"GPS\" | | | | | here means GPS L1 | | | | | C/A, Modernized | | | | | GPS, or both, | | | | | dependent on UE | | | | | capabilities. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: 7 | | | | | satellites apply | | | | | only for SBAS | | | | | case. | | | | +--------------------+--------------------+---------+---------------+
If QZSS is supported, one of the GPS satellites will be replaced by a QZSS
satellite with respective signal support. If SBAS is supported, the SBAS
satellite with the highest elevation will be added to the scenario.
Table 6.8: Satellite allocation
                                                                               Satellite allocation for each constellation
* * *
                                                                               GNSS 1^(1)^                                   GNSS 2^(1)^   GNSS 3^(1)^   SBAS
Single constellation 6 -- -- 1 Dual constellation 3 3 -- 1 Triple
constellation 2 2 2 1 NOTE 1: GNSS refers to global systems i.e., GPS,
Galileo, GLONASS and BDS.
### 6.2.1 Minimum requirements (nominal accuracy)
The position estimates shall meet the accuracy and response time requirements
in Table 6.9.
Table 6.9: Minimum requirements
System Success rate 2-D position error Max response time
* * *
All 95 % 15 m 20 s
## 6.3 Dynamic Range
The aim of a dynamic range requirement is to ensure that a GNSS receiver
performs well when visible satellites have rather different signal levels.
Strong satellites are likely to degrade the acquisition of weaker satellites
due to their cross‑correlation products. Hence, it is important in this test
case to keep use AWGN in order to avoid loosening the requirements due to
additional margin because of fading channels. This test case verifies the
_performance of the first position estimate._
In this requirement 6 satellites are generated for the terminal. Two different
reference power levels, denoted as \"high\" and \"low\" are used for each
GNSS. The allocation of \"high\" and \"low\" power level satellites depends on
the number of supported GNSSs and it is defined in Table 6.11. AWGN channel
model is used.
Table 6.10: Test parameters
System Parameters Unit Value
* * *
                                                                                                  Number of generated satellites per system   \-        See Table 6.11
                                                                                                  Total number of generated satellites        \-        6
                                                                                                  HDOP Range                                  \-        1.4 to 2.1
                                                                                                  Propagation conditions                      \-        AWGN
                                                                                                  GNSS coarse time assistance error range     seconds   ±2
Galileo Reference high signal power level dBm -127.5 Reference low signal
power level dBm -147 GPS^(1)^ Reference high signal power level dBm -129
Reference low signal power level dBm -147 GLONASS Reference high signal power
level dBm -131.5 Reference low signal power level dBm -147 BDS Reference high
signal power level dBm -133.5 Reference low signal power level dBm -145 NOTE
1: \"GPS\" here means GPS L1 C/A, Modernized GPS, or both, dependent on UE
capabilities.
Table 6.11: Power level and satellite allocation
                                                                               Satellite allocation for each constellation
* * *
                                                                               GNSS 1^(1)^                                   GNSS 2^(1)^   GNSS 3^(1)^
Single constellation High signal level 2 -- -- Low signal level 4 -- -- Dual
constellation High signal level 1 1 -- Low signal level 2 2 -- Triple
constellation High signal level 1 1 1 Low signal level 1 1 1 NOTE 1: GNSS
refers to global systems i.e., GPS, Galileo, GLONASS and BDS.
### 6.3.1 Minimum requirements (dynamic range)
The position estimates shall meet the accuracy and response time requirements
in Table 6.12.
Table 6.12: Minimum requirements
System Success rate 2-D position error Max response time
* * *
All 95 % 100 m 20 s
## 6.4 Multi-Path scenario
_The purpose of the test case is to_ verify the receiver\'s tolerance to
multipath while keeping the test setup simple. This test case verifies the
_performance of the first position estimate._
In this requirement 6 satellites are generated for the terminal. Some of the
satellites have a one tap channel representing the Line-Of-Sight (LOS) signal.
The other satellites have a two-tap channel, where the first tap represents
the LOS signal and the second represents a reflected and attenuated signal as
specified in Annex C.2. The number of satellites generated for each GNSS as
well as the channel model used depends on the number of systems supported by
the UE and is defined in Table 6.14. The channel model as specified in Annex
C.2 further depends on the generated signal.
Table 6.13: Test parameter
System Parameters Unit Value
* * *
                                                                                                  Number of generated satellites per system   \-        See Table 6.14
                                                                                                  Total number of generated satellites        \-        6
                                                                                                  HDOP range                                            1.4 to 2.1
                                                                                                  Propagation conditions                      \-        AWGN
                                                                                                  GNSS coarse time assistance error range     seconds   ±2
Galileo Reference signal power level dBm -127 GPS^(1)^ Reference signal power
level dBm -128.5 GLONASS Reference signal power level dBm -131 BDS Reference
signal power level dBm -133 NOTE 1: \"GPS\" here means GPS L1 C/A, Modernized
GPS, or both, dependent on UE capabilities.
Table 6.14: Channel model allocation
                         Channel model allocation for each constellation
* * *
                         GNSS-1                                            GNSS-2   GNSS-3
Single constellation One-tap channel 2 -- -- Two-tap channel 4 -- -- Dual
constellation One-tap channel 1 1 -- Two-tap channel 2 2 -- Triple
constellation One-tap channel 1 1 1 Two-tap channel 1 1 1
### 6.4.1 Minimum Requirements (multi-path scenario)
The position estimates shall meet the accuracy and response time requirements
in Table 6.15.
Table 6.15: Minimum requirements
System Success rate 2-D position error Max response time
* * *
All 95 % 100 m 20 s
## 6.5 Moving scenario and periodic update
_The purpose of the test case is to verify_ the receiver\'s capability to
produce GNSS measurements or location fixes on a regular basis, and to follow
when it is located in a vehicle that slows down, turns or accelerates. A good
tracking performance is essential for a certain location services. A moving
scenario with periodic update is well suited for verifying the tracking
capabilities of an A-GNSS receiver in changing UE speed and direction. In the
requirement the UE moves on a rectangular trajectory, which imitates urban
streets. AWGN channel model is used. This test is not performed as a Time to
First Fix (TTFF) test.
In this requirement 6 satellites are generated for the terminal. The UE is
requested to use periodical reporting with a reporting interval of 2 seconds.
The UE moves on a rectangular trajectory of 940 m by 1 440 m with rounded
corner defined in Figure 6.1. The initial reference is first defined followed
by acceleration to final speed of 100 km/h in 250 m. The UE then maintains the
speed for 400 m. This is followed by deceleration to final speed of 25 km/h in
250 m. The UE then turn 90 degrees with turning radius of 20 m at 25 km/h.
This is followed by acceleration to final speed of 100 km/h in 250 m. The
sequence is repeated to complete the rectangle.
Table 6.16: Trajectory Parameters
Parameter Distance (m) Speed (km/h)
* * *
l11, l15, l21, l25 20 25 l12, l14, l22, l24 250 25 to 100 and 100 to 25 l13
400 100 l23 900 100
Figure 6.1: Rectangular trajectory of the moving scenario and periodic update
test case
Table 6.17: Test Parameters
**System** **Parameters** **Unit** **Value**
* * *
                                                                                                  Number of generated satellites per system         \-         See Table 6.18
                                                                                                  Total number of generated satellites              \-         6
                                                                                                  HDOP Range per system                             \-         1.4 to 2.1
                                                                                                  Propagation conditions                            \-         AWGN
                                                                                                  GNSS coarse time assistance error range           seconds    ±2
Galileo Reference signal power level for all satellites dBm -127 GPS^(1)^
Reference signal power level for all satellites dBm -128.5 GLONASS Reference
signal power level for all satellites dBm -131 BDS Reference signal power
level for all satellites dBm -133 NOTE 1: \"GPS\" here means GPS L1 C/A,
Modernized GPS, or both, dependent on UE capabilities.
Table 6.18: Satellite allocation
                                                                              Satellite allocation for each constellation
* * *
                                                                              GNSS 1^(1)^                                   GNSS 2^(1)^   GNSS 3^(1)^
Single constellation 6 -- -- Dual constellation 3 3 -- Triple constellation 2
2 2 NOTE1: GNSS refers to global systems i.e., GPS, Galileo, GLONASS and BDS.
### 6.5.1 Minimum Requirements (moving scenario and periodic update)
The position estimates shall meet the accuracy requirement of Table 6.19 with
the periodical reporting interval defined in Table 6.19 after the first
reported position estimates.
NOTE: In the actual testing the UE may report error messages until it has been
able to acquire GNSS measured results or a position estimate. The test
equipment shall only consider the first measurement report different from an
error message as the first position estimate in the requirement in Table 6.19.
Table 6.19: Minimum requirements
System Success rate 2-D position error Periodical reporting interval
* * *
All 95 % 50 m 2 s
###### ## Annex A (normative): Test cases
# A.1 Conformance tests
The conformance tests are specified in 3GPP TS 36.571-1 [3]. Statistical
interpretation of the requirements is described in clause A.2.
# A.2 Requirement classification for statistical testing
Requirements in the present document are either expressed as absolute
requirements with a single value stating the requirement, or expressed as a
success rate. There are no provisions for the statistical variations that will
occur when the parameter is tested.
Annex B lists the test parameters needed for the tests. The test will result
in an outcome of a test variable value for the DUT inside or outside the test
limit. Overall, the probability of a \"good\" DUT being inside the test
limit(s) and the probability of a \"bad\" DUT being outside the test limit(s)
should be as high as possible. For this reason, when selecting the test
variable and the test limit(s), the statistical nature of the test is
accounted for.
When testing a parameter with a statistical nature, a confidence level has to
be set. The confidence level establishes the probability that a DUT passing
the test actually meets the requirement and determines how many times a test
has to be repeated. The confidence levels are defined for the final tests in
3GPP TS 36.571-1 [3].
###### ## Annex B (normative): Test conditions
# B.1 General
This annex specifies the additional parameters that are needed for the test
cases specified in clauses 5 and 6 and applies to all tests unless otherwise
stated.
## B.1.1 Parameter values
Additionally, amongst all the listed parameters (see annex E), the following
values for some important parameters are to be used in the LPP Request
Location Information message.
Table B.1: Parameter values
Information element Value - TTFF tests (except nominal accuracy test) Value -
TTFF tests (nominal accuracy test) Value - Periodic tests
* * *
periodicalReporting Not present Not present Present > reportingAmount N/A N/A
'ra-Infinity' (Infinite) (see note) > reportingInterval N/A N/A 'ri2' (2
seconds) Qos  
> horizontalAccuracy  
>> accuracy (test cases in clause 5) 19 (51.2 m) 10 (15.9 m) 19 (51.2 m) >>
accuracy (test cases in clause 6) 19 (51.2 m) 6 (7.7 m) 13 (24.5 m) >
responseTime 20 (seconds) 20 (seconds) Not present NOTE: Infinite means during
the complete test time.
In the Sensitivity test case with Fine Time Assistance, the following
parameter values are used in the LPP Provide Assistance Data message.
Table B.2: Parameters for Fine Time Assistance test
Information element Value
* * *
GNSS-ReferenceTimeForOneCell  
> networkTime  
>> frameDrift 0 > referenceTimeUnc 24 (11.11 μs)
## B.1.2 Time assistance
For every Test Instance in each TTFF test case, the IE _gnss-TimeOfDay_ shall
have a random offset, relative to GNSS system time, within the error range of
Coarse Time Assistance defined in the test case. This offset value shall have
a uniform random distribution.
In addition, for every Fine Time Assistance Test Instance the IE _networkTime_
shall have a random offset, relative to the true value of the relationship
between the two time references, within the error range of Fine Time
Assistance defined in the test case. This offset value shall have a uniform
random distribution.
For the Moving Scenario and Periodic Update Test Case the IE _gnss-TimeOfDay_
shall be set to the nominal value.
## B.1.3 GNSS Reference Time
For every Test Instance in each TTFF test case, the GNSS reference time shall
be advanced so that, at the time the fix is made, it is at least 2 minutes
later than the previous fix.
## B.1.4 Reference and UE locations
There is no limitation on the selection of the reference location, consistent
with achieving the required HDOP for the Test Case. For each test instance the
reference location shall change sufficiently such that the UE shall have to
use the new assistance data. The uncertainty of the semi-major axis is 3 km.
The uncertainty of the semi-minor axis is 3 km. The orientation of major axis
is 0 degrees. The uncertainty of the altitude information is 500 m. The
confidence factor is 68 %.
For every Test Instance in each TTFF test case, the UE location shall be
randomly selected to be within 3 km of the Reference Location. The Altitude of
the UE shall be randomly selected between 0 m to 500 m above WGS‑84 reference
ellipsoid. These values shall have uniform random distributions.
For test cases which include satellites from regional systems, such as QZSS
and SBAS, the reference location shall be selected within the defined coverage
area of the systems.
## B.1.5 Satellite constellation and assistance data
### B.1.5.1 UE supports A-GPS L1 C/A only
In the case of test cases in clause 5 (UE supports A-GPS L1 C/A only), the GPS
satellite constellation shall consist of 24 satellites. Almanac assistance
data shall be available for all these 24 satellites. At least 9 of the
satellites shall be visible to the UE (that is above 5 degrees elevation with
respect to the UE). Other assistance data shall be available for 9 of these
visible satellites. In each test, signals are generated for only a sub-set of
these satellites for which other assistance data is available. The number of
satellites in this sub-set is specified in the test. The satellites in this
sub-set shall all be above 15 degrees elevation with respect to the UE. The
HDOP for the test shall be calculated using this sub-set of satellites. The
selection of satellites for this sub-set shall be selected consistent with
achieving the required HDOP for the test.
### B.1.5.2 UE supports other A-GNSSs
In the case of test cases in clause 6 (UE supports other GNSSs), the satellite
constellation shall consist of 24 satellites for GLONASS; 27 satellites for
GPS, Modernized GPS and Galileo; 3 satellites for QZSS; 2 satellites for SBAS
and 35 satellites for BDS (5 GEO, 27 MEO, 3 IGSO). Almanac assistance data
shall be available for all these satellites. At least 7 of the satellites per
GPS, Modernized GPS, Galileo, GLONASS and BDS constellation shall be visible
to the UE (that is, above 15 degrees elevation with respect to the UE). At
least 1 of the satellites for QZSS shall be within 15 degrees of zenith; and
at least 1 of the satellites for SBAS shall be visible to the UE. For BDS with
reference location in Asia, at least 1 of the visible satellites shall be a
GEO (above 15 degrees elevation with respect to the UE). All other satellite
specific assistance data shall be available for all visible satellites. In
each test, signals are generated for only 6 satellites (or 7 if SBAS is
included). The HDOP for the test shall be calculated using these satellites.
The simulated satellites for GPS, Modernized GPS, Galileo, GLONASS and BDS
shall be selected from the visible satellites for each constellation
consistent with achieving the required HDOP for the test. For BDS with
reference location in Asia, 1 of the simulated satellites shall be a GEO.
NOTE: Currently up to 30 BDS satellites (maximum 22 MEO) can be supported.
## B.1.6 Atmospheric delays
Typical Ionospheric and Tropospheric delays shall be simulated and the
corresponding values inserted into the _GNSS-Ionospheric Model_ IE.
## B.1.7 E-UTRA Frequency and frequency error
In all test cases the E-UTRA frequency used shall be the mid range for the
E-UTRA operating band. The E-UTRA frequency with respect to the GNSS carrier
frequency shall be offset by +0.025 PPM.
## B.1.8 Information elements
The information elements that are available to the UE in all the test cases
are listed in annex E.
## B.1.9 GNSS signals
The GNSS signal is defined at the A-GNSS antenna connector of the UE. For UE
with integral antenna only, a reference antenna with a gain of 0 dBi is
assumed.
## B.1.10 RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION Message
In order to ensure each Test Instance in each TTFF test is performed under
Time to First Fix (TTFF) conditions, a dedicated test signal (_RESET UE
POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION_) defined in TS 36.509 [11] clause 6.9 shall be
used.
When the UE receives the \'_RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION_ \'
signal, with the IE _UE POSITIONING TECHNOLOGY_ set to _AGNSS_ it shall:
\- discard any internally stored GNSS reference time, reference location, and
any other aiding data obtained or derived during the previous test instance
(e.g. expected ranges and Doppler);
\- accept or request a new set of reference time or reference location or
other required information, as in a TTFF condition;
\- calculate the position or perform GNSS measurements using the \'new\'
reference time or reference location or other information.
## B.1.11 GNSS System Time Offsets
If more than one GNSS is used in a test, the accuracy of the GNSS-GNSS Time
Offsets used at the system simulator shall be better than 3 ns.
## B.1.12 Sensors
The minimum performances shall be met without the use of any data coming from
sensors that can aid the positioning.
###### ## ** **Annex C (normative): Propagation conditions
# C.1 Static propagation conditions
The propagation for the static performance measurement is an Additive White
Gaussian Noise (AWGN) environment. No fading and multi-paths exist for this
propagation model.
# C.2 Multi-path Case
Doppler frequency difference between direct and reflected signal paths is
applied to the carrier and code frequencies. The Carrier and Code Doppler
frequencies of LOS and multi-path for GNSS signal are defined in table C.1.
Table C.1: Multipath Case
* * *
Initial relative Delay\ Carrier Doppler frequency of tap [Hz] Code Doppler
frequency of tap [Hz] Relative mean Power [dB] [m]
* * *
0 Fd Fd / N 0
X Fd - 0.1 (Fd-0.1) /N Y
NOTE: Discrete Doppler frequency is used for each tap.
* * *
Where the X and Y depends on the GNSS signal type and is shown in Table C.2,
and N is the ratio between the transmitted carrier frequency of the signals
and the transmitted chip rate as shown in Table C.3 (where k in Table C.3 is
the GLONASS frequency channel number).
Table C.2: Parameter values
System Signals X [m] Y [dB]
* * *
Galileo E1 125 -4.5 E5a 15 -6 E5b 15 -6 GPS/Modernized GPS L1 C/A 150 -6 L1C
125 -4.5 L2C 150 -6 L5 15 -6 GLONASS G1 275 -12.5 G2 275 -12.5 BDS B1I 75 -4.5
Table C.3: Ratio between Carrier Frequency and Chip Rate
System Signals N
* * *
Galileo E1 1540 E5a 115 E5b 118 GPS/Modernized GPS L1 C/A 1540 L1C 1540 L2C
1200 L5 115 GLONASS G1 3135.03 + k ⋅ 1.10 G2 2438.36 + k ⋅ 0.86 BDS B1I 763
The initial carrier phase difference between taps shall be randomly selected
between 0 and 2π. The initial value shall have uniform random distribution.
###### ## Annex D (normative): Measurement sequence chart
# D.1 General
The measurement Sequence Charts that are required in all the test cases, are
defined in this clause.
# D.2 TTFF Measurement Sequence Chart
The measurement sequence chart for the TTFF test cases, for both UE-assisted
and UE-based GNSS, is defined in this subclause.
> (a) The system simulator sends a RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION
> message with the IE _UE POSITIONING TECHNOLOGY_ set to _AGNSS._
>
> (b) The system simulator sends a LPP message of type REQUEST CAPABILITIES
> including the _a‑gnss‑RequestCapabilities_ IE set to TRUE.
>
> (c) The UE sends a LPP message of type PROVIDE CAPABILITIES including the
> _A‑GNSS‑ProvideCapabilities_ IE with the _AssistanceDataSupportList_
> included, indicating the assistance data supported by the UE.
>
> (d) -- (e) The system simulator provides the assistance data that are
> supported by the UE and available as defined in Annex E and Table E.1 in one
> or more LPP messages of type PROVIDE ASSISTANCE DATA.
>
> (f) The system simulator sends a LPP message of type REQUEST LOCATION
> INFORMATION including the information elements defined in Table D.1.
>
> (g) The UE sends a LPP message of type PROVIDE LOCATION INFORMATION
> including either the _GNSS‑SignalMeasurementInformation_ or
> _GNSS‑LocationInformation_ IE, dependent on the test case (UE-assisted or
> UE-based, respectively).
Steps (a) to (g) are repeated for each test instance.
Table D.1: LPP Request Location Information Content for TTFF Test Cases.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information Element | Value/remark | Comment | +======================+======================+======================+ | Reques | | | | tLocationInformation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > | | | | commonIEsReques | | | | tLocationInformation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> | 'locat | Depending on test | | loc | ionEstimateRequired' | case and UE | | ationInformationType | or | capabilities, i.e., | | | | UE-based or | | | 'locationM | UE-assisted | | | easurementsRequired' | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> | 'onlyReturnI | | | a | nformationRequested' | | | dditionalInformation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> qos | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | As defined in Annex | | | horizontalAccuracy | B.1.1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | FALSE | | | verti | | | | calCoordinateRequest | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> responseTime | '20' | 20 seconds | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > | | | | a-gnss-Reques | | | | tLocationInformation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> | | | | gnss-Pos | | | | itioningInstructions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> gnssMethods | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>>> gnss-ids | According to UE | | | | capabilities | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | FALSE | | | fineT | | | | imeAssistanceMeasReq | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> adrMeasReq | FALSE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | TRUE or FALSE | Depending on UE | | multiFreqMeasReq | | capabilities | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | FALSE | | | as | | | | sistanceAvailability | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# D.3 Moving Scenario And Periodic Update Measurement Sequence Chart
The measurement sequence chart for the moving scenario and periodic update
test case, for both UE-assisted and UE-based GNSS, is defined in this
subclause.
> (a) The system simulator sends a RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION
> message with the IE _UE POSITIONING TECHNOLOGY_ set to _AGNSS._
>
> (b) The system simulator sends a LPP message of type REQUEST CAPABILITIES
> including the _a‑gnss‑RequestCapabilities_ IE set to TRUE.
>
> (c) The UE sends a LPP message of type PROVIDE CAPABILITIES including the
> _A‑GNSS‑ProvideCapabilities_ IE with the _AssistanceDataSupportList_
> included, indicating the assistance data supported by the UE.
>
> (d) -- (e) The system simulator provides the assistance data that are
> supported by the UE and available as defined in Annex E and table E.1 in one
> or more LPP messages of type PROVIDE ASSISTANCE DATA.
>
> (f) The system simulator sends a LPP message of type REQUEST LOCATION
> INFORMATION including the information elements defined in Table D.2.
>
> (g) -- (i) The UE provides LPP messages of type PROVIDE LOCATION INFORMATION
> including either the _GNSS‑SignalMeasurementInformation_ or
> _GNSS‑LocationInformation_ IE, dependent on the test case (UE-assisted or
> UE-based, respectively) until the moving trajectory has been completed.
NOTE: The UE may report error messages at step (g) until it has been able to
acquire GNSS signals.
Table D.2: LPP Request Location Information Content for Moving Scenario And
Periodic Update Test Case.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information Element | Value/remark | Comment | +======================+======================+======================+ | Reques | | | | tLocationInformation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > | | | | commonIEsReques | | | | tLocationInformation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> | 'locat | Depending on test | | loc | ionEstimateRequired' | case and UE | | ationInformationType | or | capabilities, i.e., | | | | UE-based or | | | 'locationM | UE-assisted | | | easurementsRequired' | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> | | | | periodicalReporting | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | 'ra-Infinity' | As defined in Annex | | reportingAmount | | B.1.1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | 'ri2' | As defined in Annex | | reportingInterval | | B.1.1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> | 'onlyReturnI | | | a | nformationRequested' | | | dditionalInformation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> qos | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | As defined in Annex | | | horizontalAccuracy | B.1.1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | FALSE | | | verti | | | | calCoordinateRequest | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > | | | | a-gnss-Reques | | | | tLocationInformation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> | | | | gnss-Pos | | | | itioningInstructions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> gnssMethods | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>>> gnss-ids | According to UE | | | | capabilities | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | FALSE | | | fineT | | | | imeAssistanceMeasReq | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> adrMeasReq | FALSE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | FALSE | | | multiFreqMeasReq | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | FALSE | | | as | | | | sistanceAvailability | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
###### ## Annex E (normative): Assistance data required for testing
# E.1 Introduction
This annex defines the assistance data IEs available at the SS in all test
cases. The assistance data shall be given for satellites as defined in B.1.5.
The information elements are given with reference to 3GPP TS 36.355 [4], where
the details are defined.
Table E.1 defines the assistance data elements which shall be provided to the
UE in the tests (steps (d) and (e) in the message sequence according to
annexes D.2 and D.3). The assistance data provided depends on the mode being
used in the test case, the assistance data supported by the UE (indicated in
step (c) in the message sequence according to annexes D.2 and D.3) and the
GNSSs supported by the UE. Assistance data IEs not supported by the UE shall
not be sent. Assistance data IEs supported by the UE but not listed in Table
E.1 shall not be sent.
Table E.1: Assistance Data to be provided to the UE
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Assistance | Mode used in | | | | Data IE | test case | | | | supported by | | | | | UE | | | | +================+================+================+================+ | | UE-based | UE-assisted, | UE-assisted, | | | | | | | | | GNSS-Acquisi | GNSS-Acquisi | | | | tionAssistance | tionAssistance | | | | supported by | not supported | | | | UE | by UE | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | GNSS-Reference | Yes | Yes | Yes | | Time | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | GNSS-Ref | Yes | No | Yes | | erenceLocation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | GNSS-Io | Yes | No | No | | nosphericModel | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | GNSS | Yes^(1)^ | No | Yes^(1)^ | | -TimeModelList | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | GNSS-N | Yes | No | Yes | | avigationModel | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | GNSS-Acquisi | No | Yes | No | | tionAssistance | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | GNSS-Almanac | No | No | Yes | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | GNSS-UTC-Model | Yes(3) | Yes(3) | Yes(3) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | GNSS-Auxili | Yes^(2)^ | Yes^(2)^ | Yes^(2)^ | | aryInformation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: In | | | | | case more than | | | | | a single GNSS | | | | | is supported | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: In | | | | | case the UE | | | | | supports | | | | | GLONASS, or | | | | | more than one | | | | | GNSS signal. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: In | | | | | case more than | | | | | a single GNSS | | | | | is supported | | | | | by the UE and | | | | | the UE | | | | | supports | | | | | GLONASS. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# E.2 GNSS Assistance Data
a) **GNSS- Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause 6.5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 36.355 [4].
Table E.2: GNSS- Reference Time IE
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information Element | All tests except | Sensitivity Fine | | | Sensitivity Fine | Time Assistance test | | | Time Assistance | | +======================+======================+======================+ | GNSS-ReferenceTime | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > gnss-SystemTime | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> gnss-TimeID | Yes | Yes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> gnss-DayNumber | Yes | Yes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> gnss-TimeOfDay | Yes | Yes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> | Yes | Yes | | gns | | | | s-TimeOfDayFrac-msec | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> | Yes if | Yes if | | noti | | | | ficationOfLeapSecond | gnss-TimeID = | gnss-TimeID = | | | 'glonass' | 'glonass' | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> gps-TOW-Assist | Yes if | Yes if | | | | | | | gnss-TimeID = 'gps' | gnss-TimeID = 'gps' | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > referenceTimeUnc | Yes | No | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > | No | Yes | | gnss-Ref | | | | erenceTimeForOneCell | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> networkTime | | Yes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | | Yes | | secondsFro | | | | mFrameStructureStart | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> | | Yes | | fractionalSecondsFro | | | | mFrameStructureStart | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> frameDrift | | Yes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>> cellID | | Yes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>>> physCellId | | Yes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >>>> | | Yes | | cellGlobalIdEUTRA | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | >> | | Yes | | referenceTimeUnc | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
b) **GNSS-ReferenceLocation IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause 6.5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 36.355 [4].
Table E.3: GNSS-ReferenceLocation IE
Name of the IE Fields of the IE
* * *
GNSS-ReferenceLocation threeDlocation
c) **GNSS-IonosphericModel IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause 6.5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 36.355 [4].
Table E.4: GNSS-IonosphericModel IE
Name of the IE Fields of the IE
* * *
GNSS-IonosphericModel KlobucharModelParameter NeQuickModelParameter^(1)^ NOTE
1: Only required if GNSSs supported include Galileo.
d) **GNSS-TimeModelList IE.** This information element **is only required for
multi system tests** , and is defined in subclause 6.5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 36.355
[4].
Table E.5: GNSS-TimeModelList IE
+--------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Name of the IE | Fields of the IE | +====================+=====================================+ | GNSS-TimeModelList | | +--------------------+-------------------------------------+ | | gnssTOID | | | | | | For each GNSS included in the test. | +--------------------+-------------------------------------+ | | deltaT | +--------------------+-------------------------------------+
e) **GNSS-NavigationModel IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause 6.5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 36.355 [4].
Table E.6: GNSS-NavigationModel IE
Name of the IE Fields of the IE
* * *
GNSS-NavigationModel
Table E.7: GNSS Clock and Orbit Model Choices
GNSS Clock and Orbit Model Choice
* * *
GPS Model-2 Modernized GPS Model-3 GLONASS Model-4 QZSS QZS-L1 Model-2 QZSS
QZS-L1C/L2C/L5 Model-3 SBAS Model-5 Galileo Model-1 BDS Model-6
f) **GNSS-AcquisitionAssistance IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause 6.5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 36.355 [4].
Table E.8: GNSS-AcquisitionAssistance IE
Name of the IE Fields of the IE
* * *
GNSS-AcquisitionAssistance
g) **GNSS-Almanac IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
6.5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 36.355 [4].
Table E.9: GNSS-Almanac IE
Name of the IE Fields of the IE
* * *
GNSS-Almanac
Table E.10: GNSS Almanac Choices
GNSS Almanac Model Choice
* * *
GPS Model-2 Modernized GPS Model-3,4 GLONASS Model-5 QZSS QZS-L1 Model-2 QZSS
QZS-L1C/L2C/L5 Model-3,4 SBAS Model-6 Galileo Model-1 BDS Model-7
h) **GNSS-UTC-Model IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
6.5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 36.355 [4].
Table E.11: GNSS-UTC-Model IE
Name of the IE Fields of the IE
* * *
GNSS-UTC-Model
Table E.12: GNSS UTC Model Choices
GNSS UTC Model Choice
* * *
GPS Model-1 Modernized GPS Model-2 GLONASS Model-3 QZSS QZS-L1 Model-1 QZSS
QZS-L1C/L2C/L5 Model-2 SBAS Model-4 Galileo Model-1 BDS Model-5
i) **GNSS-AuxiliaryInformation IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause 6.5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 36.355 [4].
Table E.13: GNSS-AuxiliaryInformation IE
Name of the IE Fields of the IE
* * *
GNSS-AuxiliaryInformation
###### ## Annex F (normative): Converting UE-assisted measurement reports into
position estimates
# F.1 Introduction
To convert the UE measurement reports in case of UE-assisted mode of A-GNSS
into position errors, a transformation between the \"measurement domain\"
(code-phases, etc.) into the \"state\" domain (position estimate) is
necessary. Such a transformation procedure is outlined in the following
clauses. The details can be found in [8-10] and [12-17].
# F.2 UE measurement reports
In case of UE-assisted A-GNSS, the measurement parameters are contained in the
LPP GNSS- SignalMeasurementInformation IE (subclause 6.5.2.6 in 3GPP TS 36.355
[4]). The measurement parameters required for calculating the UE position are:
1) Reference Time: The UE has two choices for the Reference Time:
a) \"networkTime\";
b) \"gnss-TOD-msec\".
2) Measurement Parameters for each GNSS and GNSS signal: 1 to 64:
a) \" svID \";
b) \"codePhase\";
c) \"integerCodePhase\";
d) \"codePhaseRMSError\".
Additional information required at the system simulator:
1) \"GNSS-ReferenceLocation\" (subclause 6.5.2.2 in 3GPP TS 36.355 [4]):\ Used
for initial approximate receiver coordinates.
2) \"GNSS-NavigationModel\" (subclause 6.5.2.2 in 3GPP TS 36.355 [4]):\
Contains the GNSS ephemeris and clock correction parameters as specified in
the relevant ICD of each supported GNSS; used for calculating the satellite
positions and clock corrections.
3) \"GNSS-IonosphericModel\" (subclause 6.5.2.2 in 3GPP TS 36.355 [4]):\
Contains the ionospheric parameters which allow the single frequency user to
utilize the ionospheric model as specified in the relevant ICD of each
supported GNSS for computation of the ionospheric delay.
# F.3 WLS position solution
The WLS position solution problem is concerned with the task of solving for
four unknowns; _xu, yu, zu_ the receiver coordinates in a suitable frame of
reference (usually ECEF) and _bu_ the receiver clock bias. It typically
requires the following steps:
**Step 1: Formation of pseudo-ranges**
The observation of code phase reported by the UE for each satellite SVi is
related to the pseudo-range/c modulo the \"gnss‑CodePhaseAmbiguity\". For the
formation of pseudo-ranges, the integer number of milliseconds to be added to
each code-phase measurement has to be determined first. Since 1 ms corresponds
to a travelled distance of 300 km, the number of integer ms can be found with
the help of reference location and satellite ephemeris. The distance between
the reference location and each satellite SVi is calculated and the integer
number of milli-seconds to be added to the UE code phase measurements is
obtained.
**Step 2: Correction of pseudo-ranges for the GNSS-GNSS time offsets**
In the case that the UE reports measurements for more than a single GNSS, the
pseudo-ranges are corrected for the time offsets between the GNSSs relative to
the selected reference time using the GNSS-GNSS time offsets available at the
system simulator:
,
where is the measured pseudo-range of satellite _i_ of GNSS~m~. The system
time of GNSS~k~ is the reference time frame, andis the available GNSS-GNSS
time offset, and _c_ is the speed of light.
**Step 3: Formation of weighting matrix**
The UE reported \"codePhaseRMSError\" values are used to calculate the
weighting matrix for the WLS algorithm [9]. According to 3GPP TS 36.355 [4],
the encoding for this field is a 6 bit value that consists of a 3 bit
mantissa, Xi and a 3 bit exponent, Yi for each SVi:
The weighting Matrix **W** is defined as a diagonal matrix containing the
estimated variances calculated from the \"codePhaseRMSError\" values:
**Step 4: WLS position solution**
The WLS position solution is described in reference [9] and usually requires
the following steps:
1) Computation of satellite locations at time of transmission using the
ephemeris parameters and user algorithms defined in the relevant ICD of the
particular GNSS. The satellite locations are transformed into WGS-84 reference
frame, if needed.
2) Computation of clock correction parameters using the parameters and
algorithms as defined in the relevant ICD of the particular GNSS.
3) Computation of atmospheric delay corrections using the parameters and
algorithms defined in the relevant ICD of the particular GNSS for the
ionospheric delay, and using the Gupta model in reference [10] p. 121 equation
(2) for the tropospheric delay. For GNSSs which do not natively provide
ionospheric correction models (e.g., GLONASS), the ionospheric delay is
determined using the available ionospheric model adapted to the particular
GNSS frequency.
4) The WLS position solution starts with an initial estimate of the user state
(position and clock offset). The Reference Location is used as initial
position estimate. The following steps are required:
a) Calculate geometric range (corrected for Earth rotation) between initial
location estimate and each satellite included in the UE measurement report.
b) Predict pseudo-ranges for each measurement including clock and atmospheric
biases as calculated in 1) to 3) above and defined in the relevant ICD of the
particular GNSS and [9].
c) Calculate difference between predicted and measured pseudo-ranges
d) Calculate the \"Geometry Matrix\" **G** as defined in [9]:
with where **r** s~GNSS _m,i_ ~ is the satellite position vector for SVi of
GNSS _~m~_ (calculated in 1) above), and is the estimate of the user location.
e) Calculate the WLS solution according to [9]:
f) Adding the to the initial state estimate gives an improved estimate of the
state vector:
.
5) This new state vector can be used as new initial estimate and the procedure
is repeated until the change in is sufficiently small.
**Step 5: Transformation from Cartesian coordinate system to Geodetic
coordinate system**
The state vector calculated in Step 4 contains the UE position in ECEF
Cartesian coordinates together with the UE receiver clock bias relative to the
selected GNSS system time. Only the user position is of further interest. It
is usually desirable to convert from ECEF coordinates _xu, yu, zu_ to geodetic
latitude ϕ , longitude λ and altitude _h_ on the WGS84 reference ellipsoid.
**Step 6: Calculation of \"2-D Position Errors\"**
The latitude ϕ / longitude λ obtained after Step 5 is used to calculate the
2-D position error.
#