# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the E-UTRA Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol
for the UE -- E-UTRAN radio interface.
The specification describes:
\- E-UTRA RLC sublayer architecture;
\- E-UTRA RLC entities;
\- services expected from lower layers by E-UTRA RLC;
\- services provided to upper layers by E-UTRA RLC;
\- E-UTRA RLC functions;
\- elements for peer-to-peer E-UTRA RLC communication including protocol data
units, formats and parameters;
\- handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data at E-UTRA RLC.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"E-UTRA and E-UTRAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"E-UTRA MAC protocol specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"E-UTRA PDCP specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"E-UTRA RRC Protocol specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**byte segment:** A byte of the Data field of an AMD PDU. Specifically, byte
segment number 0 corresponds to the first byte of the Data field of an AMD
PDU.
**Data field element:** An RLC SDU or an RLC SDU segment that is mapped to the
Data field.
**NB-IoT:** NB-IoT allows access to network services via E-UTRA with a channel
bandwidth limited to 200 kHz.
**NB-IoT UE** : A UE that uses NB-IoT.
**RLC SDU segment:** A segment of an RLC SDU.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AM Acknowledged Mode
AMD AM Data
ARQ Automatic Repeat reQuest
BCCH Broadcast Control CHannel
BCH Broadcast CHannel
BR-BCCH Bandwidth Reduced Broadcast Control CHannel
CCCH Common Control CHannel
DCCH Dedicated Control CHannel
DL DownLink
DL-SCH DL-Shared CHannel
DTCH Dedicated Traffic CHannel
E Extension bit
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
FI Framing Info
HARQ Hybrid ARQ
LI Length Indicator
LSF Last Segment Flag
MAC Medium Access Control
MCCH Multicast Control Channel
MTCH Multicast Traffic Channel
NB-IoT NarrowBand Internet of Things
PCCH Paging Control CHannel
PDU Protocol Data Unit
RLC Radio Link Control
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
SBCCH Sidelink Broadcast Control Channel
SC-MCCH Single Cell Multicast Control Channel
SC-MTCH Single Cell Multicast Transport Channel
SDU Service Data Unit
SN Sequence Number
SO Segment Offset
STCH Sidelink Traffic Channel
TB Transport Block
TM Transparent Mode
TMD TM Data
UE User Equipment
UL UpLink
UM Unacknowledged Mode
UMD UM Data
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The objective is to describe the RLC architecture and the RLC entities from a
functional point of view.
## 4.2 RLC architecture
### 4.2.1 RLC entities
The description in this sub clause is a model and does not specify or restrict
implementations.
RRC is generally in control of the RLC configuration. For NB-IoT, RRC
configurable parameters are specified in _RLC-Config-NB_ [5].
Functions of the RLC sub layer are performed by RLC entities. For a RLC entity
configured at the eNB, there is a peer RLC entity configured at the UE and
vice versa. For an RLC entity configured at the transmitting UE for STCH or
SBCCH there is a peer RLC entity configured at each receiving UE for STCH or
SBCCH.
An RLC entity receives/delivers RLC SDUs from/to upper layer and
sends/receives RLC PDUs to/from its peer RLC entity via lower layers. An RLC
PDU can either be a RLC data PDU (see sub clause 6.1.1) or a RLC control PDU
(see sub clause 6.1.2). If an RLC entity receives RLC SDUs from upper layer,
it receives them through a single SAP between RLC and upper layer, and after
forming RLC data PDUs from the received RLC SDUs, the RLC entity delivers the
RLC data PDUs to lower layer through a single logical channel. If an RLC
entity receives RLC data PDUs from lower layer, it receives them through a
single logical channel, and after forming RLC SDUs from the received RLC data
PDUs, the RLC entity delivers the RLC SDUs to upper layer through a single SAP
between RLC and upper layer. If an RLC entity delivers/receives RLC control
PDUs to/from lower layer, it delivers/receives them through the same logical
channel it delivers/receives the RLC data PDUs through.
An RLC entity can be configured to perform data transfer in one of the
following three modes: Transparent Mode (TM), Unacknowledged Mode (UM) or
Acknowledged Mode (AM). Consequently, an RLC entity is categorized as a TM RLC
entity, an UM RLC entity or an AM RLC entity depending on the mode of data
transfer that the RLC entity is configured to provide. For NB-IoT, RLC UM is
not supported.
A TM RLC entity is configured either as a transmitting TM RLC entity or a
receiving TM RLC entity. The transmitting TM RLC entity receives RLC SDUs from
upper layer and sends RLC PDUs to its peer receiving TM RLC entity via lower
layers. The receiving TM RLC entity delivers RLC SDUs to upper layer and
receives RLC PDUs from its peer transmitting TM RLC entity via lower layers.
An UM RLC entity is configured either as a transmitting UM RLC entity or a
receiving UM RLC entity. The transmitting UM RLC entity receives RLC SDUs from
upper layer and sends RLC PDUs to its peer receiving UM RLC entity via lower
layers. The receiving UM RLC entity delivers RLC SDUs to upper layer and
receives RLC PDUs from its peer transmitting UM RLC entity via lower layers.
An AM RLC entity consists of a transmitting side and a receiving side. The
transmitting side of an AM RLC entity receives RLC SDUs from upper layer and
sends RLC PDUs to its peer AM RLC entity via lower layers. The receiving side
of an AM RLC entity delivers RLC SDUs to upper layer and receives RLC PDUs
from its peer AM RLC entity via lower layers.
Figure 4.2.1-1 illustrates the overview model of the RLC sub layer.
Figure 4.2.1-1: Overview model of the RLC sub layer
The following applies to all RLC entity types (i.e. TM, UM and AM RLC entity):
\- RLC SDUs of variable sizes which are byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits)
are supported;
\- RLC PDUs are formed only when a transmission opportunity has been notified
by lower layer (i.e. by MAC) and are then delivered to lower layer.
Description of different RLC entity types are provided below.
#### 4.2.1.1 TM RLC entity
##### 4.2.1.1.1 General
A TM RLC entity can be configured to deliver/receive RLC PDUs through the
following logical channels:
\- BCCH, BR-BCCH, DL/UL CCCH, PCCH and SBCCH.
Figure 4.2.1.1.1-1: Model of two transparent mode peer entities
A TM RLC entity delivers/receives the following RLC data PDU:
\- TMD PDU.
##### 4.2.1.1.2 Transmitting TM RLC entity
When a transmitting TM RLC entity forms TMD PDUs from RLC SDUs, it shall:
\- not segment nor concatenate the RLC SDUs;
\- not include any RLC headers in the TMD PDUs.
##### 4.2.1.1.3 Receiving TM RLC entity
When a receiving TM RLC entity receives TMD PDUs, it shall:
\- deliver the TMD PDUs (which are just RLC SDUs) to upper layer.
#### 4.2.1.2 UM RLC entity
##### 4.2.1.2.1 General
An UM RLC entity can be configured to deliver/receive RLC PDUs through the
following logical channels:
\- DL/UL DTCH, MCCH, MTCH, SC-MCCH, SC-MTCH or STCH.
Figure 4.2.1.2.1-1: Model of two unacknowledged mode peer entities
An UM RLC entity delivers/receives the following RLC data PDU:
\- UMD PDU.
NOTE: HARQ reordering is not applicable for MCCH, MTCH, SC-MCCH, SC-MTCH or
STCH reception.
##### 4.2.1.2.2 Transmitting UM RLC entity
When a transmitting UM RLC entity forms UMD PDUs from RLC SDUs, it shall:
\- segment and/or concatenate the RLC SDUs so that the UMD PDUs fit within the
total size of RLC PDU(s) indicated by lower layer at the particular
transmission opportunity notified by lower layer;
\- include relevant RLC headers in the UMD PDU.
##### 4.2.1.2.3 Receiving UM RLC entity
When a receiving UM RLC entity receives UMD PDUs, it shall:
\- detect whether or not the UMD PDUs have been received in duplication, and
discard duplicated UMD PDUs;
\- reorder the UMD PDUs if they are received out of sequence;
\- detect the loss of UMD PDUs at lower layers and avoid excessive reordering
delays;
\- reassemble RLC SDUs from the reordered UMD PDUs (not accounting for RLC
PDUs for which losses have been detected) and deliver the RLC SDUs to upper
layer in ascending order of the RLC SN;
\- discard received UMD PDUs that cannot be re-assembled into a RLC SDU due to
loss at lower layers of an UMD PDU which belonged to the particular RLC SDU.
At the time of RLC re-establishment, the receiving UM RLC entity shall:
\- if possible, reassemble RLC SDUs from the UMD PDUs that are received out of
sequence and deliver them to upper layer;
\- discard any remaining UMD PDUs that could not be reassembled into RLC SDUs;
\- initialize relevant state variables and stop relevant timers.
#### 4.2.1.3 AM RLC entity
##### 4.2.1.3.1 General
An AM RLC entity can be configured to deliver/receive RLC PDUs through the
following logical channels:
\- DL/UL DCCH or DL/UL DTCH.
Figure 4.2.1.3.1-1: Model of an acknowledged mode enttiy
An AM RLC entity delivers/receives the following RLC data PDUs:
\- AMD PDU;
\- AMD PDU segment.
An AM RLC entity delivers/receives the following RLC control PDU:
\- STATUS PDU.
##### 4.2.1.3.2 Transmitting side
When the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity forms AMD PDUs from RLC SDUs,
it shall:
\- segment and/or concatenate the RLC SDUs so that the AMD PDUs fit within the
total size of RLC PDU(s) indicated by lower layer at the particular
transmission opportunity notified by lower layer.
The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity supports retransmission of RLC data
PDUs (ARQ):
\- if the RLC data PDU to be retransmitted does not fit within the total size
of RLC PDU(s) indicated by lower layer at the particular transmission
opportunity notified by lower layer, the AM RLC entity can re-segment the RLC
data PDU into AMD PDU segments;
\- the number of re-segmentation is not limited.
When the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity forms AMD PDUs from RLC SDUs
received from upper layer or AMD PDU segments from RLC data PDUs to be
retransmitted, it shall:
\- include relevant RLC headers in the RLC data PDU.
##### 4.2.1.3.3 Receiving side
When the receiving side of an AM RLC entity receives RLC data PDUs, it shall:
\- detect whether or not the RLC data PDUs have been received in duplication,
and discard duplicated RLC data PDUs;
\- reorder the RLC data PDUs if they are received out of sequence;
\- detect the loss of RLC data PDUs at lower layers and request
retransmissions to its peer AM RLC entity;
\- reassemble RLC SDUs from the reordered RLC data PDUs and deliver the RLC
SDUs to upper layer in sequence.
At the time of RLC re-establishment, the receiving side of an AM RLC entity
shall:
\- if possible, reassemble RLC SDUs from the RLC data PDUs that are received
out of sequence and deliver them to upper layer;
\- discard any remaining RLC data PDUs that could not be reassembled into RLC
SDUs;
\- initialize relevant state variables and stop relevant timers.
## 4.3 Services
### 4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers
The following services are provided by RLC to upper layer:
\- TM data transfer;
\- UM data transfer;
\- AM data transfer, including indication of successful delivery of upper
layers PDUs.
### 4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers
The following services are expected by RLC from lower layer (i.e. MAC):
\- data transfer;
\- notification of a transmission opportunity, together with the total size of
the RLC PDU(s) to be transmitted in the transmission opportunity.
## 4.4 Functions
The following functions are supported by the RLC sub layer:
\- transfer of upper layer PDUs;
\- error correction through ARQ (only for AM data transfer);
\- concatenation, segmentation and reassembly of RLC SDUs (only for UM and AM
data transfer);
\- re-segmentation of RLC data PDUs (only for AM data transfer);
\- reordering of RLC **data PDUs** (only for UM and AM data transfer);
\- duplicate detection (only for UM and AM data transfer);
\- RLC SDU discard (only for UM and AM data transfer);
\- RLC re-establishment (except for NB-IoT using only the Control Plane CIoT
EPS optimisation (TS 24.301 [6]));
\- Protocol error detection (only for AM data transfer).
## 4.5 Data available for transmission
For the purpose of MAC buffer status reporting, the UE shall consider the
following as data available for transmission in the RLC layer:
\- RLC SDUs, or segments thereof, that have not yet been included in an RLC
data PDU;
\- RLC data PDUs, or portions thereof, that are pending for retransmission
(RLC AM).
In addition, if a STATUS PDU has been triggered and _t-StatusProhibit_ is not
running or has expired, the UE shall estimate the size of the STATUS PDU that
will be transmitted in the next transmission opportunity, and consider this as
data available for transmission in the RLC layer.
# 5 Procedures
## 5.1 Data transfer procedures
### 5.1.1 TM data transfer
#### 5.1.1.1 Transmit operations
##### 5.1.1.1.1 General
When submitting a new TMD PDU to lower layer, the transmitting TM RLC entity
shall:
\- submit a RLC SDU without any modification to lower layer.
#### 5.1.1.2 Receive operations
##### 5.1.1.2.1 General
**When receiving a new TMD PDU from lower layer, the receiving TM RLC entity
shall:**
**\- deliver the TMD PDU without any modification to upper layer.**
### 5.1.2 UM data transfer
#### 5.1.2.1 Transmit operations
##### 5.1.2.1.1 General
**When delivering a new UMD PDU to lower layer, the transmitting UM RLC entity
shall:**
\- set the SN of the UMD PDU to VT(US), and then increment VT(US) by one.
#### 5.1.2.2 Receive operations
##### 5.1.2.2.1 General
**The receiving UM RLC entity shall maintain a reordering window according to
state variable VR(UH) as follows:**
\- a SN falls within the reordering window if (VR(UH) -- UM_Window_Size) \ current VR(UR) that
has not been received;
\- reassemble RLC SDUs from any UMD PDUs with SN \ VR(UR):
\- start _t-Reordering_ ;
\- set VR(UX) to VR(UH).
##### 5.1.2.2.4 Actions when _t-Reordering_ expires
**When _t-Reordering_ expires, the receiving UM RLC entity shall:**
\- update VR(UR) to the SN of the first UMD PDU with SN >= VR(UX) that has not
been received;
\- reassemble RLC SDUs from any UMD PDUs with SN \ VR(UR):
\- start _t-Reordering_ ;
\- set VR(UX) to VR(UH).
### 5.1.3 AM data transfer
#### 5.1.3.1 Transmit operations
##### 5.1.3.1.1 General
**The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity shall prioritize transmission of
RLC control PDUs over RLC data PDUs. The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity
shall prioritize retransmission of RLC data PDUs over transmission of new AMD
PDUs.**
**The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity shall maintain a transmitting
window according to state variables VT(A) and VT(MS) as follows:**
\- a SN falls within the transmitting window if VT(A) \= VR(H)
\- update VR(H) to x+ 1;
\- if all byte segments of the AMD PDU with SN = VR(MS) are received:
\- update VR(MS) to the SN of the first AMD PDU with SN > current VR(MS) for
which not all byte segments have been received;
\- if x = VR(R):
\- if all byte segments of the AMD PDU with SN = VR(R) are received:
\- update VR(R) to the SN of the first AMD PDU with SN > current VR(R) for
which not all byte segments have been received;
\- update VR(MR) to the updated VR(R) + AM_Window_Size;
\- reassemble RLC SDUs from any byte segments of AMD PDUs with SN that falls
outside of the receiving window and in-sequence byte segments of the AMD PDU
with SN = VR(R), remove RLC headers when doing so and deliver the reassembled
RLC SDUs to upper layer in sequence if not delivered before;
\- if _t-Reordering_ is running:
\- if VR(X) = VR(R); or
\- if VR(X) falls outside of the receiving window and VR(X) is not equal to
VR(MR):
\- stop and reset _t-Reordering_ ;
\- if _t-Reordering_ is not running (includes the case _t-Reordering_ is
stopped due to actions above):
\- if VR (H) > VR(R):
\- start _t-Reordering_ ;
\- set VR(X) to VR(H).
##### 5.1.3.2.4 Actions when _t-Reordering_ expires
**When _t-Reordering_ expires, the receiving side of an AM RLC entity shall:**
\- update VR(MS) to the SN of the first AMD PDU with SN >= VR(X) for which not
all byte segments have been received;
\- if VR(H) > VR(MS):
\- start _t-Reordering_ ;
\- set VR(X) to VR(H).
## 5.2 ARQ procedures
**ARQ procedures are only performed by an AM RLC entity.**
### 5.2.1 Retransmission
**The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity can receive a negative
acknowledgement (notification of reception failure by its peer AM RLC entity)
for an AMD PDU or a portion of an AMD PDU by the following:**
\- STATUS PDU from its peer AM RLC entity.
**When receiving a negative acknowledgement for an AMD PDU or a portion of an
AMD PDU by a STATUS PDU from its peer AM RLC entity, the transmitting side of
the AM RLC entity shall:**
\- if the SN of the corresponding AMD PDU falls within the range VT(A) \= _pollPDU_ ; or
\- if BYTE_WITHOUT_POLL >= _pollByte_ ;
\- include a poll in the RLC data PDU as described below.
**Upon assembly of an AMD PDU or AMD PDU segment, the transmitting side of an
AM RLC entity shall:**
\- if both the transmission buffer and the retransmission buffer becomes empty
(excluding transmitted RLC data PDU awaiting for acknowledgements) after the
transmission of the RLC data PDU; or
\- if no new RLC data PDU can be transmitted after the transmission of the RLC
data PDU (e.g. due to window stalling);
\- include a poll in the RLC data PDU as described below.
NOTE: E mpty RLC buffer (excluding transmitted RLC data PDU awaiting for
acknowledgements) should not lead to unnecessary polling when data awaits in
the upper layer. Details are left up to UE implementation.
**To include a poll in a RLC data PDU, the transmitting side of an AM RLC
entity shall:**
\- set the P field of the RLC data PDU to \"1\";
\- set PDU_WITHOUT_POLL to 0, except for NB-IoT;
\- set BYTE_WITHOUT_POLL to 0, except for NB-IoT;
**After delivering a RLC data PDU including a poll to lower layer and after
incrementing of VT(S) if necessary, the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity
shall:**
\- set POLL_SN to VT(S) -- 1;
\- if _t-PollRetransmit_ is not running:
\- start _t-PollRetransmit_ ;
\- else:
\- restart _t-PollRetransmit_ ;
#### 5.2.2.2 Reception of a STATUS report
**Upon reception of a STATUS report from the receiving RLC AM entity the
transmitting side of an AM RLC entity shall:**
\- if the STATUS report comprises a positive or negative acknowledgement for
the RLC data PDU with sequence number equal to POLL_SN:
\- if _t-PollRetransmit_ is running:
\- stop and reset _t-PollRetransmit_.
#### 5.2.2.3 Expiry of _t-PollRetransmit_
**Upon expiry of _t-PollRetransmit_ , the transmitting side of an AM RLC
entity shall:**
\- if both the transmission buffer and the retransmission buffer are empty
(excluding transmitted RLC data PDU awaiting for acknowledgements); or
\- if no new RLC data PDU can be transmitted (e.g. due to window stalling):
\- consider the AMD PDU with SN = VT(S) -- 1 for retransmission; or
\- consider any AMD PDU which has not been positively acknowledged for
retransmission;
\- include a poll in a RLC data PDU as described in section 5.2.2.1.
### 5.2.3 Status reporting
**An AM RLC entity sends STATUS PDUs to its peer AM RLC entity in order to
provide positive and/or negative acknowledgements of RLC PDUs (or portions of
them).**
**Except for NB-IoT, RRC configures whether or not the status prohibit
function is to be used for an AM RLC entity. For NB-IoT, RRC configures
whether or not the status reporting due to** detection of reception failure of
an RLC data PDU **is to be used for an AM RLC entity.**
**Triggers to initiate STATUS reporting include:**
\- Polling from its peer AM RLC entity:
\- When a RLC data PDU with SN = x and the P field set to "1" is received from
lower layer, the receiving side of an AM RLC entity shall:
\- if the PDU is to be discarded as specified in subclause 5.1.3.2.2; or
\- if x \= VR(MR):
\- trigger a STATUS report;
\- else:
\- delay triggering the STATUS report until x \= VR(MR).
NOTE 1: This ensures that the RLC Status report is transmitted after HARQ
reordering.
\- Detection of reception failure of an RLC data PDU, except for an NB-IoT UE
not configured with _enableStatusReportSN-Gap_ :
\- The receiving side of an AM RLC entity shall trigger a STATUS report when
_t-Reordering_ expires.
NOTE 2: The expiry of _t-Reordering_ triggers both VR(MS) to be updated and a
STATUS report to be triggered, but the STATUS report shall be triggered after
VR(MS) is updated.
**When STATUS reporting has been triggered, the receiving side of an AM RLC
entity shall:**
\- if _t-StatusProhibit_ is not running:
\- at the first transmission opportunity indicated by lower layer, construct a
STATUS PDU and deliver it to lower layer;
\- else:
\- at the first transmission opportunity indicated by lower layer after _t-
StatusProhibit_ expires, construct a single STATUS PDU even if status
reporting was triggered several times while _t-StatusProhibit_ was running and
deliver it to lower layer;
**When a STATUS PDU has been delivered to lower layer, the receiving side of
an AM RLC entity shall:**
\- start _t-StatusProhibit_.
**When constructing a STATUS PDU, the AM RLC entity shall:**
\- for the AMD PDUs with SN such that VR(R) \ Value | > Description | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > 0 | > Data field follows from the octet following the fixed | | | > part of the header | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > 1 | > A set of E field and LI field follows from the octet | | | > following the fixed part of the header | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
Table 6.2.2.4-2: E field interpretation (for E field in the extension part of
the header)
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > Value | > Description | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > 0 | > Data field follows from the octet following the LI | | | > field following this E field | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > 1 | > A set of E field and LI field follows from the bit | | | > following the LI field following this E field | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.2.2.5 Length Indicator (LI) field
Length: 11 bits for RLC UM, 11 bits or 15 bits for RLC AM. The length of the
LI field for RLC AM is configured by upper layers.
The LI field indicates the length in bytes of the corresponding Data field
element present in the RLC data PDU delivered/received by an UM or an AM RLC
entity. The first LI present in the RLC data PDU header corresponds to the
first Data field element present in the Data field of the RLC data PDU, the
second LI present in the RLC data PDU header corresponds to the second Data
field element present in the Data field of the RLC data PDU, and so on. The
value 0 is reserved.
#### 6.2.2.6 Framing Info (FI) field
Length: 2 bits.
The FI field indicates whether a RLC SDU is segmented at the beginning and/or
at the end of the Data field. Specifically, the FI field indicates whether the
first byte of the Data field corresponds to the first byte of a RLC SDU, and
whether the last byte of the Data field corresponds to the last byte of a RLC
SDU. The interpretation of the FI field is provided in Table 6.2.2.6-1.
Table 6.2.2.6-1: FI field interpretation
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > Value | > Description | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > 00 | > First byte of the Data field corresponds to the first | | | > byte of a RLC SDU. | | | > | | | > Last byte of the Data field corresponds to the last | | | > byte of a RLC SDU. | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > 01 | > First byte of the Data field corresponds to the first | | | > byte of a RLC SDU. | | | > | | | > Last byte of the Data field does not correspond to the | | | > last byte of a RLC SDU. | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > 10 | > First byte of the Data field does not correspond to the | | | > first byte of a RLC SDU. | | | > | | | > Last byte of the Data field corresponds to the last | | | > byte of a RLC SDU. | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > 11 | > First byte of the Data field does not correspond to the | | | > first byte of a RLC SDU. | | | > | | | > Last byte of the Data field does not correspond to the | | | > last byte of a RLC SDU. | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.2.2.7 Segment Offset (SO) field
Length: 15 bits or 16 bits (configurable).
The SO field indicates the position of the AMD PDU segment in bytes within the
original AMD PDU. Specifically, the SO field indicates the position within the
Data field of the original AMD PDU to which the first byte of the Data field
of the AMD PDU segment corresponds to. The first byte in the Data field of the
original AMD PDU is referred by the SO field value \"000000000000000\" or
\"0000000000000000\", i.e., numbering starts at zero.
#### 6.2.2.8 Last Segment Flag (LSF) field
Length: 1 bit.
The LSF field indicates whether or not the last byte of the AMD PDU segment
corresponds to the last byte of an AMD PDU. The interpretation of the LSF
field is provided in Table 6.2.2.8-1.
Table 6.2.2.8-1: LSF field interpretation
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > Value | > Description | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > 0 | > Last byte of the AMD PDU segment does not correspond to | | | > the last byte of an AMD PDU. | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | > 1 | > Last byte of the AMD PDU segment corresponds to the | | | > last byte of an AMD PDU. | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.2.2.9 Data/Control (D/C) field
Length: 1 bit.
The D/C field indicates whether the RLC PDU is a RLC data PDU or RLC control
PDU. The interpretation of the D/C field is provided in Table 6.2.2.9-1.
Table 6.2.2.9-1: D/C field interpretation
+---------+---------------+ | > Value | > Description | +---------+---------------+ | > 0 | > Control PDU | +---------+---------------+ | > 1 | > Data PDU | +---------+---------------+
#### 6.2.2.10 Re-segmentation Flag (RF) field
Length: 1 bit.
The RF field indicates whether the RLC PDU is an AMD PDU or AMD PDU segment.
The interpretation of the RF field is provided in Table 6.2.2.10-1.
Table 6.2.2.10-1: RF field interpretation
+---------+-------------------+ | > Value | > Description | +---------+-------------------+ | > 0 | > AMD PDU | +---------+-------------------+ | > 1 | > AMD PDU segment | +---------+-------------------+
#### 6.2.2.11 Polling bit (P) field
Length: 1 bit.
The P field indicates whether or not the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity
requests a STATUS report from its peer AM RLC entity. The interpretation of
the P field is provided in Table 6.2.2.11-1.
Table 6.2.2.11-1: P field interpretation
+---------+-------------------------------+ | > Value | > Description | +---------+-------------------------------+ | > 0 | > Status report not requested | +---------+-------------------------------+ | > 1 | > Status report is requested | +---------+-------------------------------+
#### 6.2.2.12 Reserved 1 (R1) field
Length: 1 bit.
The R1 field is a reserved field for this release of the protocol. The
transmitting entity shall set the R1 field to \"0\". The receiving entity
shall ignore this field.
#### 6.2.2.13 Control PDU Type (CPT) field
Length: 3 bits.
The CPT field indicates the type of the RLC control PDU. The interpretation of
the CPT field is provided in Table 6.2.2.13-1.
Table 6.2.2.13-1: CPT field interpretation
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | > Value | > Description | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | > 000 | > STATUS PDU | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | > 001-111 | > Reserved | | | > | | | > (PDUs with this coding will be discarded by the | | | > receiving entity for this release of the protocol) | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.2.2.14 Acknowledgement SN (ACK_SN) field
Length: 10 bits or 16 bits (configurable).
The ACK_SN field indicates the SN of the next not received RLC Data PDU which
is not reported as missing in the STATUS PDU. When the transmitting side of an
AM RLC entity receives a STATUS PDU, it interprets that all AMD PDUs up to but
not including the AMD PDU with SN = ACK_SN have been received by its peer AM
RLC entity, excluding those AMD PDUs indicated in the STATUS PDU with NACK_SN
and portions of AMD PDUs indicated in the STATUS PDU with NACK_SN, SOstart and
SOend.
#### 6.2.2.15 Extension bit 1 (E1) field
Length: 1 bit.
The E1 field indicates whether or not a set of NACK_SN, E1 and E2 follows. The
interpretation of the E1 field is provided in Table 6.2.2.15-1.
Table 6.2.2.15-1: E1 field interpretation
+---------+-------------------------------------------------+ | > Value | > Description | +---------+-------------------------------------------------+ | > 0 | > A set of NACK_SN, E1 and E2 does not follow. | +---------+-------------------------------------------------+ | > 1 | > A set of NACK_SN, E1 and E2 follows. | +---------+-------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.2.2.16 Negative Acknowledgement SN (NACK_SN) field
Length: 10 bits or 16 bits (configurable).
The NACK_SN field indicates the SN of the AMD PDU (or portions of it) that has
been detected as lost at the receiving side of the AM RLC entity.
#### 6.2.2.17 Extension bit 2 (E2) field
Length: 1 bit.
The E2 field indicates whether or not a set of SOstart and SOend follows. The
interpretation of the E2 field is provided in Table 6.2.2.17-1.
Table 6.2.2.17-1: E2 field interpretation
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | > Value | > Description | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | > 0 | > A set of SOstart and SOend does not follow for this NACK_SN. | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | > 1 | > A set of SOstart and SOend follows for this NACK_SN. | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.2.2.18 SO start (SOstart) field
Length: 15 bits or 16 bits (configurable).
The SOstart field (together with the SOend field) indicates the portion of the
AMD PDU with SN = NACK_SN (the NACK_SN for which the SOstart is related to)
that has been detected as lost at the receiving side of the AM RLC entity.
Specifically, the SOstart field indicates the position of the first byte of
the portion of the AMD PDU in bytes within the Data field of the AMD PDU. The
first byte in the Data field of the original AMD PDU is referred by the
SOstart field value \"000000000000000\" or \"0000000000000000\", i.e.,
numbering starts at zero.
#### 6.2.2.19 SO end (SOend) field
Length: 15 bits or 16 bits (configurable).
The SOend field (together with the SOstart field) indicates the portion of the
AMD PDU with SN = NACK_SN (the NACK_SN for which the SOend is related to) that
has been detected as lost at the receiving side of the AM RLC entity.
Specifically, the SOend field indicates the position of the last byte of the
portion of the AMD PDU in bytes within the Data field of the AMD PDU. The
first byte in the Data field of the original AMD PDU is referred by the SOend
field value \"000000000000000\" or \"0000000000000000\", i.e., numbering
starts at zero. The special SOend value \"111111111111111\" or
\"1111111111111111\" is used to indicate that the missing portion of the AMD
PDU includes all bytes to the last byte of the AMD PDU.
# 7 Variables, constants and timers
## 7.1 State variables
This sub clause describes the state variables used in AM and UM entities in
order to specify the RLC protocol. The state variables defined in this
subclause are normative.
All state variables and all counters are non-negative integers.
All state variables related to AM data transfer can take values from 0 to 1023
for 10 bit SN or from 0 to 65535 for 16 bit SN. All arithmetic operations
contained in the present document on state variables related to AM data
transfer are affected by the AM modulus (i.e. final value = [value from
arithmetic operation] modulo 1024 for 10 bit SN and 65536 for 16 bit SN).
All state variables related to UM data transfer can take values from 0 to
[2^[_sn-FieldLength_]^ -- 1]. All arithmetic operations contained in the
present document on state variables related to UM data transfer are affected
by the UM modulus (i.e. final value = [value from arithmetic operation] modulo
2^[_sn-FieldLength_]^).
AMD PDUs and UMD PDUs are numbered integer sequence numbers (SN) cycling
through the field: 0 to 1023 for 10 bit SN and 0 to 65535 for 16 bit SN for
AMD PDU and 0 to [2^[_sn-FieldLength_]^ -- 1] for UMD PDU.
When performing arithmetic comparisons of state variables or SN values, a
modulus base shall be used.
VT(A) and VR(R) shall be assumed as the modulus base at the transmitting side
and receiving side of an AM RLC entity, respectively. This modulus base is
subtracted from all the values involved, and then an absolute comparison is
performed (e.g. VR(R) \ | | | | | | | | | data; | | | | | | | | | retr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | ata); | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | moved | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | term | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | TATUS | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | tting | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | ndow; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Clar | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | retr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | negat | | | | | | | | | ively | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | knowl | | | | | | | | | edged | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | TATUS | | | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | mand | | | | | | | | | atory | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | retr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | negat | | | | | | | | | ively | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | knowl | | | | | | | | | edged | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | HARQ | | | | | | | | | del | | | | | | | | | ivery | | | | | | | | | fa | | | | | | | | | ilure | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | opti | | | | | | | | | onal; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | moved | | | | | | | | | Edi | | | | | | | | | tor's | | | | | | | | | note | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | retr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | hibit | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be no | | | | | | | | | condi | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | negat | | | | | | | | | ively | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | knowl | | | | | | | | | edged | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | retra | | | | | | | | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | ted); | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Clar | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | po | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | igger | | | | | | | | | "Tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | last | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | buf | | | | | | | | | fer"; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Added | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | po | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | tri | | | | | | | | | ggers | | | | | | | | | " | | | | | | | | | Every | | | | | | | | | Poll | | | | | | | | | _PDU | | | | | | | | | PDUs" | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | " | | | | | | | | | Every | | | | | | | | | Poll\ | | | | | | | | | _Byte | | | | | | | | | By | | | | | | | | | tes", | | | | | | | | | intro | | | | | | | | | duced | | | | | | | | | their | | | | | | | | | des | | | | | | | | | cript | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | added | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | Edi | | | | | | | | | tor's | | | | | | | | | note | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | their | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gurab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | FFS; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Added | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | repo | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | igger | | | | | | | | | "dete | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | rece | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | fa | | | | | | | | | ilure | | | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | PDU"; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Intro | | | | | | | | | duced | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | hibit | | | | | | | | | func | | | | | | | | | tion; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | moved | | | | | | | | | Edi | | | | | | | | | tor's | | | | | | | | | note | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | ossib | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efine | | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | PDUs | | | | | | | | | (no | | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | PDUs | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | defi | | | | | | | | | ned); | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Clar | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | "most | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignif | | | | | | | | | icant | | | | | | | | | bit" | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | " | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignif | | | | | | | | | icant | | | | | | | | | bit" | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | PDU; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | moved | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | nu | | | | | | | | | mbers | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | PDU; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Mod | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | ields | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 1byte | | | | | | | | | UMD | | | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | ader; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | moved | | | | | | | | | Edi | | | | | | | | | tor's | | | | | | | | | note | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | ields | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | AMD | | | | | | | | | PDU / | | | | | | | | | AMD | | | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | gment | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | (they | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | now | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | onfir | | | | | | | | | med); | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Mod | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ACK | | | | | | | | | _SN; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | De | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | | ecial | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | Oend; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Added | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UM | | | | | | | | | mo | | | | | | | | | dulus | | | | | | | | | opera | | | | | | | | | tion; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | moved | | | | | | | | | state | | | | | | | | | vari | | | | | | | | | ables | | | | | | | | | VR(R | | | | | | | | | -SO), | | | | | | | | | VR( | | | | | | | | | X-SO) | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | VR( | | | | | | | | | UMR); | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Mod | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | scrip | | | | | | | | | tion/ | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | state | | | | | | | | | vari | | | | | | | | | ables | | | | | | | | | VR | | | | | | | | | (MR), | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | R(X), | | | | | | | | | VR | | | | | | | | | (MS), | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | R(UR) | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | VR | | | | | | | | | (UX); | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Intro | | | | | | | | | duced | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | state | | | | | | | | | vari | | | | | | | | | ables | | | | | | | | | VR(H) | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | R(UH) | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | their | | | | | | | | | des | | | | | | | | | cript | | | | | | | | | ions; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Intro | | | | | | | | | duced | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | cons | | | | | | | | | tants | | | | | | | | | Poll | | | | | | | | | _PDU | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Poll\ | | | | | | | | | _Byte | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | their | | | | | | | | | des | | | | | | | | | cript | | | | | | | | | ions; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Clar | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | T_ | | | | | | | | | reord | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | ru | | | | | | | | | nning | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | en | | | | | | | | | tity; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Intro | | | | | | | | | duced | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | timer | | | | | | | | | T_s | | | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | _pro | | | | | | | | | hibit | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | its | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | scrip | | | | | | | | | tion; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Edit | | | | | | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | were | | | | | | | | | made. | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-40 | RP-0 | 0002 | 1 | | Cla | 8.2.0 | | 08-05 | | 80411 | | | | rific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | TATUS | | | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | BSR | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-40 | RP-0 | 0003 | - | | Re | 8.2.0 | | | | 80411 | | | | moval | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Edi | | | | | | | | | tor's | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | upd | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | R(MS) | | | | | | | | | upon | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xpiry | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | T_ | | | | | | | | | reord | | | | | | | | | ering | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-40 | RP-0 | 0004 | - | | Re | 8.2.0 | | | | 80411 | | | | moval | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | TATUS | | | | | | | | | rece | | | | | | | | | iving | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | indow | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-40 | RP-0 | 0005 | - | | Dupl | 8.2.0 | | | | 80411 | | | | icate | | | | | | | | | dete | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | in UM | | | | | | | | | RLC | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-40 | RP-0 | 0006 | - | | Corre | 8.2.0 | | | | 80411 | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Po | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | Proc | | | | | | | | | edure | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-40 | RP-0 | 0007 | - | | Mis | 8.2.0 | | | | 80411 | | | | cella | | | | | | | | | neous | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | to TS | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 6.322 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-40 | RP-0 | 0008 | - | | Small | 8.2.0 | | | | 80411 | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RLC | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-40 | RP-0 | 0012 | - | | CR to | 8.2.0 | | | | 80411 | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 6.322 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | | | reass | | | | | | | | | embly | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-40 | RP-0 | 0015 | 1 | | 3 | 8.2.0 | | | | 80411 | | | | 6.322 | | | | | | | | | CR on | | | | | | | | | \'RLC | | | | | | | | | retr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | add | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | nfigu | | | | | | | | | rable | | | | | | | | | Pa | | | | | | | | | ramet | | | | | | | | | ers\' | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-40 | RP-0 | 0017 | - | | Se | 8.2.0 | | | | 80411 | | | | rvice | | | | | | | | | align | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 6.323 | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | PDCP) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-40 | RP-0 | 0018 | - | | CR on | 8.2.0 | | | | 80411 | | | | the | | | | | | | | | proc | | | | | | | | | edure | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | cons | | | | | | | | | truct | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | TATUS | | | | | | | | | PDU | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-41 | RP-0 | 0019 | 1 | | Cla | 8.3.0 | | 08-09 | | 80691 | | | | rific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | po | | | | | | | | | lling | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-41 | RP-0 | 0020 | - | | C | 8.3.0 | | | | 80691 | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | forma | | | | | | | | | tting | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-41 | RP-0 | 0021 | 2 | | The | 8.3.0 | | | | 80691 | | | | value | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | AC | | | | | | | | | K_SN | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | | rtial | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | TATUS | | | | | | | | | PDU | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-41 | RP-0 | 0022 | 1 | | Error | 8.3.0 | | | | 80691 | | | | cases | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | RLC | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-41 | RP-0 | 0024 | - | | RLC | 8.3.0 | | | | 80691 | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ntity | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | e-est | | | | | | | | | ablis | | | | | | | | | hment | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-41 | RP-0 | 0025 | - | | Mis | 8.3.0 | | | | 80691 | | | | cella | | | | | | | | | neous | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-41 | RP-0 | 0029 | - | | Cla | 8.3.0 | | | | 80691 | | | | rific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | reord | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | timer | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-41 | RP-0 | 0032 | - | | Cla | 8.3.0 | | | | 80691 | | | | rific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Trigg | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | Condi | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | ports | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-41 | RP-0 | 0033 | - | | RLC | 8.3.0 | | | | 80691 | | | | UMD | | | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | | | fo | | | | | | | | | rmats | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | LI | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-41 | RP-0 | 0036 | - | | Corre | 8.3.0 | | | | 80691 | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | on UM | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | ceive | | | | | | | | | Oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-41 | RP-0 | 0039 | - | | Corre | 8.3.0 | | | | 80691 | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TM | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | en | | | | | | | | | tity: | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | 1.2.3 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-41 | RP-0 | 0040 | - | | Re | 8.3.0 | | | | 80691 | | | | moval | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | | | | chan | | | | | | | | | nels: | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | 1.2.3 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-42 | RP-0 | 0043 | - | | Pro | 8.4.0 | | 08-12 | | 81019 | | | | posed | | | | | | | | | CR | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | ali | | | | | | | | | gning | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | nstru | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | | rtial | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | PDUs | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | ended | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-42 | RP-0 | 0046 | - | | Error | 8.4.0 | | | | 81019 | | | | Han | | | | | | | | | dling | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | RLC | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-42 | RP-0 | 0047 | - | | Mis | 8.4.0 | | | | 81019 | | | | cella | | | | | | | | | neous | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 6.322 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-42 | RP-0 | 0048 | - | | Corre | 8.4.0 | | | | 81019 | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | gment | | | | | | | | | O | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | ields | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-42 | RP-0 | 0049 | - | | Corre | 8.4.0 | | | | 81019 | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | del | | | | | | | | | ivery | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | SDU | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-42 | RP-0 | 0050 | - | | Minor | 8.4.0 | | | | 81019 | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ssues | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | RLC | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-42 | RP-0 | 0054 | - | | The | 8.4.0 | | | | 81019 | | | | se | | | | | | | | | tting | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | VR(X) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-42 | RP-0 | 0055 | - | | A | 8.4.0 | | | | 81019 | | | | dding | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | TM | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-42 | RP-0 | 0056 | - | | Rem | 8.4.0 | | | | 81019 | | | | oving | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | redu | | | | | | | | | ndant | | | | | | | | | text | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | VT(A) | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | tting | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-42 | RP-0 | 0057 | - | | Cou | 8.4.0 | | | | 81019 | | | | nting | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | Retra | | | | | | | | | nsmis | | | | | | | | | sions | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0058 | - | | CR to | 8.5.0 | | 09-03 | | 90129 | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 6.322 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | | | | Param | | | | | | | | | eters | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0059 | - | | Local | 8.5.0 | | | | 90129 | | | | NA | | | | | | | | | CKing | | | | | | | | | in UE | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0060 | - | | Suppo | 8.5.0 | | | | 90129 | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | SDU | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | arger | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | 2047 | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ctets | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0061 | - | | CR on | 8.5.0 | | | | 90129 | | | | the | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | seq | | | | | | | | | uence | | | | | | | | | del | | | | | | | | | ivery | | | | | | | | | fun | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | UM | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0062 | - | | Corre | 8.5.0 | | | | 90129 | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Del | | | | | | | | | ivery | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | PDU | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0063 | 1 | | I | 8.5.0 | | | | 90129 | | | | ssues | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | SO, | | | | | | | | | SOs | | | | | | | | | tart, | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | SOend | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | ields | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0064 | - | | Mis | 8.5.0 | | | | 90129 | | | | cella | | | | | | | | | neous | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0065 | - | | Corre | 8.5.0 | | | | 90129 | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | repo | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | trigg | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | ition | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0066 | - | | Alig | 8.5.0 | | | | 90129 | | | | nment | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | tting | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | poll | | | | | | | | | bit | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0067 | 1 | | Pro | 8.5.0 | | | | 90129 | | | | posed | | | | | | | | | CR to | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 6.322 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | Cla | | | | | | | | | rific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | Po | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | proc | | | | | | | | | edure | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0068 | 1 | | Every | 8.5.0 | | | | 90129 | | | | Poll | | | | | | | | | _PDU | | | | | | | | | PDUs | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Every | | | | | | | | | Poll\ | | | | | | | | | _Byte | | | | | | | | | bytes | | | | | | | | | tri | | | | | | | | | ggers | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0069 | - | | UE | 8.5.0 | | | | 90129 | | | | beha | | | | | | | | | viour | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | T_p | | | | | | | | | oll_ | | | | | | | | | retra | | | | | | | | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | ex | | | | | | | | | pires | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-43 | RP-0 | 0076 | - | | Defin | 8.5.0 | | | | 90129 | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | ETX_ | | | | | | | | | COUNT | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | ssing | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-44 | RP-0 | 0080 | - | | Reset | 8.6.0 | | 09-06 | | 90514 | | | | of | | | | | | | | | T_ | | | | | | | | | poll\ | | | | | | | | | _retr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-44 | RP-0 | 0081 | - | | RLC | 8.6.0 | | | | 90514 | | | | func | | | | | | | | | tions | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-44 | RP-0 | 0082 | 1 | | Corre | 8.6.0 | | | | 90514 | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | han | | | | | | | | | dling | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | erved | | | | | | | | | field | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-44 | RP-0 | 0083 | - | | Corre | 8.6.0 | | | | 90514 | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | sto | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | | | | | t- | | | | | | | | | Reord | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | in AM | | | | | | | | | mode | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-45 | RP-0 | 0084 | - | | Pos | 8.7.0 | | 09-09 | | 90906 | | | | sible | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | sinte | | | | | | | | | rpret | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | creme | | | | | | | | | nting | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | ETX_ | | | | | | | | | COUNT | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-46 | RP-0 | 0087 | - | | Capt | 9.0.0 | | 09-12 | | 91341 | | | | uring | | | | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | | | | agree | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | RLC | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-47 | RP-1 | 0089 | - | | Corre | 9.1.0 | | 10-03 | | 00305 | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ntity | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-48 | RP-1 | 0091 | 1 | | Corre | 9.2.0 | | 10-06 | | 00536 | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | VR(H) | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | pdate | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-49 | RP-1 | 0092 | 1 | | Mis | 9.3.0 | | 10-09 | | 00851 | | | | cella | | | | | | | | | neous | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RLC | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-50 | - | - | - | | Up | 1 | | 10-12 | | | | | | grade | 0.0.0 | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | lease | | | | | | | | | 10 - | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | tech | | | | | | | | | nical | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hange | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-57 | - | - | - | | Up | 1 | | 12-09 | | | | | | grade | 1.0.0 | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | lease | | | | | | | | | 11 - | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | tech | | | | | | | | | nical | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hange | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-64 | RP-1 | 0099 | 1 | | Ext | 1 | | 14-06 | | 40892 | | | | ended | 2.0.0 | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | LI | | | | | | | | | field | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-65 | RP-1 | 0101 | - | | C | 1 | | 14-09 | | 41511 | | | | orrec | 2.1.0 | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ext | | | | | | | | | ended | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | LI | | | | | | | | | field | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-66 | - | - | - | | MCC | 1 | | 14-12 | | | | | | edit | 2.1.1 | | | | | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | pdate | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-67 | RP-1 | 0105 | 1 | | RLC | 1 | | 15-03 | | 50376 | | | | con | 2.2.0 | | | | | | | | caten | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | ext | | | | | | | | | ended | | | | | | | | | LI | | | | | | | | | field | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-67 | RP-1 | 0107 | - | | In | 1 | | | | 50374 | | | | trodu | 2.2.0 | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ProSe | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | irect | | | | | | | | | Com | | | | | | | | | munic | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-69 | RP-1 | 0108 | - | | C | 1 | | 15-09 | | 51441 | | | | orrec | 2.3.0 | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | STCH | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 6.322 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-70 | RP-1 | 0114 | - | | In | 1 | | 15-12 | | 52071 | | | | trodu | 3.0.0 | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ext | | | | | | | | | ended | | | | | | | | | RLC | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | tocol | | | | | | | | | fo | | | | | | | | | rmats | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nhanc | | | | | | | | | ement | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-70 | RP-1 | 0115 | - | | In | 1 | | | | 52080 | | | | trodu | 3.0.0 | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | C-PTM | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | RLC | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-71 | RP-1 | 0116 | 1 | | Cla | 1 | | 16-03 | | 60470 | | | | rific | 3.1.0 | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | Po | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | last | | | | | | | | | data | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-72 | RP-1 | 0120 | 1 | | Add | 1 | | 16-06 | | 61078 | | | | ition | 3.2.0 | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | sid | | | | | | | | | elink | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rview | | | | | | | | | model | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RP-72 | RP-1 | 0121 | 2 | | In | 1 | | | | 61081 | | | | trodu | 3.2.0 | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | B-IoT | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-75 | RP-1 | 0126 | - | F | Corre | 1 | | 17-03 | | 70655 | | | | ction | 3.3.0 | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | B-IoT | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-77 | RP-1 | 0128 | - | F | C | 1 | | 17-09 | | 71920 | | | | orrec | 3.4.0 | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | gical | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | for | |