# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the description of the Packet Data Convergence
Protocol (PDCP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.322: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution: Security
Architecture\".
[7] IETF RFC 4995: \"The RObust Header Compression (ROHC) Framework\".
[8] IETF RFC 4996: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): A Profile for TCP/IP
(ROHC-TCP)\".
[9] IETF RFC 3095: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Framework and four
profiles: RTP, UDP, ESP and uncompressed\".
[10] IETF RFC 3843: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): A Compression Profile
for IP\".
[11] IETF RFC 4815: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Corrections and
Clarifications to RFC 3095\".
[12] IETF RFC 5225: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC) Version 2: Profiles for
RTP, UDP, IP, ESP and UDP Lite".
[13] 3GPP TS 33.303: "Proximity-based Services; Security Aspects".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.303: "Proximity-based Services; Stage 2".
[15] 3GPP TS 36.360: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
LTE-WLAN Aggregation Adaptation Protocol (LWAAP) specification".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**NB-IoT** : NB-IoT allows access to network services via E-UTRA with a
channel bandwidth limited to 200 kHz.
**Split bearer** : in dual connectivity, a bearer whose radio protocols are
located in both the MeNB and the SeNB to use both MeNB and SeNB resources.
**LWA bearer** : in LTE-WLAN Aggregation, a bearer whose radio protocols are
located in both the eNB and the WLAN to use both eNB and WLAN resources.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AM Acknowledged Mode
ARP Address Resolution Protocol
CID Context Identifier
DRB Data Radio Bearer carrying user plane data
EPS Evolved Packet System
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
FMS First missing PDCP SN
HFN Hyper Frame Number
HRW Highest Received PDCP SN on WLAN
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IP Internet Protocol
L2 Layer 2 (data link layer)
L3 Layer 3 (network layer)
LWA LTE-WLAN Aggregation
MAC Medium Access Control
MAC-I Message Authentication Code for Integrity
MCG Master Cell Group
NB-IoT Narrow Band Internet of Things
NMP Number of Missing PDCP SDUs
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PDU Protocol Data Unit
PEK ProSe Encryption Key
PGK ProSe Group Key
ProSe Proximity-based Services
PTK ProSe Traffic Key
R Reserved
RB Radio Bearer
RFC Request For Comments
RLC Radio Link Control
RN Relay Node
ROHC RObust Header Compression
RRC Radio Resource Control
RTP Real Time Protocol
SAP Service Access Point
SCG Secondary Cell Group
SDU Service Data Unit
SLRB Sidelink Radio Bearer carrying Sidelink Communication data
SN Sequence Number
SRB Signalling Radio Bearer carrying control plane data
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UE User Equipment
UM Unacknowledged Mode
X-MAC Computed MAC-I
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The present document describes the functionality of the PDCP. Functionality
specified for the UE equally applies to the RN for functionality necessary for
the RN. There is also functionality which is only applicable to the RN in its
communication with the E-UTRAN, in which case the specification denotes the RN
instead of the UE. RN-specific behaviour is not applicable to the UE. The
functionality specified for the UE applies to communication on Uu interface
and PC5 interface [14].
## 4.2 PDCP architecture
### 4.2.1 PDCP structure
Figure 4.2.1.1 represents one possible structure for the PDCP sublayer; it
should not restrict implementation. The figure is based on the radio interface
protocol architecture defined in [2].
Figure 4.2.1.1 - PDCP layer, structure view
Each RB (i.e. DRB, SLRB and SRB, except for SRB0 and SRB1bis) is associated
with one PDCP entity. Each PDCP entity is associated with one or two (one for
each direction) RLC entities depending on the RB characteristic (i.e. uni-
directional or bi-directional) and RLC mode. For split bearers, each PDCP
entity is associated with two AM RLC entities. For LWA bearers, each PDCP
entity is associated with an AM RLC entity and the LWAAP entity. The PDCP
entities are located in the PDCP sublayer.
The PDCP sublayer is configured by upper layers [3].
### 4.2.2 PDCP entities
The PDCP entities are located in the PDCP sublayer. Several PDCP entities may
be defined for a UE. Each PDCP entity carrying user plane data may be
configured to use header compression.
Each PDCP entity is carrying the data of one radio bearer. In this version of
the specification, only the robust header compression protocol (ROHC), is
supported. Every PDCP entity uses at most one ROHC compressor instance and at
most one ROHC decompressor instance.
A PDCP entity is associated either to the control plane or the user plane
depending on which radio bearer it is carrying data for.
Figure 4.2.2.1 represents the functional view of the PDCP entity for the PDCP
sublayer; it should not restrict implementation. The figure is based on the
radio interface protocol architecture defined in [2].
For RNs, integrity protection and verification are also performed for the
u-plane.
For split bearers, routing is performed in the transmitting PDCP entity, and
reordering is performed in the receiving PDCP entity. When requested by lower
layers to submit PDCP PDUs, the transmitting PDCP entity shall:
\- if _ul-DataSplitThreshold_ is configured and the data available for
transmission is larger than or equal to _ul-DataSplitThreshold_ :
\- submit the PDCP PDUs to either the associated AM RLC entity configured for
SCG or the associated AM RLC entity configured for MCG, whichever the PDUs
were requested by;
\- else:
\- if **_ul-DataSplitDRB-ViaSCG_** is set to _TRUE_ by upper layers [3]:
\- if the PDUs were requested by the associated lower layers configured for
SCG:
\- submit the PDCP PDUs to the associated AM RLC entity configured for SCG;
\- else:
\- if the PDUs were requested by the associated lower layers configured for
MCG:
\- submit the PDCP PDUs to the associated AM RLC entity configured for MCG.
For LWA bearers, routing is performed in the transmitting PDCP entity and
reordering is performed in the receiving PDCP entity. The transmitting PDCP
entity of the UE shall only submit the PDCP PDUs to the associated AM RLC
entity.
Figure 4.2.2.1 - PDCP layer, functional view
## 4.3 Services
### 4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers
PDCP provides its services to the RRC and user plane upper layers at the UE or
to the relay at the evolved Node B (eNB). The following services are provided
by PDCP to upper layers:
\- transfer of user plane data;
\- transfer of control plane data;
\- header compression;
\- ciphering;
\- integrity protection.
The maximum supported size of a PDCP SDU is 8188 octets, except in NB-IoT for
which the maximum supported size of a PDCP SDU is 1600 octets. The maximum
supported size of a PDCP Control PDU is 8188 octets except in NB-IoT for which
the maximum supported size of PDCP Control PDU is 1600 octets.
### 4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers
A PDCP entity expects the following services from lower layers per RLC entity
(for a detailed description see [5]):
\- acknowledged data transfer service, including indication of successful
delivery of PDCP PDUs;
\- unacknowledged data transfer service;
\- in-sequence delivery, except at re-establishment of lower layers;
\- duplicate discarding, except at re-establishment of lower layers.
A PDCP entity expects the following services from the LWAAP entity (for a
detailed description see [15]):
\- user plane data transfer service;
## 4.4 Functions
The Packet Data Convergence Protocol supports the following functions:
\- header compression and decompression of IP data flows using the ROHC
protocol;
\- transfer of data (user plane or control plane);
\- maintenance of PDCP SNs;
\- in-sequence delivery of upper layer PDUs at re-establishment of lower
layers;
\- duplicate elimination of lower layer SDUs at re-establishment of lower
layers for radio bearers mapped on RLC AM;
\- ciphering and deciphering of user plane data and control plane data;
\- integrity protection and integrity verification of control plane data;
\- integrity protection and integrity verification of sidelink one-to-one
communication data;
\- for RNs, integrity protection and integrity verification of user plane
data;
\- timer based discard;
\- duplicate discarding;
\- for split and LWA bearers, routing and reordering.
PDCP uses the services provided by the RLC sublayer and the LWAAP sublayer.
PDCP is used for SRBs, DRBs, and SLRBs mapped on DCCH, DTCH, and STCH type of
logical channels. PDCP is not used for any other type of logical channels.
PDCP is not used for SRB1bis.
## 4.5 Data available for transmission
For the purpose of MAC buffer status reporting, the UE shall consider PDCP
Control PDUs, as well as the following as data available for transmission in
the PDCP layer:
> For SDUs for which no PDU has been submitted to lower layers:
\- the SDU itself, if the SDU has not yet been processed by PDCP, or
\- the PDU if the SDU has been processed by PDCP.
In addition, for radio bearers that are mapped on RLC AM, if the PDCP entity
has previously performed the re-establishment procedure, the UE shall also
consider the following as data available for transmission in the PDCP layer:
> For SDUs for which a corresponding PDU has only been submitted to lower
> layers prior to the PDCP re-establishment, starting from the first SDU for
> which the delivery of the corresponding PDUs has not been confirmed by the
> lower layer, except the SDUs which are indicated as successfully delivered
> by the PDCP status report, if received:
\- the SDU, if it has not yet been processed by PDCP, or
\- the PDU once it has been processed by PDCP.
For radio bearers that are mapped on RLC AM, if the PDCP entity has previously
performed the data recovery procedure, the UE shall also consider as data
available for transmission in the PDCP layer, all the PDCP PDUs that have only
been submitted to re-established AM RLC entity prior to the PDCP data
recovery, starting from the first PDCP PDU whose successful delivery has not
been confirmed by lower layers, except the PDUs which are indicated as
successfully delivered by the PDCP status report, if received.
For split bearers, when indicating the data available for transmission to aMAC
entity for BSR triggering and Buffer Size calculation, the UE shall:
\- if _ul-DataSplitThreshold_ is configured and the data available for
transmission is larger than or equal to _ul-DataSplitThreshold_ :
\- indicatethe data available for transmission to both the MAC entity
configured for SCG and the MAC entity configured for MCG;
\- else:
\- if **_ul-DataSplitDRB-ViaSCG_** is set to _TRUE_ by upper layer [3]:
\- indicate the data available for transmission to the MAC entity configured
for SCG only;
\- if _ul-DataSplitThreshold_ is configured, indicate the data available for
transmission as 0 to the MAC entity configured for MCG;
\- else:
\- indicate the data available for transmission to the MAC entity configured
for MCG only;
\- if _ul-DataSplitThreshold_ is configured, indicate the data available for
transmission as 0 to the MAC entity configured for SCG.
# 5 PDCP procedures
## 5.1 PDCP Data Transfer Procedures
### 5.1.1 UL Data Transfer Procedures
At reception of a PDCP SDU from upper layers, the UE shall:
\- start the _discardTimer_ associated with this PDCP SDU (if configured);
For a PDCP SDU received from upper layers, the UE shall:
\- associate the PDCP SN corresponding to Next_PDCP_TX_SN to this PDCP SDU;
NOTE: Associating more than half of the PDCP SN space of contiguous PDCP SDUs
with PDCP SNs, when e.g., the PDCP SDUs are discarded or transmitted without
acknowledgement, may cause HFN desynchronization problem. How to prevent HFN
desynchronization problem is left up to UE implementation.
\- perform header compression of the PDCP SDU (if configured) as specified in
the subclause 5.5.4;
\- perform integrity protection (if applicable), and ciphering (if applicable)
using COUNT based on TX_HFN and the PDCP SN associated with this PDCP SDU as
specified in the subclause 5.7 and 5.6, respectively;
\- increment Next_PDCP_TX_SN by one;
\- if Next_PDCP_TX_SN > Maximum_PDCP_SN:
\- set Next_PDCP_TX_SN to 0;
\- increment TX_HFN by one;
\- submit the resulting PDCP Data PDU to lower layer.
### 5.1.2 DL Data Transfer Procedures
#### 5.1.2.1 Procedures for DRBs
##### 5.1.2.1.1 Void
##### 5.1.2.1.2 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM when the reordering
function is not used
For DRBs mapped on RLC AM, when the reordering function is not used, at
reception of a PDCP Data PDU from lower layers, the UE shall:
\- if received PDCP SN -- Last_Submitted_PDCP_RX_SN > Reordering_Window or 0
\ Next_PDCP_RX_SN:
\- decipher the PDCP PDU as specified in the subclause 5.6, using COUNT based
on RX_HFN - 1 and the received PDCP SN;
\- else:
\- decipher the PDCP PDU as specified in the subclause 5.6, using COUNT based
on RX_HFN and the received PDCP SN;
\- perform header decompression (if configured) as specified in the subclause
5.5.5;
\- discard this PDCP SDU;
\- else if Next_PDCP_RX_SN -- received PDCP SN > Reordering_Window:
\- increment RX_HFN by one;
\- use COUNT based on RX_HFN and the received PDCP SN for deciphering the PDCP
PDU;
\- set Next_PDCP_RX_SN to the received PDCP SN + 1;
\- else if received PDCP SN -- Next_PDCP_RX_SN >= Reordering_Window:
\- use COUNT based on RX_HFN -- 1 and the received PDCP SN for deciphering the
PDCP PDU;
\- else if received PDCP SN >= Next_PDCP_RX_SN:
\- use COUNT based on RX_HFN and the received PDCP SN for deciphering the PDCP
PDU;
\- set Next_PDCP_RX_SN to the received PDCP SN + 1;
\- if Next_PDCP_RX_SN is larger than Maximum_PDCP_SN:
\- set Next_PDCP_RX_SN to 0;
\- increment RX_HFN by one;
\- else if received PDCP SN \ Maximum_PDCP_SN:
\- set Next_PDCP_RX_SN to 0;
\- increment RX_HFN by one;
\- perform header decompression (if configured) of the deciphered PDCP Data
PDU as specified in the subclause 5.5.5;
\- deliver the resulting PDCP SDU to upper layer.
##### 5.1.2.1.3a RN procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM
For DRBs mapped on RLC UM, at reception of a PDCP Data PDU from lower layers,
the RN should follow the procedures specified for a UE in 5.1.2.1.3 with the
addition that for DRBs for which integrity verification is configured, the RN
should, immediately after performing deciphering as specified in 5.6, also
perform integrity verification as specified in 5.7 with the same COUNT value
as used for deciphering.
In case of integrity verification failure, the RN should discard the PDCP Data
PDU without performing header decompression and set the RX_HFN and
Next_PDCP_RX_SN to the respective values they had before the reception of the
PDCP Data PDU.
##### 5.1.2.1.4 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM and for LWA bearers when
the reordering function is used
For DRBs mapped on RLC AM and for LWA bearers, the PDCP entity shall use the
reordering function as specified in this section when:
\- the PDCP entity is associated with two AM RLC entities; or
\- the PDCP entity is configured for a LWA bearer; or
\- the PDCP entity is associated with one AM RLC entity after it was,
according to the most recent reconfiguration, associated with two AM RLC
entities or configured for a LWA bearer without performing PDCP re-
establishment.
The PDCP entity shall not use the reordering function in other cases.
###### 5.1.2.1.4.1 Procedures when a PDCP PDU is received from the lower
layers
For DRBs mapped on RLC AM, when the reordering function is used, at reception
of a PDCP Data PDU from lower layers, the UE shall:
\- if received PDCP SN -- Last_Submitted_PDCP_RX_SN > Reordering_Window or 0
\ Next_PDCP_RX_SN:
\- for the purpose of setting the HRW field in the LWA status report, use
COUNT based on RX_HFN - 1 and the received PDCP SN;
\- else:
\- for the purpose of setting the HRW field in the LWA status report, use
COUNT based on RX_HFN and the received PDCP SN;
\- discard the PDCP PDU;
\- else if Next_PDCP_RX_SN -- received PDCP SN > Reordering_Window:
\- increment RX_HFN by one;
\- use COUNT based on RX_HFN and the received PDCP SN for deciphering the PDCP
PDU;
\- set Next_PDCP_RX_SN to the received PDCP SN + 1;
\- else if received PDCP SN -- Next_PDCP_RX_SN >= Reordering_Window:
\- use COUNT based on RX_HFN -- 1 and the received PDCP SN for deciphering the
PDCP PDU;
\- else if received PDCP SN >= Next_PDCP_RX_SN:
\- use COUNT based on RX_HFN and the received PDCP SN for deciphering the PDCP
PDU;
\- set Next_PDCP_RX_SN to the received PDCP SN + 1;
\- if Next_PDCP_RX_SN is larger than Maximum_PDCP_SN:
\- set Next_PDCP_RX_SN to 0;
\- increment RX_HFN by one;
\- else if received PDCP SN \ Maximum_PDCP_SN:
\- set Next_PDCP_RX_SN to 0;
\- increment RX_HFN by one;
\- deliver the resulting PDCP SDU to upper layer;
\- else, if integrity verification is applicable and the integrity
verification fails:
\- discard the received PDCP Data PDU;
\- indicate the integrity verification failure to upper layer.
### 5.1.3 SL Data Transmission Procedures
For Sidelink transmission, the UE shall follow the procedures in subclause
5.1.1 with following modifications:
\- the requirements for maintaining Next_PDCP_TX_SN and TX_HFN are not
applicable;
\- determine a PDCP SN ensuring that a PDCP SN value is not reused with the
same key;
\- perform ciphering (if configured) as specified in subclause 5.6.1 and
5.6.2;
\- perform the header compression (if configured) if SDU Type is set to 000,
i.e. IP SDUs.
### 5.1.4 SL Data Reception Procedures
For Sidelink reception, the UE shall follow the procedures in subclause
5.1.2.1.3 with following modifications:
\- the requirements for maintaining Next_PDCP_RX_SN and RX_HFN are not
applicable;
\- perform the deciphering (if configured) as specified in subclause 5.6.1 and
5.6.2;
\- perform the header decompression (if configured) if SDU Type is set to 000,
i.e. IP SDUs.
## 5.2 Re-establishment procedure
When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall additionally
perform once the procedures described in this section for the corresponding
RLC mode. After performing the procedures in this section, the UE shall follow
the procedures in subclause 5.1.
### 5.2.1 UL Data Transfer Procedures
#### 5.2.1.1 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM
When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall:
\- reset the header compression protocol for uplink and start with an IR state
in U-mode (if configured) [9] [11], except if upper layers indicate stored UE
AS context is used and _drb-ContinueROHC_ is configured [3];
\- if connected as an RN, apply the integrity protection algorithm and key
provided by upper layers (if configured) during the re-establishment
procedure;
\- if upper layers indicate stored UE AS context is used, set Next_PDCP_TX_SN,
and TX_HFN to 0;
\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during the
re-establishment procedure;
\- from the first PDCP SDU for which the successful delivery of the
corresponding PDCP PDU has not been confirmed by lower layers, perform
retransmission or transmission of all the PDCP SDUs already associated with
PDCP SNs in ascending order of the COUNT values associated to the PDCP SDU
prior to the PDCP re-establishment as specified below:
\- perform header compression of the PDCP SDU (if configured) as specified in
the subclause 5.5.4;
\- if connected as an RN, perform integrity protection (if configured) of the
PDCP SDU using the COUNT value associated with this PDCP SDU as specified in
the subclause 5.7;
\- perform ciphering of the PDCP SDU using the COUNT value associated with
this PDCP SDU as specified in the subclause 5.6;
\- submit the resulting PDCP Data PDU to lower layer.
#### 5.2.1.2 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM
When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall:
\- reset the header compression protocol for uplink and start with an IR state
in U-mode [9] [11] if the DRB is configured with the header compression
protocol and _drb-ContinueROHC_ is not configured [3];
\- set Next_PDCP_TX_SN, and TX_HFN to 0;
\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during the
re-establishment procedure;
\- if connected as an RN, apply the integrity protection algorithm and key
provided by upper layers (if configured) during the re-establishment
procedure;
\- for each PDCP SDU already associated with a PDCP SN but for which a
corresponding PDU has not previously been submitted to lower layers:
\- consider the PDCP SDUs as received from upper layer;
\- perform transmission of the PDCP SDUs in ascending order of the COUNT value
associated to the PDCP SDU prior to the PDCP re-establishment, as specified in
the subclause 5.1.1 without restarting the _discardTimer_.
#### 5.2.1.3 Procedures for SRBs
When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall:
\- set Next_PDCP_TX_SN, and TX_HFN to 0;
\- discard all stored PDCP SDUs and PDCP PDUs;
\- apply the ciphering and integrity protection algorithms and keys provided
by upper layers during the re-establishment procedure.
### 5.2.2 DL Data Transfer Procedures
#### 5.2.2.1 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM while the reordering
function is not used
When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment while the reordering
function is not used, the UE shall:
\- process the PDCP Data PDUs that are received from lower layers due to the
re-establishment of the lower layers, as specified in the subclause 5.1.2.1.2;
\- reset the header compression protocol for downlink and start with NC state
in U-mode (if configured) [9] [11], except if upper layers indicate stored UE
AS context is used and _drb-ContinueROHC_ is configured [3];
\- if upper layers indicate stored UE AS context is used, set Next_PDCP_RX_SN,
RX_HFN to 0 and Last_submitted_PDCP_RX_SN to Maximum_PDCP_SN;
\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during the
re-establishment procedure.
\- if connected as an RN, apply the integrity protection algorithm and key
provided by upper layers (if configured) during the re-establishment
procedure.
#### 5.2.2.1a Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC AM while the reordering
function is used
When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment while the reordering
function is used, the UE shall:
\- process the PDCP Data PDU(s) that are received from lower layers due to the
re-establishment of the lower layers, as specified in the subclause 5.1.2.1.4;
\- if the PDCP entity is to be associated with one AM RLC entity after PDCP
re-establishment:
\- stop and reset _t-Reordering_ ;
\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during the
re-establishment procedure.
#### 5.2.2.2 Procedures for DRBs mapped on RLC UM
When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall:
\- process the PDCP Data PDUs that are received from lower layers due to the
re-establishment of the lower layers, as specified in the subclause 5.1.2.1.3;
> \- reset the header compression protocol for downlink and start with NC
> state in U-mode [9] [11] if the DRB is configured with the header
> compression protocol and _drb-ContinueROHC_ is not configured [3];
\- set Next_PDCP_RX_SN, and RX_HFN to 0;
\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during the
re-establishment procedure.
\- if connected as an RN, apply the integrity protection algorithm and key
provided by upper layers (if configured) during the re-establishment
procedure.
#### 5.2.2.3 Procedures for SRBs
When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment, the UE shall:
\- discard the PDCP Data PDUs that are received from lower layers due to the
re-establishment of the lower layers;
\- set Next_PDCP_RX_SN, and RX_HFN to 0;
\- discard all stored PDCP SDUs and PDCP PDUs;
\- apply the ciphering and integrity protection algorithms and keys provided
by upper layers during the re-establishment procedure.
## 5.3 PDCP Status Report
### 5.3.1 Transmit operation
When upper layers request a PDCP re-establishment or PDCP Data Recovery; or
PDCP status report is triggered by polling or periodic reporting, for radio
bearers that are mapped on RLC AM, the UE shall:
\- if the radio bearer is configured by upper layers to send a PDCP status
report in the uplink (_statusReportRequired_ [3]) or the status report is
triggered by PDCP status report polling or PDCP periodic status reporting,
compile a status report as indicated below after processing the PDCP Data PDUs
that are received from lower layers due to the re-establishment of the lower
layers as specified in the subclause 5.2.2.1, and submit it to lower layers as
the first PDCP PDU for the transmission, by:
\- setting the FMS field to the PDCP SN of the first missing PDCP SDU;
\- if there is at least one out-of-sequence PDCP SDU stored, allocating a
Bitmap field of length in bits equal to the number of PDCP SNs from and not
including the first missing PDCP SDU up to and including the last out-of-
sequence PDCP SDUs, rounded up to the next multiple of 8, or up to and
including a PDCP SDU for which the resulting PDCP Control PDU size is equal to
8188 bytes, whichever comes first;
\- setting as '0' in the corresponding position in the bitmap field for all
PDCP SDUs that have not been received as indicated by lower layers, and
optionally PDCP SDUs for which decompression have failed;
\- indicating in the bitmap field as '1' for all other PDCP SDUs.
### 5.3.2 Receive operation
When a PDCP status report is received in the downlink, for radio bearers that
are mapped on RLC AM:
\- for each PDCP SDU, if any, with the bit in the bitmap set to \'1\', or with
the associated COUNT value less than the COUNT value of the PDCP SDU
identified by the FMS field, the successful delivery of the corresponding PDCP
SDU is confirmed, and the UE shall process the PDCP SDU as specified in the
subclause 5.4.
PDCP status report receive operation is not applicable in NB-IoT.
## 5.4 PDCP discard
When the _discardTimer_ expires for a PDCP SDU, or the successful delivery of
a PDCP SDU is confirmed by PDCP status report, the UE shall discard the PDCP
SDU along with the corresponding PDCP PDU. If the corresponding PDCP PDU has
already been submitted to lower layers the discard is indicated to lower
layers.
NOTE: For UL split bearers, discarding a PDCP SDU already associated with a
PDCP SN causes a SN gap in the transmitted PDCP PDUs, which increases PDCP
reordering delay in the receiving PDCP entity. It is up to UE implementation
how to minimize SN gap after SDU discard.
## 5.5 Header Compression and Decompression
### 5.5.1 Supported header compression protocols and profiles
The header compression protocol is based on the Robust Header Compression
(ROHC) framework [7]. There are multiple header compression algorithms, called
profiles, defined for the ROHC framework. Each profile is specific to the
particular network layer, transport layer or upper layer protocol combination
e.g. TCP/IP and RTP/UDP/IP.
The detailed definition of the ROHC channel is specified as part of the ROHC
framework in RFC 4995 [7]. This includes how to multiplex different flows
(header compressed or not) over the ROHC channel, as well as how to associate
a specific IP flow with a specific context state during initialization of the
compression algorithm for that flow.
The implementation of the functionality of the ROHC framework and of the
functionality of the supported header compression profiles is not covered in
this specification.
In this version of the specification the support of the following profiles is
described:
Table 5.5.1.1: Supported header compression protocols and profiles
* * *
Profile Identifier Usage: Reference 0x0000 No compression RFC 4995 0x0001
RTP/UDP/IP RFC 3095, RFC 4815 0x0002 UDP/IP RFC 3095, RFC 4815 0x0003 ESP/IP
RFC 3095, RFC 4815 0x0004 IP RFC 3843, RFC 4815 0x0006 TCP/IP RFC 4996 0x0101
RTP/UDP/IP RFC 5225 0x0102 UDP/IP RFC 5225 0x0103 ESP/IP RFC 5225 0x0104 IP
RFC 5225
* * *
### 5.5.2 Configuration of header compression
PDCP entities associated with DRBs can be configured by upper layers [3] to
use header compression. PDCP entities associated with SLRBs can be configured
to use header compression for IP SDUs.
### 5.5.3 Protocol parameters
RFC 4995 has configuration parameters that are mandatory and that must be
configured by upper layers between compressor and decompressor peers [7];
these parameters define the ROHC channel. The ROHC channel is a unidirectional
channel, i.e. there is one channel for the downlink, and one for the uplink.
There is thus one set of parameters for each channel, and the same values
shall be used for both channels belonging to the same PDCP entity.
These parameters are categorized in two different groups, as defined below:
\- M: Mandatory and configured by upper layers.
\- N/A: Not used in this specification.
The usage and definition of the parameters shall be as specified below.
\- MAX_CID (M): This is the maximum CID value that can be used. One CID value
shall always be reserved for uncompressed flows. The parameter MAX_CID is
configured by upper layers (_maxCID_ [3]).
\- LARGE_CIDS: This value is not configured by upper layers, but rather it is
inferred from the configured value of MAX_CID according to the following rule:
If MAX_CID > 15 then LARGE_CIDS = TRUE else LARGE_CIDS = FALSE.
\- PROFILES (M): Profiles are used to define which profiles are allowed to be
used by the UE. The list of supported profiles is described in section 5.5.1.
The parameter PROFILES is configured by upper layers (_profiles_ for uplink
and downlink, _rohc-Profiles_ in _SL-Preconfiguration_ for sidelink [3]).
\- FEEDBACK_FOR (N/A): This is a reference to the channel in the opposite
direction between two compression endpoints and indicates to what channel any
feedback sent refers to. Feedback received on one ROHC channel for this PDCP
entity shall always refer to the ROHC channel in the opposite direction for
this same PDCP entity.
\- MRRU (N/A): ROHC segmentation is not used.
### 5.5.4 Header compression
The header compression protocol generates two types of output packets:
\- compressed packets, each associated with one PDCP SDU
\- standalone packets not associated with a PDCP SDU, i.e. interspersed ROHC
feedback packets
A compressed packet is associated with the same PDCP SN and COUNT value as the
related PDCP SDU.
Interspersed ROHC feedback packets are not associated with a PDCP SDU. They
are not associated with a PDCP SN and are not ciphered.
NOTE: If the MAX_CID number of ROHC contexts are already established for the
compressed flows and a new IP flow does not match any established ROHC
context, the compressor should associate the new IP flow with one of the ROHC
CIDs allocated for the existing compressed flows or send PDCP SDUs belonging
to the IP flow as uncompressed packet.
### 5.5.5 Header decompression
If header compression is configured by upper layers for PDCP entities
associated with u-plane data the PDCP PDUs are de-compressed by the header
compression protocol after performing deciphering as explained in the
subclause 5.6.
### 5.5.6 PDCP Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback packet
#### 5.5.6.1 Transmit Operation
When an interspersed ROHC feedback packet is generated by the header
compression protocol, the UE shall:
\- submit to lower layers the corresponding PDCP Control PDU as specified in
subclause 6.2.5 i.e. without associating a PDCP SN, nor performing ciphering.
#### 5.5.6.2 Receive Operation
At reception of a PDCP Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback packet from
lower layers, the UE shall:
\- deliver the corresponding interspersed ROHC feedback packet to the header
compression protocol without performing deciphering.
## 5.6 Ciphering and Deciphering
The ciphering function includes both ciphering and deciphering and is
performed in PDCP. For the control plane, the data unit that is ciphered is
the data part of the PDCP PDU (see subclause 6.3.3) and the MAC-I (see
subclause 6.3.4). For the user plane, the data unit that is ciphered is the
data part of the PDCP PDU (see subclause 6.3.3); ciphering is not applicable
to PDCP Control PDUs.
For RNs, for the user plane, in addition to the data part of the PDCP PDU, the
MAC-I (see 6.3.4) is also ciphered if integrity protection is configured.
The ciphering algorithm and key to be used by the PDCP entity are configured
by upper layers [3] and the ciphering method shall be applied as specified in
[6].
The ciphering function is activated/suspended/resumed by upper layers [3].
When security is activated and not suspended, the ciphering function shall be
applied to all PDCP PDUs indicated by upper layers [3] for the downlink and
the uplink, respectively.
NOTE: Security is suspended upon connection suspension (and resumed upon
connection resumption).
For downlink and uplink ciphering and deciphering, the parameters that are
required by PDCP for ciphering are defined in [6] and are input to the
ciphering algorithm. The required inputs to the ciphering function include the
COUNT value, and DIRECTION (direction of the transmission: set as specified in
[6]).The parameters required by PDCP which are provided by upper layers [3]
are listed below:
\- BEARER (defined as the radio bearer identifier in [6]. It will use the
value RB identity --1 as in [3]);
\- KEY (the ciphering keys for **the control plane and for the user plane
are** K~RRCenc~ and K~UPenc~, respectively).
### 5.6.1 SL Ciphering and Deciphering for one-to-many communication
For SLRB used for one-to-many communication, the ciphering function includes
both ciphering and deciphering and is performed in PDCP as defined in [13].
The data unit that is ciphered is the data part of the PDCP PDU (see subclause
6.3.3). The ciphering function as specified in [6] is applied with KEY (PEK),
COUNT (derived from PTK Identity and PDCP SN as specified in [13]), BEARER and
DIRECTION (set to 0) as input. The ciphering function is configured by ProSe
Function.
If ciphering is configured, the ciphering algorithm and related parameters
including PGK, PGK Identity, and Group Member Identity are configured to the
UE by ProSe Key Management Function. The UE shall set PTK Identity based on
PGK, PGK Identity, and PDCP SN as specified in [13]. The UE shall derive PTK
from PGK using PTK Identity and Group Member Identity, and derive PEK from PTK
using the ciphering algorithm. The PGK Index, PTK Identity, and PDCP SN are
included in the PDCP PDU header.
If ciphering is not configured, PGK Index, PTK Identity, and PDCP SN shall be
set to "0" in the PDCP PDU header.
### 5.6.2 SL Ciphering and Deciphering for one-to-one communication
For SLRB used for one-to-one communication, the ciphering function includes
both ciphering and deciphering and is performed in PDCP of SLRB that needs
ciphering and deciphering as defined in [13]. The data unit that is ciphered
is the data part of the PDCP PDU (see subclause 6.3.3). The ciphering function
as specified in [6] is applied with KEY (PEK), COUNT (derived from K~D-sess~
Identity and PDCP SN as specified in [13]), BEARER and DIRECTION (which value
shall be set is specified in [13]) as input.
For the SLRB that needs ciphering and deciphering, the UE shall derive the KEY
(PEK) based on K~D-sess~ and the algorithms determined by the initiating UE
and the receiving UE as specified in [13]. The K~D-sess~ Identity and PDCP SN
are included in the PDCP PDU header.
For the SLRB that does not need ciphering and deciphering, the UE shall set
K~D-sess~ Identity and PDCP SN to "0" in the PDCP PDU header.
## 5.7 Integrity Protection and Verification
The integrity protection function includes both integrity protection and
integrity verification and is performed in PDCP for PDCP entities associated
with SRBs and the SLRB that needs integrity protection. The data unit that is
integrity protected is the PDU header and the data part of the PDU before
ciphering.
For RNs, the integrity protection function is performed also for PDCP entities
associated with DRBs if integrity protection is configured.
The integrity protection algorithm and key to be used by the PDCP entity are
configured by upper layers [3] and the integrity protection method shall be
applied as specified in [6].
The integrity protection function is activated/suspended/resumed by upper
layers [3]. When security is activated and not suspended, the integrity
protection function shall be applied to all PDUs including and subsequent to
the PDU indicated by upper layers [3] for the downlink and the uplink,
respectively.
NOTE: As the RRC message which activates the integrity protection function is
itself integrity protected with the configuration included in this RRC
message, this message needs first be decoded by RRC before the integrity
protection verification could be performed for the PDU in which the message
was received.
For downlink and uplink integrity protection and verification, the parameters
that are required by PDCP for integrity protection are defined in [6] and are
input to the integrity protection algorithm. The required inputs to the
integrity protection function include the COUNT value, and DIRECTION
(direction of the transmission: set as specified in [6]). The parameters
required by PDCP which are provided by upper layers [3] are listed below:
\- BEARER (defined as the radio bearer identifier in [6]. It will use the
value RB identity --1 as in [3]);
\- KEY (K~RRCint~).
\- for RNs, KEY (K~UPint~)
For the SLRB that needs integrity protection and verification, the parameters
that are required by PDCP for integrity protection are defined in [6] and are
input to the integrity protection algorithm. The required inputs to the
integrity protection function include the COUNT value and DIRECTION (which
value shall be set is specified in [13]). The parameters required by PDCP
which are provided by upper layers [3] are listed below:
\- BEARER (defined as the radio bearer identifier in [6]);
\- KEY (PIK).
At transmission, the UE computes the value of the MAC-I field and at reception
it verifies the integrity of the PDCP PDU by calculating the X-MAC based on
the input parameters as specified above. If the calculated X-MAC corresponds
to the received MAC-I, integrity protection is verified successfully.
## 5.8 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data
When a PDCP entity receives a PDCP PDU that contains reserved or invalid
values, the PDCP entity shall:
\- discard the received PDU.
## 5.9 PDCP Data Recovery procedure
When upper layers request a PDCP Data Recovery for a radio bearer, the UE
shall:
\- if the radio bearer is configured by upper layers to send a PDCP status
report in the uplink (_statusReportRequired_ [3]), compile a status report as
described in subclause 5.3.1, and submit it to lower layers as the first PDCP
PDU for the transmission;
\- perform retransmission of all the PDCP PDUs previously submitted to re-
established AM RLC entity in ascending order of the associated COUNT values
from the first PDCP PDU for which the successful delivery has not been
confirmed by lower layers.
After performing the above procedures, the UE shall follow the procedures in
subclause 5.1.1.
## 5.10 Status report for LWA
### 5.10.1 Transmit operation
When PDCP Data PDU with polling bit P set to 1 is received, the UE shall:
\- if configured to send the PDCP status report in response to polling
(_statusPDU-TypeForPolling is configured and set to type1_ [3])
\- compile and transmit the PDCP status report as specified in subclause
5.3.1;
\- else if configured to send the LWA status report in response to polling
(_statusPDU-TypeForPolling is configured and set to type2_ [3])
\- compile and transmit the LWA status report as specified in subclause
5.10.2.
When _t-StatusReportType1_ expires, the UE shall:
\- compile and transmit the PDCP status report as specified in subclause
5.3.1,
\- start _t-StatusReportType1_ with value _statusPDU-Periodicity-Type1_ ;
When _t-StatusReportType2_ expires, the UE shall:
\- compile and transmit the LWA status report as specified in subclause
5.10.2,
\- start _t-StatusReportType2_ with value _statusPDU-Periodicity-Type2_ ;
When _t-StatusReportType1_ is configured or reconfigured by upper layers, the
UE shall:
\- stop _t-StatusReportType1,_ if running;
\- start _t-StatusReportType1_ with value _statusPDU-Periodicity-Type1_ ;
When _t-StatusReportType2_ is configured or reconfigured by upper layers, the
UE shall:
\- stop _t-StatusReportType2,_ if running;
\- if _statusPDU-Periodicity-Offset_ is configured by upper layers:
\- start _t-StatusReportType2_ with value _statusPDU-Periodicity-Type2_ plus
_statusPDU-Periodicity-Offset_ ;
\- else:
\- start _t-StatusReportType2_ with value _statusPDU-Periodicity-Type2_ ;
When periodic PDCP status report becomes disabled by upper layers, the UE
shall:
\- stop _t-StatusReportType1_ , if running;
\- stop _t-StatusReportType2_ , if running;
### 5.10.2 LWA status report
When LWA status report is triggered, the UE shall:
\- compile a status report as indicated below, and submit it to lower layers
as the first PDCP PDU for the transmission, by:
\- setting the FMS field to the PDCP SN of the first missing PDCP SDU;
\- setting the HRW field to the PDCP SN of the PDCP SDU received on WLAN with
highest PDCP COUNT value or to FMS if no PDCP SDUs have been received on WLAN;
\- setting the NMP field to the number of missing PDCP SDU(s) as described in
6.3.16.
# 6 Protocol data units, formats and parameters
## 6.1 Protocol data units
### 6.1.1 PDCP Data PDU
The PDCP Data PDU is used to convey:
\- a PDCP SDU SN; and
\- for SLRBs used for one-to-many communication, PGK Index, PTK Identity, and
SDU type; or
\- for SLRBs used for one-to-one communication, K~D-sess~ Identity, and SDU
type; and
\- user plane data containing an uncompressed PDCP SDU; or
\- user plane data containing a compressed PDCP SDU; or
\- control plane data; and
\- a MAC-I field for SRBs; or
\- for the SLRB that needs integrity protection for one-to-one communication,
a MAC-I field; or
\- for RNs, a MAC-I field for DRB (if integrity protection is configured);
### 6.1.2 PDCP Control PDU
The PDCP Control PDU is used to convey:
\- a PDCP status report indicating which PDCP SDUs are missing and which are
not following a PDCP re-establishment.
\- header compression control information, e.g. interspersed ROHC feedback.
\- a LWA status report.
## 6.2 Formats
### 6.2.1 General
A PDCP PDU is a bit string that is byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits) in
length. In the figures in sub clause 6.2, bit strings are represented by
tables in which the most significant bit is the leftmost bit of the first line
of the table, the least significant bit is the rightmost bit on the last line
of the table, and more generally the bit string is to be read from left to
right and then in the reading order of the lines. The bit order of each
parameter field within a PDCP PDU is represented with the first and most
significant bit in the leftmost bit and the last and least significant bit in
the rightmost bit.
PDCP SDUs are bit strings that are byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits) in
length. A compressed or uncompressed SDU is included into a PDCP PDU from the
first bit onward.
### 6.2.2 Control plane PDCP Data PDU
Figure 6.2.2.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU carrying data for control
plane SRBs.
Figure 6.2.2.1: PDCP Data PDU format for SRBs
### 6.2.3 User plane PDCP Data PDU with long PDCP SN (12 bits)
Figure 6.2.3.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU when a 12 bit SN length
is used. This format is applicable for PDCP Data PDUs carrying data from DRBs
mapped on RLC AM or RLC UM.
Figure 6.2.3.1: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs using a 12 bit SN
### 6.2.4 User plane PDCP Data PDU with short PDCP SN (7 bits)
Figure 6.2.4.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU when a 7 bit SN length is
used. This format is applicable for PDCP Data PDUs carrying data from DRBs
mapped on RLC UM or in NB-IoT DRBs mapped on RLC AM.
Figure 6.2.4.1: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs using 7 bit SN
### 6.2.5 PDCP Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback packet
Figure 6.2.5.1 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one
interspersed ROHC feedback packet. This format is applicable for DRBs mapped
on RLC AM or RLC UM.
Figure 6.2.5.1: PDCP Control PDU format for interspersed ROHC feedback packet
### 6.2.6 PDCP Control PDU for PDCP status report
Figure 6.2.6.1 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one PDCP
status report when a 12 bit SN length is used, Figure 6.2.6.2 shows the format
of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one PDCP status report when a 15 bit SN
length is used, and Figure 6.2.6.3 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU
carrying one PDCP status report when an 18 bit SN length is used. This format
is applicable for DRBs mapped on RLC AM.
Figure 6.2.6.1: PDCP Control PDU format for PDCP status report using a 12 bit
SN
Figure 6.2.6.2: PDCP Control PDU format for PDCP status report using a 15 bit
SN
Figure 6.2.6.3: PDCP Control PDU format for PDCP status report using an 18 bit
SN
### 6.2.7 Void
### 6.2.8 RN user plane PDCP Data PDU with integrity protection
Figure 6.2.8.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU for RNs when integrity
protection is used. This format is applicable for PDCP Data PDUs carrying data
from DRBs mapped on RLC AM or RLC UM.
Figure 6.2.8.1: PDCP Data PDU format for RN DRBs using integrity protection
### 6.2.9 User plane PDCP Data PDU with extended PDCP SN (15 bits)
Figure 6.2.9.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU when a 15 bit SN length
is used. This format is applicable for PDCP Data PDUs carrying data from DRBs
mapped on RLC AM.
Figure 6.2.9.1: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs using a 15 bit SN
### 6.2.10 User plane PDCP Data PDU for SLRB
Figure 6.2.10.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU for SLRB used for one-
to-many communication where a 16 bit SN length is used.
Figure 6.2.10.1: PDCP Data PDU format for SLRB used for one-to-many
communication
Figure 6.2.10.2 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU for SLRB used for one-
to-one communication where a 16 bit SN length is used. MAC-I field is used
only for the SLRB that needs integrity protection.
Figure 6.2.10.2: PDCP Data PDU format for SLRB used for one-to-one
communication
### 6.2.11 User plane PDCP Data PDU with further extended PDCP SN (18 bits)
Figure 6.2.11.1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU when an 18 bit SN length
is used. This format is applicable for PDCP Data PDUs carrying data from DRBs
mapped on RLC AM. The UE not supporting LWA shall consider the PDCP Data PDU
invalid if the P bit is set to 1.
Figure 6.2.11.1: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs using an 18 bit SN
### 6.2.12 PDCP Control PDU for LWA status report
Figure 6.2.12.1 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one LWA
status report when a 12 bit SN length is used, Figure 6.2.12.2 shows the
format of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one LWA status report when a 15 bit SN
length is used, and Figure 6.2.12.3 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU
carrying one LWA status report when an 18 bit SN length is used. This format
is applicable for LWA DRBs.
Figure 6.2.12.1: PDCP Control PDU format for LWA status report using a 12 bit
SN
Figure 6.2.12.2: PDCP Control PDU format for LWA status report using a 15 bit
SN
Figure 6.2.12.3: PDCP Control PDU format for LWA status report using an 18 bit
SN
## 6.3 Parameters
### 6.3.1 General
If not otherwise mentioned in the definition of each field then the bits in
the parameters shall be interpreted as follows: the left most bit string is
the first and most significant and the right most bit is the last and least
significant bit.
Unless otherwise mentioned, integers are encoded in standard binary encoding
for unsigned integers. In all cases the bits appear ordered from MSB to LSB
when read in the PDU.
### 6.3.2 PDCP SN
Length: 5, 7, 12, 15, 16, or 18 bits as indicated in table 6.3.2.1 except for
NB-IoT which uses 7 bit PDCP SN for DRB.
Table 6.3.2.1: PDCP SN length
* * *
Length Description 5 SRBs 7 DRBs, if configured by upper layers (_pdcp-SN-
Size_ [3]) 12 DRBs, if configured by upper layers (_pdcp-SN-Size_ [3]) 15
DRBs, if configured by upper layers (_pdcp-SN-Size_ [3]) 16 SLRBs 18 DRBs, if
configured by upper layers (_pdcp-SN-Size_ [3])
* * *
### 6.3.3 Data
Length: Variable
The Data field may include either one of the following:
\- Uncompressed PDCP SDU (user plane data, or control plane data); or
\- Compressed PDCP SDU (user plane data only).
### 6.3.4 MAC-I
Length: 32 bits
The MAC-I field carries a message authentication code calculated as specified
in subclause 5.7.
For control plane data that are not integrity protected, the MAC-I field is
still present and should be padded with padding bits set to 0.
### 6.3.5 COUNT
Length: 32 bits
For ciphering and integrity a COUNT value is maintained. The COUNT value is
composed of a HFN and the PDCP SN. The length of the PDCP SN is configured by
upper layers.
Figure 6.3.5.1: Format of COUNT
The size of the HFN part in bits is equal to 32 minus the length of the PDCP
SN.
NOTE: When performing comparison of values related to COUNT, the UE takes into
account that COUNT is a 32-bit value, which may wrap around (e.g., COUNT value
of 2^32^ - 1 is less than COUNT value of 0).
### 6.3.6 R
Length: 1 bit
Reserved. In this version of the specification reserved bits shall be set to
0. Reserved bits shall be ignored by the receiver.
### 6.3.7 D/C
Length: 1 bit
Table 6.3.7.1: D/C field
* * *
Bit Description 0 Control PDU 1 Data PDU
* * *
### 6.3.8 PDU type
Length: 3 bits
Table 6.3.8.1: PDU type
* * *
Bit Description 000 PDCP status report 001 Interspersed ROHC feedback packet
010 LWA status report 011-111 reserved
* * *
### 6.3.9 FMS
Length: 12 bits when a 12 bit SN length is used, 15 bits when a 15 bit SN
length is used, and 18 bits when an 18 bit SN length is used
PDCP SN of the first missing PDCP SDU.
### 6.3.10 Bitmap
Length: Variable
The length of the bitmap field can be 0.
The MSB of the first octet of the type \"Bitmap\" indicates whether or not the
PDCP SDU with the SN (FMS + 1) modulo (Maximum_PDCP_SN + 1) has been received
and, optionally decompressed correctly. The LSB of the first octet of the type
\"Bitmap\" indicates whether or not the PDCP SDU with the SN (FMS + 8) modulo
(Maximum_PDCP_SN + 1) has been received and, optionally decompressed
correctly.
Table 6.3.10.1 Bitmap
+-----+---------------------------------------------------------------+ | Bit | Description | +-----+---------------------------------------------------------------+ | > 0 | PDCP SDU with PDCP SN = (FMS + bit position) modulo | | | (Maximum_PDCP_SN + 1) is missing in the receiver. The bit | | | position of N^th^ bit in the Bitmap is N, i.e., the bit | | | position of the first bit in the Bitmap is 1. | +-----+---------------------------------------------------------------+ | > 1 | PDCP SDU with PDCP SN = (FMS + bit position) modulo | | | (Maximum_PDCP_SN + 1) does not need to be retransmitted. | | | The bit position of N^th^ bit in the Bitmap is N, i.e., the | | | bit position of the first bit in the Bitmap is 1. | +-----+---------------------------------------------------------------+
The UE fills the bitmap indicating which SDUs are missing (unset bit - '0'),
i.e. whether an SDU has not been received or optionally has been received but
has not been decompressed correctly, and which SDUs do not need retransmission
(set bit - '1'), i.e. whether an SDU has been received correctly and may or
may not have been decompressed correctly.
### 6.3.11 Interspersed ROHC feedback packet
Length: Variable
Contains one ROHC packet with only feedback, i.e. a ROHC packet that is not
associated with a PDCP SDU as defined in subclause 5.5.4.
### 6.3.12 PGK Index
Length: 5 bits
5 LSBs of PGK Identity as specified in [13].
### 6.3.13 PTK Identity
Length: 16 bits
PTK Identity as specified in [13].
### 6.3.14 SDU Type
Length: 3 bits
PDCP SDU type, i.e. Layer-3 Protocol Data Unit type as specified in [14]. PDCP
entity may handle the SDU differently per SDU Type, e.g. header compression is
applicable to IP SDU but not ARP SDU.
Table 6.3.14.1: SDU Type
* * *
Bit Description 000 IP 001 ARP 010 PC5 Signaling 011-111 reserved
* * *
### 6.3.15 K~D-sess~ ID
Length: 16 bits
K~D-sess~ Identity as specified in [13].
### 6.3.16 NMP
Length: 12 bits when a 12 bit SN length is used, 15 bits when a 15 bit SN
length is used, and 18 bits when an 18 bit SN length is used.
Number of missing PDCP SDU(s) with associated COUNT value below the associated
COUNT value corresponding to HRW, starting from and including the associated
COUNT value corresponding to FMS.
### 6.3.17 HRW
Length: 12 bits when a 12 bit SN length is used, 15 bits when a 15 bit SN
length is used and 18 bits when an 18 bit SN length is used.
PDCP SN of the PDCP SDU received on WLAN with highest associated PDCP COUNT
value.
### 6.3.18 P
Length: 1 bit
Polling indication. The P field indicates whether the UE is requested to send
a PDCP status report or a LWA status report for LWA. The field is not
applicable to uplink PDCP PDUs and the UE shall set the P field to 0.
Table 6.3.18.1: P field
* * *
Bit Description 0 Status report is not requested 1 Status report is requested
* * *
# 7 Variables, constants and timers
## 7.1 State variables
This sub clause describes the state variables used in PDCP entities in order
to specify the PDCP protocol.
All state variables are non-negative integers.
The transmitting side of each PDCP entity shall maintain the following state
variables:
a) Next_PDCP_TX_SN
The variable Next_PDCP_TX_SN indicates the PDCP SN of the next PDCP SDU for a
given PDCP entity. At establishment of the PDCP entity, the UE shall set
Next_PDCP_TX_SN to 0.
b) TX_HFN
The variable TX_HFN indicates the HFN value for the generation of the COUNT
value used for PDCP PDUs for a given PDCP entity. At establishment of the PDCP
entity, the UE shall set TX_HFN to 0.
The receiving side of each PDCP entity shall maintain the following state
variables:
c) Next_PDCP_RX_SN
The variable Next_PDCP_RX_SN indicates the next expected PDCP SN by the
receiver for a given PDCP entity. At establishment of the PDCP entity, the UE
shall set Next_PDCP_RX_SN to 0.
d) RX_HFN
The variable RX_HFN indicates the HFN value for the generation of the COUNT
value used for the received PDCP PDUs for a given PDCP entity. At
establishment of the PDCP entity, the UE shall set RX_HFN to 0.
e) Last_Submitted_PDCP_RX_SN
For PDCP entities for DRBs mapped on RLC AM the variable
Last_Submitted_PDCP_RX_SN indicates the SN of the last PDCP SDU delivered to
the upper layers. At establishment of the PDCP entity, the UE shall set
Last_Submitted_PDCP_RX_SN to Maximum_PDCP_SN.
f) Reordering_PDCP_RX_COUNT
This variable is used only when the reordering function is used. This variable
holds the value of the COUNT following the COUNT value associated with the
PDCP PDU which triggered _t-Reordering_.
## 7.2 Timers
The transmitting side of each PDCP entity for DRBs shall maintain the
following timers:
a) _discardTimer_
The duration of the timer is configured by upper layers [3]. In the
transmitter, a new timer is started upon reception of an SDU from upper layer.
The receiving side of each PDCP entity shall maintain the following timers
only when the reordering function is used:
b) _t-Reordering_
The duration of the timer is configured by upper layers [3]. This timer is
used to detect loss of PDCP PDUs as specified in the subclause 5.1.2.1.4. If
_t-Reordering_ is running, _t-Reordering_ shall not be started additionally,
i.e. only one _t-Reordering_ per PDCP entity is running at a given time.
The receiving side of each PDCP entity associated with LWA bearers shall
maintain the following timers:
c) _t-StatusReportType1_
The duration of the timer is configured by upper layers (_statusPDU-
Periodicity-Type1_ [3]). This timer is used to trigger status report
transmission for LWA as specified in the subclause 5.10.
d) _t-StatusReportType2_
The duration of the timer is configured by upper layers (_statusPDU-
Periodicity-Type2_ and _statusPDU-Periodicity-Offset_ [3]). If _statusPDU-
Periodicity-Offset is configured_ and it is the first run of the timer after
(re)configuration, the duration of the timer is the sum of _statusPDU-
Periodicity-Type2_ and _statusPDU-Periodicity-Offset_ [3], otherwise the
duration of the timer is _statusPDU-Periodicity-Type2_. When configured, this
timer is used to trigger status report transmission for LWA as specified in
the subclause 5.10.
## 7.3 Constants
a) Reordering_Window
Indicates the size of the reordering window. The size equals to 2048 when a 12
bit SN length is used, 16384 when a 15 bit SN length is used, or 131072 when
18 bit SN length is used, i.e. half of the PDCP SN space, for radio bearers
that are mapped on RLC AM.
b) Maximum_PDCP_SN is:
\- 262143 if the PDCP entity is configured for the use of 18 bits SNs
\- 65535 if the PDCP entity is configured for the use of 16 bits SNs
\- 32767 if the PDCP entity is configured for the use of 15 bits SNs
\- 4095 if the PDCP entity is configured for the use of 12 bit SNs
\- 127 if the PDCP entity is configured for the use of 7 bit SNs
\- 31 if the PDCP entity is configured for the use of 5 bit SNs
#