# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the E-UTRA LTE-WLAN Aggregation Adaptation
Protocol (LWAAP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"E-UTRA and E-UTRAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"E-UTRA PDCP specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"E-UTRA RRC Protocol specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**LWA bearer** : a bearer used in LTE-WLAN Aggregation, as defined in TS
36.300 [2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DL DownLink
DRB Data Radio Bearer
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
LWAAP LTE-WLAN Aggregation Adaptation Protocol
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PDU Protocol Data Unit
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
SDU Service Data Unit
UE User Equipment
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The objective is to describe the LWAAP architecture and the LWAAP entities
from a functional point of view.
## 4.2 LWAAP architecture
### 4.2.1 LWAAP entities
The description in this sub clause is a model and does not specify or restrict
implementations.
RRC is generally in control of the LWAAP configuration.
Functions of the LWAAP sublayer are performed by LWAAP entities. For an LWAAP
entity configured at the eNB, there is a peer LWAAP entity configured at the
UE and vice versa. For all LWA bearers, there is one LWAAP entity in the eNB
and one LWAAP entity in the UE.
An LWAAP entity receives/delivers LWAAP SDUs from/to upper layers (i.e. PDCP)
and sends/receives LWAAP PDUs to/from its peer LWAAP entity via WLAN:
\- At the eNB, when an LWAAP entity receives an LWAAP SDU from upper layers,
it constructs the corresponding LWAAP PDU and delivers it to lower layers;
\- At the UE, when an LWAAP entity receives an LWAAP PDU from lower layers, it
reassembles the corresponding LWAAP SDU and delivers it to upper layers.
Figure 4.2.1-1 illustrates the overview model of the LWAAP sublayer.
Figure 4.2.1-1: Overview model of the LWAAP sublayer
An LWAAP entity delivers/receives the following LWAAP PDU to/from a lower
layer entity:
\- LWAAP data PDU.
## 4.3 Services
### 4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers
The following services are provided by LWAAP to upper layers (i.e. PDCP):
\- transfer of user plane data;
### 4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers
The following services are expected by LWAAP from lower layers:
\- transfer of user plane data;
## 4.4 Functions
The following functions are supported by the LWAAP sublayer:
\- transfer of user plane data;
\- identification of the LWA bearer to which the LWAAP SDU belongs;
\- enabling or disabling data handling for LWA bearer.
# 5 Procedures
## 5.1 Data transfer procedures
### **5.1.1 DL data transfer procedures**
**When receiving an LWAAP data PDU from lower layers, the LWAAP entity in the
UE shall:**
\- identify the upper layer entity to which the LWAAP SDU is destined based on
the DRB ID included in the LWAAP header;
\- if the DRB ID belongs to LWA bearer for which DL data transfer procedures
are enabled:
\- reassemble the LWAAP SDU from the LWAAP data PDU by removing the LWAAP
header from the LWAAP data PDU;
\- deliver the reassembled LWAAP SDU to the upper layer entity identified by
the DRB ID.
\- else:
\- discard the LWAAP data PDU.
## 5.2 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data
When an LWAAP entity receives an LWAAP PDU that contains reserved or invalid
values, the LWAAP entity shall:
\- discard the received PDU.
# 6 Protocol data units, formats and parameters
## 6.1 Protocol data units
### 6.1.1 General
An LWAAP PDU is a bit string that is byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits) in
length. In the figures in subclause 6.1, bit strings are represented by tables
in which the most significant bit is the leftmost bit of the first line of the
table, the least significant bit is the rightmost bit on the last line of the
table, and more generally the bit string is to be read from left to right and
then in the reading order of the lines. The bit order of each parameter field
within an LWAAP PDU is represented with the first and most significant bit in
the leftmost bit and the last and least significant bit in the rightmost bit.
An LWAAP SDU is a bit string that is byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits) in
length. An LWAAP SDU is included into an LWAAP PDU from the first bit onward.
The LWAAP entity shall ignore the value of Reserved bits in downlink LWAAP
PDUs.
Only one type of LWAAP PDU is defined, i.e. LWAAP data PDU.
### 6.1.2 LWAAP data PDU
An LWAAP PDU consists of an LWAAP header and a Data field, as described in
Figure 6.1.2-1.
An LWAAP header is one byte, and consists of the four header fields
R/R/R/DRBID.
A Data field is of variable size, and consists of an LWAAP SDU.
Figure 6.1.2-1: LWAAP data PDU
## 6.2 Formats and parameters
### 6.2.1 LWAAP header
The LWAAP header consists of the following fields:
\- R: Reserved bit, set to \"0\". The R field size is 1 bit;
\- DRBID: The Data Radio Bearer ID field indicates the RRC configured DRB
identity to which the corresponding LWAAP SDU belongs. The DRBID field size is
5 bits.
#