# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 3GPP TS 36.41x series of
technical specifications that define the S1 interface for the interconnection
of the evolved NodeB (eNB) component of the Evolved Universal Terrestrial
Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) to the Core Network (CN) of the Evolved Packet
System (EPS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.401: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Architecture description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.411: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 layer 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.412: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 signalling transport\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Access (E-UTRA); S1
Application Protocol (S1 AP)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.414: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 data transport\".
[7] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.455: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Access (E-UTRA); LTE
Positioning Protocol A (LPPa)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA),
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
architecture\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Dual Connectivity** : mode of operation of a UE in RRC_CONNECTED, configured
with a Master Cell Group and a Secondary Cell Group as defined in TS 36.300
[11].
**E-RAB: as defined in 3GPP TS 36.401 [2].**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AS Access Stratum
CMAS Commercial Mobile Alert Service
DC Dual Connectivity
E-RAB E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
EPC Evolved Packet Core
EPS Evolved Packet System
ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
GTP-U GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
IP Internet Protocol
LTE Long Term Evolution
MeNB Master eNB
MME Mobility Management Entity
O&M Operation and Maintenance
PWS Public Warning System
QoS Quality of Service
RAT Radio Access Technology
RIM RAN Information Management
RNL Radio Network Layer
S1-U S1 User plane interface
S1-MME S1 control plane interface
S-GW Serving Gateway
S1AP S1 Application Protocol
SAP Service Access Point
SCG Secondary Cell Group
SeNB Secondary eNB
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
TNL Transport Network Layer
## 3.3 Specification notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
Procedure When referring to a procedure in the specification the Procedure
Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters
followed by the word \"procedure\", e.g. Radio Network Layer (RNL) procedures.
Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is
written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
\"message\", e.g. RADIO LINK SETUP REQUEST message.
# 4 General aspects
This clause captures the S1 interface principles and characteristics.
## 4.1 E-UTRAN architecture
The E-UTRAN is layered into a Radio Network Layer (RNL) and a Transport
Network Layer (TNL). The E-UTRAN architecture, i.e. the E-UTRAN logical nodes
and interfaces between them, are defined as part of the RNL.
The E-UTRAN architecture consists of a set of eNBs connected to the EPC
through the S1 interface. The overall LTE architecture and E-UTRAN
architecture are described in 3GPP TS 36.401 [2]. This subclause specifies
only the architecture of the S1 interface, and shall not constrain the network
architecture of either core or radio access networks.
The S1 interface is specified at the boundary between the EPC and the E-UTRAN.
Figure 4.1 depicts the logical division of the S1 interface. From the S1
perspective, the E-UTRAN access point is an eNB, and the EPC access point is
either the control plane MME logical node or the user plane S-GW logical node.
Two types of S1 interfaces are thus defined at the boundary depending on the
EPC access point: S1-MME towards an MME and S1-U towards an S- GW.
Figure 4.1: S1 interface architecture
The E-UTRAN may thus have several S1 access points towards the EPC. As a
minimum, each S1 access point\ (in E-UTRAN or EPC) shall independently fulfil
the requirements of the relevant S1 specifications (3GPP 36.41x series - see
clause 7).
S1 is a logical interface.
There may be multiple S1-MME logical interfaces towards the EPC from any one
eNB. The selection of the S1-MME interface is then determined by the NAS Node
Selection function as described in clause 5.
There may be multiple S1-U logical interfaces towards the EPC from any one
eNB. The selection of the S1-U interface is done within the EPC and signalled
to the eNB by the MME.
## 4.2 S1 interface general principles
The general principles for the specification of the S1 interface are as
follows:
\- the S1 interface should be open;
\- the S1 interface shall support the exchange of signalling information
between the eNB and EPC;
\- from a logical standpoint, the S1 is a point-to-point interface between an
eNB within the E-UTRAN and an MME in the EPC. A point-to-point logical
interface should be feasible even in the absence of a physical direct
connection between the eNB and MME.
## 4.3 S1 interface specification objectives
The S1 interface specification shall facilitate the following:
\- inter-connection of eNBs with MMEs supplied by different manufacturers;
\- separation of S1 interface Radio Network functionality and Transport
Network functionality to facilitate introduction of future technology.
## 4.4 S1 interface capabilities
The S1 interface supports:
\- procedures to establish, maintain and release E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearers;
\- procedures to perform intra-LTE handover and inter-RAT handover;
\- the separation of each UE on the protocol level for user specific
signalling management;
\- the transfer of NAS signalling messages between UE and EPC;
\- location services by transferring requests from the EPC to E-UTRAN, and
location information from E-UTRAN to EPC;
\- mechanisms for resource reservation for packet data streams.
## 4.5 S1 interface characteristics
### 4.5.1 Use of the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)
The SCTP protocol (IETF RFC 4960 [7]) is used to support the exchange of S1
Application Protocol (S1AP) signalling messages between an eNB and an MME.
# 5 Functions of the S1 interface protocols and functional split
## 5.1 General
The following clauses describe the functions supported over S1-MME and S1-U to
fulfil the S1 interface capabilities.
## 5.2 S1 UE context management function
In order to support UEs in the LTE_ACTIVE state, UE contexts need to be
managed, i.e. established and released in the eNB and in the EPC to support
user individual signalling on S1. This includes security context management.
The S1 UE context management function supports the establishment of the
necessary overall initial UE context including E-RAB context, security
context, roaming and access restrictions, UE S1 signalling connection ID(s),
etc. in the eNB to enable fast idle-to-active transition.
The establishment of the overall initial UE context is initiated by the MME.
The S1 UE context management function also supports the release of the context
previously established in the eNB to enable the active-to-idle transition. The
release of the context is triggered by the MME either directly or following a
request received from the eNB.
## 5.3 E-RAB management functions
The E-RAB service management function is responsible for establishing,
modifying and releasing E-UTRAN resources for user data transport once a UE
context is available in the eNB. The establishment and modification of E-UTRAN
resources is triggered by the MME and requires respective QoS information to
be provided to the eNB. For Dual Connectivity when SCG bearer option is
applied, the modification of the E-RAB is triggered by the MeNB towards the
MME for the modification of the transport information. The release of E-UTRAN
resources is triggered by the MME either directly or following a request
received from the eNB (optional).
## 5.4 S1 link management function
### 5.4.1 GTP-U tunnels management function
This function is used to establish and release GTP-U (3GPP TS 29.281 [8])
tunnels between the EPC and the\ E-UTRAN upon an E-RAB service request. This
involves assigning a tunnel identifier for each direction.
### 5.4.2 S1 signalling link management function
The S1 signalling link management function provides a reliable transfer of the
radio network signalling between\ E-UTRAN and EPC.
## 5.5 Mobility functions for UEs in LTE_Active
### 5.5.1 Intra-LTE handover
The Intra-LTE handover function supports mobility for UEs in LTE_ACTIVE and
comprises the preparation, execution and completion of handover via the X2 and
S1 interfaces.
### 5.5.2 Inter-3GPP RAT handover
The Inter-3GPP-RAT handover function supports mobility to and from other 3GPP-
RATs for UEs in LTE_ACTIVE and comprises the preparation, execution and
completion of handover via the S1 interface.
### 5.5.3 Mobility to CDMA2000 system
The mobility to non-3GPP radio system function supports mobility to and from
other non-3GPP radio technologies for UEs in LTE_ACTIVE, namely to and from
CDMA2000 systems. This comprises signalling for pre-registration of UE with
CDMA2000 HRPD network and signalling for handover preparation for handover
from E-UTRAN to CDMA2000 HRPD/1xRTT.
## 5.6 Paging function
The paging function supports the sending of paging requests to the eNBs having
one or more cells which correspond to one of the TAs in which the UE is
registered.
## 5.7 Void
## 5.7a Roaming and access restriction support functions
The S1 interface supports the transfer of roaming and access restriction
information from the EPC to the eNB for the UE in the network.
## 5.8 S1 interface management function
The error indication function is used by the eNB (respectively the MME) to
indicate to the MME (respectively the eNB) that a logical error has occurred.
The reset function is used to initialize the peer entity after node setup and
after a failure event occurred. This procedure can be used by both the eNB and
MME.
The S1 setup (respectively the eNB and MME configuration update) function
allows to exchange (respectively update) application level data needed for the
eNB and MME to interoperate correctly on the S1 interface.
## 5.9 Coordination functions
### 5.9.1 Network sharing function
The S1 interface supports the transfer of the UE\'s serving PLMN and of
equivalent PLMNs to the serving PLMN.
### 5.9.2 NAS node selection function
The interconnection of eNBs to multiple MME / S-GWs is supported by the
LTE/EPS architecture (see 3GPP TS 23.401 [9]). Therefore a NAS node selection
function is located in the eNB to determine the MME association of the UE.
This functionality is located in the eNB to determine and establish an
association between a given UE and one of the MME nodes that comprise the pool
area the eNB belongs to.
It then enables proper routeing via the S1-MME interface.
On S1, no specific procedure corresponds to the NAS node selection function.
The S1 interface supports the indication by the MME of its relative capacity
to the eNB, in order to achieve load-balanced MMEs within the pool area.
### 5.9.3 MME overload control function
The S1 interface supports the indication by the MME of its overload situations
to the eNB.
## 5.10 Security function
### 5.10.1 Data confidentiality
#### 5.10.1.1 Radio interface ciphering function
The radio interface may be ciphered. Both, signalling and user data, may be
subject to ciphering. The ciphering shall be done within the E-UTRAN.
#### 5.10.1.2 Ciphering key management function
The MME provides the eNB with the key K~eNB~, which is used for the derivation
of the ciphering keys used for ciphering of the radio interface as defined in
TS 36.300 [11] and TS 33.401 [12].
### 5.10.2 Data integrity
#### 5.10.2.1 Integrity checking
The purpose of the integrity check is to ensure the integrity of the
signalling messages over the air interface to make sure that the signalling
continues between the same elements, i.e., the UE and the eNB that first
established the secure connection. The integrity check shall be done within
the E-UTRAN.
#### 5.10.2.2 Integrity key management
The MME provides the eNB with the key K~eNB~, which is used for the derivation
of the integrity key used for the integrity protection of the radio interface
control plane as defined in TS 36.300 [11] and TS 33.401 [12].
## 5.11 Service and network access function
### 5.11.1 Core network signalling data transfer function
The NAS EPC signalling data shall be transparently conveyed between the EPC
and the UE. Over the S1 interface, the same S1 interface channel that is used
for the E-UTRAN--EPC signalling shall be used.
### 5.11.2 UE tracing
This function allows tracing of various events related to the UE and its
activities. This is an O&M functionality.
### 5.11.3 Location reporting function
The positioning function performs the determination of the geographical
position of the UE.
This function allows the MME to request the eNB for a given UE either to
report directly the current serving cell or to report upon change of serving
cell.
If dual connectivity is configured for a specific UE, the location reported
refers to the cell served by the MeNB.
### 5.11.4 LTE Positioning Protocol A (LPPa) signalling transfer function
The LPPa (3GPP TS 36.455 [10]) signalling data is transparently conveyed
between the E-SMLC and the eNB.
### 5.11.5 Delivery of warning messages
This function provides the capability to start or stop the delivery of warning
notification messages related to alerts (earthquake, tsunami, etc..). The
messages belong to one of the independent warning services: ETWS, CMAS or the
other services which use the same Access Stratum (AS) mechanisms as CMAS as
described in 3GPP TS 36.300 [11].
In ETWS, the messages to be delivered can either be primary notifications
which have stringent delivery delay or secondary notifications.
## 5.12 RAN Information Management (RIM) function
The RAN Information Management (RIM) function is a generic mechanism that
allows the request and transfer of information (e.g. GERAN/UTRAN system
information) between two RAN nodes via the Core Network (CN).
## 5.13 Configuration Transfer function
The Configuration Transfer function allows the request and transfer of RAN
configuration information (e.g., SON information) between two RAN nodes via
the Core Network (CN).
# 6 S1 interface protocol structure
The protocol structure is following the structure defined in 3GPP TS 36.401
[2].
## 6.1 General
The radio network signalling over S1consists of the S1 Application Part
(S1AP). The S1AP protocol consists of mechanisms to handle all procedures
between the EPC and E-UTRAN. It is also capable of conveying messages
transparently between the EPC and the UE without interpretation or processing
by the E-UTRAN.
Over the S1 interface the S1AP protocol is, e.g., used to:
\- Facilitate a set of general E-UTRAN procedures from the EPC such as paging-
notification as defined by the notification Service Access Point (SAP).
\- Separate each User Equipment (UE) on the protocol level for mobile specific
signalling management as defined by the dedicated SAP.
\- Transfer of transparent non-access signalling as defined in the dedicated
SAP.
\- Request of various types of E-RABs through the dedicated SAP.
\- Perform the mobility function.
The E-RABs are provided by the Access Stratum (AS).
## 6.2 S1-MME
Figure 6.2-1 shows the protocol structure for S1-MME, following the structure
described in 3GPP TS 36.401 [2].
Figure 6.2-1: Interface protocol structure for S1-MME
The Transport Network Layer (TNL) is based on IP transport, comprising the
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) on top of IP.
## 6.3 S1-U
Figure 6.3-1 shows the protocol structure for S1-U, following the structure
described in 3GPP TS 36.401 [2].
Figure 6.3-1: Interface protocol structure for S1-U
# 7 Other S1 interface specifications
This clause contains the description of the other related 3GPP specifications.
## 7.1 E-UTRAN S1 interface: layer 1 (3GPP TS 36.411)
3GPP TS 36.411 [3] specifies the physical layer technologies that may be used
to support the S1 interface.
## 7.2 E-UTRAN S1 interface: signalling transport (3GPP TS 36.412)
3GPP TS 36.412 [4] specifies the signalling bearers for the S1AP for the
S1-MME interface.
## 7.3 E-UTRAN S1 interface: S1AP specification (3GPP TS 36.413)
3GPP TS 36.413 [5] specifies the S1AP protocol for radio network control plane
signalling over the S1 interface.
## 7.4 E-UTRAN S1 interface: data transport and transport signalling (3GPP TS
36.414)
3GPP TS 36.414 [6] specifies the transport bearers for the user plane of the
S1-U interface.
#