# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the E-UTRAN radio network layer signalling
protocol for the M3 interface. The M3 Application Protocol (M3AP) supports the
functions of M3 interface by signalling procedures defined in this document.
M3AP is developed in accordance to the general principles stated in TS 36.401
[2] and TS 36.300 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.401: \"E-UTRAN Architecture Description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.300: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation X.691 (2002-07): \"Information technology - ASN.1
encoding rules: Specification of Packed Encoding Rules (PER)\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation X.680 (2002-07): \"Information technology - Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Specification of basic notation\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\"
[8] 3GPP TS 29.061: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting packet based services and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.445: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); M1 Data Transport\".
[10] 3GPP TS 48.018: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); BSS GPRS Protocol
(BSSGP)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Tunnelling
Protocol User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.007: \"Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Restoration procedures\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Elementary Procedure:** M3AP consists of Elementary Procedures (EPs). An
Elementary Procedure is a unit of interaction between MCEs and the EPC. These
Elementary Procedures are defined separately and are intended to be used to
build up complete sequences in a flexible manner. If the independence between
some EPs is restricted, it is described under the relevant EP description.
Unless otherwise stated by the restrictions, the EPs may be invoked
independently of each other as stand alone procedures, which can be active in
parallel. The usage of several M3AP EPs together or together with EPs from
other interfaces is specified in stage 2 specifications (e.g. TS 23.246 [6]
and TS 36.300 [3]).
An EP consists of an initiating message and possibly a response message. Two
kinds of EPs are used:
\- **Class 1:** Elementary Procedures with response (success and/or failure).
\- **Class 2:** Elementary Procedures without response.
For Class 1 EPs, the types of responses can be as follows:
Successful:
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the elementary procedure
successfully completed with the receipt of the response.
Unsuccessful:
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the EP failed.
\- On time supervision expiry (i.e. absence of expected response).
Successful and Unsuccessful:
\- One signalling message reports both successful and unsuccessful outcome for
the different included requests. The response message used is the one defined
for successful outcome.
Class 2 EPs are considered always successful.
**MCE MBMS M3AP ID:** Unique identity, referencing the MBMS-service-associated
logical M3-connection within an MCE.
**MME MBMS M3AP ID:** Unique identity, referencing the MBMS-service-associated
logical M3-connection within an MME.
**MBMS E-RAB:** An MBMS E-RAB refers to the concatenation of an M1 bearer and
the corresponding radio bearer, as defined in TS 36.300 [3].
**MBMS-service-associated signalling:** When M3AP messages associated to one
MBMS service uses the MBMS-service-associated logical M3-connection for
association of the message to the MBMS service in MCE and EPC.
**MBMS-service-associated logical M3-connection: The MBMS-service-associated
logical M3-connection uses the identities _MME MBMS M3AP ID_** and **_MCE MBMS
M3AP ID_. For a received MBMS service associated M3AP message the** MME
identifies **the** associated MBMS service based on the **_MME MBMS M3AP ID_**
IE and **the** MCE identifies **the** associated MBMS service based on the
**_MCE MBMS M3AP ID_** IE _._
## 3.2 Symbols
Not applicable.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DL Downlink
E-RAB E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer
eNB E-UTRAN NodeB
EP Elementary Procedure
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
GBR Guaranteed Bit Rate
GTP GPRS Tunneling Protocol
IE Information Element
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network
MCE Multi-cell/multicast Coordination Entity
MME Mobility Management Entity
NAS Non-Access Stratum
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
QoS Quality of Service
SC-PTM Single Cell Point to Multipoint
TEID Tunnel Endpoint Identifier
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
# 4 General
## 4.1 Procedure specification principles
The principle for specifying the procedure logic is to specify the functional
behaviour of the MCE exactly and completely. The EPC functional behaviour is
left unspecified.
The following specification principles have been applied for the procedure
text in clause 8:
\- The procedure text discriminates between:
> 1) Functionality which \"shall\" be executed
>
> The procedure text indicates that the receiving node \"shall\" perform a
> certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node supports
> procedure X but cannot perform functionality Y requested in the REQUEST
> message of a Class 1 EP, the receiving node shall respond with the message
> used to report unsuccessful outcome for this procedure, containing an
> appropriate cause value.
>
> 2) Functionality which \"shall, if supported\" be executed
>
> The procedure text indicates that the receiving node \"shall, if
> supported,\" perform a certain function Y under a certain condition. If the
> receiving node supports procedure X, but does not support functionality Y,
> the receiving node shall proceed with the execution of the EP, possibly
> informing the requesting node about the not supported functionality.
\- Any required inclusion of an optional IE in a response message is
explicitly indicated in the procedure text. If the procedure text does not
explicitly indicate that an optional IE shall be included in a response
message, the optional IE shall not be included. For requirements on including
_Criticality Diagnostics_ IE, see section 10.
## 4.2 Forwards and backwards compatibility
The forwards and backwards compatibility of the protocol is assured by
mechanism where all current and future messages, and IEs or groups of related
IEs, include ID and criticality fields that are coded in a standard format
that will not be changed in the future. These parts can always be decoded
regardless of the standard version.
## 4.3 Specification notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
Procedure When referring to an elementary procedure in the specification the
Procedure Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case
characters followed by the word \"procedure\", e.g. MBMS procedure.
Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is
written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
\"message\", e.g. MESSAGE NAME message.
IE When referring to an information element (IE) in the specification the
_Information Element Name_ is written with the first letters in each word in
upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the
abbreviation \"IE\", e.g. _Information Element_ IE.
Value of an IE When referring to the value of an information element (IE) in
the specification the \"Value\" is written as it is specified in subclause 9.2
enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. \"Value\".
# 5 M3AP Services
M3AP provides the signalling service between MCE and EPC that is required to
fulfil the M3AP functions described in clause 7. M3AP services are defined as
> MBMS associated services: They are related to the whole M3 interface
> instance between the MCE and MME utilising an MBMS associated signalling
> connection.
>
> Non MBMS associated services: They are related to the whole M3 interface
> instance between the MCE and MME utilising a Non MBMS associated signalling
> connection.
# 6 Services Expected from Signalling Transport
The signalling connection shall provide in sequence delivery of M3AP messages.
M3AP shall be notified if the signalling connection breaks.
# 7 Functions of M3AP
The M3AP protocol provides the following functions:
\- Session Management. This overall functionality is responsible for starting,
stopping and updating MBMS sessions.
\- Reset functionality to ensure a well defined initialisation on the M3
interface.
\- Error Indication functionality to allow a proper error reporting/handling
in cases where no failure messages are defined.
\- M3 Setup functionality for initial M3 interface setup for providing
configuration information.
\- MCE Configuration Update function is to update application level
configuration data needed for the MCE and MME to interoperate correctly on the
M3 interface.
The mapping between the above functions and M3 EPs is shown in the table
below.
Table 7-1: Mapping between M3AP functions and M3AP EPs
* * *
Function Elementary Procedure(s)
Session Management a) MBMS Session Start\ b) MBMS Session Stop\ c) MBMS
Session Update
Error Indication Functionality Error Indication
Reset Functionality Reset
M3 Setup M3 Setup
Configuration Update MCE Configuration Update
* * *
# 8 M3AP Procedures
## 8.1 Elementary procedures
In the following tables, all EPs are divided into Class 1 and Class 2 EPs (see
subclause 3.1 for explanation of the different classes):
Table 8-1: Class 1 procedures
* * *
Elementary Procedure Initiating Message Successful Outcome Unsuccessful
Outcome Response message Response message MBMS Session Start MBMS SESSION
START REQUEST MBMS SESSION START RESPONSE MBMS SESSION START FAILURE MBMS
Session Stop MBMS SESSION STOP REQUEST MBMS SESSION STOP RESPONSE  
MBMS Session Update MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST MBMS SESSION UPDATE RESPONSE
MBMS SESSION UPDATE FAILURE Reset RESET RESET ACKNOWLEDGE  
M3 Setup M3 SETUP REQUEST M3 SETUP RESPONSE M3 SETUP FAILURE MCE Configuration
Update MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE MCE
CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE
* * *
Table 8-2: Class 2 procedures
* * *
Elementary Procedure Message Error Indication ERROR INDICATION
* * *
The following applies concerning interference between Elementary Procedures:
\- The Reset procedure takes precedence over all other EPs.
## 8.2 MBMS Session Start
### 8.2.1 General
The purpose of the MBMS Session Start procedure is to request the MCE to
determine whether an MBMS E-RAB for an upcoming MBMS Session for a given MBMS
Bearer Service can be accommodated by the E-UTRAN. The MCE is also requested
to establish an MBMS service associated logical M3 connection. The MBMS
Session Start procedure is triggered by the EPC (MME).
The procedure uses MBMS Service associated signaling.
### 8.2.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.2.2-1: MBMS Session Start procedure. Successful operation.
The MME initiates the procedure by sending an MBMS SESSION START REQUEST
message to the MCE.
If the MCE receives the MBMS SESSION START REQUEST message including the _MBMS
Cell List_ IE, the MCE may use it as defined in TS 36.300 [3].
In MBSFN operation
\- The MCE shall use the information in the _MBMS E-RAB QoS parameters_ IE to
determine whether the requested configuration can be accommodated within
E-UTRAN.
\- If the _Time of MBMS Data Transfer_ IE is included in the MBMS SESSION
START REQUEST message, the MCE shall, if supported, take it into account for
the synchronization of the corresponding MCCH Update instead of the _Minimum
Time to MBMS Data Transfer_ IE. The MCE shall ensure the eNB applies the MCCH
update from the last modification period before the time indicated by the
_Time of MBMS Data Transfer_ IE.
In SC-PTM operation, the MCE shall forward the information in the _MBMS E-RAB
QoS parameters_ IE to the relevant eNBs.
If the MCE receives the MBMS SESSION START REQUEST message including the _Re-
establishment_ IE for a service which is already ongoing, it shall, if
supported, accept this message and replace the MBMS context for that service
(see TS 23.007 [14]).
If the MCE receives the MBMS SESSION START REQUEST message including the
_Alternative TNL Information_ IE, it may send the content of that IE to the
eNB.
The MCE shall report to the MME, in the MBMS SESSION START RESPONSE message
the result of the requested MBMS E-RAB.
In MBSFN operation, the MCE shall establish or modify the resources according
to the values of the _Allocation and Retention Priority_ IE (priority level
and pre-emption indicators) and the resource situation as follows:
\- The MCE shall consider the priority level of the requested session, when
deciding on the resource allocation.
\- The priority levels and the pre-emption indicators may (individually or in
combination) be used to determine whether the session has to be started
unconditionally and immediately. If the requested session is marked as "may
trigger pre-emption" and the resource situation requires so, the MCE may
trigger the pre-emption procedure which may then cause the forced release of a
lower priority session which is marked as "pre-emptable". Whilst the process
and the extent of the pre-emption procedure is operator-dependent, the pre-
emption indicators shall be treated as follows:
1\. If the _Pre-emption Capability_ IE is set to "may trigger pre-emption",
then this allocation request is allowed to trigger a pre-emption procedure.
2\. If the _Pre-emption Capability_ IE is set to "shall not trigger pre-
emption", then this allocation request is not allowed to trigger a pre-emption
procedure.
3\. If the _Pre-emption Vulnerability_ IE is set to "pre-emptable", then this
session shall be included in the pre-emption process.
4\. If the _Pre-emption Vulnerability_ IE is set to "not pre-emptable", then
this session shall not be included in the pre-emption process.
5\. If the _Priority Level_ IE is set to "no priority", the given values for
the _Pre-emption Capability_ IE and _Pre-emption Vulnerability_ IE shall not
be considered. Instead the values "shall not trigger pre-emption" and "not
pre-emptable" shall prevail.
\- The E-UTRAN pre-emption process shall keep the following rule: E-UTRAN
shall only pre-empt sessions with lower priority, in ascending order of
priority.
### 8.2.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 8.2.3-1: MBMS Session Start procedure. Unsuccessful operation.
If the MCE determines that the E-UTRAN is not able to accommodate the
requested configuration for any involved MBSFN area when using MBSFN
transmission, or in any involved cell when using SC-PTM, the MME shall be
informed by the MBMS SESSION START FAILURE message including a suitable cause
value.
If the MCE receives MBMS SESSION START REQUEST message including the _MBMS
Cell List_ IE and the list includes no cell controlled by eNB with which the
MCE has connection, the MME shall be informed by the MBMS SESSION START
FAILURE message including a suitable cause value, e.g. "Un-involved MCE".
### 8.2.4 Abnormal Conditions
Not applicable.
## 8.3 MBMS Session Stop
### 8.3.1 General
The purpose of the MBMS Session Stop procedure is to inform the MCE about the
end of an ongoing MBMS Session for a given MBMS Bearer Service, and that the
E-UTRAN releases the allocated MBMS E-RAB resources and that the associated
MBMS service associated logical M3 connection is also released. The MBMS
Session Stop procedure is triggered by the EPC (MME).
The procedure uses MBMS Service associated signaling.
### 8.3.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.3.2-1: MBMS Session Stop procedure. Successful operation.
The MME initiates the procedure by sending an MBMS SESSION STOP REQUEST
message to the MCE. Upon receipt of the MBMS SESSION STOP REQUEST message, the
MCE shall send the MBMS SESSION STOP RESPONSE message after the MCE releases
the affected resources and removes the MBMS bearer context.
If the _Time of MBMS Data Stop_ IE is included in the MBMS SESSION STOP
REQUEST message, the MCE shall, if supported, take it into account for the
synchronization of the corresponding MCCH Update. The MCE shall ensure the eNB
applies the MCCH update from the first modification period after the time
indicated by the _Time of MBMS Data Stop_ IE.
### 8.3.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Not applicable.
### 8.3.4 Abnormal Conditions
Not applicable.
## 8.4 Error Indication
### 8.4.1 General
The Error Indication procedure is initiated by a node to report detected
errors in one incoming message, provided they cannot be reported by an
appropriate failure message.
If the error situation arises due to reception of a message utilising MBMS-
service-associated signalling, then the Error Indication procedure uses MBMS-
service-associated signalling. Otherwise the procedure uses non MBMS-service-
associated signalling.
### 8.4.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.4.2-1. Error Indication procedure, MME originated. Successful
operation.
Figure 8.4.2.1-2. Error Indication procedure, MCE originated. Successful
operation.
When the conditions defined in clause 10 are fulfilled, the Error Indication
procedure is initiated by an ERROR INDICATION message sent from the receiving
node.
The ERROR INDICATION message shall contain at least either the _Cause_ IE or
the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE.
In case the Error Indication procedure is triggered by utilising MBMS-service-
associated signalling the _MCE MBMS M3AP ID_ IE and the _MME MBMS M3AP_ IE
shall be included in the ERROR INDICATION message. If one or both of _MCE MBMS
M3AP ID_ IE and the _MME MBMS M3AP_ IE are not correct, the cause shall be set
to appropriate value e.g. \"Unknown or already allocated MCE MBMS M3AP ID\",
\"Unknown or already allocated MME MBMS M3AP ID\" or \"Unknown or inconsistent
pair of MBMS M3AP ID\".
### 8.4.3 Abnormal Conditions
## 8.5 Reset
### 8.5.1 General
The purpose of the Reset procedure is to initialise or re-initialise the
E-UTRAN, or part of E-UTRAN M3AP MBMS-related contexts, in the event of a
failure in the EPC or vice versa. This procedure does not affect the
application level configuration data exchanged during, e.g. the M3 Setup
procedure.
The procedure uses non MBMS-service associated signalling.
### 8.5.2 Successful Operation
#### 8.5.2.1 Reset Procedure Initiated from the MME
Figure 8.5.2.1-1: Reset procedure initiated from the MME. Successful
operation.
In the event of a failure at the MME, which has resulted in the loss of some
or all transaction reference information, a RESET message shall be sent to the
MCE.
At reception of RESET message the MCE shall release all allocated resources on
M3 related to MBMS-service association(s) indicated explicitly or implicitly
in the RESET message and remove the MBMS-service contexts including MBMS M3AP
IDs for the indicated MBMS service associations.
After the MCE has released all assigned M3 resources and the MBMS M3AP IDs for
all indicated MBMS service associations which can be used for new MBMS-
service-associated logical M3-connections over the M3 interface, the MCE shall
respond with the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
_If the RESET message contains the MBMS-Service-associated logical
M3-connection list IE, then:_
\- _The MCE shall use the MME MBMS M3AP ID_ IE and/or the _MCE MBMS M3AP ID_
IE to explicitly identify the MBMS service association(s) to be reset.
\- The MCE shall in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message include, for each MBMS
service association to be reset, the _MBMS-Service-associated logical
M3-connection Item_ IE in the _MBMS-Service-associated logical M3-connection
list_ IE. The _MBMS-Service -associated logical M3-connection Item_ IEs shall
be in the same order as received in the RESET message and shall include also
unknown MBMS-Service-associated logical M3-connections. Empty _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M3-connection Item_ IEs, received in the RESET message, may
be omitted in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
\- If the _MME MBMS M3AP ID_ IE is included in the _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M3-connection Item_ IE for an MBMS service association, the MCE shall
include the _MME MBMS M3AP ID_ IE in the corresponding _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M3-connection Item_ IE in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
\- If the **_MCE MBMS M3AP ID_** IE is included in an _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M3-connection Item_ IE for an MBMS service association, the MCE shall
include the _MCE MBMS M3AP ID_ IE in the corresponding _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M3-connection Item_ IE in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
**Interactions with other procedures:**
If the RESET message is received, any other ongoing procedure (except another
Reset procedure) on the same M3 interface related to an MBMS service
association, indicated explicitly or implicitly in the RESET message, shall be
aborted.
#### 8.5.2.2 Reset Procedure Initiated from the E-UTRAN
Figure 8.5.2.2-1: Reset procedure initiated from the E-UTRAN. Successful
operation.
In the event of a failure at the MCE, which has resulted in the loss of some
or all transaction reference information, a RESET message shall be sent to the
MME.
At reception of RESET message the MME shall release all allocated resources on
M3 related to the MBMS service association(s) indicated explicitly or
implicitly in the RESET message and remove the MBMS M3AP ID for the indicated
MBMS service associations.
After the MME has released all assigned M3 resources and the MBMS M3AP IDs for
all indicated MBMS service associations which can be used for new MBMS-
service-associated logical M3-connections over the M3 interface, the MME shall
respond with the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
_If the RESET message contains the MBMS-Service-associated logical
M3-connection list IE, then:_
\- _The MME shall use the MME MBMS M3AP ID_ IE and/or the _MCE MBMS M3AP ID_
IE to explicitly identify the MBMS service association(s) to be reset.
\- The MME shall in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message include, for each MBMS
service association to be reset, the _MBMS-Service-associated logical
M3-connection Item_ IE in the _MBMS-Service-associated logical M3-connection
list_ IE. The _MBMS-Service -associated logical M3-connection Item_ IEs shall
be in the same order as received in the RESET message and shall include also
unknown MBMS-Service-associated logical M3-connections. Empty _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M3-connection Item_ IEs, received in the RESET message, may
be omitted in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
\- If the _MME MBMS M3AP ID_ IE is included in the _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M3-connection Item_ IE for an MBMS service association, the MME shall
include the _MME MBMS M3AP ID_ IE in the corresponding _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M3-connection Item_ IE in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
\- If the **_MCE MBMS M3AP ID_** IE is included in an _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M3-connection Item_ IE for an MBMS service association, the MME shall
include the MCE _MBMS M3AP ID_ IE in the corresponding _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M3-connection Item_ IE in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
**Interactions with other procedures:**
If the RESET message is received, any other ongoing procedure (except another
Reset procedure) on the same M3 interface related to an MBMS service
association, indicated explicitly or implicitly in the RESET message, shall be
aborted.
### 8.5.3 Abnormal Conditions
#### 8.5.3.1 Abnormal Condition at the EPC
If the RESET message includes the _MBMS-Service-associated logical
M3-connection list_ IE, but neither the _MME MBMS M3AP ID_ IE nor the _MCE
MBMS M3AP ID_ IE is present for an _MBMS-Service-associated logical
M3-connection Item_ IE, then the MME shall ignore the _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M3-connection Item_ IE. The MME may return the empty _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M3-connection Item_ IE in the _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M3-connection list_ IE in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
#### 8.5.3.2 Abnormal Condition at the E-UTRAN
If the RESET message includes the _MBMS-Service-associated logical
M3-connection list_ IE, but neither the _MME MBMS M3AP ID_ IE nor the _MCE
MBMS M3AP ID_ IE is present for an _MBMS-Service-associated logical
M3-connection Item_ IE, then the MCE shall ignore the _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M3-connection Item_ IE. The MCE may return the empty _MBMS-Service-
associated logical M3-connection Item_ IE in the _MBMS-Service-associated
logical M3-connection list_ IE in the RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message.
#### 8.5.3.3 Crossing of Reset Messages
If Reset procedure is ongoing in MCE and the MCE receives a RESET message from
the peer entity on the same M3 interface related to one or several MBMS
service associations previously requested to be reset, indicated explicitly or
implicitly in the received RESET message, the MCE shall respond with RESET
ACKNOWLEDGE message as described in 8.5.2.1.
If Reset procedure is ongoing in MME and the MME receives a RESET message from
the peer entity on the same M3 interface related to one or several MBMS
service associations previously requested to be reset, indicated explicitly or
implicitly in the received RESET message, the MME shall respond with RESET
ACKNOWLEDGE message as described in 8.5.2.2.
## 8.6 MBMS Session Update
### 8.6.1 General
The purpose of the MBMS Session Update procedure is to inform the MCE about
changing characteristics of the MBMS session.
The procedure uses MBMS-Service-associated signalling.
### 8.6.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.6.2-1. MBMS Session Update procedure. Successful operation.
The MME initiates the procedure by sending an MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST
message to the MCE.
The MCE shall use the information contained in the MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST
_message_ to update its own parameters of this session such as the service
area parameters, or the list of cell identities, or the allocation and
retention priority (ARP) of the session. In MBSFN operation, if the ARP
parameter is updated, the corresponding update of resources shall follow the
principles described for the MBMS Session Start procedure. The MCE shall then,
if needed, transfer the updated parameters to the involved eNBs according to
the service area, or the list of cell identities.
In MBSFN operation, if the _Time of MBMS Data Transfer_ IE is included in the
MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST message, the MCE shall, if supported, take it into
account for the synchronization of the corresponding MCCH Update instead of
the _Minimum Time to MBMS Data Transfer_ IE. The MCE shall ensure the eNB
applies the MCCH update from the last modification period before the time
indicated by the _Time of MBMS Data Transfer_ IE. The MCE shall ignore the
information contained in the received _Minimum Time to MBMS Data Transfer_ IE.
After receiving the response from the involved eNBs the MCE shall report to
the MME in the MBMS SESSION UPDATE RESPONSE message the result of the update.
### 8.6.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 8.6.3-1: MBMS Session Update procedure. Unsuccessful operation.
If the MCE determines that the E-UTRAN is not able to accommodate the
requested updating, the MCE shall send to the MME the MBMS SESSION UPDATE
FAILURE message.
### 8.6.4 Abnormal Conditions
Not applicable.
## 8.7 M3 Setup
### 8.7.1 General
The purpose of the M3 Setup procedure is to exchange application level data
needed for the MCE and MME to correctly interoperate on the M3 interface. The
procedure uses non MBMS-service associated signalling.
This procedure erases any existing application level data in the MCE and the
MME and replaces it by the one received. This procedure also re-initialises
the E-UTRAN M3AP service-related contexts (if any) and erases all related
MBMS-service-associated logical M3 connections in the two nodes like a Reset
procedure would do.
### 8.7.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.7.2-1: M3 Setup procedure- Successful operation.
The MCE initiates the procedure by sending a M3 SETUP REQUEST message
including the appropriate data to the MME. The MME responds with a M3 SETUP
RESPONSE.
The exchanged data shall be stored in respective node and used for the
duration of the TNL association.
If the M3 SETUP REQUEST message contains the _MCE Name_ IE the MME may use
this IE as a human readable name of the MCE.
### 8.7.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 8.7.3-1: M3 Setup procedure. Unsuccessful operation.
If the MME cannot accept the setup, it should respond with a M3 SETUP FAILURE
and appropriate cause value.
If the M3 SETUP FAILURE message includes the _Time To Wait_ IE the MCE shall
wait at least for the indicated time before reinitiating the M3 setup towards
the same MME.
### 8.7.4 Abnormal Conditions
Void
## 8.8 MCE Configuration Update
### 8.8.1 General
The purpose of the MCE Configuration Update procedure is to update application
level configuration data needed for the MCE and MME to interoperate correctly
on the M3 interface.
The procedure uses non MBMS-service-associated signalling.
### 8.8.2 Successful Operation
Figure 8.8.2-1: MCE Configuration Update procedure. Successful operation.
The MCE initiates the procedure by sending an MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message
to the MME including an appropriate set of updated configuration data that it
has just taken into operational use. The MME responds with MCE CONFIGURATION
UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message to acknowledge that it successfully updated the
configuration data. If information element(s) is/are not included in the MCE
CONFIGURATION UPDATE message, the MME shall interpret that the corresponding
configuration data is/are not changed and shall continue to operate the M3
with the existing related configuration data.
If the served MBMS Service Areas are to be updated, the complete set of
supported MBMS Service Area Identities shall be included in the _MBMS Service
Area List_ IE.
If the MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message contains the _MCE Name_ IE, the MME
may use this IE as a human readable name of the MCE.
The updated configuration data shall be stored in both the MCE and the MME and
used for the duration of the TNL association or until any further update is
triggered by the MCE.
The MCE may initiate a further MCE Configuration Update procedure only after a
previous MCE Configuration Update procedure has been completed.
### 8.8.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 8.8.3-1: MCE Configuration Update procedure. Unsuccessful operation.
If the MME cannot accept the update, it shall respond with an MCE
CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE message and appropriate cause value.
If the MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE message includes the _Time To Wait_
IE, the MCE shall wait at least for the indicated time before reinitiating the
MCE Configuration Update procedure towards the MME. Both nodes shall continue
to operate the M3 interface with their respective configuration data.
### 8.8.4 Abnormal Conditions
If the MCE after initiating the MCE Configuration Update procedure receives
neither an MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE nor an MCE CONFIGURATION
UPDATE FAILURE message, the MCE may reinitiate a further MCE Configuration
Update procedure towards the same MME, provided that the content of the new
MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message is identical to the content of the previously
unacknowledged MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE message.
# 9 Elements for M3AP Communication
## 9.1 Message Functional Definition and Content
### 9.1.1 General
Subclauses 9.1 and 9.2 describe the structure of the messages and information
elements required for the M3AP protocol in tabular format. Subclause 9.3
provides the corresponding ASN.1 definition.
The following attributes are used for the tabular description of the messages
and information elements: Presence, Range Criticality and Assigned
Criticality.
### 9.1.2 Message Contents
#### 9.1.2.1 Presence
All information elements in the message descriptions below are marked
mandatory, optional or conditional according to table 4.
Table 9-1: Meaning of abbreviations used in M3AP messages
* * *
Abbreviation Meaning M IEs marked as Mandatory (M) shall always be included in
the message. O IEs marked as Optional (O) may or may not be included in the
message. C IEs marked as Conditional (C) shall be included in a message only
if the condition is satisfied. Otherwise the IE shall not be included.
* * *
#### 9.1.2.2 Criticality
Each Information Element or Group of Information Elements may have criticality
information applied to it.\ Following cases are possible:
Table 9-2: Meaning of content within \"Criticality\" column
* * *
Abbreviation **Meaning** \-- No criticality information is applied explicitly.
YES Criticality information is applied. This is usable only for non-repeatable
IEs GLOBAL The IE and all its repetitions together have one common criticality
information. This is usable only for repeatable IEs. EACH Each repetition of
the IE has its own criticality information. It is not allowed to assign
different criticality values to the repetitions. This is usable only for
repeatable IEs.
* * *
#### 9.1.2.3 Range
The Range column indicates the allowed number of copies of repetitive IEs/IE
groups.
#### 9.1.2.4 Assigned Criticality
This column provides the actual criticality information as defined in
subclause 10.3.2, if applicable.
### 9.1.3 MBMS SESSION START REQUEST
This message is sent by the MME to establish an MBMS E-RAB and an M3AP
signalling connection.
Direction: MME → MCE.
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MME | M | | 9.2.3.2 | | YES | reject | | MBMS | | | | | | | | M3AP ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | TMGI | M | | 9.2.3.3 | | YES | reject | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | O | | 9.2.3.4 | | YES | ignore | | Session | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | dentity | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | M | | 9.2.1.3 | | YES | reject | | E-RAB | | | | | | | | QoS | | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | ameters | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | M | | 9.2.3.5 | | YES | reject | | Session | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | M | | 9.2.3.6 | | YES | reject | | Service | | | | | | | | Area | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Minimum | M | | 9.2.3.8 | | YES | reject | | Time to | | | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **TNL | M | | | | YES | reject | | Inform | | | | | | | | ation** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >IP | M | | 9.2.2.1 | | - | | | > Mu | | | | | | | | lticast | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Address | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >IP | M | | 9.2.2.1 | | - | | | > | | | | | | | | Source | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Address | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >GTP | M | | GTP | | - | | | > DL | | | TEID | | | | | > TEID | | | | | | | | | | | 9.2.2.2 | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Time of | O | | 9.2.3.9 | | YES | ignore | | MBMS | | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Re | O | | 9 | | YES | ignore | | -establ | | | .2.3.10 | | | | | ishment | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Alte | O | | | | YES | ignore | | rnative | | | | | | | | TNL | | | | | | | | Inform | | | | | | | | ation** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | M | | 9.2.2.1 | | - | | | >Alte | | | | | | | | rnative | | | | | | | | > IP | | | | | | | | > Mu | | | | | | | | lticast | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Address | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | M | | 9.2.2.1 | | - | | | >Alte | | | | | | | | rnative | | | | | | | | > IP | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Source | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Address | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >GTP | M | | GTP | Shall | - | | | > DL | | | TEID | be set | | | | > TEID | | | | to same | | | | | | | 9.2.2.2 | value | | | | | | | | as the | | | | | | | | _GTP DL | | | | | | | | TEID_ | | | | | | | | IE of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | _TNL | | | | | | | | Infor | | | | | | | | mation_ | | | | | | | | IE. | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | O | | 9 | | YES | reject | | Cell | | | .2.1.11 | | | | | List | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 9.1.4 MBMS SESSION START RESPONSE
This message is sent by the MCE to report the successful outcome of the
request from the MBMS SESSION START message.
Direction: MCE → MME.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject MME MBMS
M3AP ID M 9.2.3.2 YES ignore MCE MBMS M3AP ID M 9.2.3.1 YES ignore Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.5 MBMS SESSION START FAILURE
This message is sent by the MCE to report the unsuccessful outcome of the
request from the MBMS SESSION START message.
Direction: MCE → MME.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject MME MBMS
M3AP ID M 9.2.3.2 YES ignore Cause M 9.2.1.2 YES ignore Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.6 MBMS SESSION STOP REQUEST
This message is sent by the MME to release the corresponding MBMS E-RAB and
the MBMS service associated logical M3 connection.
Direction: MME → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject MME MBMS
M3AP ID M 9.2.3.2 YES reject MCE MBMS M3AP ID M 9.2.3.1 YES reject Time of
MBMS Data Stop O 9.2.3.9 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.7 MBMS SESSION STOP RESPONSE
This message is sent by the MCE to acknowledge the MBMS SESSION STOP message.
Direction: MCE → MME.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject MME MBMS
M3AP ID M 9.2.3.2 YES ignore MCE MBMS M3AP ID M 9.2.3.1 YES ignore Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.8 ERROR INDICATION
This message is sent by both the MME and the MCE and is used to indicate that
some error has been detected in the node
Direction: MCE → MME and MME → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES ignore MME MBMS
M3AP ID O 9.2.3.2 YES ignore MCE MBMS M3AP ID O 9.2.3.1 YES ignore Cause O
9.2.1.2 YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.9 RESET
This message is sent by both the MME and the MCE and is used to request that
the M3 interface, or parts of the M3 interface, to be reset.
Direction: MME → MCE and MCE → MME
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cause | M | | 9.2.1.2 | | YES | ignore | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | CHOICE | M | | | | YES | reject | | _Reset | | | | | | | | Type_ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >_M3 | | | | | | | | > int | | | | | | | | erface_ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > > | M | | ENU | | -- | -- | | >Reset | | | MERATED | | | | | > All | | | (Reset | | | | | | | | all, | | | | | | | | ...) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | | | | | | | >_Part | | | | | | | | > of M3 | | | | | | | | > int | | | | | | | | erface_ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > ** | | _1_ | | | -- | -- | | _> >MB | | | | | | | | MS-Serv | | | | | | | | ice-ass | | | | | | | | ociated | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | logical | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | M3-con | | | | | | | | nection | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | list_**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > * | | _1 to | | | EACH | reject | |_ >>> | | \ -ass | | dividua | | | | | | ociated | | lM3Conn | | | | | | > | | ections | | | | | | logical | | ToReset | | | | | | > | | >* | | | | | | M3-con | | | | | | | | nection | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Item** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | O | | 9.2.3.2 | | -- | -- | | **> > | | | | | | | | >>MME | | | | | | | | > MBMS | | | | | | | | > M3AP | | | | | | | | > ID** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | O | | 9.2.3.1 | | -- | -- | | **> > | | | | | | | | >>MCE | | | | | | | | > MBMS | | | | | | | | > M3AP | | | | | | | | > ID** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofIndividualM3ConnectionsToReset Maximum no. of
MBMS-Service-associated logical M3-connections allowed to reset in one
message. Value is 256.
* * *
### 9.1.10 RESET ACKNOWLEDGE
This message is sent by both the MME and the MCE as a response to a RESET
message.
Direction: MCE → MME and MME → MCE.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **_MB | |_ 0..1* | | | YES | ignore | | MS-Serv | | | | | | | | ice-ass | | | | | | | | ociated | | | | | | | | logical | | | | | | | | M3-con | | | | | | | | nection | | | | | | | | list** _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | _1 to | | | EACH | ignore | | >**_M | | \  -ass | | dividua | | | | | | ociated | | lM3Conn | | | | | | > | | ections | | | | | | logical | | ToReset | | | | | | > | | >_| | | | | | M3-con | | | | | | | | nection | | | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > ** | O | | 9.2.3.2 | | -- | -- | | >>MME | | | | | | | | > MBMS | | | | | | | | > M3AP | | | | | | | | > ID_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > ** | O | | 9.2.3.1 | | -- | -- | | >>MCE | | | | | | | | > MBMS | | | | | | | | > M3AP | | | | | | | | > ID_* | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Crit | O | | 9.2.1.7 | | YES | ignore | | icality | | | | | | | | Diag | | | | | | | | nostics | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofIndividualM3ConnectionsToReset Maximum no. of
MBMS-Service-ssociated logical M3-connections allowed to reset in one message.
Value is 256.
* * *
### 9.1.11 MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST
This message is sent by the MME to inform the MCE of the changed
characteristics of an ongoing MBMS service session.
Direction: MME → MCE.
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MME | M | | 9.2.3.2 | | YES | reject | | MBMS | | | | | | | | M3AP ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MCE | M | | 9.2.3.1 | | YES | reject | | MBMS | | | | | | | | M3AP ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | TMGI | M | | 9.2.3.3 | | YES | reject | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | O | | 9.2.3.4 | | YES | ignore | | Session | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | dentity | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | M | | 9.2.1.3 | | YES | reject | | E-RAB | | | | | | | | QoS | | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | ameters | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | M | | 9.2.3.5 | | YES | reject | | Session | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | O | | 9.2.3.6 | | YES | ignore | | Service | | | | | | | | Area | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Minimum | M | | 9.2.3.8 | | YES | reject | | Time to | | | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **TNL | O | | | | YES | ignore | | Inform | | | | | | | | ation** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >IP | M | | 9.2.2.1 | | - | | | > Mu | | | | | | | | lticast | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Address | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >IP | M | | IP | | - | | | > | | | Address | | | | | Source | | | | | | | | > | | | 9.2.2.1 | | | | | Address | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >GTP | M | | GTP | | - | | | > DL | | | TEID | | | | | > TEID | | | | | | | | | | | 9.2.2.2 | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Time of | O | | 9.2.3.9 | | YES | ignore | | MBMS | | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MBMS | O | | 9 | | YES | reject | | Cell | | | .2.1.11 | | | | | List | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 9.1.12 MBMS SESSION UPDATE RESPONSE
This message is sent by the MCE to report the successful outcome of the
request from the MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST message.
Direction: MCE → MME.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject MME MBMS
M3AP ID M 9.2.3.2 YES ignore MCE MBMS M3AP ID M 9.2.3.1 YES ignore Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.13 MBMS SESSION UPDATE FAILURE
This message is sent by the MCE to report the unsuccessful outcome of the
request from the MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST message.
Direction: MCE → MME.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject MME MBMS
M3AP ID M 9.2.3.2 YES ignore MCE MBMS M3AP ID M 9.2.3.1 YES ignore Cause M
9.2.1.2 YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.14 M3 SETUP REQUEST
This message is sent by the MCE to transfer information for a TNL association.
Direction: MCE → MME.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _Global | M | | 9 | | YES | reject | | MCE ID_ | | | .2.1.10 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _MCE | O | | Printa | | YES | ignore | | Name_ | | | bleStri | | | | | | | | ng(SIZE | | | | | | | | (1...15 | | | | | | | | 0,...)) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **MBMS | |_1_ | | | YES | reject | | Service | | | | | | | | Area | | | | | | | | List** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > \ | | _1 to | | Su | GLOBAL | reject | | >__MBMS | | \ | | pported | | | | > | |  Area | | rviceAr | | Area | | | | > List | | eaIdent | | Ide | | | | > | | itiesPe | | ntities | | | | Item_ _| | rMCE >_ | | in the | | | | | | | | MCE | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > \ | M | | OCTET | MBMS | | | | >>MBMS | | | S | Service | | | | > | | | TRING(S | Area | | | | Service | | | IZE(2)) | Ide | | | | > Area | | | | ntities | | | | > 1 | | | | as | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | 23.003 | | | | | | | | [13]. | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofMBMSServiceAreaIdentitiesPerMCE Maximum no. of
Service Area Identities per MCE. The value for
maxnoofMBMSServiceAreaIdentities is 65536.
* * *
### 9.1.15 M3 SETUP RESPONSE
This message is sent by the MME to tranfer information for a TNL association.
Direction: MME → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.16 M3 SETUP FAILURE
This message is sent by the MME to indicate M3 Setup failure.
Direction: MME → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject Cause M
9.2.1.2 YES ignore Time To Wait O 9.2.1.9 YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O
9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.17 MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE
This message is sent by the MCE transfer updated information for a TNL
association.
Direction: MCE → MME.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 9.2.1.1 | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _Global | O | | 9 | | YES | reject | | MCE ID_ | | | .2.1.10 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _MCE | O | | Printa | | YES | ignore | | Name_ | | | bleStri | | | | | | | | ng(SIZE | | | | | | | | (1...15 | | | | | | | | 0,...)) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **MBMS | |_0..1 _| | | YES | reject | | Service | | | | | | | | Area | | | | | | | | List_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > ** | | _1 to | | Su | GLOBAL | reject | | _> MBMS | | _*\ | | axnoofM | | MBMS | | | | Service | | BMSServ | | Service | | | | > Area | | iceArea | | Area | | | | > List | | Identit | | Ide | | | | > | | iesPerM | | ntities | | | | Item_** | | CE>*** | | in the | | | | | | | | MCE | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > \ | M | | OCTET | MBMS | | | | >>MBMS | | | S | Service | | | | > | | | TRING(S | Area | | | | Service | | | IZE(2)) | Ide | | | | > Area | | | | ntities | | | | > 1 | | | | as | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | 23.003 | | | | | | | | [13]. | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofMBMSServiceAreaIdentitiesPerMCE Maximum no. of
Service Area Identities per MCE. The value for
maxnoofMBMSServiceAreaIdentities is 65536.
* * *
### 9.1.18 MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE
This message is sent by the MME to acknowledge the MCE updated information for
a TNL association.
Direction: MME → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
### 9.1.19 MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE
This message is sent by the MME to indicate MCE configuration failure.
Direction: MME → MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1.1 YES reject Cause M
9.2.1.2 YES ignore Time To Wait O 9.2.1.9 YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O
9.2.1.7 YES ignore
* * *
## 9.2 Information Element Definitions
### 9.2.0 General
Subclause 9.2 presents the M3AP IE definitions in tabular format. The
corresponding ASN.1 definition is presented in subclause 9.3. In case there is
contradiction between the tabular format in subclause 9.2 and the ASN.1
definition, the ASN.1 shall take precedence, except for the definition of
conditions for the presence of conditional elements, where the tabular format
shall take precedence.
When specifying information elements which are to be represented by
bitstrings, if not otherwise specifically stated in the semantics description
of the concerned IE or elsewhere, the following principle applies with regards
to the ordering of bits:
\- The first bit (leftmost bit) contains the most significant bit (MSB);
\- The last bit (rightmost bit) contains the least significant bit (LSB);
\- When importing bitstrings from other specifications, the first bit of the
bitstring contains the first bit of the concerned information;
### 9.2.1 Radio Network Layer Related IEs
#### 9.2.1.1 Message Type
The _Message Type_ IE uniquely identifies the message being sent. It is
mandatory for all messages.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | **Message | | | | | | Type** | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Procedure | M | | INTEGER | | | > Code | | | (0..255) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Type of | M | | CHOICE | | | > Message | | | (Initi | | | | | | ating Message, | | | | | | Succe | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | Unsucce | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
#### 9.2.1.2 Cause
The purpose of the _Cause_ IE is to indicate the reason for a particular event
for the M3AP protocol.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | CHOICE **Cause | M | | | | | Group** | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Radio | | | | | | > Network | | | | | | > Layer | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Radio | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | > Network | | | (Unknown or | | | > Layer Cause | | | already | | | | | | allocated MCE | | | | | | MBMS M3AP ID,\ | | | | | | Unknown or | | | | | | already | | | | | | allocated MME | | | | | | MBMS M3AP ID,\ | | | | | | Unknown or | | | | | | inconsistent | | | | | | pair of MBMS | | | | | | M3AP IDs,\ | | | | | | Radio | | | | | | resources not | | | | | | available,\ | | | | | | Invalid QoS | | | | | | combination,\ | | | | | | Interaction | | | | | | with other | | | | | | procedure,\ | | | | | | Not supported | | | | | | QCI value,\ | | | | | | Unspecified,\ | | | | | | ..., | | | | | | | | | | | | Un-involved | | | | | | MCE) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Transport | | | | | | > Layer | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | >>Transport | | | (Transport | | | > Layer Cause | | | Resource | | | | | | Unavailable,\ | | | | | | Unspecified,\ | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > > NAS | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >> NAS | M | | ENUMERATED | | | > Cause | | | (Unspecified,\ | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Protocol | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Protocol | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | > Cause | | | (Transfer | | | | | | Syntax Error,\ | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | (Reject),\ | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | (Ignore and | | | | | | Notify),\ | | | | | | Message not | | | | | | Compatible | | | | | | with Receiver | | | | | | State,\ | | | | | | Semantic | | | | | | Error,\ | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | (Falsely | | | | | | Constructed | | | | | | Message),\ | | | | | | Unspecified,\ | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Misc | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >\ | M | | ENUMERATED\ | | | >Miscellaneous | | | (Control | | | > Cause | | | Processing | | | | | | Overload, Not | | | | | | enough User | | | | | | Plane | | | | | | Processing | | | | | | Resources,\ | | | | | | Hardware | | | | | | Failure,\ | | | | | | O&M | | | | | | Intervention,\ | | | | | | Unspecified,\ | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
The meaning of the different cause values is described in the following table.
In general, \"not supported\" cause values indicate that the related
capability is missing. On the other hand, \"not available\" cause values
indicate that the related capability is present, but insufficient resources
were available to perform the requested action.
* * *
Radio Network Layer cause Meaning Unknown or already allocated MCE MBMS M3AP
ID The action failed because the MCE MBMS M3AP ID is either unknown, or (for a
first message received at the MCE) is known and already allocated to an
existing MBMS service related context. Unknown or already allocated MME MBMS
M3AP ID The action failed because the MME MBMS M3AP ID is either unknown, or
(for a first message received at the MCE) is known and already allocated to an
existing context. Unknown or inconsistent pair of MBMS M3AP IDs The action
failed because both MBMS M3AP IDs are unknown, or are known but do not define
a single MBMS context. Radio resources not available No requested radio
resources are available. Invalid QoS combination The action was failed because
of invalid QoS combination. Interaction with other procedure The action is due
to an ongoing interaction with another procedure. Not supported QCI Value The
E-RAB setup failed because the requested QCI is not supported. Unspecified
Sent for radio network layer cause when none of the specified cause values
applies. Un-involved MCE The action failed because the MCE is not part of the
involved MBSFN area when using MBSFN, or of the involved cell when using SC-
PTM.
* * *
* * *
Transport Layer cause Meaning Transport Resource Unavailable The required
transport resources are not available. Unspecified Sent for transport network
layer cause when none of the specified cause values applies.
* * *
* * *
NAS cause Meaning Unspecified Sent for NAS cause when none of the specified
cause values applies.
* * *
* * *
Protocol cause Meaning Transfer Syntax Error The received message included a
transfer syntax error. Abstract Syntax Error (Reject) The received message
included an abstract syntax error and the concerning criticality indicated
\"reject\". Abstract Syntax Error (Ignore And Notify) The received message
included an abstract syntax error and the concerning criticality indicated
\"ignore and notify\". Message Not Compatible With Receiver State The received
message was not compatible with the receiver state. Semantic Error The
received message included a semantic error. Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely
Constructed Message) The received message contained IEs or IE groups in wrong
order or with too many occurrences. Unspecified Sent for protocol cause when
none of the specified cause values applies.
* * *
* * *
Miscellaneous cause Meaning Control Processing Overload Control processing
overload. Not enough User Plane Processing Resources No requested user plane
resources are available. Hardware Failure Action related to hardware failure.
O&M Intervention The action is due to O&M intervention. Unspecified Failure
Sent when none of the above cause values applies and the cause is not related
to any of the categories Radio Network Layer, Transport Network Layer, NAS or
Protocol.
* * *
#### 9.2.1.3 MBMS E-RAB QoS parameters
This IE defines the QoS to be applied to an MBMS E-RAB.
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **MBMS | | | | | | | | E-RAB | | | | | | | | QoS | | | | | | | | Param | | | | | | | | eters** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >QCI | M | | INTEGER | QoS | | | | | | | ( | Class | | | | | | | 0..255) | Ide | | | | | | | | ntifier | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | 23.246 | | | | | | | | [6].\ | | | | | | | | Coding | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | ecified | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | 23.203 | | | | | | | | [7]. | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >GBR | O | | 9.2.1.5 | This IE | | | | > QoS | | | | applies | | | | > Info | | | | to GBR | | | | rmation | | | | bearers | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | ignored | | | | | | | | oth | | | | | | | | erwise. | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >All | M | | 9.2.1.8 | | YES | ignore | | ocation | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | > Re | | | | | | | | tention | | | | | | | | > P | | | | | | | | riority | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
#### 9.2.1.4 Void
#### 9.2.1.5 GBR QoS Information
This IE indicates the maximum and guaranteed bit rates of a GBR bearer for
downlink.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description MBMS
E-RAB Maximum Bit Rate Downlink M Bit Rate 9.2.1.6 **Desc**.: This IE
indicates the maximum downlink MBMS E-RAB Bit Rate (i.e. from the EPC to
E-UTRAN) for this bearer. MBMS E-RAB Guaranteed Bit Rate Downlink M Bit Rate
9.2.1.6 **Desc**.: This IE indicates the downlink guaranteed MBMS E-RAB Bit
Rate (provided that there is data to deliver) from the EPC to the E-UTRAN for
this bearer.
* * *
#### 9.2.1.6 Bit Rate
This IE indicates the number of bits delivered by E-UTRAN in DL within a
period of time, divided by the duration of the period. It is used, for
example, to indicate the maximum or guaranteed bit rate for a GBR bearer, or
an aggregated maximum bit rate.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Bit
Rate INTEGER (0..10,000,000,000) The unit is: bit/s
* * *
#### 9.2.1.7 Criticality Diagnostics
The _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE is sent by the MME or the MCE when parts of a
received message have not been comprehended or were missing, or if the message
contained logical errors. When applicable, it contains information about which
IEs were not comprehended or were missing.
For further details on how to use the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE, (see
section 10).
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Procedure | O | | INTEGER | Procedure | | Code | | | (0..255) | Code is to | | | | | | be used if | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | Diagnostics | | | | | | is part of | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure, | | | | | | and not | | | | | | within the | | | | | | response | | | | | | message of | | | | | | the same | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | that caused | | | | | | the error | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Triggering | O | | ENUMERATED | The | | Message | | | (initiating | Triggering | | | | | message, | Message is | | | | | successful | used only | | | | | outcome, | if the | | | | | u | Criticality | | | | | nsuccessful | Diagnostics | | | | | outcome) | is part of | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Procedure | O | | ENUMERA | This | | Criticality | | | TED(reject, | Procedure | | | | | ignore, | Criticality | | | | | notify) | is used for | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Triggering | | | | | | message | | | | | | ( | | | | | | Procedure). | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | | 0 to | | | | Information | | \ | | | | Criticality | | | | | | Di | | | | | | agnostics** | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >IE | M | | ENUMERA | The IE | | > | | | TED(reject, | Criticality | | Criticality | | | ignore, | is used for | | | | | notify) | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | triggering | | | | | | IE. The | | | | | | value | | | | | | \'ignore\' | | | | | | shall not | | | | | | be used. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >IE ID | M | | INTEGER | The IE ID | | | | | (0..65535) | of the not | | | | | | understood | | | | | | or missing | | | | | | IE | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Type of | M | | ENU | | | > Error | | | MERATED(not | | | | | | understood, | | | | | | missing, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnooferrors Maximum no. of IE errors allowed to be
reported with a single message. The value for maxnooferrors is 256.
* * *
#### 9.2.1.8 Allocation and Retention Priority
This IE specifies the relative importance of an MBMS E-RAB compared to other
MBMS E-RABs for allocation and retention of the MBMS E-RAB.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | **Alloca | | | | | | tion/Retention | | | | | | Priority** | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Priority | M | | INTEGER | **Desc.:** | | > Level | | | (0..15) | This IE should | | | | | | be understood | | | | | | as the | | | | | | "priority of | | | | | | allocation and | | | | | | retention" | | | | | | (see TS 23.246 | | | | | | [6]). | | | | | | | | | | | | **Usage:** | | | | | | | | | | | | Value 15 means | | | | | | "no priority". | | | | | | | | | | | | Values between | | | | | | 1 and 14 are | | | | | | ordered in | | | | | | decreasing | | | | | | order of | | | | | | priority, i.e. | | | | | | 1 is the | | | | | | highest and 14 | | | | | | the lowest. | | | | | | | | | | | | Value 0 shall | | | | | | be treated as | | | | | | a logical | | | | | | error if | | | | | | received. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > | M | | EN | This IE | | >Pre-emption | | | UMERATED(shall | indicates the | | > Capability | | | not trigger | pre-emption | | | | | pre-emption, | capability of | | | | | may trigger | the request on | | | | | pre-emption) | other MBMS | | | | | | E-RABs | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > | M | | ENUMERATED(not | This IE | | >Pre-emption | | | pre-emptable, | indicates the | | > | | | pre-emptable) | vulnerability | | Vulnerability | | | | of the MBMS | | | | | | E-RAB to | | | | | | preemption of | | | | | | other MBMS | | | | | | E-RABs. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
#### 9.2.1.9 Time to Wait
This IE defines the minimum allowed waiting time.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Time
to Wait M ENUMERATED(1s, 2s, 5s, 10s, 20s, 60s, ...)
* * *
#### 9.2.1.10 Global MCE ID
This IE is used to globally identify an MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description PLMN
Identity M 9.2.3.7  
MCE ID M OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))  
MCE ID Extension O OCTET STRING (SIZE(1)) Extension of the Global MCE ID.
* * *
#### 9.2.1.11 MBMS Cell List
This IE consists of a list of cell identities.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MBMS Cell | | _1 .. \ _ | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Cell ID | M | | E-UTRAN CGI | Global ID | | | | | | of the | | | | | 9.2.1.12 | cell. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofCellsforMBMS Maximum no. of cells for the MBMS
service. The value for maxnoofCellsforMBMS is 4096.
* * *
#### 9.2.1.12 E-UTRAN CGI
This information element is used to globally identify a cell (see TS 36.401
[2]).
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description PLMN
Identity M 9.2.3.7  
Cell Identity M BIT STRING (28) The 20 leftmost bits of the Cell Identity
correspond to the eNB ID (_Global eNB ID_ IE defined in section 9.2.1.10).
* * *
### 9.2.2 Transport Network Layer Related IEs
#### 9.2.2.1 IP Address
This information element is an IP address to be used for the user plane
transport.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Transport | M | | OCTET STRING | The Radio | | Layer Address | | | (SIZE(4..16)) | Network Layer | | | | | | is not | | | | | | supposed to | | | | | | interpret the | | | | | | address | | | | | | information. | | | | | | It should pass | | | | | | it to the | | | | | | transport | | | | | | layer for | | | | | | i | | | | | | nterpretation. | | | | | | | | | | | | For details on | | | | | | the Transport | | | | | | Layer Address, | | | | | | see ref. TS | | | | | | 36.445 [9]. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
#### 9.2.2.2 GTP-TEID
This information element is the GTP Tunnel Endpoint Identifier to be used for
the user plane transport between eNB and the MBMS-GW.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description GTP
TEID M OCTET STRING (SIZE(4)) For details and range, see TS 29.281 [12]
* * *
### 9.2.3 NAS Related IEs
#### 9.2.3.1 MCE MBMS M3AP ID
The MCE MBMS M3AP ID uniquely identifies the MBMS Service association over the
M3 interface within the MCE.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description MCE
MBMS M3AP ID M INTEGER (0 .. 65535)
* * *
#### 9.2.3.2 MME MBMS M3AP ID
The MME MBMS M3AP ID uniquely identifies the MBMS Service association over the
M3 interface within the MME.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description MME
MBMS M3AP ID M INTEGER (0 .. 65535)
* * *
#### 9.2.3.3 TMGI
The TMGI uniquely identifies the MBMS Bearer Service.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | **TMGI** | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >PLMN | M | | 9.2.3.7 | | | > identity | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Service ID | M | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | (SIZE (3)) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
#### 9.2.3.4 MBMS Session Identity
The MBMS Session Identity identifies the session of a MBMS Bearer Service in
E-UTRAN and is used by the UE to recognise repetitions of a session.
This IE is transparent to RAN.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description MBMS
Session Identity M OCTET STRING (SIZE (1)) Coded same way as the MBMS Session
Identity IE as defined in TS 29.061 [8].
* * *
#### 9.2.3.5 MBMS Session Duration
This IE defines the duration of the MBMS Session.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description MBMS
Session Duration M OCTET STRING (SIZE (3)) Coded as the value part of MBMS-
Session-Duration AVP as defined in TS 29.061 [8].
* * *
#### 9.2.3.6 MBMS Service Area
The MBMS Service Area IE consists of a list of one or several MBMS Service
Area Identities where each MBMS Service Area Identity is frequency agnostic
and can be mapped onto one or more cells.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description MBMS
Service Area M OCTET STRING Value part coded per MBMS Service Area AVP as
defined in TS 29.061 [8].
* * *
#### 9.2.3.7 PLMN Identity
This information element indicates the PLMN Identity.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
PLMN _identity_ M OCTET STRING (SIZE (3)) - digits 0 to 9, encoded 0000 to
1001,\ \- 1111 used as filler digit,\ two digits per octet,\ \- bits 4 to 1 of
octet n encoding digit 2n-1\ \- bits 8 to 5 of octet n encoding digit 2n\ \
-The Selected PLMN identity consists of 3 digits from MCC followed by either\
-a filler digit plus 2 digits from MNC (in case of 2 digit MNC) or\ -3 digits
from MNC (in case of a 3 digit MNC).
* * *
#### 9.2.3.8 Minimum Time to MBMS Data Transfer
This IE denotes the minimum time occurring between the transmission of the
MBMS SESSION START REQUEST message to the MCE and the actual start of the data
transfer. The coding of this element is described in TS 48.018 [10].
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Minimum Time to MBMS Data Transfer M OCTET STRING (SIZE (1)) Coded as the
value part of _Time to MBMS Data Transfer_ IE defined in TS 48.018 [10].
* * *
#### 9.2.3.9 Absolute Time of MBMS Data
This IE denotes the absolute time of the actual start or stop of the MBMS data
transfer.
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Absolute Time of MBMS Data M BIT STRING (SIZE(64)) Time in seconds relative to
00:00:00 on 1 January 1900 (calculated as continuous time without leap seconds
and traceable to a common time reference) where binary encoding of the integer
part is in the first 32 bits and binary encoding of the fraction part in the
last 32 bits. The fraction part is expressed with a granularity of 1 /2**32
second.
* * *
#### 9.2.3.10 Re-establishment
This IE allows identification of the serving MME during some restoration
scenarios. Restoration functions are specified in TS 23.007 [14].
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description Re-
establishment M ENUMERATED(true, ...)
* * *
## 9.3 Message and Information Element Abstract Syntax (with ASN.1)
### 9.3.1 General
M3AP ASN.1 definition conforms with ITU-T Rec. X.691 [4] and ITU-T Rec. X.680
[5].
Sub clause 9.3 presents the Abstract Syntax of the M3AP protocol with ASN.1.
In case there is contradiction between the ASN.1 definition in this sub clause
and the tabular format in sub clause 9.1 and 9.2, the ASN.1 shall take
precedence, except for the definition of conditions for the presence of
conditional elements, in which the tabular format shall take precedence.
The ASN.1 definition specifies the structure and content of M3AP messages.
M3AP messages can contain any IEs specified in the object set definitions for
that message without the order or number of occurrence being restricted by
ASN.1. However, for this version of the standard, a sending entity shall
construct a M3AP message according to the PDU definitions module and with the
following additional rules (Note that in the following IE means an IE in the
object set with an explicit id. If one IE needed to appear more than once in
one object set, then the different occurrences have different IE ids):
\- IEs shall be ordered (in an IE container) in the order they appear in
object set definitions.
\- Object set definitions specify how many times IEs may appear. An IE shall
appear exactly once if the presence field in an object has value
\"mandatory\". An IE may appear at most once if the presence field in an
object has value \"optional\" or \"conditional\". If in a tabular format there
is multiplicity specified for an IE (i.e. an IE list) then in the
corresponding ASN.1 definition the list definition is separated into two
parts. The first part defines an IE container list in which the list elements
reside. The second part defines list elements. The IE container list appears
as an IE of its own. For this version of the standard an IE container list may
contain only one kind of list elements.
If a M3AP message that is not constructed as defined above is received, this
shall be considered as Abstract Syntax Error, and the message shall be handled
as defined for Abstract Syntax Error in clause 10.
### 9.3.2 Usage of Private Message Mechanism for Non-standard Use
The private message mechanism for non-standard use may be used:
\- for special operator (and/or vendor) specific features considered not to be
part of the basic functionality, i.e. the functionality required for a
complete and high-quality specification in order to guarantee multivendor
inter-operability.
\- by vendors for research purposes, e.g. to implement and evaluate new
algorithms/features before such features are proposed for standardisation.
The private message mechanism shall not be used for basic functionality. Such
functionality shall be standardised.
### 9.3.3 Elementary Procedure Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedure definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-PDU-Descriptions {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) m3ap (5) version1 (1) m3ap-PDU-Descriptions (0) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Criticality,
ProcedureCode
FROM M3AP-CommonDataTypes
MBMSSessionStartRequest,
MBMSSessionStartResponse,
MBMSSessionStartFailure,
MBMSSessionStopRequest,
MBMSSessionStopResponse,
MBMSSessionUpdateRequest,
MBMSSessionUpdateResponse,
MBMSSessionUpdateFailure,
MCEConfigurationUpdate,
MCEConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge,
MCEConfigurationUpdateFailure,
M3SetupRequest,
M3SetupResponse,
M3SetupFailure,
ErrorIndication,
Reset,
ResetAcknowledge,
PrivateMessage
FROM M3AP-PDU-Contents
id-mBMSsessionStart,
id-mBMSsessionStop,
id-mBMSsessionUpdate,
id-mCEConfigurationUpdate,
id-m3Setup,
id-errorIndication,
id-Reset,
id-privateMessage
FROM M3AP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure Class
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= CLASS {
&InitiatingMessage ,
&SuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&UnsuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&procedureCode ProcedureCode UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore
}
WITH SYNTAX {
INITIATING MESSAGE &InitiatingMessage
[SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &SuccessfulOutcome]
[UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &UnsuccessfulOutcome]
PROCEDURE CODE &procedureCode
[CRITICALITY &criticality]
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface PDU Definition
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-PDU ::= CHOICE {
initiatingMessage InitiatingMessage,
successfulOutcome SuccessfulOutcome,
unsuccessfulOutcome UnsuccessfulOutcome,
...
}
InitiatingMessage ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({M3AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({M3AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&InitiatingMessage ({M3AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
SuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({M3AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({M3AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&SuccessfulOutcome ({M3AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
UnsuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({M3AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({M3AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&UnsuccessfulOutcome ({M3AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure List
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 \|
M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 ,
...
}
M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
mBMSsessionStart \|
mBMSsessionStop \|
mBMSsessionUpdate \|
reset \|
m3Setup \|
mCEConfigurationUpdate ,
...
}
M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
errorIndication \|
privateMessage ,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedures
\--
\-- **************************************************************
mBMSsessionStart M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE MBMSSessionStartRequest
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME MBMSSessionStartResponse
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME MBMSSessionStartFailure
PROCEDURE CODE id-mBMSsessionStart
CRITICALITY reject
}
mBMSsessionStop M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE MBMSSessionStopRequest
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME MBMSSessionStopResponse
PROCEDURE CODE id-mBMSsessionStop
CRITICALITY reject
}
mBMSsessionUpdate M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE MBMSSessionUpdateRequest
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME MBMSSessionUpdateResponse
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME MBMSSessionUpdateFailure
PROCEDURE CODE id-mBMSsessionUpdate
CRITICALITY reject
}
errorIndication M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE ErrorIndication
PROCEDURE CODE id-errorIndication
CRITICALITY ignore
}
reset M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Reset
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME ResetAcknowledge
PROCEDURE CODE id-Reset
CRITICALITY reject
}
privateMessage M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE PrivateMessage
PROCEDURE CODE id-privateMessage
CRITICALITY ignore
}
mCEConfigurationUpdate M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE MCEConfigurationUpdate
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME MCEConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME MCEConfigurationUpdateFailure
PROCEDURE CODE id-mCEConfigurationUpdate
CRITICALITY reject
}
m3Setup M3AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE M3SetupRequest
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME M3SetupResponse
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME M3SetupFailure
PROCEDURE CODE id-m3Setup
CRITICALITY reject
}
END
### 9.3.4 PDU Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- PDU definitions for M3AP.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-PDU-Contents {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) m3ap (5) version1 (1) m3ap-PDU-Contents (1) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Absolute-Time-ofMBMS-Data,
Cause,
CriticalityDiagnostics,
Global-MCE-ID,
MBMS-E-RAB-QoS-Parameters,
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItem,_
MBMS-Service-Area,
MBMSServiceArea1,
MBMS-Session-Duration,
MBMS-Session-ID,
MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID,
MCEname,
MinimumTimeToMBMSDataTransfer,
MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID,
TimeToWait,
TMGI,
TNL-Information,
Reestablishment,
MBMS-Cell-List
FROM M3AP-IEs
PrivateIE-Container{},
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
ProtocolIE-Container{},
ProtocolIE-ContainerList{},
ProtocolIE-ContainerPair{},
ProtocolIE-ContainerPairList{},
ProtocolIE-Single-Container{},
M3AP-PRIVATE-IES,
M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION,
M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES,
M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR
FROM M3AP-Containers
id-AllocationAndRetentionPriority,
id-MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID,
id-MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID,
id-TMGI,
id-MBMS-Session-ID,
id-MBMS-E-RAB-QoS-Parameters,
id-MBMS-Session-Duration,
id-MBMS-Service-Area,
id-TNL-Information,
id-Alternative-TNL-Information,
id-CriticalityDiagnostics,
id-Cause,
id-MBMS-Service-Area-List,
id-MBMS-Service-Area-List-Item,
id-TimeToWait,
id-ResetType,
id-MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItem,
id-MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionListResAck,
id-MBMSServiceAreaList,
id-MinimumTimeToMBMSDataTransfer,
id-Time-ofMBMS-DataStop,
id-Time-ofMBMS-DataTransfer,
id-Global-MCE-ID,
id-MCEname,
id-Reestablishment,
id-MBMS-Cell-List,
maxnoofMBMSServiceAreaIdentitiesPerMCE,
maxnooferrors,
maxNrOfIndividualM3ConnectionsToReset
FROM M3AP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SESSION START REQUEST
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MBMSSessionStartRequest ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{MBMSSessionStartRequest-IEs}},
...
}
MBMSSessionStartRequest-IEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory}\|
{ ID id-TMGI CRITICALITY reject TYPE TMGI PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-MBMS-Session-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MBMS-Session-ID PRESENCE
optional}\|
{ ID id-MBMS-E-RAB-QoS-Parameters CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMS-E-RAB-QoS-
Parameters PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-MBMS-Session-Duration CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMS-Session-Duration
PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-MBMS-Service-Area CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMS-Service-Area PRESENCE
mandatory}\|
{ ID id-MinimumTimeToMBMSDataTransfer CRITICALITY reject TYPE
MinimumTimeToMBMSDataTransfer PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-TNL-Information CRITICALITY reject TYPE TNL-Information PRESENCE
mandatory}\|
{ ID id-Time-ofMBMS-DataTransfer CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Absolute-Time-ofMBMS-
Data PRESENCE optional}\|
{ ID id-Reestablishment CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Reestablishment PRESENCE
optional}\|
{ ID id-Alternative-TNL-Information CRITICALITY ignore TYPE TNL-Information
PRESENCE optional}\|
{ ID id-MBMS-Cell-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMS-Cell-List PRESENCE
optional},
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SESSION START RESPONSE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MBMSSessionStartResponse ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ MBMSSessionStartResponse-IEs}},
...
}
MBMSSessionStartResponse-IEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SESSION START FAILURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MBMSSessionStartFailure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ MBMSSessionStartFailure-IEs}},
...
}
MBMSSessionStartFailure-IEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SESSION STOP REQUEST
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MBMSSessionStopRequest ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{MBMSSessionStopRequest-IEs}},
...
}
MBMSSessionStopRequest-IEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory}\|
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory}\|
{ ID id-Time-ofMBMS-DataStop CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Absolute-Time-ofMBMS-Data
PRESENCE optional},
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SESSION STOP RESPONSE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MBMSSessionStopResponse ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ MBMSSessionStopResponse-IEs}},
...
}
MBMSSessionStopResponse-IEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional } ,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SESSION UPDATE REQUEST
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MBMSSessionUpdateRequest ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{MBMSSessionUpdateRequest-IEs}},
...
}
MBMSSessionUpdateRequest-IEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory}\|
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory}\|
{ ID id-TMGI CRITICALITY reject TYPE TMGI PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-MBMS-Session-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MBMS-Session-ID PRESENCE
optional}\|
{ ID id-MBMS-E-RAB-QoS-Parameters CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMS-E-RAB-QoS-
Parameters PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-MBMS-Session-Duration CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMS-Session-Duration
PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-MBMS-Service-Area CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MBMS-Service-Area PRESENCE
optional}\|
{ ID id-MinimumTimeToMBMSDataTransfer CRITICALITY reject TYPE
MinimumTimeToMBMSDataTransfer PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-TNL-Information CRITICALITY ignore TYPE TNL-Information PRESENCE
optional}\|
{ ID id-Time-ofMBMS-DataTransfer CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Absolute-Time-ofMBMS-
Data PRESENCE optional}\|
{ ID id-MBMS-Cell-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMS-Cell-List PRESENCE
optional},
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SESSION UPDATE RESPONSE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MBMSSessionUpdateResponse ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ MBMSSessionUpdateResponse-IEs}},
...
}
MBMSSessionUpdateResponse-IEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MBMS SESSION UPDATE FAILURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MBMSSessionUpdateFailure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ MBMSSessionUpdateFailure-IEs}},
...
}
MBMSSessionUpdateFailure-IEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- ERROR INDICATION
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ErrorIndication ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ErrorIndication-IEs}},
...
}
ErrorIndication-IEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional } ,
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Reset
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Reset ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {ResetIEs} },
...
}
ResetIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory }\|
{ ID id-_ResetType_ CRITICALITY reject TYPE _ResetType_ PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
ResetType ::= CHOICE {
m3-Interface ResetAll,
partOfM3-Interface _MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionListRes_ ,
...
}
ResetAll ::= ENUMERATED {
reset-all,
...
}
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionListRes_ ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..
maxNrOfIndividualM3ConnectionsToReset)) OF ProtocolIE-Single-Container { {
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItemRes_ } }
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItemRes_ M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItem_ CRITICALITY reject
TYPE _MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItem_ PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Reset Acknowledge
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ResetAcknowledge ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {ResetAcknowledgeIEs} },
...
}
ResetAcknowledgeIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionListResAck_ CRITICALITY
ignore TYPE _MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionListResAck_ PRESENCE
optional }\|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionListResAck_ ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..
maxNrOfIndividualM3ConnectionsToReset)) OF ProtocolIE-Single-Container { {
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItemResAck_ } }
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItemResAck_ M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::=
{
{ ID id-_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItem_ CRITICALITY ignore
TYPE _MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItem_ PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- PRIVATE MESSAGE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
PrivateMessage ::= SEQUENCE {
privateIEs PrivateIE-Container {{PrivateMessage-IEs}},
...
}
PrivateMessage-IEs M3AP-PRIVATE-IES ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- M3 SETUP ELEMENTARY PROCEDURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- M3 Setup Request
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3SetupRequest ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {M3SetupRequestIEs} },
...
}
M3SetupRequestIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Global-MCE-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Global-MCE-ID PRESENCE
mandatory}\|
{ ID id-MCEname CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCEname PRESENCE optional}\|
{ ID id-MBMSServiceAreaList CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMSServiceAreaListItem
PRESENCE mandatory},
...
}
MBMSServiceAreaListItem ::= SEQUENCE
(SIZE(1..maxnoofMBMSServiceAreaIdentitiesPerMCE)) OF MBMSServiceArea1
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- M3 Setup Response
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3SetupResponse ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {M3SetupResponseIEs} },
...
}
M3SetupResponseIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional},
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- M3 Setup Failure
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3SetupFailure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {M3SetupFailureIEs} },
...
}
M3SetupFailureIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-TimeToWait CRITICALITY ignore TYPE TimeToWait PRESENCE optional}\|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional},
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MCE CONFIGURATION UPDATE ELEMENTARY PROCEDURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MCE Configuration Update
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MCEConfigurationUpdate ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {MCEConfigurationUpdateIEs} },
...
}
MCEConfigurationUpdateIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Global-MCE-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Global-MCE-ID PRESENCE
optional}\|
{ ID id-MCEname CRITICALITY ignore TYPE MCEname PRESENCE optional}\|
{ ID id-MBMSServiceAreaList CRITICALITY reject TYPE MBMSServiceAreaListItem
PRESENCE optional},
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MCE Configuration Update Acknowledge
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MCEConfigurationUpdateAcknowledge ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {MCEConfigurationUpdateAcknowledgeIEs} },
...
}
MCEConfigurationUpdateAcknowledgeIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- MCE Configuration Update Failure
\--
\-- **************************************************************
MCEConfigurationUpdateFailure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {MCEConfigurationUpdateFailureIEs} },
...
}
MCEConfigurationUpdateFailureIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory}\|
{ ID id-TimeToWait CRITICALITY ignore TYPE TimeToWait PRESENCE optional}\|
{ ID id-CriticalityDiagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE CriticalityDiagnostics
PRESENCE optional},
...
}
END
### 9.3.5 Information Element definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Information Element Definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-IEs {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) m3ap (5) version1 (1) m3ap-IEs (2) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
id-AllocationAndRetentionPriority,
maxnooferrors,
maxnoofCellsforMBMS
FROM M3AP-Constants
Criticality,
ProcedureCode,
ProtocolIE-ID,
TriggeringMessage
FROM M3AP-CommonDataTypes
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
ProtocolIE-Single-Container{},
M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION,
M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES
FROM M3AP-Containers;
\-- A
Absolute-Time-ofMBMS-Data ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (64))
AllocationAndRetentionPriority ::= SEQUENCE {
priorityLevel PriorityLevel,
pre-emptionCapability Pre-emptionCapability,
pre-emptionVulnerability Pre-emptionVulnerability,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {AllocationAndRetentionPriority-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL
}
AllocationAndRetentionPriority-ExtIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- B
BitRate ::= INTEGER (0..10000000000)
\-- C
Cause ::= CHOICE {
radioNetwork CauseRadioNetwork,
transport CauseTransport,
nAS CauseNAS,
protocol CauseProtocol,
misc CauseMisc,
...
}
CauseMisc ::= ENUMERATED {
control-processing-overload,
not-enough-user-plane-processing-resources,
hardware-failure,
om-intervention,
unspecified,
...
}
CauseNAS ::= ENUMERATED {
unspecified,
...
}
CauseProtocol ::= ENUMERATED {
transfer-syntax-error,
abstract-syntax-error-reject,
abstract-syntax-error-ignore-and-notify,
message-not-compatible-with-receiver-state,
semantic-error,
abstract-syntax-error-falsely-constructed-message,
unspecified,
...
}
CauseRadioNetwork ::= ENUMERATED {
unknown-or-already-allocated-MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID,
unknown-or-already-allocated-MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID,
unknown-or-inconsistent-pair-of-MBMS-M3AP-IDs,
radio-resources-not-available,
invalid-QoS-combination,
interaction-with-other-procedure,
not-supported-QCI-value,
unspecified,
...,
uninvolved-MCE
}
CauseTransport ::= ENUMERATED {
transport-resource-unavailable,
unspecified,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode ProcedureCode OPTIONAL,
triggeringMessage TriggeringMessage OPTIONAL,
procedureCriticality Criticality OPTIONAL,
iEsCriticalityDiagnostics CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnooferrors)) OF
SEQUENCE {
iECriticality Criticality,
iE-ID ProtocolIE-ID,
typeOfError TypeOfError,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List-ExtIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- D
\-- E
ECGI ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMN-Identity PLMN-Identity,
eUTRANcellIdentifier EUTRANCellIdentifier,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {ECGI-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
ECGI-ExtIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
EUTRANCellIdentifier ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (28))
ExtendedMCE-ID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))
\-- F
\-- G
Global-MCE-ID ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMN-Identity PLMN-Identity,
mCE-ID MCE-ID,
extendedMCE-ID ExtendedMCE-ID OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {GlobalMCE-ID-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
GlobalMCE-ID-ExtIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
GBR-QosInformation ::= SEQUENCE {
mBMS-E-RAB-MaximumBitrateDL BitRate,
mBMS-E-RAB-GuaranteedBitrateDL BitRate,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { GBR-QosInformation-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
GBR-QosInformation-ExtIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
GTP-TEID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))
\-- H
\-- I
IPAddress ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4..16, ...))
\-- J
\-- K
\-- L
\-- M
MBMS-Cell-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofCellsforMBMS)) OF ECGI
MBMS-E-RAB-QoS-Parameters ::= SEQUENCE {
qCI QCI,
gbrQosInformation GBR-QosInformation OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { MBMS-E-RAB-QoS-Parameters-ExtIEs}
} OPTIONAL,
...
}
MBMS-E-RAB-QoS-Parameters-ExtIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
\-- Extension for Release 10 ARP support --
{ID id-AllocationAndRetentionPriority CRITICALITY ignore EXTENSION
AllocationAndRetentionPriority PRESENCE mandatory},
...
}
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItem_ ::= SEQUENCE {
mME-MBMS-M3AP-ID MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID OPTIONAL,
mCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { { _MBMS-Service-
associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItem_ ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
_MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItem_ ExtIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-
EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
MBMSServiceArea1 ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))
MBMS-Service-Area ::= OCTET STRING
MBMS-Session-Duration ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))
MBMS-Session-ID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
MCE-ID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))
MCEname ::= PrintableString (SIZE (1..150,...))
MinimumTimeToMBMSDataTransfer ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
\-- N
\-- O
\-- P
Pre-emptionCapability ::= ENUMERATED {
shall-not-trigger-pre-emption,
may-trigger-pre-emption
}
Pre-emptionVulnerability ::= ENUMERATED {
not-pre-emptable,
pre-emptable
}
PriorityLevel ::= INTEGER { spare (0), highest (1), lowest (14), no-priority
(15) } (0..15)
PLMN-Identity ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))
\-- Q
QCI ::= INTEGER (0..255)
\-- R
Reestablishment ::= ENUMERATED {true, ...}
\-- S
\-- T
TimeToWait ::= ENUMERATED {v1s, v2s, v5s, v10s, v20s, v60s, ...}
TMGI ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMNidentity PLMN-Identity,
serviceID OCTET STRING (SIZE (3)),
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {TMGI-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL
}
TMGI-ExtIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
TNL-Information ::= SEQUENCE {
iPMCAddress IPAddress,
iPSourceAddress IPAddress,
gTP-DLTEID GTP-TEID,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {TNL-Information-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
TNL-Information-ExtIEs M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
TypeOfError ::= ENUMERATED {
not-understood,
missing,
...
}
\-- U
\-- V
\-- W
\-- X
\-- Y
\-- Z
END
### 9.3.6 Common definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Common definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-CommonDataTypes {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) m3ap (5) version1 (1) m3ap-CommonDataTypes (3) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Extension constants
\--
\-- **************************************************************
maxPrivateIEs INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolExtensions INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolIEs INTEGER ::= 65535
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Common Data Types
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Criticality ::= ENUMERATED { reject, ignore, notify }
Presence ::= ENUMERATED { optional, conditional, mandatory }
PrivateIE-ID ::= CHOICE {
local INTEGER (0.. maxPrivateIEs),
global OBJECT IDENTIFIER
}
ProcedureCode ::= INTEGER (0..255)
ProtocolIE-ID ::= INTEGER (0..maxProtocolIEs)
TriggeringMessage ::= ENUMERATED { initiating-message, successful-outcome,
unsuccessful-outcome}
END
### 9.3.7 Constant definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Constant definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-Constants {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) m3ap (5) version1 (1) m3ap-Constants (4) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
ProcedureCode,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM M3AP-CommonDataTypes;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedures
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-mBMSsessionStart ProcedureCode ::= 0
id-mBMSsessionStop ProcedureCode ::= 1
id-errorIndication ProcedureCode ::= 2
id-privateMessage ProcedureCode ::= 3
id-Reset ProcedureCode ::= 4
id-mBMSsessionUpdate ProcedureCode ::= 5
id-mCEConfigurationUpdate ProcedureCode ::= 6
id-m3Setup ProcedureCode ::= 7
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Lists
\--
\-- **************************************************************
maxnoofMBMSServiceAreaIdentitiesPerMCE INTEGER ::= 65536
maxnooferrors INTEGER ::= 256
maxNrOfIndividualM3ConnectionsToReset INTEGER ::= 256
maxnoofCellsforMBMS INTEGER ::= 4096
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-MME-MBMS-M3AP-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 0
id-MCE-MBMS-M3AP-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 1
id-TMGI ProtocolIE-ID ::= 2
id-MBMS-Session-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 3
id-MBMS-E-RAB-QoS-Parameters ProtocolIE-ID ::= 4
id-MBMS-Session-Duration ProtocolIE-ID ::= 5
id-MBMS-Service-Area ProtocolIE-ID ::= 6
id-TNL-Information ProtocolIE-ID ::= 7
id-CriticalityDiagnostics ProtocolIE-ID ::= 8
id-Cause ProtocolIE-ID ::= 9
id-MBMS-Service-Area-List ProtocolIE-ID ::= 10
id-MBMS-Service-Area-List-Item ProtocolIE-ID ::= 11
id-TimeToWait ProtocolIE-ID ::= 12
id-ResetType ProtocolIE-ID ::= 13
id-MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionItem ProtocolIE-ID ::= 14
id-MBMS-Service-associatedLogicalM3-ConnectionListResAck ProtocolIE-ID ::= 15
id-MinimumTimeToMBMSDataTransfer ProtocolIE-ID ::= 16
id-AllocationAndRetentionPriority ProtocolIE-ID ::= 17
id-Global-MCE-ID ProtocolIE-ID ::= 18
id-MCEname ProtocolIE-ID ::= 19
id-MBMSServiceAreaList ProtocolIE-ID ::= 20
id-Time-ofMBMS-DataTransfer ProtocolIE-ID ::= 21
id-Time-ofMBMS-DataStop ProtocolIE-ID ::= 22
id-Reestablishment ProtocolIE-ID ::= 23
id-Alternative-TNL-Information ProtocolIE-ID ::= 24
id-MBMS-Cell-List ProtocolIE-ID ::= 25
END
### 9.3.8 Container definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-Containers {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) m3ap (5) version1 (1) m3ap-Containers (5) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
maxPrivateIEs,
maxProtocolExtensions,
maxProtocolIEs,
Criticality,
Presence,
PrivateIE-ID,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM M3AP-CommonDataTypes;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality,
&Value,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
TYPE &Value
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&firstCriticality Criticality,
&FirstValue,
&secondCriticality Criticality,
&SecondValue,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
FIRST CRITICALITY &firstCriticality
FIRST TYPE &FirstValue
SECOND CRITICALITY &secondCriticality
SECOND TYPE &SecondValue
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality,
&Extension,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
EXTENSION &Extension
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Private IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
M3AP-PRIVATE-IES ::= CLASS {
&id PrivateIE-ID,
&criticality Criticality,
&Value,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
TYPE &Value
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-Container {M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxProtocolIEs)) OF
ProtocolIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-Single-Container {M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
ProtocolIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-Field {M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
criticality M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES.&criticality ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
value M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES.&Value ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol IE Pairs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-ContainerPair {M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxProtocolIEs)) OF
ProtocolIE-FieldPair {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-FieldPair {M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
firstCriticality M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&firstCriticality
({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
firstValue M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&FirstValue ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
secondCriticality M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&secondCriticality
({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
secondValue M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR.&SecondValue ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container Lists for Protocol IE Containers
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-ContainerList {INTEGER : lowerBound, INTEGER : upperBound, M3AP-
PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (lowerBound..upperBound)) OF
ProtocolIE-Container {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-ContainerPairList {INTEGER : lowerBound, INTEGER : upperBound,
M3AP-PROTOCOL-IES-PAIR : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (lowerBound..upperBound)) OF
ProtocolIE-ContainerPair {{IEsSetParam}}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolExtensionContainer {M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxProtocolExtensions)) OF
ProtocolExtensionField {{ExtensionSetParam}}
ProtocolExtensionField {M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE {
id M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&id ({ExtensionSetParam}),
criticality M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&criticality ({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id}),
extensionValue M3AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&Extension ({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Private IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
PrivateIE-Container {M3AP-PRIVATE-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPrivateIEs)) OF
PrivateIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
PrivateIE-Field {M3AP-PRIVATE-IES : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id M3AP-PRIVATE-IES.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
criticality M3AP-PRIVATE-IES.&criticality ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
value M3AP-PRIVATE-IES.&Value ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
END
## 9.4 Message Transfer Syntax
M3AP shall use the ASN.1 Basic Packed Encoding Rules (BASIC-PER) Aligned
Variant as transfer syntax as specified in ref. ITU-T Rec. X.691 [4].
## 9.5 Timers
# 10 Handling of Unknown, Unforeseen and Erroneous Protocol Data
Section 10 of TS 36.413 [11] is applicable for the purposes of the present
document.
#