# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for user data transport protocols
and related signalling protocols to establish user plane transport bearers
over the Xw interface for LTE/WLAN Aggregation (LWA).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.465: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN) and Wireless LAN (WLAN); Xw interface user plane protocol".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**LTE-WLAN Aggregation** : Defined in TS 36.300 [2].
**LWA bearer** : Defined in TS 36.300 [2].
**Xw** : logical interface between eNB and WT.
**WLAN Termination** : Defined in TS 36.300 [2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
eNB E-UTRAN Node
LWA LTE-WLAN Aggregation
WT WLAN Termination
# 4 Data link layer
Any data link protocol that fulfils the requirements toward the upper layer
may be used.
# 5 Xw interface user plane protocol
## 5.1 General
The transport layer for data streams over Xw is an IP based Transport. The
following figure shows the transport protocol stacks over Xw.
Figure 5.1: Transport network layer for data streams over Xw
The GTP-U (TS 29.281 [2]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be supported as the
transport for data streams on the Xw interface. The data link layer is as
specified in clause 4.
There is one UL data stream (if flow control is supported) and one DL data
stream per E-RAB at the Xw interface.
\- The DL data stream is used for DL user data forwarding from the eNB to the
WT.
\- The UL data stream is used for carrying the UL flow control feedback from
the WT to the eNB.
Each data stream is carried on a dedicated transport bearer.
The identity of a transport bearer signalled in the RNL control plane consists
of the IP address and the TEID of the corresponding GTP tunnel, allocated by
the target node (see TS 29.281 [2]).
## 5.2 GTP-U
The GTP-U (TS 29.281 [2]) protocol shall be used over the Xw interface between
eNB and WT.
## 5.3 UDP/IP
The path protocol used shall be UDP (IETF RFC 768 [3]).
The UDP port number for GTP-U shall be as defined in TS 29.281 [2].
The eNB and the WT over the Xw interface shall support fragmentation and
assembly of GTP packets at the IP layer.
The eNB and the WT shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 [5]) and/or Ipv4 (IETF
RFC 791 [6]).
There may be one or several IP addresses in both the eNB and the WT. The
packet processing function in the source eNB shall send downstream packets
corresponding toa given **E-RAB** to the target WT IP address (received in
XwAP) associated to the DL transport bearer of that particular **E-RAB**. The
packet processing function in the source WT shall send upstream packets
corresponding to a given E-RAB to the target eNB IP address (received in XwAP)
associated to the UL transport bearer of that particular E-RAB.
The Transport Layer Address signalled in XwAP messages is a bit string of
either
a) 32 bits in case of Ipv4 address according to IETF RFC 791 [6]; or
b) 128 bits in case of Ipv6 address according to IETF RFC 2460 [5].
## 5.4 Diffserv code point marking
IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 [4]) shall be
supported. The mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points
shall be configurable by O&M for based on QoS Class Identifier (QCI)/ Label
Characteristics and others E-UTRAN traffic parameters. Traffic categories are
implementation-specific and may be determined from the application parameters.
## 5.5 LTE-WLAN Aggregation
For the LWA bearer option
\- the GTP-U (TS 29.281 [2]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be supported as
the transport for the downlink user data stream of LWA PDUs and the uplink
flow control feedback stream on the Xw interface. The GTP-U PDU includes a Xw
RAN Container with flow control information as specified in TS 36.465 [3]
which is carried in the GTP-U extension header. The transport bearer is
identified by the GTP-U TEID (TS 29.281 [2]) and the IP address of the eNB and
WT respectively. There is one UL data stream (if flow control is supported)
and there is one DL data stream per E-RAB at the Xw interface:
\- The DL data stream is used for DL user data transmission from the eNB to
the WT.
\- The UL data stream is used for UL flow control feedback transmission from
the WT to the eNB.
\- the packet processing function in the eNB shall send downstream packets
corresponding to a given E-RAB to the WT IP address (received in XwAP)
associated to the DL transport bearer of that particular E-RAB. The packet
processing function in the WT shall send upstream packets corresponding to a
given E-RAB to the eNB IP address (received in XwAP) associated to the UL
transport bearer of that particular E-RAB.
\- in addition, user data forwarding (from WT to eNB ) may be performed by eNB
providing another GTP-U TEID to receive the DL data forwarded by the WT.
#