# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The definition of the Conformance Tests for UE in E-UTRAN will be a complex
task as the complete test suite covers RF, EMC and Protocol aspects of the UE.
Each test requires a Test Environment to be defined in which the UE has to
operate to defined standards, constraints and performance. The overall task
can be simplified if there are a number of well defined and agreed Common Test
Environments where every one can be used for a number of tests. Hence the
present document defines testing conditions that are common to several tests
avoiding the need to duplicate the same information for every single test.
The present document defines default values for a variety of common areas.
Where values are not specified in test cases, the defaults in the present
document will apply. If specified, the test case values will take precedence.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains definitions of reference conditions and test
signals, default parameters, reference radio bearer configurations used in
radio bearer interoperability testing, common radio bearer configurations for
other test purposes, common requirements for test equipment and generic set-up
procedures for use in conformance tests for the 3^rd^ Generation E-UTRAN User
Equipment (UE).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document > unless the context in which the reference is made suggests a > different Release is relevant (information on the applicable > release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case > title, description or applicability, message description or > content).
> [1] to [65] (void)
[66] 3GPP TS 36.508 Release 14: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); Common test environments for User
Equipment (UE) conformance testing \"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Common test environment
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 36.508
Release 14 [66].
# 5 to 8 Void
###### ## Annex A: Void
#