# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 2 of a multi-parts TS:
3GPP TS 36.521-1 [1]: Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio transmission and reception
Part 1: Conformance testing.
**3GPP TS 36.521-2: Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User
Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio transmission and reception Part
:2 Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS).**
3GPP TS 36.521-3 [2]: Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio transmission and reception
Part 3: Radio Resource Management (RRM) Conformance Testing.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma for 3G Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) User
Equipment (UE), in compliance with the relevant requirements, and in
accordance with the relevant guidance given in ISO/IEC 9646-1 [3] and ISO/IEC
9646-7 [4]
The present document specifies the recommended applicability statement for the
test cases included in 3GPP TS 36.521-1 [1] and 3GPP TS 36.521-3 [2]. These
applicability statements are based on the features implemented in the UE.
Special conformance testing functions can be found in 3GPP TS 36.509 [5] and
the common test environments are included in 3GPP TS 36.508 [6].
The present document is valid for UE implemented according to 3GPP releases
starting from Release 8 up to the Release indicated on the cover page of the
present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document > unless the context in which the reference is made suggests a > different Release is relevant (information on the applicable > release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case > title, description or applicability, message description or > content).
> [1] to [18] (void)
[19] 3GPP TS 36.521-2 Release 14: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio transmission
and reception; Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Recommended test case applicability
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 36.521-2
Release 14 [19].
###### ## Annex A: Void
#