# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is part 1 of a multi-part conformance test specification
for Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over LTE consisting of:
3GPP TS 36.579-1 [2]: \"Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 1:
Common test environment\"
3GPP TS 36.579-2 [3]: \"Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 2:
Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) User Equipment (UE) Protocol conformance
specification\"
3GPP TS 36.579-3 [4]: \"Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 3:
Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) Server Application conformance
specification\"
3GPP TS 36.579-4 [5]: \"Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 4: Test
Applicability and Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma
specification\"
**3GPP TS 36.579-5: \"Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 5:
Abstract test suite (ATS)\" (the present specification)**
In the present release of the specification only Mission Critical Push To Talk
(MCPTT) services are considered. Future releases may include other Mission
Critical services.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocol and signalling conformance testing
in TTCN-3 for the Mission Critical services over LTE signalling and protocol
requirements defined by 3GPP.
The following TTCN test specification and design considerations can be found
in the present document:
\- the test system architecture;
\- the overall test suite structure;
\- the test models and ASP definitions;
\- the test methods and usage of communication ports definitions;
\- the test configurations;
\- the design principles and assumptions;
\- TTCN styles and conventions;
\- the partial Implementation eXtra Information for Testing (IXIT) proforma;
\- the test suites.
The Abstract Test Suites designed in the document are based on the test cases
specified in 3GPP TS 36.579-2 [3]. The test cases specified in 3GPP TS
36.579-3 [4] are out of scope of the present document.
The applicability of the individual test cases is specified in the test ICS
proforma specification in 3GPP TS 36.579-4 [5]). Where appropriate the
Abstract Test Suites belonging to the present specification may refer to other
Abstract Test Suites e.g. 3GPP TS 36.523-3 [27] for test requirements related
to the EPS (LTE) bearers which carry the Mission Critical services data.
The present document is valid for TTCN development for Mission Critical
services clients\' conformance tests according to 3GPP Releases starting from
Release 13 up to the Release indicated on the cover page of the present
document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_ unless the context in which the
reference is made suggests a different Release is relevant (information on the
applicable release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case
title, description or applicability, message description or content).
> [1] to [54] (void)
[55] 3GPP TS 36.579-5 Release 14: \"Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE;
Part 5: Abstract test suite (ATS)\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Test system architecture
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 36.579-5
Release 14 [55].
# 5 to 10 Void
###### ## Annex A to D: Void
#