# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is part 1 of a multi-part deliverable covering
conformance test specification for Mission Critical Services over LTE
consisting of:
3GPP TS 36.579-1 [2]: \"Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE protocol
conformance testing; Part 1: Common test environment\"
**3GPP TS 36.579-2: \"** Mission Critical (MC) services **over LTE; Part 2:
Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) User Equipment (UE) Protocol conformance
specification\" (the present document);**
3GPP TS 36.579-3 [3]: \" Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 3:
Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) Server Application test specification\";
3GPP TS 36.579-4 [4]: \" Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 4: Test
Applicability and Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)\";
3GPP TS 36.579-5 [5]: \" Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 5:
Abstract test suite (ATS)\".
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocol conformance testing for testing a
MCPTT Client for compliance to the Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over
LTE protocol requirements defined by 3GPP.
I particular the present document contains:
\- the overall test structure;
\- the test configurations;
\- the conformance requirement and reference to the core specifications;
\- the test purposes; and
\- a brief description of the test procedure, the specific test requirements
and short message exchange table.
The present document is valid for MCPTT Clients implemented according to 3GPP
releases starting from Release 13 up to the Release indicated on the cover
page of the present document.
The following information relevant to testing specified in the present
document could be found in accompanying specifications:
\- default setting of the test parameters TS 36.579-1 [2];
\- Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) TS 36.579-4 [4] and
Implementation eXtra Information for Testing (IXIT) TS 36.579-5 [5];
\- the applicability of each test case TS 36.579-4 [4].
The test cases are expected to be executed through the 3GPP radio interface.
The present document does not specify the protocol conformance testing for the
EPS (LTE) bearers which carry the MCPTT data sent or received by the MCPTT
Client and which are required to be supported by the UE in which the MCPTT
Client is installed. This is defined in TS 36.523-1 [6].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] to [32] (void)
[33] 3GPP TS 36.579-2 Release 14: \"Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE;
Part 2: Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) User Equipment (UE) Protocol
conformance specification\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 General
## 4.1 Test methodology
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 36.579-2
Release 14 [33].
# 5 to 7 Void
#