# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is part 1 of a multi-part deliverable covering
conformance test specification for Mission Critical Services over LTE
consisting of:
3GPP TS 36.579-1 [2]: \"Mission Critical Services over LTE protocol
conformance testing; Part 1: Common test environment\"
3GPP TS 36.579-2 [3]: \"Mission Critical Services over LTE conformance
testing; Part 2: Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) User Equipment (UE)
Protocol conformance specification\"
3GPP TS 36.579-3 [4]: \"Mission Critical Services over LTE conformance
testing; Part 3: Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) Server Application test
specification\"
**3GPP TS 36.579-4: \"Mission Critical Services over LTE conformance testing;
Part 4: Test Applicability and Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma specification\" (the present document)**
3GPP TS 36.579-5 [5]: \"Mission Critical Services over LTE conformance
testing; Part 5: Abstract test suite (ATS)\"
In the present release of the specification only Mission Critical Push To Talk
(MCPTT) Services are considered. Future releases may include other Mission
Critical Services.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma for testing Client or Server implementations for compliance to the
Mission Critical Services over LTE protocol requirements defined by 3GPP, and
in accordance with the relevant guidance given in ISO/IEC 9646-1 [7] and
ISO/IEC 9646-7 [8].
The present document specifies the recommended applicability statement for the
test cases included in 3GPP TS 36.579-2 [3] and 3GPP TS 36.579-3 [4]. These
applicability statements are based on the features implemented in the Client
or the Server respectively.
The present document is valid for Mission Critical Services Servers and
Clients implemented according to 3GPP releases starting from Release 13 up to
the Release indicated on the cover page of the present document.
The present document does not specify applicability or ICS for protocol
conformance testing for the EPS (LTE) bearers which carry the Mission Critical
Services data sent or received by the Client and/or the Server. These are
defined in TS 36.523-2 [6].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] to [10] (void)
[11] 3GPP TS 36.579-4 Release 14: \"Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE;
Part 4: Test Applicability and Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma specification\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Recommended Test Case Applicability
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 36.579-4
Release 14 [11].
###### ## Annex A: Void
#