# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is part 1 of a multi-part deliverable covering
conformance test specification for Mission Critical Services over LTE
consisting of:
**3GPP TS 36.579-1: \"Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 1: Common
test environment\" (the present document)**
3GPP TS 36.579-2 [2]: \"Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 2:
Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) User Equipment (UE) Protocol conformance
specification\"
3GPP TS 36.579-3 [3]: \" Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 3:
Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) Server Application test specification\"
3GPP TS 36.579-4 [4]: \" Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 4: Test
Applicability and Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)\"
3GPP TS 36.579-5 [5]: \" Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE; Part 5:
Abstract test suite (ATS)\"
In the present release of the specification only Mission Critical Push To Talk
(MCPTT) Services are considered. Future releases may include other Mission
Critical Services.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the common test environment required for testing
Client and Server implementations for compliance to the Mission Critical
Services over LTE protocol requirements defined by 3GPP.
It contains definitions of reference conditions and test signals, default
messages and other parameters, generic procedures, and, common requirements
for test equipment with the goal for facilitating testing in general and test
procedures specification in particular. Various parts of its content are
referred to from other parts of the Mission Critical Services over LTE
protocol conformance testing specification e.g. TS 36.579-2 [2] and TS
36.579-3 [3].
The present document does not define the common test environment required for
testing the implementation of the underlying LTE protocols, i.e. the LTE
bearers used for transport of the Mission Critical Services signalling and
media. This is defined in TS 36.508 [6] and referred to from the present
document whenever needed.
In regard to default messages or other information elements contents, the
present document refers to content defined in requirements specifications
specified by 3GPP or other organisations. In the case of Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP) information elements the
present document refers to those specified in TS 34.229-1 [21] and explicitly
specifies only those relevant for the purposes of the Mission Critical
Services over LTE protocol conformance testing.
In the present release of the specification only Mission Critical Push To Talk
(MCPTT) Services are considered. Future releases may include other Mission
Critical Services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] to [80] (void)
[81] 3GPP TS 36.579-1 Release 14: \"Mission Critical (MC) services over LTE;
Part 1: Common test environment\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 General
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 36.579-1
Release 14 [81].
5 Void
#