# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Licensed assist access (LAA) in unlicensed spectrum using the Carrier
Aggregation Framework of LTE was introduced in Rel-13 as a complementary tool
to augment operators' service offering and solutions. Given the widespread
deployment and usage of other technologies in unlicensed spectrum, it is
necessary that LAA coexists with existing and future technologies targeted for
unlicensed spectrum. Therefore, LBT mechanism was introduced for LAA to
coexist with other wireless systems, e.g. IEEE 802.11 as well as with other
LAA systems. As part of the R13 WI, functionality tests for LBT mechanism have
been specified for LAA to verify that the LAA Base Stations (BS) have
implemented LBT as it is specified in 3GPP specifications.
Meanwhile, there has been request to conduct multi-node tests where two
wireless systems share the same unlicensed spectrum and their system
performance is to be ensured, e.g. between two LAA systems or between LAA and
other wireless systems, e.g. IEEE 802.11. Such multi-node tests are expected
to verify that the two systems can coexist when operating in the same
unlicensed spectrum. From this perspective, multi-node tests verify
coexistence at system level, while it is understood that any LBT functionality
verifications of LAA BS are already guaranteed by LBT tests introduced in
Rel-13 LAA.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the multi-node tests for Rel-13 LAA BSs and
other wireless systems operating in unlicensed spectrum. In particular, the
report documents how to conduct multi-node tests involving two Rel-13 LAA BSs
or one Rel-13 LAA BS and one other wireless system, e.g. IEEE 802.11 system to
make sure that the two systems can coexist in the same unlicensed spectrum.
This document aims to provide an evaluation methodology for multi-node
coexistence between Rel-13 LAA BSs and other wireless systems.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 36.104, v14.3.0: \" Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception (Release 14) \".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.141, v14.3.0: \" Base Station (BS) conformance testing (Release
13) \".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
None
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
None
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AP Access Point
BS Base Station
COT Channel Occupancy Time
DUT Device Under Test
ED Energy Detection
LAA Licensed-Assisted Access
LBT Listen-Before Talk
MCOT Maximum Channel Occupancy Time
STA (IEEE 802.11) Station
UE User Equipment
# 4 Coexistence algorithms for LAA
Coexistence algorithms, described in TS 36.213, Clause 15.1.1, are designed in
LAA to ensure that LAA coexists with existing and future technologies targeted
for unlicensed spectrum, e.g. IEEE 802.11 as well as with other LAA systems.
To verify the coexistence with other wireless systems (and vice versa)
operating in the unlicensed spectrum, RAN4 agreed to define two classes of
tests to verify LAA coexistence:
**\- LBT tests:** these are functional tests which verify minimum requirements
defined in 3GPP specifications. The LBT core requirements are already captured
in TS 36.104 (Chapter 9) [1] while the LBT tests are defined in Chapter 9 of
TS 36.141 [2].
**\- Multi-node tests:** this is a new class of test which whose scope is to
verify cross-technology coexistence, with emphasis on coexistence between LAA
and IEEE 802.11 operating in the same spectrum. Such Multi-node tests will be
captured in this report.
## 4.1 LBT functionalities tests for LAA
LBT tests are **functional tests** which only verify essential LBT
functionalities specified in 3GPP specification. It has been agreed to align
LBT testing procedure with EN 301 893.
Following LBT functionalities tests are agreed:
\- Energy Detection (ED) threshold and detection accuracy.
\- Maximum Channel Occupancy Time (MCOT).
\- Minimum Idle time.
MCOT, idle time, and Energy Detection sensing will be tested with a procedure
similar to EN 301 893, but adapted to 3GPP nomenclature and format, as in
Clause 4.8 in 3GPP TS 36.141.
LBT core requirements for DL LAA transmitters are documented in TS 36.104,
Chapter 9. And LBT functionalities test procedures are documented in TS
36.141, Chapter 9.
## 4.2 Multi-node tests for LAA
Multi-node tests are cross technology coexistence tests. This is a new class
of tests whose scope is to verify cross-technology coexistence, with emphasis
on coexistence between LAA and IEEE 802.11 operating in the same spectrum.
Tests should cover both LAA to IEEE 802.11 and IEEE 802.11 to LAA performance.
In other words, the impact from LAA to IEEE 802.11 and from IEEE 802.11 to LAA
will be considered.
Further tests may be included for eLAA or other future technology.
# 5 Tools and approach for Multi-node tests
## 5.1 Basic principles
Some basic principles to design the tests are listed as below:
\- Tests should be conductive tests to easily control and repeat the tests
considering the test feasibility.
\- Performance of single 20MHz channel should be tested in this version of the
technical report.
\- Only channel access priority class capabilities which are declared by the
LAA node should be tested for the LAA node. Maximum of two representative
priority classes, e.g. Priority class 3 and Priority class 1 should be tested.
## 5.2 Test setup
### 5.2.1 Test setup
Test setup is given in Figure 5.2.1-1, in which
\- Node A can be bidirectional and B is downlink only
\- Node C and D are the companion devices attached to Node A and B,
respectively
\- Link A-C and Link B-D represent the wanted signals
\- Link A-D, B-C and Link A-B represent interfering links
Node A and B can be IEEE 802.11 AP or LAA BS. Node C and D can be IEEE 802.11
STA or LAA UE.
All the links are assumed to be connected at the antenna port, i.e. the multi-
node test described in this TR are conductive tests.
Note that for LAA, both licensed and unlicensed band should be connected in
the test setup for link B-D.
{width="6.6625in" height="2.8618055555555557in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1 Test setup for the multi-node test
Test scenarios are listed below.
Table 5.2.1-1 test scenarios for Rel-13
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sce | V | Aggr | Tr | Tr | | | | | | nario | ictim | essor | affic | affic | | | | | | | s | s | Type | Type | | | | | | | ystem | ystem | for | for | | | | | | | | | v | aggr | | | | | | | | | ictim | essor | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | V | Comp | Aggr | Comp | Aggr | Comp | | | | | ictim | anion | essor | anion | essor | anion | | | | | d | v | d | aggr | d | aggr | | | | | evice | ictim | evice | essor | evice | essor | | | | | to be | d | in | d | to be | d | | | | | t | evice | bas | evice | t | evice | | | | | ested | | eline | | ested | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | IEEE | IEEE | IEEE | IEEE | LAA | LAA | Best | a) | | | 8 | 8 | 8 | 8 | BS | UE | e | Best | | | 02.11 | 02.11 | 02.11 | 02.11 | | | ffort | e | | | AP | STA | AP | STA | | | | ffort | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | b) | | | | | | | | | | Best | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | ffort | | | | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | | | | Voice | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | IEEE | IEEE | IEEE | IEEE | LAA | LAA | Voice | a) | | | 8 | 8 | 8 | 8 | BS | UE | | Voice | | | 02.11 | 02.11 | 02.11 | 02.11 | | | | | | | AP | STA | AP | STA | | | | b) | | | | | | | | | | Voice | | | | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | | | | Best | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | ffort | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | LAA | LAA | LAA | LAA | IEEE | IEEE | Best | a) | | | BS | UE | BS | UE | 8 | 8 | e | Best | | | | | | | 02.11 | 02.11 | ffort | e | | | | | | | AP | STA | | ffort | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | b) | | | | | | | | | | Best | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | ffort | | | | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | | | | Voice | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | LAA | LAA | LAA | LAA | IEEE | IEEE | Voice | a) | | | BS | UE | BS | UE | 8 | 8 | | Voice | | | | | | | 02.11 | 02.11 | | | | | | | | | AP | STA | | b) | | | | | | | | | | Voice | | | | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | | | | Best | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | ffort | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Tests with voice traffic on the aggressor link will be performed only if the
LAA BS supports voice. If it does not support voice, test 2 and 4 will not be
performed.
### 5.2.2 Test approach
To verify co-existence performance between different systems, e.g. LAA to IEEE
802.11 and IEEE 802.11 to LAA, each test consists of two steps:
1\. Baseline test: The performance between the same systems should be tested
first and recorded as the baseline.
2\. Coexistence test: Replace one IEEE 802.11 AP/IEEE 802.11 STA with an LAA
BS/LAA UE respectively if IEEE 802.11 is a victim or one LAA BS/LAA UE with a
IEEE 802.11 AP/IEEE 802.11 STA respectively if LAA is a victim and redo the
test and record the performance. That means victim IEEE 802.11 metrics in the
scenario of IEEE 802.11 to IEEE 802.11 should be the baseline for the scenario
of LAA to IEEE 802.11; while victim LAA metrics in the scenario of LAA to LAA
should be the baseline for the scenario of IEEE 802.11 to LAA.
The set of devices which can be used to define the baseline in step 1. is
described in section 5.2.4.
### 5.2.3 Number of nodes
One DL/UL IEEE 802.11 AP and one DL LAA BS should be considered in a test.
Each node (LAA BS/IEEE 802.11 AP) connects to only one client node (UE/STA) in
the test setup.
At least 10 APs and 10 STAs are selected to create a device pool. Those
devices need to satisfy the criteria specified in section 5.2.4.
In the absence of knowledge of the actual distribution of the evaluation
metric of the device pool, it is recommended that 30 randomly selected
permutations of the APs and STAs in the device pool are created. If it can be
determined that a smaller number of permutations results in statistical
convergence of the 50th percentile results, then a smaller number of
permutations may be used.
In order to ensure statistical confidence, a larger device pool and/or larger
number of permutations can be created.
### 5.2.4 Choice of devices
For the choice of devices in the tests, some principles are listed as below:
\- All 802.11 devices should be WFA (Wi-Fi Alliance) certified.
\- All 802.11 devices should be commercially available and not reference
design
\- IEEE 802.11 APs and STAs, should be selected from multiple vendors and
multiple generations of the 802.11 standard.
\- Devices shall comply to either 802.11n or 802.11ac.
\- For LAA, LAA BS supplied by vendors
\- LAA UEs should be representative "commercially available" or "ready for
market"
For all scenarios, the baseline performance is created by selecting a specific
number of APs and STAs.
\- The tests shall ensure repeatability and representative operational
behavior.
\- The starting point of the configuration of both 802.11 and LAA equipment
shall be based on the default settings.
\- In order to achieve the test objectives of repeatability and representative
operational behavior, modifications to the default settings might or might not
be needed
\- The above modifications, if needed, are FFS
\- Modifications compared to the defaults settings, if any, shall be
documented
\- 3GPP and 802.11 devices in the tests shall be configured to use the same
COT.
\- The test shall document all pertinent configuration parameters used in the
test which relate to the COT. This includes especially, but is not limited to,
configuration parameters that may be set differently in the tests compared to
expected configuration in real-world deployment.
\- Selected devices (IEEE 802.11 or LAA) should be representative of the
deployment scenario.
\- Devices shall run the most recent commercially available vendor-supplied
firmware.
### 5.2.5 Test signal levels
The test signal level to be adopted in the test shall be specified as follows:
The coupling losses in Link A-D, Link B-C and Link A-B in Figure 5.2.1-1 shall
be set in such a way that:
\- The received signal level from Node A to Node D is X~AD~ dBm (interfering
link)
\- The received signal level from Node B to Node C is X~BC~ dBm (interfering
link)
\- The received signal level from Node A to Node B is or from Node B to Node A
is X~AB~ dBm (interfering link)
The coupling losses for Link A-C and Link B-D shall be set in such a way that:
\- The received signal level from Node A to Node C is X~AC~ = X~BC~+Y dBm
(wanted signal)
\- The received signal level from Node B to Node D is X~AC~ = X~BC~+Y dBm
(wanted signal)
Y is the ratio between the wanted signal and the interfering signal.
All the configurations below are recommended for testing. Which
configuration(s) is(are) to be tested and how to interpret the significance is
based on specific deployment scenario.
* * *
Interfering Links between DL nodes Wanted Signal Links Interfering Links\  
between DL and UL nodes
X~AB~ X~AC~ X~BD~ X~AD~ X~BC~ Note
-67dBm/20MHz -57dBm/20MHz -57dBm/20MHz -67dBm/20MHz -67dBm/20MHz SIR = 10dB
-67dBm/20MHz -67dBm/20MHz -67dBm/20MHz -67dBm/20MHz -67dBm/20MHz SIR = 0dB
-80dBm/20MHz -70dBm/20MHz -70dBm/20MHz -80dBm/20MHz -80dBm/20MHz SIR = 10dB
-80dBm/20MHz -80dBm/20MHz -80dBm/20MHz -80dBm/20MHz -80dBm/20MHz SIR = 0dB
* * *
## 5.3 Test equipment
### 5.3.1 Measurement equipment
### 5.3.2 LAA BS and UE device configurations
### 5.3.3 Wi-Fi AP and STA device configurations
# 6 Multi-node Tests for LAA
## 6.1 Throughput test
### 6.1.1 Test purpose
The purpose of the multi-node throughput test is to verify whether a 5GHz
device can achieve a certain level of throughput when other 5GHz systems are
present in the spectrum. For scenario 1, the purpose of this test is to
evaluate the throughput performance of IEEE 802.11 AP when a LAA BS transmit
in DL. For scenario 3, the purpose of the test is to help 3GPP to validate LAA
and enhancement of system performance while assessing the impact of IEEE
802.11 to LAA.
### 6.1.2 Test procedure
The procedure for the throughput test consists of two main steps:
\- creating a baseline in which all nodes belong to the same technology
\- verifying the impact compared to the baseline when half of the nodes are
replaced with another technology
The two steps are adapted depending on the specific scenario under analysis.
For Scenario 1, the procedure is made of the following steps:
\- Step 1 (Baseline): IEEE 802.11 to IEEE 802.11. In this step Node A and Node
B are IEEE 802.11 APs, Node C and Node D are IEEE 802.11 STAs.
\- Step 2 (Coexistence): LAA and IEEE 802.11 coexistence. In this step Node B
is replaced with LAA BS and Node D is replaced with LAA UEs.
The specific DUT configuration for the two steps in case of scenario 1 are
listed in Table 6.1.2-1:
Table 6.1.2-1 DUT configuration for the throughput test in case of Scenario 1.
* * *
            DUT A            DUT B            Criteria
Step 1: IEEE 802.11 AP IEEE 802.11 AP Impact of IEEE 802.11 transmitter on
IEEE 802.11 throughput: DUT A IEEE 802.11 system achieves certain level of
throughput in presence of DUT B IEEE 802.11 system. Step 2: IEEE 802.11 AP LAA
BS Impact of LAA transmitter on IEEE 802.11 throughput: DUT A IEEE 802.11
system achieves certain level of throughput in presence of DUT B LAA system.
* * *
For Scenario 3, the procedure is made of the following steps:
\- Step 1 (Baseline): LAA BS to LAA BS. In this step Node A and Node B are LAA
BSs, Node C and Node D are LAA UEs.
\- Step 2 (Coexistence): LAA and IEEE 802.11 coexistence. In this step Node B
is replaced with IEEE 802.11 AP and Node D is replaced with IEEE 802.11 STAs.
The specific DUT configuration for the two steps in case of scenario 3 are
listed in Table 6.1.2-2:
Table 6.1.2-2 DUT configuration for the throughput test in case of Scenario 3.
* * *
            DUT A    DUT B            Criteria
Step 1: LAA BS LAA BS Impact of LAA BS on LAA UE throughput: DUT A LAA
achieves certain level of throughput in presence of DUT B LAA. Step 2 LAA BS
IEEE 802.11 AP Impact of IEEE 802.11 transmitter on LAA throughput: DUT A LAA
system achieves certain level of throughput in presence of DUT B IEEE 802.11
system.
* * *
The different signal levels to be adopted in Step 1 and 2 are specified in
Section 5.2.5.
**Step-1: Determination of baseline**
The step-1 is detailed below:
a) Define a set of DUT A and DUT B and their companion devices according to
the test configuration as shown in step-1 of Tables 6.1.2-1 for scenario 1 or
step-1 of Table 6.1.2-2 for scenario 2. Devices need to be selected based on
the criteria described in section 5.2.4.
b) Fix Link A-C with one specific DUT A and its companion device taken from
the sets defined in a). The wanted signal level for the Link A-C is as
specified in section 5.2.5. This is the Reference Link. A total number of N1
different configurations is obtained at this stage.
c) For Link B-D, pick one DUT B and its companion device from the sets
identified in a). The signal level for the Link B-C is specified section
5.2.5. This is the Aggressor Link. A total number of N2 different
configurations is obtained at this stage.
d) The Interferer signal links are set as specified in section 5.2.1 (and
Figure 5.2.1-1 therein).
e) Push full buffer DL UDP traffic for the reference link. Record the
throughput of the Link A-C in absence of interference averaged over 1 minute.
f) For Link B-D, push DL UDP traffic with different traffic profiles (full
buffer).
g) Record the throughput achieved by the Link A-C averaged over 1 minute.
h) Repeat N3 times to achieve enough statistical confidence. There will be
total of N1 x N2 x N3 points per traffic profile.
i) Collect the CDF obtained from the data points in e) and g).
**Step-2: Coexistence case**
a) Step 1 is repeated by replacing the nodes in Link B-D, by replacing node B
with DUT B according to the step 2 configuration in Table 6.2.1-1 for scenario
1 or Table 6.2.1-2 for scenario 3. Similarly, node D is also replaced by
companion device of DUT B. The wanted signal level for the Link B-D is
specified in section 5.2.5.
b) The Interferer signal links are set as specified in section 5.2.1 (and
Figure 5.2.1-1 therein).
c) Push full buffer DL UDP traffic for the reference link.
d) For Link B-D, push DL UDP traffic with different traffic profiles (full
buffer).
e) Record the throughput achieved by the Link A-C averaged over 1 minute.
f) Repeat N3 times to achieve enough statistical confidence. There will be
total of N1 x N3 points per traffic profile.
g) Collect the CDF obtained from the data points in Step-1 e) and e).
The parameters N1, N2 and N3 should be selected to ensure statistical
confidence for the evaluation criteria described in section 6.1.3. N1 and N2
are selected based on the criteria described in Section 5.2.3.
The test is evaluated based on evaluation criteria specified in section 6.1.3.
### 6.1.3 Evaluation criteria
Normalized throughput is considered as a metric for the throughput tests.
The normalized throughput is defined as the throughput of the victim network
in presence of the aggressor network divided by the throughput of the victim
network in a clear channel free of any aggressor.
A CDF curve of the performance metric is part of the evaluation criteria. 50%
is the most relevant point for performance comparison. Other points, e.g. 25%
and 75% could be considered.
### 6.1.4 Test results
## 6.2 Outage tests
### 6.2.1 Test purpose
The purpose of the multi-node outage test is to verify whether a 5GHz device
can achieve a certain level of outage performance when other 5GHz systems are
present in the spectrum. For scenario 2, the purpose of this test is to
evaluate the outage performance of IEEE 802.11 AP when a LAA BS transmit in
DL. For scenario 4, the purpose of the test is to help 3GPP to validate LAA
and enhancement of system performance while assessing the impact of IEEE
802.11 to LAA.
### 6.2.2 Test procedure
The procedure for the outage test consists of two main steps:
\- creating a baseline in which all nodes belong to the same technology
\- verifying the impact compared to the baseline when half of the nodes are
replaced with another technology
The two steps are adapted depending on the specific scenario under analysis.
For Scenario 2, the procedure is made of the following steps:
\- Step 1 (Baseline): IEEE 802.11 to IEEE 802.11. In this step Node A and Node
B are IEEE 802.11 APs, Node C and Node D are IEEE 802.11 STAs.
\- Step 2 (Coexistence): LAA and IEEE 802.11 coexistence. In this step Node B
is replaced with LAA BS and Node D is replaced with LAA UEs.
The specific DUT configuration for the two steps in case of scenario 2 are
listed in Table 6.2.2-1:
Table 6.2.2-1 DUT configuration for the outage test in case of Scenario 2.
* * *
            DUT A            DUT B            Criteria
Step 1: IEEE 802.11 AP IEEE 802.11 AP Impact of IEEE 802.11 transmitter on
IEEE 802.11 outage performance: DUT AIEEE 802.11 system achieves certain level
of outage performance in presence of DUT B IEEE 802.11 system. Step 2: IEEE
802.11 AP LAA BS Impact of LAA transmitter on IEEE 802.11 outage performance:
DUT A IEEE 802.11 system achieves certain level of outage performance in
presence of DUT B LAA system.
* * *
For Scenario 4, the procedure is made of the following steps:
\- Step 1 (Baseline): LAA BS to LAA BS. In this step Node A and Node B are LAA
BSs, Node C and Node D are LAA UEs.
\- Step 2 (Coexistence): LAA and IEEE 802.11 coexistence. In this step Node B
is replaced with IEEE 802.11 AP and Node D is replaced with IEEE 802.11 STAs.
The specific DUT configuration for the two steps in case of scenario 4 are
listed in Table 6.2.2-2:
Table 6.2.2-2 DUT configuration for the throughput test in case of Scenario 4.
* * *
            DUT A    DUT B            Criteria
Step 1: LAA BS LAA BS Impact of LAA BS on LAA UE throughput: DUT ALAA achieves
certain level of outage performance in presence of DUT B LAA. Step 2 LAA BS
IEEE 802.11 AP Impact of IEEE 802.11 transmitter on LAA throughput: DUT A LAA
system achieves certain level of outage performance in presence of DUT B IEEE
802.11 system.
* * *
The different signal levels to be adopted in Step 1 and 2 are specified in
Section 5.2.5.
**Step-1: Determination of baseline**
The step-1 is detailed below:
a) Define a set of DUT A and DUT B and their companion devices according to
the test configuration as shown in Tables 6.2.2-1 for scenario 2 or Table
6.2.2-2 for scenario 4. Devices need to be selected based on the criteria
described in section 5.2.4.
b) Fix Link A-C with one specific DUT A and its companion device taken from
the sets defined in a). The wanted signal level for the Link A-C is as
specified in section 5.2.5. This is the Reference Link. A total number of N1
different configurations is obtained at this stage.
c) For Link B-D, pick one DUT B and its companion device from the sets
identified in a). The signal level for the Link B-C is specified section
5.2.5. This is the Aggressor Link. A total number of N2 different
configurations is obtained at this stage.
d) The Interferer signal links are set as specified in section 5.2.1 (and
Figure 5.2.1-1 therein).
e) Push the traffic type specified in Table 5.2.1-1 traffic for the reference
link.
f) For Link B-D, push the traffic type specified in Table 5.2.1-1.
g) Record the performance metrics specified in section 6.2.3 achieved by the
Link A-C averaged over 1 minute.
h) Repeat N4 times to achieve enough statistical confidence. There will be
total of N1 x N2 x N4 points per traffic profile.
i) Collect the data points obtained from the data points in g).
**Step-2: Coexistence case**
a) Step 1 is repeated by replacing the nodes in Link B-D, by replacing node B
with DUT B according to the step 2 configuration in Table 6.2.1-1 for scenario
1 or Table 6.2.1-2 for scenario 3. Similarly, node D is also replaced by
companion device of DUT B. The wanted signal level for the Link B-D is
specified in section 5.2.5.
b) The Interferer signal links are set as specified in section 5.2.1 (and
Figure 5.2.1-1 therein).
c) Performance metrics specified in section 6.2.4 of the Link A-C is recorded.
d) Repeat N4 times to achieve enough statistical confidence. There will be
total of N1 x N4 points per traffic profile.
e) Collect the data points obtained from the data points in g) and record the
mean.
The parameters N1, N2 and N4 should be selected to ensure statistical
confidence for the evaluation criteria described in section 6.2.3. N1 and N2
are selected based on the criteria described in Section 5.2.3.
The test is evaluated based on evaluation criteria specified in section 6.2.3.
### 6.2.3 Evaluation criteria
Normalized delay, normalized jitter, and MOS (Mean Opinion Score) are
considered as metrics for the outage tests. Each of these criteria is
recommended for evaluation. Details on MOS test implementations are FFS.
### 6.2.4 Test results
###### ### Annex A: Bibliography
The following material, though not specifically referenced in the body of the
present document (or not publicly available), gives supporting information.
\- Rx signal level and SIR was discussed in:
\- R4-164432 Testing Level of Received Signal for LAA Channel Access
Mechanism, CableLabs
\- R4-169039 Implications of Wi-Fi Field Measurements for Multi-Node Testing,
Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Microsoft
\- R4-1609983 Received SIR in multi-node tests for LAA Wi-Fi coexistence,
Broadcom
\- R4-1610140 Simulation results in support of SIR levels for LAA multi-node
tests, Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell
\- R4-1610462 Remaining issues related to multi-node throughput tests,
Ericsson, Qualcomm, Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell
\- R4-1701607 SIR operating point for multi-node tests, Qualcomm Incorporated,
Ericsson, Verizon
\- R4-1701766 SIR simulation results, Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell,
Skyworks Solutions, Verizon
\- R4-1701879 Further Implications of Wi-Fi Field Measurements for Multi-Node
Testing, Hewlett Packard Enterprise
\- R4-1701862 SIR proposals for multi-node tests, Broadcom
\- Text complexity was discussed in:
\- R4-1700841 Wi-Fi / LTE Coexistence Lab Testing Effort, Wi-Fi Alliance
\- R4-1701628 On test complexity and time requirements for multi-node tests in
Rel-13 LAA, Ericsson, Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, Qualcomm, Huawei
\- R4-1703874 General observations on multi-node tests, Qualcomm Incorporated,
Ericsson, Nokia
\- R4-1705823 Wi-Fi LTE Coexistence Testing at Test laboratories, Wi-Fi
Alliance
\- Consistency in baseline test data was discussed:
\- R4-1703977 Wi-Fi / LTE Coexistence Test Reliability, Wi-Fi Alliance, AT4
Wireless
\- R4-1704002 Wi-Fi baseline scenario test results, Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent
Shanghai Bell
#