# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Seven TDD UL/DL configurations have been supported in LTE TDD since Rel-8 to
address different DL and UL traffic ratios. The most DL heavy TDD UL/DL
configuration in current LTE TDD is configuration 5, where 8 DL subframes and
one DwPTS in a special subframe within a radio frame (i.e. 10 subframes) can
be used for DL transmission. There has been a proposal to introduce additional
configuration into LTE TDD, aiming to provide even more resources for DL
transmission.
There has not been any consensus on whether additional TDD configuration shall
be introduced for LTE TDD. To gain a better understanding on the issues
related to the potential introduction of additional configuration for LTE TDD,
this study item is proposed. This study item shall not provide any
recommendation on any follow-up normative work. Upon completion of this study
item, the follow-up actions shall be discussed on the PCG level.
TDD operation in unlicensed spectrum is out of the scope of this study.
# 1 Scope
The objective of the study is to evaluate issues related to the potential
introduction of the following additional configuration(s) for LTE TDD; 10:0:0
and 9:1:0 (DL:Sp:UL). This includes:
\- Identify the scenario(s), frequency band(s), and use cases(s) of the
possible additional TDD configuration(s)
\- Coexistence with adjacent standalone LTE TDD operations in the same band
\- To be compared with the coexistence between intra-band adjacent LTE TDD
operations using different UL/DL configurations
\- Evaluation of the potential benefits and drawbacks of the additional TDD
configuration(s) and possible solutions to mitigate the potential drawbacks
\- Any other relevant ecosystem aspect(s)
\- Compare the option of using 10:0:0 and/or 9:1:0 TDD configuration for a TDD
spectrum against the alternative of converting the TDD spectrum to FDD
supplemental DL spectrum
NOTE: The study shall not provide any recommendation on next steps / future
normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-142248, \"Study on possible additional configuration for LTE TDD\",
CATT, CATR, NTT DOCOMO, RAN #66, Dec.14.
[3] RP-150950, \"Coexistence evaluation results for intra-band adjacent LTE
TDD operations using different TDD UL/DL configurations\", NEC, RAN#68,
Jun.15.
[4] RP-150693, \"Coexistence Simulation Results with Adjacent Standalone TDD
Operations\", Ericsson, RAN#68, Jun.15.
[5] RP-150699, \"Co-existence evaluations for possible additional TDD
configuration(s)\", Huawei, HiSilicon, RAN#68, Jun.15.
[6] RP-150978, \"Coexistence simulation results for additional LTE TDD
configuration\", ZTE, RAN#68, Jun.15.
[7] RP-150927, \"Co-existence evaluation results for FS_LTE_TDD_add_config\",
CATT, RAN#68, Jun.15.
[8] RP-150742, \"Deterministic analysis for additional LTE TDD
configuration\", ZTE, RAN#68, Jun.15.
[9] RP-150776, \"Simulation results on co-existence evaluation for possible
additional TDD configuration\", LG Electronics, RAN#68, Jun.15.
[10] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[12] 3GPP TR 36.872: \"Small cell enhancements for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN \-
Physical layer aspects\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) functions related to Mobile
Station (MS) in idle mode\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\: \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
$I_{\text{acceptable}}$ Acceptable interference level
$R$ Distance between two equipments
$\text{PL}$ Path loss
$\text{PL}_{\text{LOS}}$ Path loss for line-of-sight
$\text{PL}_{\text{NLOS}}$ Path loss for non line-of-sight
$\text{SINR}$ Signal to interference ratio
$\text{alpha}$ Scaling factor for PL given by high layer
$A(\theta)$ Angle between eNB and UE in horizontal dimension
$\lambda$ User arrival rate
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACIR Adjacent Channel Interference Ratio
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio
Avg Average
BS Base Station
CA Carrier Aggregation
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
CP Cyclic Prefix
CRS Cell-specific Reference Signal
CSI Channel State Information
DL Downlink
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
(F)eICIC Further enhanced Inter-Cell Interference Coordination
FTP File Transfer Protocol
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
ITU International Telecommunication Union
MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast Multicast service Single Frequency Network
MUE Macro User Equipment
NAICS Network-Assisted Interference Cancellation and Suppression
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex
PCell Primary Cell
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PSS Primary Synchronization Signal
PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel
RSRQ Reference Signal Receiving Quality
RU Resource Utilization
SCell Secondary Cell
SINR Signal-to-Interference-and-Noise Ratio
SSS Secondary Synchronization Signal
TDD Time Division Duplex
TU Typical Urban
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
# 4 Deployment scenarios of possible additional TDD configuration(s)
## 4.1 Scenario(s)
The following scenarios are of interests for operators who want to deploy
additional TDD configuration(s). In all of the following cases, the SCell is
operating the additional TDD configuration(s), and the PCell is operating FDD
or TDD using the existing TDD configuration(s).
\- Scenario 1a: Operator deploys macro cell operating as PCell on carrier
frequency _f_ ~0~ and macro cell operating as SCell on carrier frequency _f_
~1~ (co-located), e.g. CA scenario 2 or 3 in TS36.300 v12.4.0. The macro cell
on _f_ ~1~ uses the additional TDD configuration(s). Both of the two carriers
can be aggregated by UE.
\- Scenario 1b: Operator deploys macro cell operating as PCell on carrier
frequency _f_ ~0~ and macro cell as SCell on carrier frequency _f_ ~1~ (non-
collocated). Both of the two carriers can be aggregated by UE.
\- Scenario 2: Operator deploys macro cell operating as PCell on carrier
frequency _f_ ~0~ and small cell operating as SCell on carrier frequency _f_
~1~ (non-co-located), e.g., CA scenario 4 in TS36.300 v12.4.0. Both of the two
carriers can be aggregated by UE.
\- Scenario 3: Operator deploys small cell operating as PCell on carrier
frequency _f_ ~0~ and small cell as Scell on carrier frequency _f_ ~1~ (co-
located). Both of the two carriers can be aggregated by UE.
Based on the current specifications, inter-band carrier aggregation would be a
pre-requisite for a UE to receive data on the SCell operating the additional
TDD configuration(s).
# 5 Coexistence study with adjacent standalone TDD operations
## 5.1 Scenarios
The following scenarios are selected to evaluate coexistence on intra-band
adjacent LTE TDD operations using different TDD UL/DL configurations.
A. Scenarios:
i. Scenario 1:
1\. Operator_A: small cell (outdoor pico)
a. Carrier frequency: 2.7GHz
b. Channel bandwidth: 10MHz
c. Duplex mode: New TDD UL/DL configuration (10:0:0)
2\. Operator_B: Macro cell
a. Carrier frequency: 2.7GHz
b. Channel bandwidth: 10MHz
c. Duplex mode: TDD UL/DL configuration 2 with special configuration 4
ii. Scenario 2:
1\. Operator_A: Macro cell
a. Carrier frequency: 2.7GHz
b. Channel bandwidth: 10MHz
c. Duplex mode: New TDD UL/DL configuration (10:0:0)
2\. Operator_B: Macro cell
a. Carrier frequency: 2.7GHz
b. Channel bandwidth: 10MHz
c. Duplex mode: TDD UL/DL configuration 2 with special configuration 4
B. Evaluation methodology: Deterministic and Monte Carlo simulation to
evaluate impact to both Operator_A and Operator_B performance for both
scenarios.
C. Traffic model: Full buffer traffic
> Note: 2.7GHz was chosen based on average of all TDD frequency bands of
> interest. For the purpose of this TR, results for this carrier frequency are
> deemed to be applicable to all TDD bands.
## 5.2 Inter-operator coexistence aspects
Co-existence issues between operators on adjacent carriers in the same
geographical area are not expected at least for the following cases.
\- All operators on adjacent carriers use the same TDD UL-DL configurations
and the radio frame and subframe are time synchronized between the operators.
\- All operators on adjacent carriers only use the downlink subframes and/or
DwPTS, regardless of whether or not the radio frame and subframe are
synchronized among the operators. Under this assumption, the following options
for the TDD UL-DL configuration are considered for the operators:
\- 10:0:0 TDD UL-DL configuration
> \- Existing TDD UL-DL configuration or 9:1:0 TDD UL-DL configuration without
> any uplink transmission
\- Guard band is used between adjacent carriers of different operators.
NOTE: Usage of guard band is detrimental to spectrum efficiency.
## 5.3 Coexistence study results
### 5.3.1 Deterministic analysis
The deterministic analysis calculates the minimum required separation distance
between the aggressor eNB and the victim eNB.
A tight requirement is that the acceptable eNB-to-eNB interference level is
7dB below the thermal noise floor, i.e.
Note that the victim macro eNB noise figure is 5dB [Annex A].
A relax requirement is that the acceptable eNB-to-eNB interference level is
set according to the dynamic range requirement. For system bandwidth of 10MHz,
the acceptable eNB-to-eNB interference level is -79.5dBm with victim macro
eNB.
##### **Scenario 1: Outdoor Pico to Macro cell adjacent channel case:**
{#scenario-1-outdoor-pico-to-macro-cell-adjacent-channel-case .H6}
Table 5.3.1-1: Deterministic analysis result of Scenario 1 [3]
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Operator A BS transmission power | 24 dBm | +----------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Operator A BS antenna gain | 5 dBi | +----------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Operator B BS antenna gain | 15 dBi | +----------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | ACIR BS to BS | 43 dB | +----------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Operator B Received Interference | 24+5+15-PL-43 = (1-PL) dBm | +----------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Operator B BS acceptable interference | -106.5 dBm | +----------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | PLLOS (R) =100.7+23.5log10(R)+2.6 | | | | | | PLNLOS(R) = 125.2+36.3log10(R)+2.6; | | | | | | R in km | | +----------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | **Minimum separation distance (tight |** 1509m for LOS**| | requirement)** | | | | **276m for NLOS** | +----------------------------------------+----------------------------+
Table 5.3.1-2: Required minimum separation distance (km) for macro to pico BS
[5]
* * *
Interference mechanism (Adjacent channel) Pathloss - LOS Pathloss - NLOS  
Tight requirement Relaxed requirement Tight requirement Relaxed requirement
Pico->Macro 1.502 0.107 0.275 0.050
* * *
Table 5.3.1-3: minimum required separation distance between aggressor and
victim eNBs [7]
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sce | Agg. | V | Pat | ( | ACIR | Min | | | nario | eNB | ictim | hloss | Agg., | | req | | | | Tx | eNB | model | Vi | (dB) | uired | | | | Power | accep | (dB), | ctim) | | dis | | | | (dBm) | table | R in | eNB | | tance | | | | | in | km | an | | (km) | | | | | terfe | | tenna | | | | | | | rence | | gain | | | | | | | (dBm) | | (dBi) | | | | | | | \@ | | | | | | | | | 10MHz | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 24 | Tight | LOS | PL~LO | (5, | 43 | 1.503 | | | | re | | S~(R) | 15) | | | | | | quire | | = | | | | | | | ment: | | 10 | | | | | | | | | 0.7+2 | | | | | | | -1 | | 3.5lo | | | | | | | 06.46 | | g10(R | | | | | | | | | )+2.6 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | NLOS | P | | | 0.275 | | | | | | L~NLO | | | | | | | | | S~(R) | | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | | | 5.2+3 | | | | | | | | | 6.3lo | | | | | | | | | g10(R | | | | | | | | | )+2.6 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Re | LOS | PL~LO | | | 0.107 | | | | laxed | | S~(R) | | | | | | | re | | = | | | | | | | quire | | 10 | | | | | | | ment: | | 0.7+2 | | | | | | | | | 3.5lo | | | | | | | -79.5 | | g10(R | | | | | | | | | )+2.6 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | NLOS | P | | | 0.050 | | | | | | L~NLO | | | | | | | | | S~(R) | | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | | | 5.2+3 | | | | | | | | | 6.3lo | | | | | | | | | g10(R | | | | | | | | | )+2.6 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 5.3.1-4: required minimum separation distance for Macro/outdoor pico [8]
+----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | aggressor -> victim | used path loss model | minimum separation | | | | | | | | distance R (km) | +----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | outdoor pico->Macro | **PL~LOS~ (R) | 1.51 | | | =100 | | | | .7+23.5log10(R)+2.6** | | +----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | | **PL~NLOS~(R) = | 0.28 | | | 125 | | | | .2+36.3log10(R)+2.6** | | +----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
Table 5.3.1-5: Separation (km) analysis [9]
* * *
Requirement LOS Separation Tight Pathloss - LOS 1.502 Tight Pathloss - NLOS
0.275 Relaxed Pathloss - LOS 0.107 Relaxed Pathloss - NLOS 0.050
* * *
##### **Scenario 2: Macro to Macro cell adjacent channel case:**
{#scenario-2-macro-to-macro-cell-adjacent-channel-case .H6}
Table 5.3.1-6: Deterministic analysis result of Scenario 2 [3]
* * *
Operator A BS transmission power 46 dBm Operator A BS antenna gain 15 dBi
Operator B BS antenna gain 15 dBi ACIR BS to BS 43 dB Operator B Received
Interference 46+15+15-PL-43 = (33-PL) dBm Operator B BS acceptable
interference -106.5 dBm PLLOS (R) =98.45+20log10(R)+2.6 ,R in km  
**Minimum separation distance (tight requirement)** **83.66km**
* * *
Table 5.3.1-7: Required minimum separation distance (km) for macro to macro BS
[5]
* * *
Interference mechanism ( Adjacent channel) Pathloss - LOS  
Tight requirement Relaxed requirement Macro->Macro 83.185 3.734
* * *
Table 5.3.1-8: Minimum required separation distance between aggressor and
victim eNBs [7]
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+ | S | Agg. | Victim | P | (Agg., | ACIR | Min | | cenario | eNB Tx | eNB | athloss | Victim) | | r | | | Power | acc | model | eNB | (dB) | equired | | | (dBm) | eptable | (dB), R | antenna | | d | | | | inter | in km | gain | | istance | | | | ference | | (dBi) | | (km) | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | \@10MHz | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+ | 2 | 46 | Tight | PL=9 | (15, | 43 | 83.272 | | | | requi | 8.45+20 | 15) | | | | | | rement: | *log10 | | | | | | | | (R)+2.6 | | | | | | | -106.46 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+ | | | Relaxed | | | | 3.737 | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rement: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -79.5 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+
Table 5.3.1-9: required minimum separation distance for Macro/Macro [8]
+----------------------+----------------------------------+--------------------+ | aggressor -> victim | used path loss model | Minimum separation | | | | | | | | distance R (km) | +----------------------+----------------------------------+--------------------+ | Macro->Macro | PL(R)=98.45+20*log10(R)**+2.6** | 83.66 | +----------------------+----------------------------------+--------------------+
##### **Observations:** {#observations .H6}
\- In Scenario 1 (pico-Macro), the minimum BS site separation distance under
the [relaxed requirement]{.underline} is about 50 meters and 107 meters in the
case of NLOS and LOS, respectively.
\- In Scenario 1 (pico-Macro), the minimum BS site separation distance under
the [tight requirement]{.underline} is about 275 meters and 1500 meters in the
case of NLOS and LOS, respectively.
\- In Scenario 2 (Macro-Macro), the minimum BS site separation distance is
about 3.8 km and 83.5 km under the relaxed and tight requirements,
respectively.
### 5.3.2 Monte Carlo simulation
For coexistence evaluation, the following metrics are provided. The details of
simulation assumptions are listed in Annex A.
CDF of Operator A's DL geometry, assuming Operator B is performing DL
transmission
CDF of Operator A's DL geometry, assuming Operator B is performing UL
transmission
CDF of Operator B's UL geometry, assuming Operator A is performing UL
transmission
CDF of Operator B's UL geometry, assuming Operator A is performing DL
transmission
##### **Scenario 1: Outdoor Pico to Macro cell adjacent channel case:**
{#scenario-1-outdoor-pico-to-macro-cell-adjacent-channel-case-1 .H6}
{width="2.9208333333333334in" height="2.1847222222222222in"}
{width="2.890972222222222in" height="2.1555555555555554in"}
Figure 5.3.2-1: DL geometry of Operator A [3] Figure 5.3.2-2: UL geometry of
Operator B [3]
{width="3.095138888888889in"
height="2.5395833333333333in"}{width="3.4131944444444446in"
height="2.522222222222222in"}
Figure 5.3.2-3: Scenario 1 -- DL SINR [4] Figure 5.3.2-4: Scenario 1 \--
uplink SINR [4]
{width="3.2111111111111112in"
height="2.4027777777777777in"}{width="3.2111111111111112in"
height="2.4027777777777777in"}
Figure 5.3.2-5: Pico downlink geometry [5] Figure 5.3.2-6: Macro uplink
geometry [5]
Table 5.3.2-1: Macro UL throughput loss for macro-pico scenario [5]
* * *
UL/DL configuration Macro UL average throughput loss Macro UL edge throughput
loss Macro UL, Pico DL (Baseline: Macro UL, Pico UL) -51.18% -100%
* * *
{width="3.220833333333333in"
height="2.589583333333333in"}{width="3.1777777777777776in"
height="2.5972222222222223in"}
Figure 5.3.2-7: Pico downlink geometry [6] Figure 5.3.2-8: Macro uplink
geometry [6]
{width="3.14375in" height="2.397222222222222in"}{width="3.057638888888889in"
height="2.410416666666667in"}
Figure 5.3.2-9: Victim (Operator A) Figure 5.3.2-10: Victim (Operator B)\ DL
geometry [7] UL geometry [7]
Table 5.3.2-2: Operator B's UL cell average and cell edge throughput loss
compared to the baseline [7]
* * *
Scenario Victim cell average UL throughput loss Victim cell edge (5%) UL
throughput loss 1 -51% -100%
* * *
{width="3.2909722222222224in"
height="2.0819444444444444in"}{width="3.2909722222222224in"
height="2.0819444444444444in"}
Figure 5.3.2-11: Operator A's DL geometry [9] Figure 5.3.2-12: Operator B's UL
geometry [9]
##### **Scenario 2: Macro to Macro cell adjacent channel case:**
{#scenario-2-macro-to-macro-cell-adjacent-channel-case-1 .H6}
{width="3.0659722222222223in" height="2.097916666666667in"}
{width="3.1743055555555557in" height="2.0388888888888888in"}
Figure 5.3.2-13: DL geometry of Operator A [3] Figure 5.3.2-14: UL geometry of
Operator B [3]
{width="3.296527777777778in"
height="2.4569444444444444in"}{width="3.109722222222222in"
height="2.4555555555555557in"}
Figure 5.3.2-15: Scenario 2 -- DL SINR [4] Figure 5.3.2-16: Scenario 2 \-- UL
SINR [4]
{width="3.225in" height="2.6277777777777778in"}{width="3.220833333333333in"
height="2.6131944444444444in"}
Figure 5.3.2-17. Macro downlink geometry [6] Figure 5.3.2-18. Macro uplink
geometry [6]
{width="3.0659722222222223in"
height="2.5569444444444445in"}{width="3.088888888888889in" height="2.55625in"}
Figure 5.3.2-19: Victim (Operator A) Figure 5.3.2-20: Victim (Operator B)\ DL
geometry [7] UL geometry [7]
Table 5.3.2-3: Operator B's UL cell average and cell edge throughput loss
compared to the baseline [7]
* * *
Scenario Victim cell average UL throughput loss Victim cell edge (5%) UL
throughput loss 2 -100% -100%
* * *
##### **Observations for Scenario 1:** {#observations-for-scenario-1 .H6}
\- The DL geometry of the pico network improves by about 3-4 dB if the Macro
network is using UL, compared to the baseline in which the Macro network is
using DL.
\- The Macro network sees about 5 dB degradation in the UL geometry when the
pico network is using DL.
##### **Observations for Scenario 2:** {#observations-for-scenario-2 .H6}
\- The DL geometry of Macro UEs of Operator A is almost the same irrespective
of the Macro network of Operator B is using UL or DL.
\- The UL geometry of Macro UEs of Operator B is significantly decreased if
the Macro network of Operator A is using DL, compared to the baseline in which
the Macro network of Operator A is using UL.
##### **Conclusion:** {#conclusion .H6}
\- From the study results, it is observed there is a coexistence issue of
deploying the new TDD UL/DL configuration 10:0:0/9:1:0 in a channel that is
adjacent to another channel that uses different TDD UL/DL configuration
without adopting any interference mitigation scheme.
\- In the evaluated scenarios, the observed BS-to-BS interference from pico
cell in the Macro-pico adjacent channel scenario is less than the BS-to-BS
interference from Macro cell in the Macro-Macro adjacent channel scenario.
## 5.4 Unsynchronized operation
The below is excerpted from 6.6.3.3.16 in TS 36.101.
\--------------------------------------------------------Start of
6.6.3.3.16------------------------------------------------------------------
6.6.3.3.16 Minimum requirement (network signalled value \"NS_22\")
When \"NS 22\" is indicated in the cell, the power of any UE emission shall
not exceed the levels specified in Table 6.6.3.3.16-1. This requirement also
applies for the frequency ranges that are less than F~OOB~ (MHz) in Table
6.6.3.1-1 from the edge of the channel bandwidth.
Table 6.6.3.3.16-1: Additional requirement
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Frequency band | Channel bandwidth / | MBW | | | Spectrum emission limit | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | | 5, 10, 15, 20 MHz | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | 3400 ≤ f ≤ 3800 | -23 (Note 1, Note 3) | 5 MHz | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | | -40 (Note 2) | 1 MHz | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | NOTE 1: This requirement | | | | applies within an offset | | | | between 5 MHz and 25 MHz | | | | from the lower and from the | | | | upper edge of the channel | | | | bandwidth. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This requirement | | | | applies from 3400 MHz up to | | | | 25 MHz below the lower | | | | E-UTRA channel edge and | | | | from 25 MHz above the upper | | | | E-UTRA channel edge up to | | | | 3800 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: This emission limit | | | | might imply risk of harmful | | | | interference to UE(s) | | | | operating in the protected | | | | operating band | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
\--------------------------------------------------------End of
6.6.3.3.16------------------------------------------------------------------
For Band 42 and Band 43, the current 3GPP specification of TS 36.101 says that
when UEs supporting Band 42 and/or Band 43 receives the NS_22 from the eNB,
they shall meet the above requirement with 5 MHz offset from the both edges of
a channel bandwidth and general spectrum emission mask and UTRA ACLR 1 within
the adjacent 5 MHz region. In addition, it is allowed for the UEs to meet the
requirement to utilize up to 5 dB power back off (A-MPR) according to Table
6.2.4-17 specified in TS 36.101. Note that the requirement has not included
intra band contiguous CA case so far.
The above requirement was introduced to address UE-UE co-existence for Band
42&43 under the network where adjacent operators networks are not synchronized
and/or do not use the same UL/DL TD-LTE configuration each other.
From the above, time synchronization and/or the same UL/DL configuration usage
between operators are essential for TD-LTE operation.
# 6 Evaluation of possible additional TDD configuration(s)
## 6.1 Scenarios
**Performance Evaluation Set 1**
The purpose for this performance study is to evaluate throughput gain from
using the possible new LTE TDD configurations (10:0:0 and 9:1:0) in a scenario
where no adjacent channel interference is present (e.g. operators sharing the
same frequency band use same TDD UL/DL configuration).
A. Scenario:
i. Deployment scenario: SCE scenario 2a (from TR36.872)
ii. Throughput measurement: Downlink packet throughput
iii. PCell:
1\. Carrier frequency: 2.0GHz
2\. Channel bandwidth: 10MHz
3\. Duplex mode: FDD
iv. SCell:
1\. Carrier frequency: 3.5GHz
2\. Channel bandwidth: 10MHz
3\. Case 1: TDD UL/DL configuration #5 (8:1:1) with special configuration 4 as
baseline performance
4\. Case 2: New TDD UL/DL configuration (10:0:0)
B. Traffic model: High traffic load case (FTP traffic model)
C. Channel reciprocity and channel sounding error modelling are not applicable
to Case 2.
D. Ratio of CA and non-CA capable UEs: 1:1 and 1:0
E. Performance metric:
i. 5%, 50% and 95%-tile of packet throughput (aggregated between PCell and
SCell)
Note that, the performance gains from using the possible new TDD
configurations 10:0:0 and 9:1:0 are expected to be similar.
**Performance Evaluation Set 2**
The following scenarios are selected to evaluate throughput impact from using
the possible new LTE TDD configurations (10:0:0 and 9:1:0) in a scenario with
intra-band adjacent LTE TDD operations using different TDD UL/DL
configurations.
A. Scenarios:
i. Scenario 1:
1\. Operator_A: SCell: small cell (outdoor pico) (PCell is a standalone cell
on another frequency band)
a. Carrier frequency: 2.7GHz
b. Channel bandwidth: 10MHz
c. Duplex mode:
\- Case 1: TDD UL/DL configuration 2 with special configuration 4
\- Case 2: TDD UL/DL configuration 5 with special configuration 4
\- Case 3: New TDD UL/DL configurations (10:0:0)
2\. Operator_B: Standalone Macro cell
a. Carrier frequency: 2.7GHz
b. Channel bandwidth: 10MHz
c. Duplex mode: TDD UL/DL configuration 2 with special configuration 4
ii. Scenario 2:
1\. Operator_A: SCell: Macro cell (PCell is a standalone cell on another
frequency band)
a. Carrier frequency: 2.7GHz
b. Channel bandwidth: 10MHz
c. Duplex mode:
\- Case 1: TDD UL/DL configuration 2 with special configuration 4
\- Case 2: TDD UL/DL configuration 5 with special configuration 4
\- Case 3: New TDD UL/DL configurations (10:0:0)
2\. Operator_B: Standalone Macro cell
a. Carrier frequency: 2.7GHz
b. Channel bandwidth: 10MHz
c. Duplex mode: TDD UL/DL configuration 2 with special configuration 4
B. Evaluation methodology: System level simulation to evaluate the performance
of Operator_A (in DL only) and Operator_B (in UL only) for both scenarios.
C. Traffic model: Non-full buffer model (High traffic load)
D. PCell is not modelled in the simulations.
Note that, the performance impact from using the possible new TDD
configurations 10:0:0 and 9:1:0 is expected to be similar.
## 6.2 Intra-operator synchronization aspects
For both the existing and new TDD UL-DL configurations, for an operator
deploying network on a carrier within a given TDD band, the base-stations of
the carrier need to be time synchronized irrespective of whether or not the
operator only uses the downlink subframes and DwPTS for downlink traffic on
the carrier, i.e., uplink transmission does not occur. If time synchronisation
within a single operator is not achieved, the current Cell phase
synchronization accuracy requriements are not met. Furthermore, the benefits
of advanced feature such as (F)eICIC, NAICS, MBSFN, small cell on/off with
discovery cannot be achieved.
## 6.3 Evaluation results of Performance Evaluation Set 1
The UE throughput gains of a new TDD UL/DL configuration of 10:0 (Case 2) over
TDD UL/DL configuration 5 (Case 1) are summarized in Table 6.3-1 and 6.3-2 for
4 and 10 small cells per macro cell, respectively.
Table 6.3-1: UE throughput gains of new TDD UL/DL configuration of 10:0 over
TDD UL/DL configuration 5 for 4 small cells per macro cell
* * *
Source UE throughput gains (%) Ratio of CA UE and non-CA UEs Packet arrival
rate (files/s/macro) Packet drop ratio (%) Resource utilizations for
macro/small cells (%)  
5% 50% 95% Mean Case 1 Case 2 Case 1 Case 2 1 (RP-150607) 3.70 6.87 7.33 7.30
1:0 2 - - 65.88/10.59 64.28/9.67 3.17 7.00 8.75 7.87 1:0 3 - - 84.99/19.83
84.27/18.27 1.25 6.06 9.62 8.09 1:0 4 - - 93.80/30.19 93.54/29.18 2
(RP-150952) -77.28 -60.87 25.58 - 1:1 1.6 0.28 12.18 68.18/42.69 97.75/14.42
-43.22 -22.22 41.86 - 1:1 2.4 1.55 19.54 88.18/63.61 99.22/24.12 -3.94 14.39
16.53 - 1:0 1.8 - - 94.81/27.30 96.27/26.04 3 (RP-151526) 10.67 8.31 12.67
8.85 1:0 1 2.91 3.33 50.57/20.83 58.80/18.07 12.43 16.25 13.14 13.57 1:0 1.2
4.40 5.39 70.87/31.52 77.33/26.3 -85.82 -78.52 12.67 -25.88 1:1 1 3.18 39.80
37.14/23.31 97.67/6.77
* * *
Table 6.3-2: UE throughput gains of new TDD UL/DL configuration of 10:0 over
TDD UL/DL configuration 5 for 10 small cells per macro cell
* * *
Source UE throughput gains (%) Ratio of CA UE and non-CA UEs Packet arrival
rate (files/s/macro) Packet drop ratio (%) Resource utilizations for
macro/small cells (%)  
5% 50% 95% Mean Case 1 Case 2 Case 1 Case 2 4 (RP-150986) 58.65 42.94 17.27 -
1:0 13 - - 53.78/66.97 52.14/56.50
* * *
Note:
\- Offset values for RSRQ-based cell association between macro and small cell
layers:\ 4 dB: source 4\ 0 dB: sources 1, 2, 3;
\- Interference from CRS:\ Modelled: sources 2, 4\ Not modelled: sources 1, 3;
\- Mobility aspects are not considered for all the evaluations.
It is observed from evaluation results that
\- For 4 small cells per macro cell:
\- One source shows that, when the ratio of CA and non-CA UEs is 1:1 and two
cells are available for an operator, a new TDD UL/DL configuration of 10:0
exhibits 50% UE throughput performance losses of -60.87% to -22.22% and
increased packet drop ratio over TDD UL/DL configuration 5.
\- The performance losses may be alleviated if more than two cells are
available for an operator.
\- Three sources show that, when the ratio of CA and non-CA UEs is 1:0, a new
TDD UL/DL configuration of 10:0 provides 50% UE throughput gains of 6.06% to
16.25% over TDD UL/DL configuration 5.
\- For 10 small cells per macro cel:
\- One source shows that, when the ratio of CA and non-CA UEs is 1:0, a new
TDD UL/DL configuration of 10:0 provides 50% UE throughput gains of 42.94%
over TDD UL/DL configuration 5.
## 6.4 Summary of performance set 2 evaluations
### 6.4.1 Scenario 1
Table 6.4.1-1: Evaluation results from source 1 (RP-150608)
* * *
                        Operator A (DL, Mbps)   Operator B(UL, Mbps)
λDL λUL Avg. 5% 50% 95% RU Packet drop ratio Avg. 5% 50% 95% RU Packet drop
ratio
1 0.25 Case 1 24.83\ 13.25\ 27.97\ 28.17\ 16% 0% 4.49\ 1.97\ 4.46\ 7.28\ 22%
0% (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%)
               Case 2   29.01\                  16.26\                 32.26\       32.52\      14%   0%                  3.84\       1.62\       3.80\       6.47\       26%   0%
                        (+16.83%)               (+22.72%)              (+15.34%)    (+15.44%)                             (-14.48%)   (-17.77%)   (-14.80%)   (-11.13%)
               Case 3   33.01\                  19.05\                 36.36\       36.36\      12%   0%                  3.38\       1.34\       3.31\       5.78\       29%   0%
                        (+32.94%)               (+43.77%)              (+30.00%)    (+29.07%)                             (-24.72%)   (-31.98%)   (-25.78%)   (-20.60%)
2 0.25 Case 1 20.83\ 6.36\ 23.67\ 28.17\ 36% 0% 4.49\ 1.97\ 4.46\ 7.28\ 22% 0%
(0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%)
               Case 2   25.46\                  9.32\                  29.41\       32.52\      30%   0%                  3.43\       1.40\       3.37\       5.81\       29%   0%
                        (+22.23%)               (+46.54%)              (+24.25%)    (+15.44%)                             (-23.61%)   (-28.93%)   (-24.44%)   (-20.19%)
               Case 3   29.83\                  12.46\                 35.71\       36.36\      26%   0%                  2.67\       0.93\       2.54\       4.77\       36%   0%
                        (+43.21%)               (+95.91%)              (+50.87%)    (+29.07%)                             (-40.53%)   (-52.79%)   (-43.05%)   (-34.48%)
3 0.25 Case 1 13.21\ 1.98\ 11.03\ 28.17\ 68% 1% 4.49\ 1.97\ 4.46\ 7.28\ 22% 0%
(0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%)
               Case 2   19.51\                  3.20\                  19.05\       32.52\      54%   0%                  2.92\       1.09\       2.84\       5.15\       33%   0%
                        (+47.69%)               (+61.62%)              (+72.71%)    (+15.44%)                             (-34.97%)   (-44.67%)   (-36.32%)   (-29.26%)
               Case 3   24.49\                  5.38\                  25.97\       36.36\      45%   0%                  2.08\       0.58\       1.90\       4.14\       44%   1%
                        (+85.39%)               (+171.72%)             (+135.45%)   (+29.07%)                             (-53.67%)   (-70.56%)   (-57.40%)   (-43.13%)
1 0.5 Case 1 24.83\ 13.25\ 27.97\ 28.17\ 16% 0% 1.88\ 0.51\ 1.53\ 4.28\ 71% 2%
(0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%)
               Case 2   29.09\                  16.39\                 32.26\       32.52\      14%   0%                  1.61\       0.47\       1.27\       3.91\       76%   4%
                        (+17.16%)               (+23.70%)              (+15.34%)    (+15.44%)                             (-14.36%)   (-7.84%)    (-16.99%)   (-8.64%)
               Case 3   33.00\                  19.05\                 36.36\       36.36\      12%   0%                  1.45\       0.45\       1.12\       3.59\       79%   5%
                        (+32.90%)               (+43.77%)              (+30.00%)    (+29.07%)                             (-22.87%)   (-11.76%)   (-26.80%)   (-16.12%)
2 0.5 Case 1 20.83\ 6.36\ 23.67\ 28.17\ 36% 0% 1.88\ 0.51\ 1.53\ 4.28\ 71% 2%
(0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%)
               Case 2   25.48\                  9.30\                  29.41\       32.52\      30%   0%                  1.46\       0.45\       1.13\       3.60\       79%   5%
                        (+22.32%)               (+46.23%)              (+24.25%)    (+15.44%)                             (-22.34%)   (-11.76%)   (-26.14%)   (-15.89%)
               Case 3   29.79\                  12.35\                 35.71\       36.36\      26%   0%                  1.19\       0.41\       0.87\       3.06\       84%   10%
                        (+43.01%)               (+94.18%)              (+50.87%)    (+29.07%)                             (-36.70%)   (-19.61%)   (-43.14%)   (-28.50%)
3 0.5 Case 1 13.21\ 1.98\ 11.03\ 28.17\ 68% 1% 1.88\ 0.51\ 1.53\ 4.28\ 71% 2%
(0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%)
               Case 2   19.05\                  3.40\                  18.52\       32.52\      55%   0%                  1.19\       0.41\       0.87\       3.08\       85%   10%
                        (+44.21%)               (+71.72%)              (+67.91%)    (+15.44%)                             (-36.70%)   (-19.61%)   (-43.14%)   (-28.04%)
               Case 3   24.54\                  5.53\                  26.14\       36.36\      45%   0%                  0.99\       0.38\       0.69\       2.64\       88%   18%
                        (+85.77%)               (+179.29%)             (+136.99%)   (+29.07%)                             (-47.34%)   (-25.49%)   (-54.90%)   (-38.32%)
* * *
Note:
1) CRS interference is not modeled when a cell does not transmit PDSCH.
2) Dropped packets are not included in the packet throughput statistics.
Table 6.4.1-2: Evaluation results from source 2 (RP-150928)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ope | M | Case | Case | Case | | | | | rator | etric | 1 | 2 | 3 | | | | | | | (c | (c | (new | | | | | | | onfig | onfig | c | | | | | | | 2) | 5) | onfig | | | | | | | | | 10:0) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | P | Gain | P | Gain | P | Gain | | | | acket | com | acket | com | acket | com | | | | throu | pared | throu | pared | throu | pared | | | | ghput | to | ghput | to | ghput | to | | | | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | | | | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B | Mean | 2.108 | 0% | 1.098 | -48% | 1.016 | -52% | | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | 0.25 | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 1.152 | 0% | 0.622 | -46% | 0.544 | -53% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 2.034 | 0% | 1.016 | -50% | 0.978 | -52% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 3.294 | 0% | 1.890 | -43% | 1.887 | -43% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | 0.95% | N/A | 1 | N/A | 28% | N/A | | | acket | | | 9.40% | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | 4 | N/A | 6 | N/A | 7 | N/A | | | | 2.83% | | 8.46% | | 2.02% | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | Mean | 1 | 0% | 1 | 25% | 2 | 49% | | | | 4.125 | | 7.694 | | 0.976 | | | DL | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | 1.5 | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 1.533 | 0% | 2.298 | 50% | 2.693 | 76% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 1 | 0% | 1 | 27% | 1 | 57% | | | | 2.690 | | 6.150 | | 9.910 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 2 | 0% | 3 | 15% | 3 | 29% | | | | 6.570 | | 0.620 | | 4.300 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | 1.99% | N/A | 1.37% | N/A | 0.98% | N/A | | | acket | | | | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | 5 | N/A | 4 | N/A | 3 | N/A | | | | 1.26% | | 4.33% | | 9.46% | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Note:
1) CRS interference is not modeled when a cell does not transmit PDSCH.
2) Dropped packets are not included in the packet throughput statistics.
Table 6.4.1-3: Evaluation results from source 3 (RP-150694)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ope | M | Case | Case | Case | | | | | rator | etric | 1 | 2 | 3 | | | | | | | (c | (c | (new | | | | | | | onfig | onfig | c | | | | | | | 2) | 5) | onfig | | | | | | | | | 10:0) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | P | Gain | P | Gain | P | Gain | | | | acket | com | acket | com | acket | com | | | | throu | pared | throu | pared | throu | pared | | | | ghput | to | ghput | to | ghput | to | | | | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | | | | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B | Mean | | 0% | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 0.55 | 0% | 0.5 | -9% | 0.48 | -1 | | | | | | | | | 2.73% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 2.05 | 0% | 1.49 | -2 | 0.91 | -5 | | | | | | | 7.32% | | 5.61% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 3.54 | 0% | 2.65 | -2 | 2.2 | -3 | | | | | | | 5.14% | | 7.85% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | | N/A | | N/A | | N/A | | | acket | | | | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | | N/A | | N/A | | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | Mean | 22.87 | 0% | 27.92 | 22.01 | 33.00 | 44.4 | | | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 4.2 | 0% | 4.61 | 9.76 | 8.34 | 98.57 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 24.4 | 0% | 29.5 | 20.91 | 34.6 | 41.8 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 38.8 | 0% | 44.9 | 15.72 | 50.9 | 31.19 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | | N/A | | N/A | | N/A | | | acket | | | | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | | N/A | | N/A | | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 6.4.1-4: Evaluation results from source 4 (RP-150776)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ope | M | Case | Case | Case | | | | | rator | etric | 1 | 2 | 3 | | | | | | | (c | (c | (new | | | | | | | onfig | onfig | c | | | | | | | 2) | 5) | onfig | | | | | | | | | 10:0) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | P | Gain | P | Gain | P | Gain | | | | acket | com | acket | com | acket | com | | | | throu | pared | throu | pared | throu | pared | | | | ghput | to | ghput | to | ghput | to | | | | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | | | | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B | Mean | 3.883 | 0% | 2.422 | -3 | 2.193 | -4 | | | | | | | 7.62% | | 3.54% | | UL | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | 0.25 | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 1.600 | 0% | 0.902 | -4 | 0.783 | -5 | | | | | | | 3.62% | | 1.07% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 3.894 | 0% | 2.301 | -4 | 2.077 | -4 | | | | | | | 0.90% | | 6.65% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 6.024 | 0% | 4.411 | -2 | 4.039 | -3 | | | | | | | 6.77% | | 2.94% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | 0.00 | N/A | 0.38 | N/A | 0.59 | N/A | | | acket | | | | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | 26.39 | N/A | 39.15 | N/A | 42.04 | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | Mean | 2 | 0% | 2 | 1 | 2 | 2 | | | | 1.232 | | 4.583 | 5.78% | 7.418 | 9.14% | | DL | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 9.776 | 0% | 1 | 2 | 1 | 5 | | | | | | 2.642 | 9.32% | 4.787 | 1.26% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 2 | 0% | 2 | 1 | 2 | 2 | | | | 4.094 | | 6.947 | 1.84% | 9.681 | 3.19% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 2 | 0% | 2 | 1 | 3 | 2 | | | | 6.089 | | 9.898 | 4.60% | 3.301 | 7.64% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | 0.00 | N/A | 0.00 | N/A | 0.00 | N/A | | | acket | | | | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | 19.21 | N/A | 16.51 | N/A | 14.84 | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ope | M | Case | Case | Case | | | | | rator | etric | 1 | 2 | 3 | | | | | | | (c | (c | (new | | | | | | | onfig | onfig | c | | | | | | | 2) | 5) | onfig | | | | | | | | | 10:0) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | P | Gain | P | Gain | P | Gain | | | | acket | com | acket | com | acket | com | | | | throu | pared | throu | pared | throu | pared | | | | ghput | to | ghput | to | ghput | to | | | | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | | | | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B | Mean | 2.543 | 0% | 1.410 | - | 1.265 | - | | | | | | | 44.55 | | 50.26 | | UL | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | 0.375 | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 0.865 | 0% | 0.555 | - | 0.544 | - | | | | | | | 35.84 | | 37.11 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 2.381 | 0% | 1.152 | - | 1.027 | - | | | | | | | 51.60 | | 56.85 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 4.859 | 0% | 3.081 | - | 2.711 | - | | | | | | | 36.60 | | 44.21 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | 0.22 | N/A | 14.17 | N/A | 20.08 | N/A | | | acket | | | | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | 50.12 | N/A | 71.77 | N/A | 75.32 | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | Mean | 1 | 0% | 2 | 22.92 | 2 | 38.12 | | | | 8.109 | | 2.259 | | 5.012 | | | DL | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | 1.5 | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 5.313 | 0% | 9.022 | 69.82 | 1 | 1 | | | | | | | | 1.011 | 07.26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 2 | 0% | 2 | 21.12 | 2 | 34.48 | | | | 1.005 | | 5.441 | | 8.248 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 2 | 0% | 2 | 16.55 | 3 | 28.57 | | | | 5.284 | | 9.468 | | 2.508 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | 0.01 | N/A | 0.00 | N/A | 0.00 | N/A | | | acket | | | | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | 33.03 | N/A | 26.69 | N/A | 23.86 | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Note:
1) CRS interference is not modeled when a cell does not transmit PDSCH.
2) Dropped packets are not included in the packet throughput statistics.
Table 6.4.1-5: Evaluation results from source 5 (RP-151528)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ope | M | Case | Case | Case | | | | | | rator | etric | 1 | 2 | 3 | | | | | | | | (c | (c | (new | | | | | | | | onfig | onfig | c | | | | | | | | 2) | 5) | onfig | | | | | | | | | | 10:0) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | P | Gain | P | Gain | P | Gain | Gain | | | | acket | com | acket | com | acket | com | com | | | | throu | pared | throu | pared | throu | pared | pared | | | | ghput | to | ghput | to | ghput | to | to | | | | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | Case | | | | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | 2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B | Mean | 3.24 | 0 | 2.29 | -2 | 1.32 | -5 | -4 | | | | | | | 9.19% | | 9.08% | 2.21% | | UL | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | | 0.6 | | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 0.57 | 0 | 0.29 | -4 | 0.11 | -8 | -6 | | | | | | | 8.57% | | 1.59% | 4.22% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 3.01 | 0 | 2.05 | -3 | 0.91 | -6 | -5 | | | | | | | 1.79% | | 9.63% | 5.48% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 6.35 | 0 | 5.41 | -1 | 3.67 | -4 | -3 | | | | | | | 4.86% | | 2.20% | 2.11% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | 1.41% | N/A | 2.57% | N/A | 5.04% | N/A | N/A | | | acket | | | | | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | 3 | N/A | 4 | N/A | 5 | N/A | N/A | | | | 0.52% | | 1.20% | | 6.54% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | Mean | 14.73 | 0 | 17.76 | 2 | 20.13 | 3 | 1 | | | | | | | 0.57% | | 6.70% | 3.38% | | DL | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | | 3.6 | | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 1.92 | 0 | 2.94 | 5 | 3.11 | 6 | 5.75% | | | | | | | 3.31% | | 2.13% | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 12.50 | 0 | 15.94 | 2 | 18.60 | 4 | 1 | | | | | | | 7.49% | | 8.84% | 6.74% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 36.04 | 0 | 40.40 | 1 | 43.96 | 2 | 8.79% | | | | | | | 2.12% | | 1.98% | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | 3.22% | N/A | 2.32% | N/A | 1.38% | N/A | N/A | | | acket | | | | | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | 5 | N/A | 6 | N/A | 6 | N/A | N/A | | | | 8.42% | | 0.26% | | 2.86% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Note:
3) CRS interference is not modeled when a cell does not transmit PDSCH.
Dropped packets are not included in the packet throughput statistics.
### 6.4.2 Scenario 2
Table 6.4.2-1: Evaluation results from source 1 (RP-150608)
* * *
                        Operator A (DL, Mbps)   Operator B(UL, Mbps)
λDL λUL Avg. 5% 50% 95% RU Packet drop ratio Avg. 5% 50% 95% RU Packet drop
ratio
0.5 0.25 Case 1 22.78\ 11.85\ 23.67\ 28.17\ 9% 0% 4.52\ 2.00\ 4.50\ 7.28\ 22%
0% (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%)
               Case 2   26.73\                  14.65\                 27.03\       32.52\      8%    0%                  1.91\       0.67\       1.78\       3.60\       46%   0%
                        (+17.34%)               (+23.63%)              (+14.20%)    (+15.44%)                             (-57.74%)   (-66.50%)   (-60.44%)   (-50.55%)
               Case 3   30.52\                  17.47\                 30.30\       36.36\      7%    0%                  0.66\       0.32\       0.54\       1.39\       81%   20%
                        (+33.98%)               (+47.43%)              (+28.01%)    (+29.07%)                             (-85.40%)   (-84.00%)   (-88.00%)   (-80.91%)
1 0.25 Case 1 18.03\ 6.34\ 18.18\ 28.17\ 23% 0% 4.52\ 2.00\ 4.50\ 7.28\ 22% 0%
(0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%)
               Case 2   22.57\                  8.89\                  23.67\       32.52\      19%   0%                  1.44\       0.49\       1.29\       2.79\       56%   1%
                        (+25.18%)               (+40.22%)              (+30.20%)    (+15.44%)                             (-68.14%)   (-75.50%)   (-71.33%)   (-61.68%)
               Case 3   26.83\                  11.43\                 28.78\       36.36\      16%   0%                  0.32\       0.21\       0.29\       0.52\       91%   58%
                        (+48.81%)               (+80.28%)              (+58.31%)    (+29.07%)                             (-92.92%)   (-89.50%)   (-93.56%)   (-92.86%)
1.5 0.25 Case 1 10.16\ 2.10\ 7.76\ 25.26\ 55% 0% 4.52\ 2.00\ 4.50\ 7.28\ 22%
0% (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%)
               Case 2   15.49\                  4.16\                  13.94\       32.26\      40%   0%                  1.37\       0.47\       1.23\       2.68\       58%   2%
                        (+52.46%)               (+98.10%)              (+79.64%)    (+27.71%)                             (-69.69%)   (-76.50%)   (-72.67%)   (-63.19%)
               Case 3   20.62\                  6.46\                  19.90\       36.36\      30%   0%                  0.24\       0.18\       0.22\       0.30\       93%   70%
                        (+102.95%)              (+207.62%)             (+156.44%)   (+43.94%)                             (-94.69%)   (-91.00%)   (-95.11%)   (-95.88%)
0.5 0.5 Case 1 22.78\ 11.85\ 23.67\ 28.17\ 9% 0% 1.99\ 0.55\ 1.65\ 4.41\ 69%
1% (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%)
               Case 2   26.64\                  14.76\                 27.03\       32.52\      8%    0%                  0.82\       0.37\       0.59\       2.07\       91%   21%
                        (+16.94%)               (+24.56%)              (+14.20%)    (+15.44%)                             (-58.79%)   (-32.73%)   (-64.24%)   (-53.06%)
               Case 3   30.54\                  17.54\                 30.30\       36.36\      7%    0%                  0.47\       0.28\       0.39\       0.93\       97%   53%
                        (+34.06%)               (+48.02%)              (+28.01%)    (+29.07%)                             (-76.38%)   (-49.09%)   (-76.36%)   (-78.91%)
1 0.5 Case 1 18.03\ 6.34\ 18.18\ 28.17\ 23% 0% 1.99\ 0.55\ 1.65\ 4.41\ 69% 1%
(0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%)
               Case 2   22.34\                  8.49\                  23.39\       32.52\      19%   0%                  0.67\       0.35\       0.50\       1.63\       94%   31%
                        (+23.90%)               (+33.91%)              (+28.66%)    (+15.44%)                             (-66.33%)   (-36.36%)   (-69.70%)   (-63.04%)
               Case 3   26.83\                  11.33\                 28.99\       36.36\      16%   0%                  0.28\       0.20\       0.26\       0.43\       98%   78%
                        (+48.81%)               (+78.71%)              (+59.46%)    (+29.07%)                             (-85.93%)   (-63.64%)   (-84.24%)   (-90.25%)
1.5 0.5 Case 1 10.16\ 2.10\ 7.76\ 25.26\ 55% 0% 1.99\ 0.55\ 1.65\ 4.41\ 69% 1%
(0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (0.00%)
               Case 2   15.61\                  4.16\                  14.04\       32.26\      39%   0%                  0.65\       0.34\       0.49\       1.61\       94%   32%
                        (+53.64%)               (+98.10%)              (+80.93%)    (+27.71%)                             (-67.34%)   (-38.18%)   (-70.30%)   (-63.49%)
               Case 3   20.40\                  6.33\                  19.61\       36.36\      31%   0%                  0.22\       0.18\       0.20\       0.29\       98%   85%
                        (+100.79%)              (+201.43%)             (+152.71%)   (+43.94%)                             (-88.94%)   (-67.27%)   (-87.88%)   (-93.42%)
* * *
Table 6.4.2-2: Evaluation results from source 2 (RP-150928)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ope | M | Case | Case | Case | | | | | rator | etric | 1 | 2 | 3 | | | | | | | (c | (c | (new | | | | | | | onfig | onfig | c | | | | | | | 2) | 5) | onfig | | | | | | | | | 10:0) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | P | Gain | P | Gain | P | Gain | | | | acket | com | acket | com | acket | com | | | | throu | pared | throu | pared | throu | pared | | | | ghput | to | ghput | to | ghput | to | | | | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | | | | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B | Mean | 1.964 | 0% | 0.905 | -54% | 1.525 | -22% | | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | 0.25 | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 1.144 | 0% | 0.567 | -50% | 0.526 | -54% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 1.882 | 0% | 0.825 | -56% | 2.010 | 7% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 3.135 | 0% | 1.499 | -52% | 3.895 | 24% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | 2.49% | N/A | 4 | N/A | 9 | N/A | | | acket | | | 9.12% | | 7.11% | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | 3 | N/A | 6 | N/A | 70.5% | N/A | | | | 8.16% | | 4.07% | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | Mean | 1 | 0% | 1 | 36% | 1 | 70% | | | | 0.311 | | 4.032 | | 7.569 | | | DL | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 3.296 | 0% | 5.557 | 69% | 6.596 | 100% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 1 | 0% | 1 | 40% | 1 | 76% | | | | 0.530 | | 4.750 | | 8.560 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 2 | 0% | 2 | 26% | 3 | 42% | | | | 1.710 | | 7.280 | | 0.890 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | 0.42% | N/A | 0.14% | N/A | 0.01% | N/A | | | acket | | | | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | 3 | N/A | 3 | N/A | 2 | N/A | | | | 8.27% | | 0.07% | | 4.92% | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Note:
1) CRS interference is not modeled when a cell does not transmit PDSCH.
2) Dropped packets are not included in the packet throughput statistics.
Table 6.4.2-3: Evaluation results from source 3 (RP-150694)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ope | M | Case | Case | Case | | | | | rator | etric | 1 | 2 | 3 | | | | | | | (c | (c | (new | | | | | | | onfig | onfig | c | | | | | | | 2) | 5) | onfig | | | | | | | | | 10:0) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | P | Gain | P | Gain | P | Gain | | | | acket | com | acket | com | acket | com | | | | throu | pared | throu | pared | throu | pared | | | | ghput | to | ghput | to | ghput | to | | | | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | (Mbi | Case | | | | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | ts/s) | 1 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B | Mean | 0.024 | 0% | 0 | -5 | 0 | -100% | | | | | | .0121 | 0.01% | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | 0.25 | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 0.013 | 0% | 0 | -4 | 0 | -100% | | | | | | .0067 | 9.84% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 0.023 | 0% | 0 | - | 0 | -100% | | | | | | .0117 | 50.0% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 0.038 | 0% | 0 | -4 | 0 | -100% | | | | | | .0192 | 9.74% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | | N/A | | N/A | | N/A | | | acket | | | | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | | N/A | | N/A | | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | Mean | 0.54 | 0% | 0.67 | 2 | 0.84 | 5 | | | | | | | 5.19% | | 5.56% | | DL | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | 0.5 | | | | | | | | | pack | | | | | | | | | ets/s | | | | | | | | | /cell | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 0.13 | 0% | 0.14 | 15.2% | 0.16 | 29.6% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | 0.48 | 0% | 0.56 | 1 | 0.63 | 2 | | | | | | | 5.08% | | 9.96% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 95% | 1.11 | 0% | 1.31 | 1 | 1.49 | 3 | | | | | | | 8.01% | | 4.23% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | | N/A | | N/A | | N/A | | | acket | | | | | | | | | drop | | | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU | | N/A | | N/A | | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 6.4.3 Observations from performance set 2
The following is a summary of the results in sections 6.4.1 and 6.4.2:
**[For UL performance of Operator B:]{.underline}**
\- For scenario 1 (five sources),
\- in case Operator B uses TDD UL/DL configuration 2 and Operator A uses TDD
UL/DL configuration 5,
\- the 5% packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 7% -- 49%
\- the 50% packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 14% -- 51%
\- the 95% packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 8% -- 43%
\- the mean packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 14% -- 48%
\- the range of packet drop ratio is 0% -- 20%
\- in case Operator B uses TDD UL/DL configuration 2 and Operator A uses a new
configuration of 10:0,
\- the 5% packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 11% -- 82%
\- the 50% packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 25% -- 70%
\- the 95% packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 16% -- 44%
\- the mean packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 24% -- 59%
\- the range of packet drop ratio is 0% -- 28%
\- For scenario 2 (from three sources),
\- in case Operator B uses TDD UL/DL configuration 2 and Operator A uses TDD
UL/DL configuration 5,
\- the 5% packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 33% -- 75%
\- the 50% packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 50% -- 71%
\- the 95% packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 50% -- 63%
\- the mean packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 50% -- 69%
\- the range of packet drop ratio is by 0% -- 50%
\- in case Operator B uses TDD UL/DL configuration 2 and Operator A uses a new
configuration of 10:0,
\- the 5% packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 49% -- 100%
\- the 50% packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 76% -- 100%
\- the 95% packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 79% -- 100%
\- the mean packet throughput of Operator B is degraded by 22% -- 100%
\- the range of packet drop ratio is 20% -- 97%
**[For DL performance of Operator A:]{.underline}**
\- For scenario 1 (from five sources),
\- comparing the DL performance of Operator A using TDD UL/DL configuration 5
vs. TDD UL/DL configuration 2,
\- the 5% packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 9% -- 72%
\- the 50% packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 11% -- 73%
\- the 95% packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 12% --17%
\- the mean packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 16% -- 47%
\- comparing the DL performance of Operator A using a new TDD UL/DL
configuration of 10:0 vs. TDD UL/DL configuration 2,
\- the 5% packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 43% -- 179%
\- the 50% packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 15% -- 72%
\- the 95% packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 22% -- 31%
\- the mean packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 29% -- 86%
\- For scenario 2 (from three sources),
\- comparing the DL performance of Operator A using TDD UL/DL configuration 5
vs. TDD UL/DL configuration 2,
\- the 5% packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 15% -- 98%
\- the 50% packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 14% -- 80%
\- the 95% packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 15% -- 27%
\- the mean packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 17% -- 54%
\- comparing the DL performance of Operator A using a new TDD UL/DL
configuration of 10:0 vs. TDD UL/DL configuration 2,
\- the 5% packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 29% -- 207%
\- the 50% packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 28% -- 156%
\- the 95% packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 23% -- 43%
\- the mean packet throughput of Operator A is improved by 33% -- 102%
**Observation:**
Based on the evaluation results in sections 6.4.1 and 6.4.2, the following
observations can be made:
\- From five sources, for the macro-pico adjacent channel scenario, the uplink
performance of the macro network is degraded if the pico network uses a
downlink heavier UL/DL configuration than the macro network:
\- the 50% uplink packet throughput of the macro network is degraded by 14% --
51% if the macro network uses TDD configuration 2 and the pico network uses
TDD configuration 5;
\- the 50% uplink packet throughput of the macro network is degraded by 25% --
70% if the macro network uses TDD configuration 2 and the pico network uses
the new TDD configuration of 10:0:0.
\- From five sources, for the macro-pico adjacent channel scenario, the
downlink performance of the pico network is improved if the pico network uses
a UL/DL configuration with more DL subframes:
\- the 50% downlink packet throughput of the pico network is increased by 11%
-- 73% if the pico network uses TDD configuration 5 compared to configuration
2;
\- the 50% downlink packet throughput of the pico network is increased by 15%
-- 72% if the pico network uses the new TDD configuration of 10:0:0 compared
to configuration 2.
\- From three sources, for the macro-macro adjacent channel scenario, the
uplink performance of victim macro network is degraded if the aggressor macro
network uses a downlink heavier UL/DL configuration than the victim macro
network:
\- the 50% uplink packet throughput of the victim macro network is degraded by
50% -- 71% if the aggressor macro network uses TDD configuration 2 and the
victim macro network uses TDD configuration 5;
\- the 50% uplink packet throughput of the victim macro network is degraded by
76% -- 100% if the aggressor macro network uses TDD configuration 2 and the
victim macro network uses the new TDD configuration of 10:0:0.
\- From three sources, for the macro-macro adjacent channel scenario, the
downlink performance of the aggressor macro network is improved if the
aggressor macro network uses a UL/DL configuration with more DL subframes:
\- the 50% downlink packet throughput of the aggressor macro network is
increased by 14% -- 80% if the aggressor macro network uses TDD configuration
5 compared to configuration 2;
\- the 50% downlink packet throughput of the aggressor macro network is
increased by 28% -- 156% if the aggressor macro network uses the new TDD
configuration of 10:0:0 compared to configuration 2.
\- From the study results, for the non-full buffer traffic case, it is
observed there is a coexistence issue resulting in performance loss of
deploying the new TDD UL/DL configuration 10:0:0/9:1:0 in a channel that is
adjacent to another channel that uses different TDD UL/DL configuration
without adopting any interference mitigation scheme.
## 6.5 Possible solutions to mitigate potential drawbacks of the additional
TDD configuration(s)
This section describes possible solutions to mitigate potential drawbacks of
the additional TDD configuration(s) on a high level without detailed study. If
specified, the remaining details of the described methods would have to be
further clarified.
## 6.5.1 Co-existence
Operating LTE TDD with both DL and UL transmissions and LTE TDD with DL only
transmissions on adjacent carriers of the same frequency band could create co-
existence issues and thus, degrade the LTE TDD with DL/UL operations.
### 6.5.1.1 UE/eNB sensing
One technical solution for avoiding potential co-existence issues between LTE
TDD with DL only and LTE TDD with DL/UL operations on the same frequency band
without prior deployment knowledge in given region or country, would be a
sensing based method, which consists of the following 2 steps of sensing and
adapting:
1\. Sensing of adjacent carriers could be done using one or multiple of the
following alternatives:
1\. UEs supporting LTE TDD DL only configurations and indicated or configured
LTE TDD DL only cell for DL transmission (e.g. used with aggregated LTE FDD
PCell) could scan neighboring carrier frequencies of the same frequency band
to see if there are other LTE TDD cells deployed, which are using LTE TDD with
DL/UL operations. Whether or not such LTE TDD cells exist would be reported to
the network by the UE.
2\. eNBs intending to use LTE TDD with DL transmission could sense and detect
neighbor eNBs on adjacent carriers by measuring, e.g., PSS/SSS/CRS before
starting up and occasionally during operation.
2\. Having sensed adjacent carriers for neighboring LTE TDD cell one or
multiple of the following adaptations could be taken:
1\. After LTE TDD with DL/UL operations is reported to an eNB, the eNB would
automatically stop any LTE TDD DL only operations in the proximity of those
frequencies and frequency bands and geographical areas. In addition, the
mechanism could include for the UE to automatically stop or reject DL only
operations.
2\. If an eNB intending to use LTE TDD with DL only operations detects
neighbor eNB(s) it could adapt / lower its transmission power, e.g., on all
subframes or only on UL subframes of neighbor eNB(s) accordingly.
3\. If an eNB intending to use LTE TDD with DL only operations detects very
strong neighbor eNB(s) it could adopt the TDD configuration to the same UL/DL
configuration of the neighbor eNB. This scheme would result in less
specification impact than adapting / lowering its transmission power.
4\. If an eNB intending to use LTE TDD with DL only operations detects
neighbor eNB(s) it could reduce the impact on the neighbor's uplink by
improving the ACLR limit, at least in those TTIs which are assigned to the
uplink in the adjacent channel.
The detailed measurement/reporting frequency configured will impact to how
quickly and effectively a new TDD cell is detected on the neighboring
frequencies by the UE, and the complexity involved in the detection procedure.
Additionally, , the detection time and effectiveness are also dependent on the
number of UEs in the cell making measurements. The frequency for the
measurements is not concluded as part of the study. When a new TDD cell (not
using any of the new configurations) is activated in the victim network, it
may take time before being detected after activation. After that the aggressor
network is assumed to have knowledge for that location of the interference
issue (and thus as one option will not use either of the new
configurations).In the eNB/UE sensing method, in the condition that the eNB/UE
sensing mechanism detects potential co-existence situation (expressed as
detecting existing TDD configuration on the same frequencies and in the same
geographical area), then the new LTE TDD configuration, i.e. 10:0:0 and 9:1:0
(DL:Sp:UL), cannot be applied in the above mentioned option and thus the
performance benefit of the new LTE TDD configuration is not available.
In some scenarios, like rooftop eNB installations, there can be eNB to eNB
interference which may not be always detected by UE sensing but would need to
be complemented in such a scenario by eNB sensing.
Complexity analyses of UE based sensing solution:
This neighbor carrier scanning in the UE based sensing could be similar to the
current UE scanning used for PLMN selection.
\- In the PLMN selection the UE has to scan all RF channels in the E-UTRA
bands according to its capabilities to find available PLMNs and search for the
strongest cell on each carrier and read its system information for the PLMN
selection.
\- In these UE sensing mechanisms for co-existence between LTE TDD DL only and
LTE TDD DL/UL configurations the UE does not need to scan all the E-UTRA
bands. Instead only part of a given E-UTRA frequency band and potentially also
some LTE carriers outside the given frequency band would need to be scanned in
order to ensure that there are no LTE TDD DL/UL operations in neighboring
carriers to the carrier with LTE TDD DL only configuration is planned to be
activated. Carriers outside the given frequency band would only need to be
scanned if LTE TDD DL only operations are planned to be activated at the edge
of the band.
\- For the purposes of the new co-existence solutions the UE is not required
to read the system information of these scanned carrier frequencies like in
the PLMN selection but instead potentially more optimized detection for
detecting LTE TDD DL/UL deployment on adjacent carrier could be sufficient.
Naturally the detection could also be done by reading system information if
that is seen smaller effort and change from the UE implementation point of
view.
\- The current L1 hardware and algorithms are the basis of implementation for
the resulting new measurement assuming current RRM and ANR functionality could
be used in the UE. For UEs in connected mode the assumption is that PCell
needs to ensure that measurement gaps are provided.
\- As noted earlier the frequency of the measurements/reporting is not
concluded in the study (and will have impact on the final implementation
complexity)
The existing UEs are also required to be able to search for higher priority
PLMNs (or suitable PLMN) at regular time interval.
\- Similarly like regular higher priority PLMN search regular sensing and
detection of LTE TDD DL/UL operations in the neighboring channels of the
planned LTE TDD DL only SCell could be used for avoiding that LTE TDD DL only
operations would create co-existence issues to TDD DL/UL operations.
Additionally unlike in case of PLMN searches both the specification and LTE
PCell can provide additional information, which carrier frequencies on a given
frequency band or on its close proximity should be searched. This will further
reduce number of carriers considered for sensing compared to the existing PLMN
search support. The regular higher priority PLMN is defined by TS23.122.
The UE reporting of the sensing results to the active PCell can be similar to
normal UE reporting mechanisms defined in TS36.331, with one additional
measurement report needed to be provided by the UE for eNB.
Ensuring mandatory support and testability of necessary interference
mitigation solution(s) is a pre-requisite for specifying the new TDD
configurations 10:0:0/9:1:0 for LTE TDD.
### 6.5.1.2 Antenna downtilt
Base station antenna downtilt is used in network deployments to control inter-
cell co-channel interference. Antenna downtilt could further be used to
mitigate coexistence issues between LTE TDD cells with both DL and UL
transmissions and LTE TDD cells with DL only transmissions on adjacent
carriers of the same frequency band. However, using antenna downtilt as the
only solution to mitigate coexistence problems will not mitigate coexistence
issues.
# 7 Ecosystem aspects
## 7.1 Terminal eco-system considerations
From the global eco-system of LTE TDD terminal perspective, 3GPP should ensure
that all UEs that support the new TDD configurations (10.0.0 and 9.1.0), if
introduced, also support the existing TDD UL/DL configurations. UE support of
the new TDD configurations (10.0.0 and 9.1.0), if introduced, will be band
agnostic.
# 8 Summary
Time synchronization and the same UL/DL configuration usage in both inter- and
intra-operator cases is essential for LTE TDD operation in the same band. When
all operators in the same region and same band always use the same new TDD
UL/DL 10:0:0 configuration then interoperator time synchronization may not be
required which needs co-ordination between operators, e.g. through regulatory
bodies.
The study has shown that there are scenarios where the new TDD UL/DL
configurations 10:0:0/9:1:0 provide downlink performance gains for the
operator using these new configurations. The amount of gain depends on the
percentage of UEs in the network supporting DL inter-band CA and on the number
of cells.
It is observed there is a coexistence issue in both full-buffer and non-full-
buffer cases resulting in performance loss of deploying the new TDD UL/DL
configuration 10:0:0/9:1:0 in a channel that is adjacent to another channel
that uses different TDD UL/DL configuration. The degradation was larger for
the macro-macro than for the macro-pico scenario.
The study has identified some potential concepts for mitigating the above
performance degradation. Several different concepts and solutions were
discussed and captured, however, the detailed feasibility has not been
assessed for any of the solutions. Ensuring mandatory support and testability
of necessary interference mitigation solution(s) is a pre-requisite for
specifying the new TDD configurations 10:0:0/9:1:0 for LTE TDD.
The study also concluded that from the global eco-system of LTE TDD terminal
perspective, 3GPP should ensure that all UEs that support the new TDD
configurations (10.0.0 and 9.1.0), if introduced, also support the existing
TDD UL/DL configurations. UE support of the new TDD configurations (10.0.0 and
9.1.0), if introduced, will be band agnostic.
###### ### Annex A: Simulation assumptions for co-existence and performance
set 2
# A.1 ACIR
Table A.1-1: ACIR for the first adjacent channel
* * *
Parameter Assumption/Value ACIR BS-BS 43dB ACIR BS-UE 33dB ACIR UE-BS 30dB
ACIR UE-UE 28dB **Note:** BS includes Macro eNB and low power nodes.
* * *
# A.2 Propagation model
Table A.2-1: Propagation model
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Case | Path loss model | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Macro- outdoor Pico | | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Macro-outdoor Pico | PL~LOS~(R) = 100.7+23.5log10(R) | | | | | | PL~NLOS~(R) = 125.2+36.3log10(R) For 2GHz, | | | R in km. | | | | | | Case 1: | | | Prob(R)=min( | | | 0.018/R,1)*(1-exp(-R/0.072))+exp(-R/0.072) | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Macro-UE | PL~LOS~(R)=103.4+24.2log10(R) | | | | | | PL~NLOS~(R)= 131.1+42.8log10(R) | | | | | | For 2GHz, R in km. | | | | | | Case 1: | | | Prob(R)=min( | | | 0.018/R,1)*(1-exp(-R/0.063))+exp(-R/0.063) | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Outdoor Pico-UE | PL~LOS~(R)=103.8+20.9log10(R) | | | | | | PL~NLOS~(R)=145.4+37.5log10(R) | | | | | | For 2GHz, R in km | | | | | | Case 1: | | | P | | | rob(R)=0.5-min(0.5,5exp(-0.156/R))+min(0.5, | | | 5exp(-R/0.03)) | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Outdoor UE-outdoor UE | If R\50m;PL=40log(R)+175.78 R in km | | | | | | (Xia model) | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Macro-Macro | | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Macro BS to Macro BS | PL=98.45+20*log10(R),R in km | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Macro-UE | PL~LOS~(R)=103.4+24.2log10(R) | | | | | | PL~NLOS~(R)= 131.1+42.8log10(R) For 2GHz, R | | | in km. | | | | | | Case 1: | | | Prob(R)=min( | | | 0.018/R,1)*(1-exp(-R/0.063))+exp(-R/0.063) | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
Note: An additional 2.6dB of pathloss is assumed between 2.7GHz and 2.0GHz
# A.3 UE parameters
Table A.3-1: UE parameters used in simulation
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE Antenna gain | 0 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE Noise Figure | 9 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE power class | 23 dBm (200 mW) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna configuration | 1 Tx, 2 Rx | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **UL Power control** | Macro UE: **P0 = -82 dBm; alpha | | | = 0.8** | | | | | | **Pico UE: P0 = -76 dBm,alpha = | | | 0.8** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Minimum distance between UE and | Macro BS-UE >= 35 m* | | cell | | | | Outdoor Pico-UE >= 10 m* | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Minimum distance between UE and | N/A | | UE | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
*Note: The minimum distance applies between UEs of one operator and macros/picos of another operator.
# A.4 Macro parameters
Table A.4-1: System assumptions for Macro cell
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cellular Layout | Hexagonal grid, 3 sectors per | | | site | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | System bandwidth | 10MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2.7GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Inter-site distance | 500 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number sites | 19sites (=57 cells) with | | | wrap-around. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MUE number | 20ues per cell | | | | | | Randomly and uniformly dropped | | | per Macro cell | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Shadowing standard deviation | 8 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Penetration Loss | 0 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna gain after cable loss | 15 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna pattern for Macro eNBs | = 65 degrees, Am = 20 dB (65 | | to UEs (horizontal 2D) | degree horizontal beamwidth) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS noise figure | 5 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Total BS TX power (Ptotal) | 46 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Macro DL power control | Not modeled, i.e. assuming max | | | Macro Tx power | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Inter-cell Interference | Explicit modelling (all cells | | Modelling | occupied by UEs) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Shadowing standard deviation | 8 dB | | between UE and Macro | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Shadowing standard deviation | 12dB | | between UE and UE | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# A.5 Pico parameters
Table A.5-1: system simulation assumptions for outdoor Pico cell
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Parameter | **Assumption** | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Macro deployment | The typical 19-cell and | | | | 3-sectored hexagon system | | | | layout | | | | | | | | Note that macro cells are | | | | deployed but not activated | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | System bandwidth | 10MHz | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Carrier frequency | 2.7GHz | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Pico number | 4 Picos/cell | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | LUE per Pico | 10UEs/Pico, cluster | | | | | | | | Uniformly dropped around | | | | each of the Pico cells | | | | within a radius of 40m | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Pico type | Hotzone | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Pico TX power (Ptotal) | 24dBm | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Pico antenna pattern | Omni-direction | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Pico antenna gain | 5dBi | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Pico radius | 40m | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Minimum distance between | 40m | | | Pico and Pico | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Minimum distance between | 75m | | | Pico and Macro from the | | | | same operator | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Minimum distance between | 35 | | | Pico and Macro from | | | | different operators | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Pico deployment | random deployment | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Penetration loss | 0dB | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Shadowing standard | Pico to UE | 10dB | | deviation | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | | UE to UE | 12 dB | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | | Macro to Pico | 6 dB | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Pico noise figure | 13dB | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
# A.6 Shadowing correlation parameters
Table A.6-1: shadowing correlation
* * *
Parameters Assumptions Shadowing correlation between UEs 0 Shadowing
correlation between outdoor Picos 0.5 Shadowing correlation between outdoor
Pico and Macro 0.5 Shadowing correlation between Macro cells A Shadowing
correlation factor of 0.5 for the shadowing between sites (regardless
aggressing or victim system) and of 1 between sectors of the same site shall
be used[36.942]
* * *
# A.7 Other parameters
Table A.7-1: Other evaluation assumptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Assumptions | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation methodology | DL and UL shall be evaluated in | | | an integrated simulator | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pico antenna configuration | Set 1: 2Tx, 2Rx (codebook-based | | | SU-MIMO or fixed rank 1 | | | transmission)\ | | | Set 2: 1Tx, 2Rx | | | | | | It is up to each company's | | | choice which set to simulate | | | for. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Link adaptation | * MCS selection with 10% BLER\ | | | If the highest MCS is selected, | | | the BLER may be less than 10%, | | | which shall be modeled\ | | | * DL based on CQI/PMI/RI | | | reports and UL based on SRS | | | measurement | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DL CSI feedback | DL CSI modeled as following:\ | | | -- PUCCH mode 1-1, wideband | | | CQI/PMI reported every 10ms\ | | | -- CSI reporting based on ideal | | | channel estimation and ideal | | | interference estimation in the | | | reported subframe\ | | | -- A minimum 5ms CSI feedback | | | delay is modeled\ | | | -- Error free feedback | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UL CSI feedback | UL CSI modeled as following\ | | | --1 symbol SRS per 10ms (Last | | | UL symbol in subframe#1)\ | | | -- UL CSI based on ideal | | | channel estimation and ideal | | | interference estimation in the | | | SRS subframe\ | | | -- A minimum 5 ms CSI delay is | | | modeled | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel estimation | Ideal | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Small scaling fading channel | For set 1:\ | | | Pico-UE/UE-Pico: TU or ITU;\ | | | Macro-UE/UE-Macro: TU or ITU;\ | | | UE-UE: TU or not modeled;\ | | | Pico-Pico: not modeled.\ | | | Macro-Macro: not modeled\ | | | Macro-Pico/Pico-Macro: not | | | modeled\ | | | For set 2:\ | | | Not modeled | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CP length | Normal CP in both downlink and | | | uplink. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Special subframe configuration | Special subframe configuration | | | #8 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Packet drop time | The packet drop time is model | | | according to 36.814 (i.e. 8s for | | | 0.5MB and 32s for 2MB). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Receiver type | MMSE receiver | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UL modulation order | {QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic model | FTP model 1 in TR36.814 | | | | | | Poisson distributed with arrival | | | rate λ, and the arrival rate λ | | | shall be reported by each | | | company, with the focus on high | | | load traffic | | | | | | Number of UEs according to the | | | simulated scenario | | | | | | A packet is randomly assigned to | | | a UE with equal probability | | | | | | Independent traffic modeling for | | | DL and UL per UE, and the ratio | | | of DL/UL packet arrival rate | | | shall be reported by each | | | company. | | | | | | Fixed size of 0.5Mbytes and | | | 2Mbytes as in TR36.814, with | | | 0,5Mbytes prioritized | | | | | | Independent traffic generation | | | per cell | | | | | | Same arriving rate for all the | | | cells | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HARQ retransmission scheme | CC | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Control channel and reference | DL:\ | | signal overhead | • Overhead for CRS according to | | | 36.211;\ | | | • Overhead for PDCCH: 2 OFDM | | | symbols;\ | | | UL:\ | | | • Overhead for SRS defined | | | above;\ | | | • Overhead for PUCCH: 2 PRBs;\ | | | • Overhead for UL DMRS: 2 | | | symbols per subframe. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Macro site offset between | A cell raduis | | operators | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# A.8 Performance metrics
\- Packet throughput, defined as the packet size over the packet transmission
time, including the packet waiting time in the buffer
\- UE average packet throughput, defined as the average of packet throughput
for the UE
\- {5%, 50%, 95%} UE average packet throughput, from the CDF of average packet
throughput from all UEs
\- Cell average packet throughput, defined as the mean of average packet
throughput from all UEs
\- Other metrics, e.g.
\- Packet drop statistics
\- Packet delay statistics
\- Frequency resource (PRBs) utilizations
\- Time resource (subframes) utilizations
\- CDF of packet throughput
\- Total number of configured DL/UL subframes
To facilitate the comparison of the results, companies shall at least provide
the following metrics. Other metrics can be optionally provided.
\- For coexistence evaluation, the following metrics shall be provided:
\- CDF of Operator A's DL geometry, assuming Operator B is performing DL
transmission
\- CDF of Operator A's DL geometry, assuming Operator B is performing UL
transmission
\- CDF of Operator B's UL geometry, assuming Operator A is performing UL
transmission
\- CDF of Operator B's UL geometry, assuming Operator A is performing DL
transmission
\- For performance evaluation set 2, the following metrics shall be provided:
\- {5%, 50%, 95%} UE average packet throughput, from the CDF of average packet
throughput from all UEs
\- Cell average packet throughput, defined as the mean of average packet
throughput from all UEs
\- Packet drop ratio
\- Time resource (i.e. subframe) utilization ratio
#