# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the work item for LTE Advanced
intra-band non-contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 42 for 3 downlinks
(3DL), which was approved at TSG RAN #67 [2]. The report provides background,
analysis of the requirements, and a list of recommended changes to the
specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-150246, \"LTE Advanced intra-band non-contiguous Carrier Aggregation in
Band 42 for 3DL \".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
4.1 Task description
### 4.1.1 Objective of the Core Part
The objectives of this work item are the following:
\- Specify the core RF requirements for 3 CC non-contiguous DL intra-band CA
in Band 42. The aggregation scenarios are to be specified as 2-contiguous CCs
and 1 non-contiguous CC, with a single sub-block gap.
\- Define the supported bandwidth combinations and relevant requirements for
CA_42A-42C and CA_42C-42A.
Table 4.1.1-1
* * *
**E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set**
**E-UTRACA configuration** **Component carriers in order of increasing carrier
frequency** **Maximum aggregated\** Bandwidth combination set**  
bandwidth [MHz]**
                                                            **Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]**                **Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]**
CA_42A-42C 5, 10, 15, 20 See 36.101 Table 5.6A.1-1 60 0
CA_42C-42A See 36.101 Table 5.6A.1-1 5, 10, 15, 20 60 0
* * *
\- RAN5 testing aspects should be considered.
### 4.1.2 Objective of the Performance Part
The objectives of this work item are the following:
Specify the performance requirements for 3 CC intra-band non-contiguous DL CA
in band 42 in the relevant specifications.
# 5 Study of E-UTRA requirements
## 5.1 Operating bands and channel bandwidths
### 5.1.1 CA operating bands
CA_42A-42C and CA_42C-42A are defined to operate in the entire frequency range
of Band 42, as defined in Table 5.1.1-1.
Table 5.1.1-1: Intra-band non-contiguous CA operating bands (with two sub-
blocks)
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_42-42 42 3400 MHz -- 3600 MHz 3400 MHz -- 3600 MHz TDD
* * *
### 5.1.2 CA channel bandwidth
The supported E-UTRA bandwidths for CA_42A-42C and CA_42C-42A are shown in
Table 5.1.2-1.
Table 5.1.2-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets defined
for non-contiguous intra-band CA (with two sub-blocks)
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
E-UTRACA configuration Uplink CA configurations (NOTE 1) Component carriers in
order of increasing carrier frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth
combination set uplink CA capability  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                                                            Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                        Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_42A-42C - 5, 10, 15, 20 See 36.101 Table 5.6A.1-1 60 0 No
CA_42C-42A - See 36.101 Table 5.6A.1-1 5, 10, 15, 20 60 0 No
* * *
## 5.2 Specific UE RF requirements
### 5.2.1 Transmitter Characteristics
The WI specifies the scenarios for 3 CC intra-band non-contiguous DL CA with 1
CC on the UL in Band 42. Hence for UE transmitter characteristics, the
existing single carrier transmitter requirements shall be applied.
### 5.2.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 5.2.2.1 Reference sensitivity
Band 42 is a TDD band and there is no simultaneous downlink and uplink
transmission. In general TDD uplink transmission has no impact to the
reference sensitivity, i.e. the ΔR~IBNC~ = 0 for CA_42A-42C and CA_42C-42A.
The following table show the required changes for TS 36.101 Clause 7.3.1A.
Table 5.2.2.1-1: Intra-band non-contiguous CA with one uplink configuration
for reference sensitivity
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | Ag | W~gap~ / | UL PCC | ΔR~IBNC~ | Duplex | | confi | gregated | [MHz] | al | (dB) | mode | | guration | channel | | location | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | PCC+SCC) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA\ | NOTE 6 | NOTE 7 | NOTE 8 | 0.0 | TDD | | _42A-42C | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA\ | NOTE 6 | NOTE 7 | NOTE 8 | 0.0 | TDD | | _42C-42A | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | ^1^ | | | | | | | refers | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | as close | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | possible | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | band but | | | | | | | confined | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | mission. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | W~gap~ | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-block | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | the two | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | -blocks. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | of PCC | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | band is | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | closer | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | ^4^ | | | | | | | refers | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | RB~st | | | | | | | art~=33. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tra-band | | | | | | | non-co | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | configu | | | | | | | rations, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | only in | | | | | | | sync | | | | | | | hronized | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | peration | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | omponent | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | arriers. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | All | | | | | | | comb | | | | | | | inations | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | ndwidths | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 36.101 | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | .6A.1-3. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: | | | | | | | All | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-block | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | sizes. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 8: | | | | | | | The PCC | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | is same | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | Tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | N~RB~ as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 36. | | | | | | | 101Table | | | | | | | 5.6-1. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 5.2.2.2 Other receiver requirements
The 3 CC intra-band non-contiguous downlink CA in band 42 consists of
2-contiguous CC (CA_42C) and a single carrier, with a single sub-block gap.
For intra-band non-contiguous CA the receiver requirements except reference
sensitivity are defined per sub-block and band agnostic. Hence no change is
needed for introduction of the new intra-band non-contiguous CA configuration.
## 5.3 Specific BS RF requirements
The 2nd and 3rd order harmonics and IMD products caused in the BS by
transmitting of Band 42 non-contiguous DL carriers can be calculated as shown
in Table 5.3-1 below:
Table 5.3-1: Band 42 non-contiguous DL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f-low f-high DL frequency (MHz) 3400 3600 2nd harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 6800 7200 3rd harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 10200
10800 2nd order IMD products (f-low -- f-high) (f-high -- f-low) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) -200 200 3rd order IMD products (2*f-low --f-high) (2*f-high
--f-low) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3200 3800 3^rd^ order IMD products (with
maximum channel bandwidth for contiguous CA) (f-low -- BWmax) (f-high + BWmax)
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3360 3640
* * *
It can be seen from Table 5.3-1 that the 2nd and 3rd harmonics as well as the
2nd IMD products of BS transmitting non-contiguous carriers in Band 42 do not
fall into the BS receive band of any operating band, while the 3rd IMD
products of BS supporting non-contiguous carrier aggregation of Band 42 may
fall into the BS receive band of Bands 42 and 43\. As stated in 36- and
37-series BS specifications, TDD base stations deployed in the same
geographical area, that are synchronized and use the same or adjacent
operating bands can transmit without additional co-existence requirements. For
unsynchronized base stations, special co-existence requirements may apply that
are not covered by the 3GPP specifications. Hence no specific coexistence
issue is foreseen for Band 42 non-contiguous transmission.
With the performances of the current BS antenna system, transmit and receive
path components, amplifiers, pre-distortion algorithms and filters, it is
expected that the harmonics and IMD interference generated within the Band 42
or 43 BS receiver would be well below the receiver noise floor eliminating the
possibility of receiver desensitization, provided that there is a sufficient
frequency gap between Band 42 transmit frequency and unsynchronized Band 42 or
43 receive frequency, and Band 42 BS transmitters do not share the same
antenna with unsynchronized Band 42 or 43BS receiver.
On the other hand, it is recommended that Band 42 BS transmitters should not
share the same antenna with unsynchronized Band 42 or 43 BS receiver in order
to prevent BS receiver desensitization, unless the antenna path meets very
stringent 3^rd^ order PIM specification so that the PIM will not cause Band 42
or 43 BS receiver desensitization. Note that antenna sharing may be allowed as
the state-of-the-art continues to evolve in the future.
# 6 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 6.1 Required changes to TS36.101
Required changes to TS 36.101 are shown in Table 6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: Required changes to TS 36.101
* * *
Clause Requirement Required changes to TS 36.101 5.6A.1 Channel bandwidths per
operating band for CA Introducing channel bandwidth combinations of 3 DL NC CA
in band 42 to be added to Table 5.6A.1-3. 7.3.1A Minimum requirements (QPSK)
for CA New rows are to be added to Table 7.3.1A-3 in which requirement of
CA_42A-42C and CA_42C-42A uplink configuration for reference sensitivity is
provided.
* * *
## 6.2 Required changes to TS36.104
No change is required to TS36.104.
## 6.3 Required changes to TS36.141
No change is required to TS36.141.
## 6.4 Required changes to TS36.307
Required changes to TS 36.307 are shown in Table 6.4-1.
Table 6.4-1: Required changes to TS 36.307
* * *
Clause Requirement Required Changes to TS 36.307 TBD CA configuration
CA_42A-42C and CA_42C-42A Independent of Release Changes to provide the
references to Rel-13 specs to allow UE support of 3DL NC CA in Band42 are
expected for Rel-11 upwards.
* * *
#