# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the LTE Advanced intra-band non-
contiguous Carrier Aggregation in Band 41 for 4 DL work item which was
approved at TSG RAN #66 [2]. The objective of this work item is to provide
specification support for intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation in LTE
TDD Band 41 for 4DL.
The report provides motivation, requirements and a list of recommended changes
to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-142022, \"New WID: LTE Advanced intra-band non-contiguous Carrier
Aggregation in Band 41 for 4DL\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
Downlink data demands from consumers continue to challenge available
bandwidths even with new Rel-12 CA combinations that deliver up to 60MHz of
aggregated bandwidth. In order to deliver higher bandwidths to consumers, this
WI will aggregate 4 total downlink carriers for up to 80 MHz bandwidth, by
aggregating two sub-blocks consisting of previously-developed aggregated
components to form CA_41C-41C, CA_41A-41D, and CA_41D-41A where 'A', 'C', and
'D' are contiguous components defined in 36.101 [3] Table 5.6A-1 _CA bandwidth
classes and corresponding nominal guard bands_. This WI will consist of two
sub-blocks with a single sub-block gap for all combinations.
## 4.1 Task description
### 4.1.1 Objective of the Core Part
The objectives of this work item are as following:
● Specify the RF requirements for intra-band non-contiguous 4-CC downlink CA
scenarios in Band 41, aggregating two sub-blocks of previously defined CA
combinations to form CA_41C-41C, CA_41A-41D, and CA_41D-41A. The components
are as defined in 36.101 [3] Table 5.6A-1, _CA bandwidth classes and
corresponding nominal guard bands_ , as follows:
○ CA_41A: Band 41 CA bandwidth class A (single component carrier)
○ CA_41C: Band 41 CA bandwidth class C (two contiguous component carriers)
○ CA_41D: Band 41 CA bandwidth class D (three contiguous component carriers)
● The downlink CA combinations in this WI can be paired with UL Band 41
(single UL) or CA_41C (dual UL).
● Define the supported bandwidth combinations and relevant requirements for
CA_41C-41C, CA_41A-41D, and CA_41D-41A.
Table 4.1.1-1:
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
* * *
E-UTRACA configuration Component carriers in order of increasing carrier
frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                        Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_41C-41C See Table 5.6A.1-1 See Table 5.6A.1-1 80 0
CA_41A-41D 5, 10, 15, 20 See Table 5.6A.1-1 80 0
CA_41D-41A See Table 5.6A.1-1 5, 10, 15, 20 80 0
* * *
● The outcome of the technical discussion for this WI is reflected in TR
36.833-x-yz for intra-band non-contiguous 4DL CA in Band 41 WI.
### 4.1.2 Objective of the Performance Part
The objectives of this work item are the following:
Specify the performance requirements carrier aggregation of CA_41A-41D,
CA_41D-41A, and CA_41C-41C in the relevant RAN4 specifications.
## 4.2 Operating scenarios
Void
# 5 Study of E-UTRA requirements
## 5.1 Operating bands and channel bandwidths
### 5.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 5.1.1-1 below shows the CA operating band needed for this work item.
Table 5.1.1-1: Intra-band non-contiguous CA operating bands (with two sub-
blocks)
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode
* * *
                                 BS receive / UE transmit     BS transmit / UE receive                                                
                                 F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~    F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
CA_41-41 41 2496 MHz -- 2690 MHz 2496 MHz -- 2690 MHz TDD
### 5.1.2 Channel bandwidths for CA
Table 5.1.2-1 below shows the CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets
needed for this work item.
Table 5.1.2-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets defined
for non-contiguous intra-band CA (with two sub-blocks)
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
* * *
E-UTRACA configuration Component carriers in order of increasing carrier
frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                        Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_41C-41C See Table 5.6A.1-1 See Table 5.6A.1-1 80 0
CA_41A-41D 5, 10, 15, 20 See Table 5.6A.1-1 80 0
CA_41D-41A See Table 5.6A.1-1 5, 10, 15, 20 80 0
* * *
## 5.2 Specific UE RF requirements
### 5.2.1 Reference sensitivity power level
Band 41 is a TDD band and there is no simultaneous downlink and uplink
operation in the UE. In general, TDD UE uplink transmission has no impact on
its reference sensitivity, i.e. the ΔR~IBNC~ = 0 for CA_41C-41C, CA_41A-41D,
and CA_41D-41A. These CA configurations should be added to Table 7.3.1A-3 of
TS 36.101.
### 5.2.2 In-band blocking
The current in-band blocking requirements specified in Clause 7.6.1 of TS
36.101 for UE supporting intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation with
two downlink sub-blocks are agnostic to the number of CC in each of the two
sub-blocks within the operating band supported by the UE in intra-band non-
contiguous CA operation, and thus can be applied for CA_41C-41C, CA_41A-41D,
and CA_41D-41A. Hence no change in the in-band blocking requirements is
needed.
### 5.2.3 Out-of-band blocking
The current out-of-band blocking requirements specified in Clause 7.6.2 of TS
36.101 for UE supporting intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation with
two downlink sub-blocks are agnostic to the number of CC in each of the two
sub-blocks within the operating band supported by the UE in intra-band non-
contiguous CA operation, and thus can be applied for CA_41C-41C, CA_41A-41D,
and CA_41D-41A. Hence no change in the out-of-band blocking requirements is
needed.
### 5.2.4 UE receiver requirements for new CC combinations
## 5.3 Specific BS RF requirements
The current requirements specified in TS 36.104 and TS 36.141 for BS capable
of multi-carrier and/or CA operation in contiguous and non-contiguous spectrum
in single band are agnostic to the number of CC in each of the two sub-blocks
within the operating band supported by the BS in intra-band non-contiguous CA
operation, and thus can be applied for 4-CC non-contiguous intra-band DL CA in
Band 41. Hence no change in the BS requirements is needed.
Moreover, the required BS studies of harmonics and IMD products for intra-band
contiguous and non-contiguous CA for Band 41 was recorded in TR 36.833.6-41,
hence no additional BS study of 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ harmonics and IMD products is
required.
## 5.4 Specific UE RRM requirements
The RRM requirements for carrier aggregations, as specified in the
specification TS 36.133, are agnostic to specific CA combinations. Therefore,
no change to RRM requirements in the TS 36.133 specific for Band 41 4-CC DL is
required.
# 6 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 6.1 Required changes to TS36.101
Required changes in UE RF specification TS 36.101 are shown in Table 6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: Required changes in TS 36.101
Section Requirement Required changes in TS 36.101
* * *
5.6A.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA Introducing channel
bandwidth combination of NC B41 4DL to Table 5.6A.1-3 7.3.1A Intra-band non-
contiguous CA uplink configuration for reference sensitivity Introducing
uplink configuration for reference sensitivity of NC B41 4DL to Table 7.3.1A-3
## 6.2 Required changes to TS36.104
Required changes in BS RF specification TS 36.104 are shown in Table 6.2-1.
Table 6.2-1: Required changes in TS 36.104
Section Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.104
* * *
## 6.3 Required changes to TS36.133
Required changes in RRM specification TS 36.133 are shown in Table 6.3-1.
Table 6.3-1: Required changes in TS 36.133
Section Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.133
* * *
8.3.1 Measurements for E-UTRA carrier aggregation Expanding carrier
aggregation configuration up to four downlink CCs
## 6.4 Required changes to TS36.141
Required changes in BS test specification TS 36.141 are shown in Table 6.4-1.
Table 6.4-1: Required changes in TS 36.141
Section Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.141
* * *
## 6.5 Required changes to TS36.307
Required changes in TS 36.307 are shown in Table 6.5-1.
Table 6.5-1: Required changes in TS 36.307
Section Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.307
* * *
New section Band 41 independent of release Changes to 36.307 Rel-11 and Rel-12
to provide the appropriate references to the Rel-13 specs to allow UE support
of NC B41 4DL in Rel-11 and Rel-12
# 7 Project plan
## 7.1 Schedule and Work Task Status
To facilitate the discussion and simulation work, the work plan is approved as
follows:
\- RAN4#74 (February 2015):
\- Approve skeleton TR
\- Approve project work plan
\- Identify specification changes
\- RAN4#74bis (April 2015):
\- Discuss Tx and Rx requirements
\- RAN4#75 (May 2015):
\- Discuss Tx and Rx requirements
\- RAN4#75-AH-UE-RF (tbc) (Jun 2015):
\- Discuss Tx and Rx requirements
\- RAN4#76 (August 2015):
\- Discuss Tx and Rx requirements
\- RAN4#76bis (October 2015):
\- Determine Tx and Rx requirements
\- RAN4#77 (November 2015):
\- Review proposed Core and Performance CRs
\- Resolve any remaining open issues
\- RAN#70 (December 2015):
\- Approve Core and Performance CRs
\- Close Core and Performance WI
###### ## Annex A (Informative): Change history