# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the LTE Advanced Carrier
Aggregation in Band 42 for 3DL WI which was approved at TSG RAN #65 [2]. The
objective of this work item is to provide specification support for intra-band
contiguous carrier aggregation in LTE TDD Band 42 for 3DL.
The report provides motivation, requirements and a list of recommended changes
to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 36.833-1-42: \"LTE-Advanced intra-band contiguous Carrier
Aggregation (CA)\".
[3] RP-141677: \"New WID proposal: LTE Advanced intra-band contiguous Carrier
Aggregation in Band 42 for 3DL\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.307: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a release-independent
frequency band\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
The 3,5 GHz band has been widely recognized as the most probable global
harmonized TDD band and will play an important role in meeting the explosive
mobile data demands. Regional band planning or re-farming considerations for
this band have made significant progress in the world in recent years.
2-CC carrier aggregation in this band has been a successful mechanism to
provide additional bandwidth and corresponding requirements has been captured
in [2]. However, there are still market requirements on even higher bandwidth
since operators in some countries can get large spectrum up to 60MHz.
Consequently, a new WID proposal \" LTE Advanced intra-band contiguous Carrier
Aggregation in Band 42 for 3DL\" was set up in RAN#65 meeting [3]. The
objectives of this WI are as follows,
\- Specify the RF requirements for Band 42 intra-band contiguous CA supporting
up to 3CC in downlink.
\- Define channel bandwidth combinations for carrier aggregation in 45MHz,
50MHz, 55MHz and 60MHz contiguous spectrum.
\- Add the performance requirements for this band in the relevant
specifications.
# 5 Study of E-UTRA requirements
## 5.1 Operating bands and channel bandwidths
Table 5.1-1 defines the supported E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth
combination set for LTE-advanced intra-band contiguous CA in Band 42. The 5
MHz, 10 MHz and 15 MHz carriers are only allowed at the edges of aggregated
channel bandwidth so that potential co-existence issue with adjacent systems
can be handled with some flexibility.
Table 5.1-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets defined
for intra-band contiguous CA
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
E-UTRA CA configuration Component carriers in order of increasing carrier
frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
[]{.underline} Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier [MHz] Allowed channel
bandwidths for carrier [MHz] Allowed channel bandwidths for carrier [MHz]
[]{.underline} []{.underline}
CA_42D 5,10,15,20 20 20 60 0
                                                        20                                                            20                                               5,10,15
* * *
## 5.2 Specific UE RF requirements
The receiver requirement structure for 3 contiguous DL CCs has been developed
during the work phase of CA_Band 40D and CA_Band 41 D as listed in Table
5.2-1.
Table 5.2-1 Receiver requirements for 3 contiguous DL CCs in TS 36.101
* * *
Section Requirements Notes to the requirements 7.3.1A REFSENS Specific to CA
band and number of CCs 7.4.1A Max input level Minimum requirements for CA
Support CA bandwidth class D in CA band agnostic way 7.5.1A ACS Min
requirements for CA Support CA bandwidth class D in CA band agnostic way
7.6.1.1A In-band blocking Specific to CA band 7.6.2.1A Out-of-band blocking
Specific to CA band 7.6.3.1A Narrow band blocking Support CA bandwidth class D
in CA band agnostic way 7.7.1A Spurious response Support CA bandwidth class D
in CA band agnostic way 7.8.1A Intermodulation Support CA bandwidth class D in
CA band agnostic way 7.9 Spurious emission General requirements 7.10.1A Rx
Image Support CA bandwidth class D in CA band agnostic way
* * *
As can be seen in Table 5.2-1, majority of the requirements are defined in a
CA band agnostic way, which means that CA_42D can generally reuse most of the
current requirements for bandwidth class D and only few updates are needed for
some RF requirements, such as REFSENS, in-band blocking and out-of-band
blocking.
**[- REFSENS]{.underline}**
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation the throughput for REFSENS is
measured on a per CC basis and the same reference sensitivity level as that
for single CC is reused on a per CC basis. Hence the increasing of DL CC
numbers does not impact the REFENS level. Only the uplink RB configurations
need to be defined for CA_42D UE REFSENS requirements.
Table 5.2-2: Intra-band CA uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
CA configuration / CC combination / NRB_agg / Duplex mode |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA configuration | 100RB+25RB | 100RB+50RB | 75RB+75RB | 100RB+75RB | 100RB+100RB | Duplex Mode |  |  |  |  |   
| PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC | PCC | SCC |   
CA_1C |  |  | N/A | N/A | 75 | 54 | N/A | N/A | 100 | 30 | FDD  
CA_3C | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | N/A | N/A | 50 | 0 | 50 | 0 | FDD  
CA_7C |  |  | 75 | 0 | 75 | 0 | 75 | 0 | 75 | 0 | FDD  
CA_38C |  |  |  |  | 75 | 75 |  |  | 100 | 100 | TDD  
CA_39C | 100 | 25 | 100 | 50 | N/A | N/A | 100 | 75 | N/A | N/A | TDD  
CA_40C |  |  | 100 | 50 | 75 | 75 | N/A | N/A | 100 | 100 | TDD  
CA_41C |  |  | 100 | 50 | 75 | 75 | 100 | 75 | 100 | 100 | TDD  
CA_40D |  |  | 100 | 50 | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | 100 | 100 | TDD  
CA_41D |  |  | 100 | 50 | 75 | 75 | 100 | 75 | 100 | 100 | TDD  
CA_42C | 100 | 25 | 100 | 50 | N/A | N/A | 100 | 75 | 100 | 100 | TDD  
CA_42D | 100 | 25 | 100 | 50 | N/A | N/A | 100 | 75 | 100 | 100 | TDD  
NOTE 1: The carrier centre frequency of SCC in the UL operating band is configured closer to the DL operating band. NOTE 2: The transmitted power over both PCC and SCC shall be set to PUMAX as defined in subclause 6.2.5A. NOTE 3: The UL resource blocks in both PCC and SCC shall be confined within the transmission bandwidth configuration for the channel bandwidth (Table 5.6-1). NOTE 4: The UL resource blocks in PCC shall be located as close as possible to the downlink operating band, while the UL resource blocks in SCC shall be located as far as possible from the downlink operating band. NOTE 5: In case a CA configuration consists of CC channel bandwidths which are unequal in bandwidth the PCC channel bandwidth shall be the larger one for reference sensitivity test. NOTE 6: For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation, the requirement is verified with the largest number of [simultaneous] active uplink carriers supported by the UE. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**[- In-band blocking]{.underline}**
The wanted signal level per CC has been defined for CA bandwidth D as shown in
Table 5.2-3. CA_42D can reuse the in-band blocking parameter setting and
extend the requirements applicability as shown in Table 5.2-4.
Table 5.2-3: In band blocking parameters
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | Pw in | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | Transmission | | Bandwidth Class | | | | | | Bandwidth | | specific value | | | | | | Configuration, | | below | | | | | | per CC | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | | | 9 | 12 | 13.8 | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | **B | MHz | 5 | 5 | 5 | | | | W~Interferer\ ~** | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | **F~Ioffs | MHz | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | | | | et,\ case\ 1\ ~** | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | **F~Ioffs | MHz | 12.5 | 12.5 | 12.5 | | | | et,\ case\ 2\ ~** | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter shall | | | | | | | | be set to 4dB | | | | | | | | below PCMAX_L or | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L_CA as | | | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | | | subclause 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | consists of the | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | channel specified | | | | | | | | in Annex A.3.2 | | | | | | | | with one sided | | | | | | | | dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern OP.1 | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD as | | | | | | | | described in | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | | and set-up | | | | | | | | according to | | | | | | | | Annex C.3.1 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------+-------------------+------+------+---+---+
Table 5.2-4: In-band blocking
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | CA | Parameter | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | | c | | | | | | onfiguration | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | P | dBm | -56 | -44 | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | = | ≤ | | | ~Interferer~ | | -F~offset~-- | -F~offset~-- | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | =+F~offset~ | ≥+F~offset~ | | | | | + | + | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_1C, | F | MHz | (Note 2) | F~DL_low~ | | CA_3C, | ~Interferer~ | | | -- 15 | | CA_7C, | (Range) | | | | | CA_12B, | | | | to | | CA_23B, | | | | | | CA_27B, | | | | F~DL_high~ | | CA_38C, | | | | + 15 | | CA_39C, | | | | | | CA_40C, | | | | | | CA_41C, | | | | | | CA_40D, | | | | | | CA_41D, | | | | | | CA_42C, | | | | | | CA_42D | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | certain | | | | | | bands, the | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal may | | | | | | not fall | | | | | | inside the | | | | | | UE receive | | | | | | band, but | | | | | | within the | | | | | | first 15 MHz | | | | | | below or | | | | | | above the UE | | | | | | receive band | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | each carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is valid for | | | | | | two | | | | | | frequencies: | | | | | | | | | | | | a. the | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | -F~offset~ - | | | | | | F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | | | b. the | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | +F~offset~ + | | | | | | F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | F~offset~ is | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | offset from | | | | | | the center | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | tested to | | | | | | the edge of | | | | | | aggregated | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~interferer~ | | | | | | (offset) is | | | | | | relative to | | | | | | the center | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | CC being | | | | | | tested and | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | further | | | | | | adjusted to | | | | | | $\left\lf | | | | | | loor F_{\tex | | | | | | t{interferer | | | | | | }}/0\text{.} | | | | | | \text{015} + | | | | | | 0\text{.}5 | | | | | | \right\rfloo | | | | | | r 0\text{.}\ | | | | | | text{015} + | | | | | | 0\text{.}\te | | | | | | xt{0075}$MHz | | | | | | to be offset | | | | | | from the | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | raster. | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
**[- Out-of-band blocking]{.underline}**
The wanted signal level per CC has been defined for CA bandwidth D as shown in
Table 5.2-5. CA_42D can reuse the current out-of-band blocking parameter
setting and extend the requirements applicability as shown in Table 5.2-6.
Table5.2-5: Out-of-band blocking parameters
+----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth Class | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Pw in Transmission | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | Bandwidth | | Bandwidth Class | | | | | | Configuration, per | | specific value below | | | | | | CC | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | | 9 | 9 | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter shall be | | | | | | | | set to 4dB below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L or | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L_CA as | | | | | | | | defined in subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Reference | | | | | | | | measurement channel | | | | | | | | is specified in | | | | | | | | Annex A.3.2 with one | | | | | | | | sided dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | as described in | | | | | | | | Annex A.5.1.1/A.5.2. | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+
Table 5.2-6: Out of band blocking
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | P | Units | F | | | | confi | arameter | | requency | | | | guration | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA_1C, | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | CA_3C, | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | CA_7C, | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | CA_12B, | | | | | | | CA_38C, | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | CA_40C, | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | CA_41C, | | | -60 | -85 | | | CA_40D, | | | | | | | CA_42C, | | | | | | | CA_42D | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
## 5.3 Specific BS RF requirements
For BS capable of multi-carrier and/or CA operation in contiguous spectrum in
single band, the RF requirements currently specified in the BS specifications
TS 36.104 are agnostic to the number of carriers supported by the BS in intra-
band contiguous CA operation.
The test configuration and test requirements in the BS test specification TS
36.141 are also defined in a generic way. The test configuration only gives a
principle on how to create test signals depending on manufacturer's
declaration on number of carriers and other parameters so that a multi-carrier
and/or CA BS can be well verified.
Therefore, the current BS RF requirements are applicable for 3-CC contiguous
intra-band DL CA in Band 42, and no change in the BS specifications is
required.
## 5.4 Specific RRM requirements
The RRM requirements for carrier aggregations, as specified in the
specification TS 36.133, have been updated to support CA operation up to 3
carriers in version 12.5.0 (listed below). And the requirements are all
agnostic to specific CA combinations.
Table 5.4-1: RRM requirements in TS 36.133
* * *
Section No. Requirements Notes to the requirements 4 E-UTRAN RRC_IDLE state
mobility Agnostic to number of CCs 5 E-UTRAN RRC_CONNECTED state mobility
Agnostic to number of CCs 6 RRC Connection Mobility Control Agnostic to number
of CCs 7 Timing and signalling characteristics Support CA operation up to 3
CCs 8 UE Measurements Procedures in RRC_CONNECTED State Support CA operation
up to 3 CCs 9 Measurements performance requirements for UE Support CA
operation up to 3 CCs 10 Measurements Performance Requirements for E-UTRAN
Agnostic to number of CCs
* * *
Therefore, no further change specific for Band 42 3DL is required for RRM
requirements.
# 6 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 6.1 Required changes to TS 36.101
Required changes in UE RF specification TS 36.101 are shown in Table 6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: Required changes in TS 36.101
* * *
Section Requirement Required changes in TS 36.101 5.6A.1 Channel bandwidths
per operating band for CA Add a new row to Table 5.6A.1-1 to introduce the
channel bandwidth configuration for CA_42D 7.3.1A REFSENS Add a new row to
Table 7.3.1A-1 to define REFSENS for CA_42D 7.6.1.1A In-band blocking Need to
define for CA_42D 7.6.2.1A Out-of-band blocking Need to define for CA_42D
* * *
## 6.2 Required changes to TS 36.104
No changes required in TS 36.104.
## 6.3 Required changes to TS 36.133
No changes required in TS 36.133.
## 6.4 Required changes to TS 36.141
No changes required in TS 36.141.
## 6.5 Required changes to TS 36.307
Required changes in TS 36.307 are shown in Table 6.5-1.
Table 6.5-1: Required changes in TS 36.307
* * *
Section Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.307 X CA configuration CA_42D
Independent of Release Add some changes to 36.307 Rel-10, Rel-11 and Rel-12 to
provide the appropriate pointers to the Rel-13 specifications to enable
backdating of CA_42 to Rel-10, Rel-11 and Rel-12.
* * *
#