# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for "Expansion of LTE_FDD_1670_US
to include 1670-1680 MHz Band for LTE in the US" study item, which was
approved at 3GPP TSG RAN#59 [2]. The ID assigned to the study item is
FS_LTE_FDD_1670_US. The objective of this study item is to facilitate and
harmonize the characteristics and efficient use of 1670-1680MHz DL duplexed
with band 24 UL for LTE FDD deployment in US. In addition to the schedule and
status of the study items, the report includes a description of the
motivation, requirements, study results and specification recommendations.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\". [SID] RP-090666,
"Proposed SI: Extended 850", Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, Motorola, NII Holdings,
Nokia, Nokia Siemens Networks, ST-Ericsson
[2] RP-130202: \" Study Item Proposal: Expansion of LTE_FDD_1670_US to include
1670-1680 MHz Band for LTE in the US \", RAN #59, Feb. 2013
[3] FCC Rules and Regulations 47 C.F.R §27: \"Miscellaneous Wireless
Communications Services: http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-
idx?c=ecfr&SID=79c73df3f25987fc1a7bc7da895561df&rgn=div5&view=text&node=47:2.0.1.1.5&idno=47\"
[4] FCC Order DA 07-5101: \"Crown Castle Waiver Order\", FCC,
http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/DA-07-5101A1.pdf
[5] FCC Rules and Regulations 47 C.F.R §2.106: \"Table of Frequency
Allocations\" http://transition.fcc.gov/oet/spectrum/table/fcctable.pdf
[6] FCC Rules and Regulations 47 C.F.R §25.23: \"Special requirements for
ancillary terrestrial components operating in the 1626.5--1660.5 MHz/1525--
1559 MHz bands. \"
http://www.hallikainen.org/FCC/FccRules/2012/25/253/section.pdf
[7] FCC Order DA-10-534, March 26, 2010,
http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/DA-10-534A1.pdf
[8] FCC Order DA-04-3553, November 8, 2004,
http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/DA-04-3553A1.pdf
[9] FCC Order DA 05-30, February 25, 2005,
http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/FCC-05-30A1.pdf
[10] 3GPP TS 36.104 v12.0.0, \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.942 v11.0.0, \"Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[12] R4-092371, \"MSD for various bands based on MRC\", Ericsson, RAN4#51bis,
June 2009.
[13] TR 36.821, \"Extended UMTS/LTE 1500 work item technical report"
[14] TR 36.821: \"UMTS / LTE in 800 MHz for Europe\"
[15] TS 36.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\"
[16] \"Avago ACPM-5004\",
http://www.avagotech.com/pages/en/rf_microwave/amplifiers/linear_power/umts_pa/acpm-5004/
[17] R4-080710, \"TP for UE Spurious emission limits\", RAN4#46bis, Shenzhen,
People Republic of China, Mar 31 2008
[18] \"Cascade SKY33100-360LF BAW Filters for Enhanced Near Band Rejection,
Application Note\", http://www.skyworksinc.com/uploads/documents/200627G.pdf,
Skyworks Solutions Inc, August 19, 2008.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
## 3.2 Symbols
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
\ \
# 4 Background
Band 24 (L-Band) is standardized in 3GPP Rel-10 LTE under the work item
\"Adding L-Band (Band 24) LTE for Ancillary Terrestrial Component (ATC) of
Mobile Satellite Service (MSS) in North America\" (L_Band_LTE_ATC_MSS)
UID_470010. The FCC has suspended the license to deploy ATC in both the upper
and lower segments of Band-24 downlink in the United States (and the
associated build-out requirements, pending further review). As a result,
LightSquared has not commenced such deployment in this band, and will not use
Band 24 downlink until the FCC and NTIA approve such use. On December 20,
2012, the FCC tolled (temporarily suspended) LightSquared's ATC build-out
requirement, pending action on LightSquared's proposals to resolve concerns
regarding potential interference to GPS receivers, including the proposals
discussed here (Order in IB Docket No. 12-296, DA 12-2051 December 20, 2012).
{width="6.492361111111111in" height="1.66875in"}
Figure 4-1: LightSquared Spectrum Holding
In addition, as depicted in Figure 4-1, LightSquared has contractual and
regulatory authority to use the 5 MHz of spectrum associated with the FCC's
nationwide license for 1670-1675 MHz (CH5 in Figure 4.1). FCC Rules allow 2000
Watts peak EIRP from base station, and 4 Watts peak EIRP from mobile terminals
(CFR Title 47 §27.50(f) [3]).
LightSquared has requested to expand the downlink band to 10 MHz bandwidth,
i.e. 1670-1680 MHz and has identified options for pairing this band with
uplink spectrum at 1627.5-1637.5 or 1646.7-1656.7 MHz (see Figure 4.2). The
FCC recently issued public notices for LightSquared's requests to operate its
terrestrial network using the downlink frequencies at 1670-1675 MHz and
1675-1680 MHz, and the comment cycle was completed in early January 2013
without serious objections.
{width="6.50625in" height="1.3736111111111111in"}
Figure 4-1: Potential LightSquared Spectrum Holding
# 5 Band allocation plan and regulatory background
This Section provides the frequency band arrangements and regulatory
backgrounds for the proposed band.
## 5.1 Existing Rules for 1670-1675 MHz.
FCC rules allow 2000 Watts peak EIRP from base stations, and 4 Watts peak EIRP
from mobile terminals (47 CFR §27.50(f)) in the 1670-1675 MHz band.
FCC has not mandated the radio propagation direction for the 1670 -- 1675 MHz
band (forward or reverse link), and leaves that to the operator's discretion.
Acceptable access techniques include both FDD and TDD technologies, provided
the relevant FCC transmitter emissions and other regulatory and requirements
are met. LightSquared aims to use the spectrum as the downlink component of an
FDD LTE system, with band 24 UL as its uplink spectrum.
This band was licensed to Crown Castle for the broadcast of a nationwide DVB-H
mobile video service, called Modeo, with at least 10 video channels and 24
audio channels. Crown Castle sought and received approval from the FCC to
operate at higher power under certain conditions for the provision of its
Modeo services (identified in FCC 07-16). For economic reasons, Modeo service
was abandoned by Crown Castle and the spectrum was leased to LightSquared.
The LTE deployment in this band will adhere to all 3GPP terrestrial out-of-
band requirements for spurious emissions including those for UE, eNB, and UE-
to-UE emissions as will be defined in 3GPP TS 36.101, TS 36.104, 3GPP TS
25.101, and other relevant documents. Spurious emission requirements from the
addition of this new band are expected to be the same as those required from
the addition of other new US bands in 3GPP.
### 5.1.1 Base Station and Mobile Station Power Limits for 1670-1675 MHz
Pursuant to Section 27.50(f) of the Commission's rules, fixed and base station
operations in the 1670-1675 MHz band are limited to 2000 watts EIRP peak
power. This power level includes transmit antenna gains.
As mentioned above, Crown Castle International Corporation sought and received
in FCC Order FCC 07-16 waiver of Section 27.50(f) of the Commission's rules,
which specifies a peak 2 kW EIRP limit for fixed and base station operations
in the 1670-1675 MHz band. Under this waiver, the fixed and base station
macrocells are allowed to transmit up to 4 kW/MHz (which is equivalent to 36
dBW/MHz or 66 dBm/MHz) peak EIRP density in non-rural, and 8 kW/MHz (which is
equivalent to 39 dBW/MHz or 69 dBm/MHz) peak EIRP density in rural areas only
in 30 Cellular Market Areas (CMAs) specified in Crown Castle's Initial Market
Deployment Plan (identified in FCC 07-16). In all other CMAs, the lower 2 kW
or 33 dBW peak base station EIRP limit applies. All these power limits include
the transmit antenna gains. Note that, based on FCC 07-16, any power level
above 2 kW is defined as high power transmission. This approach would have
enabled Crown Castle to operate its proposed 5 MHz bandwidth DVB-H technology
at up to 20 kW and 40 kW peak EIRP, for a 5 MHz channel, in non-rural and
rural areas, respectively.
Mobile terminals are limited to 4 watts EIRP peak power or 6 dBW (36 dBm)
EIRP, including the terminal's antenna gain.
### 5.1.2 Out of Band Emission (OOBE) Limits
In addition to all co-ordination and power limit requirements, operation in
1670-1675 MHz band is required to meet the following Out-Of-Band Emission
(OOBE) limits:
Per 47 CFR §27.53(k), the power of any emission outside the licensee's
frequency band of operation, shall be attenuated below the transmitter power
(P) by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB. Compliance with this provision is based on
the resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz or less, but at least one percent of the
fundamental emission bandwidth of the transmitter, provided the measured
energy is integrated over a 1 MHz bandwidth.
{width="5.717361111111111in" height="2.6694444444444443in"}
Figure 5.1: NOAA Services in 1600MHz band [Courtesy to NOAA]
### 5.1.3 Coordination
Figure 5.1 depicts the services in the 1600 MHz band that might require
coordination from any commercial services deployed in 1670-1680 MHz band. The
figure shows the current and future plans for this band.
#### 5.1.3.1 Meteorological Satellite Earth Stations
Although the 1670-1675 MHz band has been generally unencumbered, there are
three vital federal Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite System
(GOES) earth stations adjacent to this band (centred at 1676 MHz). 47 C.F.R
§1.924(g) (1) establishes coordination zones around downlinks for these earth
stations, which are located at Wallops Island, Virginia; Fairbanks, Alaska;
and Greenbelt, Maryland. The coordination zones for Wallops Island and
Fairbanks are specified locations bounded by circles with a radius of 100 km
(62.1 miles) each, while the Greenbelt zone is a specified location bounded by
a circle with a radius of 65 km (40.4 miles). For the 30 Cellular Market Areas
(CMAs) defined in FCC 07-16, where the transmission power could be greater
than 2 kW (i.e., high power), the radius of the circle for the coordination
zone surrounding Wallops Island and Fairbanks increases to 180 km and the
radius of the circle for the coordination zone for Greenbelt increases to 100
km. Even considering the larger coordination zones in Fairbanks and Greenbelt,
only 4% of USA PoPs would be impacted around these three locations.
Regardless of power levels, Section 1.924(g) (2) requires licensees to protect
Wallops Island and Fairbanks at all times, and to protect Greenbelt, which is
a back-up for Wallops Island, when it is active. 47 C.F.R. §27.903(b) (3)
requires licensees to file a separate station application with the FCC and
obtain an individual station license, prior to construction or operation of
any station in a coordination zone. Licensees are required to notify the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office Frequency
Management, either before or simultaneously with the filing of such an
application
#### 5.1.3.2 Radio Astronomy Services (RAS)
Radio Astronomy Service (RAS) also operates at two of the four hydroxyl line
frequencies, namely 1665 and 1667 MHz. To protect RAS, any operator with a
high power station (i.e. more than 2 kW EIRP) within 185 km radius of RAS
facilities (listed in 47 CFR §2.106, footnote US385) is obligated to co-
ordinate with the National Science Foundation (NSF) by initiating
consultations in writing at least 30 days before undertaking any such
operations. No coordination is required if the transmission power is no more
than 2 kW EIRP, as per FCC rules for the 1670 -- 1675 MHz band.
In the FCC rulemaking establishing technical requirements for the 1670-1675
MHz band, the National Research Council's Committee on Radio Frequencies
(CORF) requested the FCC to establish exclusion and coordination zones for the
protection of RAS. However, the FCC rejected the request, and rather
considered the OOBE for the 1670-1675 MHz licensee sufficient to protect RAS
operations.
Footnote US74 of 47 C.F.R. §2.106, stating that "RAS operation will be
protected from extra-band radiation only to the extent that such radiation
exceeds the limits for a station operating in compliance with all applicable
Commission rules," applies to the 1670-1675 MHz band. Footnote US385 of 47
C.F.R §2.106 lists the location of RAS sites that are considered under this
provision.
#### 5.1.3.3 Meteorological Aids
National Weather Service Radiosondes (NWS) operates radiosondes in 1675-1683
MHz to obtain upper-air data that are essential for weather forecasts and
research. Radiosondes use an approximate 250 mW transmitter power and operate
out to a range of 250 kilometers from NWS Upper Air Sites. To address the
potential interference from high power operations (i.e., more than 2 kW EIRP),
any operator deploying stations in 1670-1675 MHz within 1.3 km of any NWS
Upper Air Site is required to coordinate with NWS. No coordination is required
if the transmission power is no more than 2 kW EIRP.
## 5.2 Current Rules for 1675-1680 MHz
On November 2, 2012, LightSquared asked for FCC authority to use the 1675-1680
MHz band to provide a commercially-useable terrestrial wireless broadband
service as part of a contiguous 10 MHz downlink channel. The 5 MHz band at
1675--1680 MHz will be shared with existing federal government users.
LightSquared's proposal is uniquely suited to protecting the integrity of
essential government operations in the 1675-1680 MHz band. The FCC has
accepted public comment on the proposal, and the comment cycle has been
closed.
The 1675-1680 MHz band currently is allocated on a primary basis for both non-
Federal and Federal use by the Meteorological Aids (MetAids) and
Meteorological-Satellite (MetSat) Services; it is not allocated for
terrestrial mobile service. LightSquared's FCC filings recognize that its
proposed use of 1675-1680 MHz may require modification of the Commission's
rules in order to facilitate the prompt processing and grant of its
applications.
There are two downlink MetSat services deployed in 1675-1680 MHz band that
must be protected from any terrestrial operation in the same band: 1) Sensor
Data Link (SD) on current GOES-NOP (centred at 1676 MHz) , and 2) Data
Collection Platform Report (DCPR) on future GOES-R satellite (centred at
1679.9 MHz and 1680.2 MHz). While geographic locations for both SD and DCPR
are known based on NTIA's report, currently there are no rules specifying
protection zones around these sites.
The 1675 -- 1680 MHz band also overlaps with NOAA Channel 1 (1676 MHz) and
Channel 2 (1678 MHz) used for MetAids (Radiosonde) operations in the
Continental United States (CONUS). Currently, there are 71 government operated
Radiosonde receive stations in the CONUS. The International Table of
Allocations contains primary allocations for MetAids (Radiosondes) at both
400.15-406 MHz and 1668.4-1700 MHz.
If coordination with these services requires LightSquared to limit its
deployment within an exclusion zone, a 5 MHz deployment (from 1670-1675 MHz)
could be considered.
## 5.3 Technical Rules for UEs
The following information outlines the UE emissions masks for 1626-1660 MHz
UL, in EIRP metrics, consistent with FCC's rules.
● Maximum Power: 0 dBW or 30 dBm [6; (g)(1)] & [7].
● Out-of-Band Emissions for Mobile Terminals
○ OOCE/OOBE Emission [8]:
  * ▪ Limit of -58 dBW/4kHz (-28 dBm/4kHz) per terminal at a 1 MHz > offset and beyond from the edge of the spectrum used for > terrestrial deployment.
○ Specific Emissions Requirement to protect RNSS (GPS) band [9]:
▪ **Wideband Emissions** \- (averaged over any 2 millisecond active
transmission interval):
• 1559 -- 1605 MHz: -60 dBm/MHz; After 5 years: -65 dBm/MHz
• 1605 -- 1610 MHz: Linear interpolation from -60 dBm/MHz to -36 dBm/MHz;
After 5 years: linear interpolation from -65 dBm/MHz to -41 dBm/MHz
▪ Narrowband Emissions - (EIRP of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz
bandwidth, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval):
• 1559 -- 1605 MHz: -70 dBm; -75 dBm after 5 years
• 1605 -- 1610 MHz: Linear interpolation from -70 dBm to -46 dBm; After 5
years: linear interpolation from -75 dBm to -51 dBm
# 6 List of band specific issues for LTE FDD in 1670-1680MHz and band 24 UL
\- General issues
○ Co-existence with nearby 3GPP bands
• Co-existence with band 24
\- E-UTRA issues
○ UE Duplexer
• Potential receiver desensitization due to UL self-interference
• Potential device receiver blocking due to self-transmission in UL
○ UE REFSENS
○ Mobile to Mobile Interference
\- MSR issues
# 7 General Issues
{width="3.8784722222222223in" height="1.2868055555555555in"}
Figure 7-1: Proposed Band including B24 UL
Figure 7-1 depicts the proposed LTE band. The LTE deployment in this band will
adhere to all 3GPP terrestrial out-of-band requirements for spurious emissions
including those for UE, eNB, and UE-to-UE emissions as will be defined in 3GPP
TS 36.101, TS 36.104, 3GPP TS 25.101, and other relevant documents.
The downlink spectrum covered by this study item is 1670 to 1680 MHz, and the
corresponding paired 10 MHz uplink band is included within band 24 UL, 1626.5
to 1660.5 MHz (Figure 7-1). In particular the proposed UL band is either
1627.5 to 1637.5 MHz, or 1646.7 to 1656.7 MHz. These configurations are
depicted in Figure 7-2.
{width="4.886805555555555in" height="1.9201388888888888in"}
Figure 7-2: Proposed UL & DL Pairings (a) Pairing Lower UL Carrier (b) Pairing
Upper UL Carrier
As depicted in Figure 7-2, the band would consider both 5 MHz and 10 MHz
channel bandwidths. The 5 MHz deployment is considered for the markets with
exclusion zone requirements to coordinate with weather services in 1675-1680
MHz. Tables 7-1 and 7-2 depict the proposed operating band configurations. We
refer to UL pairing with smaller duplexing gap (Table 7-1) as Option 1, and
the UL pairing with larger duplexing gap (Table 7-2) as Option 2.
Table 7-1: LTE proposed operating band configuration; Option 1
* * *
E-UTRA operating Band Uplink (UL) band Downlink (DL) band TRX separation  
UE transmit / BS receive Channel BW [MHz] UE receive / BS transmit Channel BW
[MHz]  
F~UL_low~ (MHz) -- F~UL_high~ (MHz) F~DL_low~ (MHz) -- F~DL_high~ (MHz)  
XX 1646.7 - 1656.7 [5]/[10] 1670 -- 1680 [5]/[10] 23.3 MHz
* * *
Table 7-2: LTE proposed operating band configuration; Option 2
* * *
E-UTRA operating Band Uplink (UL) band Downlink (DL) band TRX separation  
UE transmit / BS receive Channel BW [MHz] UE receive / BS transmit Channel BW
[MHz]  
F~UL_low~ (MHz) -- F~UL_high~ (MHz) F~DL_low~ (MHz) -- F~DL_high~ (MHz)  
XX 1627.5 - 1637.5 [5]/[10] 1670 -- 1680 [5]/[10] 42.5 MHz
* * *
The band choices under study for 10 MHz pairing are either \"H and F\", or \"H
and G\" as depicted in Figure 7.2. The distance between the UL and DL edges of
the proposed band for 10 MHz carriers is 13.3 MHz for Option 1, and 32.5 MHz
for Option 2. The passband is 10 MHz, with a UL-DL distance of either 23.3 MHz
for Option 1 or 42.5 MHz for Option 2. These requirements may be challenging,
but are not without precedence in 3GPP RAN4. For example, bands 8, 26, and 28
have duplexing gap of 10 MHz, band 12 has a duplexing gap of 13 MHz, and band
25 has a duplexing gap of 15 MHz. The corresponding gaps for 5 MHz passband
are 18.3 MHz for Option 1, or 37.5 MHz for Option 2.
## 7.1 Co-existence with band 24
Due to the proximity of this proposed downlink spectrum with band 24 uplink
(1626.5-1660.5), the co-existence issues between these two bands have to be
studied. In order to manage the interference from band 24 UEs to the UEs
receiving DL signal at 1670-1680 MHz, the OOBE from B24 into this downlink
band needs to be reconsidered. If a new OOBE limit is needed for band 24 UEs
to protect the receivers in this band, new Network Signaling (NS) could also
be devised, potentially.
## 7.2 Relative Duplex Distance (RDD)
In a typical LTE transceiver the Base-band filtering effect does not typically
change significantly between bands, but duplex filter characteristics could be
different for each band. The major factors affecting the duplex filter design
are bandwidth, duplex gap, and the centre frequency. There are certain
bandwidth limits that SAW and BAW-technology filters can support. If the
duplex gap between uplink and downlink is small, the duplex filter design
would be challenging. Some of the challenges resulted from small duplex gap
are a) receiver desensitization due to own UL Transmit noise, and b) receiver
overload due to own UL TX power, c) UE to UE interference in the same band.
Both the bandwidth and the duplex gap must be normalized by the centre
frequency for comparison. To this end, Relative Duplex Distance (RDD) is
defined as the ratio of duplex gap by the centre frequency of the gap (Figure
7.2-1). According to the duplex filter vendors, RDD can be used as one of the
figure of merits to evaluate corner frequency effect in LTE uplink
transmission (ΔTC ), or to consider typical implementation of transmit filters
in UEs. In LTE, RDD less than 1.75% is considered as a critical threshold and
causes ΔTC relaxation [13, 14] for these bands. Examples of such relations are
the bands for which note 2 of Table 6.2.2.1 in TS 36.011 [15] applies, and
causes 1.5 dB reduction in P~CMAX_L~, the lower bound of the maximum output
power for the UE. Examples are band 2, 3, 8, 12, 22, 25, 26, 28, etc.
{width="4.200694444444444in" height="2.0694444444444446in"}
Figure 7.2-1: Definition of Relative Duplex Distance
Although RDD is not the unique figure to analyse the impact of duplexing gap
on the performance of a LTE spectrum band, it would be worthwhile to consider
it as one of the metrics for future study of the band.
Table 7.2-1 summarizes the RDD for all LTE FDD bands. As can be seen, bands 2,
3, 8, 22, 25, 26, 28, 30, and 31 have RDD less than 1.75%, and so are
considered critical bands in terms of duplexer design, and potentially require
relaxation in ΔTC. The bands 22 and 25 have RDD less than 1%.
### 7.2.1 RDD for 1670-1680 MHz band
As stated before, it is not only the duplexing gap, but the relative duplexing
gap, RDD, that impacts the characteristics of the duplexer, and determines
whether relaxation in ΔTC is required. Table 7.2.1-2 compares the RDDs of both
Options 1 and 2 UL pairings, for both 10 MHz and 5 MHz channel bandwidths.
Table 7.2.1-1: RDD for LTE FDD bands
* * *
Band # Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating band BW (MHz) f~c~
(MHz) f~g~ (MHz) RDD (%) =f~g~/f~c~ Critical Band?  
F~UL-low~ F~UL-high~ F~DL-low~ F~DL-high~  
1 1920 1980 2110 2170 60 2045 130 6.36 2 1850 1910 1930 1990 60 1920 20 1.04
Yes 3 1710 1785 1805 1880 75 1795 20 1.11 Yes 4 1710 1755 2110 2155 45 1932.5
355 18.37 5 824 849 869 894 25 859 20 2.33 6 830 840 875 885 10 857.5 35 4.08
7 2500 2570 2620 2690 70 2595 50 1.93 8 880 915 925 960 35 920 10 1.09 Yes 9
1749.9 1784.9 1844.9 1879.9 35 1814.9 60 3.31 10 1710 1770 2110 2170 60 1940
340 17.53 11 1427.9 1447.9 1475.9 1495.9 20 1461.9 28 1.92 12 699 716 729 746
17 722.5 13 1.80 13 777 787 746 756 10 766.5 41 5.35 14 788 798 758 768 10 778
40 5.14 17 704 716 734 746 12 725 18 2.48 18 815 830 860 875 15 845 30 3.55 19
830 845 875 890 15 860 30 3.49 20 832 862 791 821 30 826.5 71 8.59 21 1447.9
1462.9 1495.9 1510.9 15 1479.4 33 2.23 22 3410 3490 3510 3590 80 3500 20 0.57
Yes 23 2000 2020 2180 2200 20 2100 160 7.62 24 1626.5 1660.5 1525 1559 34
1592.75 135.5 8.51 25 1850 1915 1930 1995 65 1922.5 15 0.78 Yes 26 814 849 859
894 35 854 10 1.17 Yes 27 807 824 852 869 17 838 28 3.34 28 703 748 758 803 45
753 10 1.33 Yes 29 DL Only 717 728 11 N/A N/A N/A N/A  
30 2305 2315 2350 2360 10 2332.5 35 1.50 Yes 31 452.5 457.5 462.5 467.5 5 460
5 1.09 Yes
* * *
As can be seen from Table 7.2.1-2, for option 1 UL pairing (cases 1 & 2 in the
table), the RDD is less than 1.75%. That means either ΔTC has to be relaxed,
or other solutions have to be devised in designing the duplexer for this band.
The accurate impact of the duplex gap in this band would be discussed in later
Sections. However, it is worth mentioning that even though UL pairing Option
1, with RDD equal to 0.8, is more challenging than Option 2, the challenges
associated with this pairing such as potentially additional parts count, and
additional PA power are not materially different from those encountered in
certain other bands in the past, such as Band 25.
Table 7.2.1-2: RDD for 1670 MHz band UL Pairing Choices
* * *
Case # Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating band BW (MHz) f~c~
(MHz) f~g~ (MHz) RDD (%) =f~g~/f~c~ Critical Band?  
F~UL-low~ F~UL-high~ F~DL-low~ F~DL-high~  
1 1646.7 1656.7 1670 1680 10 1663.35 13.3 0.80 Yes 2 1646.7 1651.7 1670 1675 5
1660.85 18.3 1.10 Yes 3 1626.5 1636.5 1670 1680 10 1653.25 33.5 2.03 No 4
1626.5 1631.5 1670 1675 5 1650.75 38.5 2.33 No
* * *
# 8 Study of E-UTRA specific issues for UEs
This section analyses the technical feasibilities of realizing RF components
(based on currently available technologies) required for implementing the
duplexing options presented in this report. The analysis is performed by
considering the potentials for both self-interference and interference from a
proximate UE using the same (Band 24) UL frequencies. A conservative model is
used for the PA OOBE mask.
The UE PA OOBE mask is modelled on measurements performed at the output of an
un-optimized PA, operating in Band 24, using 23 dBm transmit power, and 50 RBs
for 10 MHz bandwidth UL transmission. This output is depicted in Figure 8-1.
This mask presents a conservative OOBE characteristic for a Band 24 PA output,
as there are existing PAs with considerably better performance (lower OOBE
PSD). It should also be noted that there are existing PAs for 1700 MHz band
that are known to provide approximately 4-5 dB lower OOBE PSD at a frequency
offset similar to the duplexing gap (13.3 MHz offset from carrier edge) for
one of the options (Option 1) for this proposed band [16].
{width="4.136111111111111in" height="2.7909722222222224in"}
Figure 8-1: Un-optimized Band 24 OOB noise at PA output for LTE 1626.5-1636.5
MHz; 50 RBs; TX power 23dBm.
## 8.1 UE Special Issues for Pairing Upper UL Carrier (Option 1)
If the upper UL carrier is paired with the DL carrier, the UE RX filter in the
duplexer (passband of 1670 -- 1680 MHz) has to sufficiently attenuate uplink
transmissions from 1646.7-1656.7 MHz at a separation of 13.3 MHz from the
downlink. The filters in the UE's transmit chain and the TX-RX isolation of
the duplexer must sufficiently suppress adjacent channel emissions into the
downlink band, from an UL emission 13.3 MHz away. This demanding rejection
requirement of the duplexer might impact the insertion loss of both TX and RX
filters.
To this end, some potential receiver desensitization scenarios have to be
investigated, including the followings:
1\. Receiver desensitization caused by UL TX OOBE into receive band (1670-1680
MHz) from own transmitter, or own receiver overload caused by emissions by own
transmitter in the transmit band (1646.7-1656.7 MHz). This represents self-
interference.
2\. Desensitization caused by OOBE or receiver overload owing to transmissions
from a proximate Band 24 device (mobile to mobile interference).
Currently, the present UE Band 24 duplexer supports the 1626.5-1660.5 MHz UL
band. The TX-ANT filter of this duplexer provides a sharp edge at the left
side (to protect GNSS), but its isolation to protect the proposed UE DL
receiver at 1670-1680 MHz is not significant. As a result, assuming that re-
designing band 24 duplexer to be sharp at both sides is costly and complex, a
new duplexer has to be designed for this proposed band, if Option 1 is chosen.
A duplexer has to provide high TX-RX isolation, to minimize both TX OOBE into
the receive chain and overload of the RX chain by the fundamental TX signals.
Toward this end, two metrics are relevant, both measured with a signal
injected into the TX port and relative (input to output) attenuation measured
at the RX port: (i) signal tuned to RX band -- this metric is relevant to OOBE
mitigation; (ii) signal tuned to TX band -- this metric is relevant to
overload mitigation. We set a goal of 50 dB for (i) and 55 dB for (ii) as
these are typical, practical values.
The feasibility of this duplexer was assessed using simulations performed by a
duplexer/filter vendor using Film Bulk Acoustic Resonator (FBAR) technology.
The performance metric simulated were: TX-RX isolation, the frequency response
of the TX-ANT and ANT-RX filters, TX-ANT insertion loss, and ANT-RX insertion
loss. Figures 8.1-1, 8.1-1A, 8.1-2, and 8.1-3 show the simulation results. In
all figures, the dotted lines show the operator design objectives.
{width="3.9756944444444446in" height="2.879166666666667in"}
Figure 8.1-1: 1651.7 MHz (Option 1) UE Duplexer Isolation
The plots represent the typical filters at room temperature (25°C), using FBAR
filter technology process. It is evident from Figure. 8.1-1 that both
performance objectives (i) and (ii), indicated by dotted lines, are met with a
considerable margin (greater than 20 dB for (i) and 10 dB for (ii)).
Figure 8.1-1A shows the frequency responses of the TX-ANT and ANT-RX paths,
showing conformance with the stopband insertion loss requirement of 45 dB in
both cases. Figures 8.1-2 and 8.1-3 show the passband insertion losses of the
TX and RX paths, respectively, showing conformance with the passband insertion
loss of 3 dB in both cases.
{width="3.6479166666666667in" height="2.295138888888889in"}
Figure 8.1-1A: 1651.7 MHz (Option 1) UE Duplexer TX-ANT and ANT-RX Frequency
Responses
The vendor has confirmed that these performance objectives can be met over
typical manufacturing variations and a temperature range of -20 to +85°C. The
vendor has further stated that the maximum shift in the nominal center
frequency over manufacturing and temperature variations is +/- 3 MHz. It is
evident from the depicted, nominal room temperature frequency response plots
that both passband insertion loss and TX-RX isolation requirements will
continue to be met in spite of the above frequency shift.
{width="4.076388888888889in" height="2.8625in"}
Figure 8.1-2: 1651.7 MHz (Option 1) UE Duplexer TX Insertion Loss
{width="4.092361111111111in" height="3.0875in"}
Figure 8.1-3: 1651.7 MHz (Option 1) UE Duplexer RX Insertion Loss
Table 8.1-1 lists the performance requirements that the filter vendor has
committed to meet for the temperature range of -20 to +85°C, and normal
manufacturing variance using FBAR technology. All analyses in this report are
based on these requirement values, which represent worst case performance,
rather than the considerably superior, nominal performance characteristics
shown in the above graphs.
Table 8.1-1: The duplexer performance requirements for the proposed band using
FBAR technology
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Band | Max TX | Max RX | Min TX | Min TX | Min | Min | | | filter | filter | to RX | to RX | TX-ANT | ANT-RX | | | IL (dB) | IL (dB) | is | is | re | re | | | | | olation | olation | jection | jection | | | | | in RX | in TX | in RX | in TX | | | | | band | band | band | band | | | | | (dB) | (dB) | (dB) | (dB) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 16 | 3 | 3 | 50 | 55 | 45 | 45 | | 70-1680 | | | | | | | | MHz DL | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1646.7 | | | | | | | | -1656.7 | | | | | | | | MHz UL | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 8.1.1 Potential receiver desensitization due to Own UL TX OOBE
Assuming the duplexer specifications in Table 8.1-1, we calculate the receiver
desensitization, and additional attenuation required to achieve 1 dB and 3 dB
receiver desensitization, using 9 dB UE NF (Noise Figure) in Table 8.1.1-1.
The UE PA OOBE attenuation is verified by evaluating the characteristics of
existing Band 24 un-optimized PA output, depicted in Figure 8-1. Lab results
show that lower OOBE values can be achieved by a PA that is optimized for Band
24.
Table 8.1.1-1: 10 MHz Receiver Desensitation for in-device isolation for
Option 1 Pairing
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Max UE PA OOBE (50 PRBs), 13.3 MHz from carrier edge -92
dBm/Hz Duplexer isolation at 13.3 MHz from carrier edge 50 dB TX noise at
1670-1680 MHz -142 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the RX carrier for 1 dB RX
desensitization -170.9 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the RX carrier for 3 dB RX
desensitization -165 dBm/Hz Minimum Additional Required Isolation for 1 dB
Desense. 28.9 dB Minimum Additional Required Isolation for 3 dB Desense. 23 dB
* * *
The additional required isolation must be achieved either by improving the
OOBE rejection of the TX band-pass filter, or by inserting a band-pass filter
similar to the duplexer transmit filter between the PA and the duplexer. By
adding a 6 dB margin to the 28.9 dB additional isolation for 1 dB
desensitization, [we derive a requirement of 34.9 dB as the additional
isolation to be provided by an external, post-PA filter.]{.underline} This
should be easily achievable, given that the 45 dB objective shown in Table
8.1-1 was achieved by the TX-ANT filter internal to the duplexer.
Using the same filter design as the TX-ANT filter, Figure 8.1-2 shows that the
insertion loss of this filter would be between 1-3 dB. Therefore, the PA has
to be driven to approximately 1-3 dB higher maximum power level, which may
result in some impact on the UE's current drain relative to the case where the
additional transmit filter was not required. However, it is noteworthy that
post-PA transmit filters are not uncommon in applications requiring tight
control of the emission mask.
While including an additional bandpass filter in the transmit chain, it is
necessary to consider the potential for frequency response distortion of both
coupled filters (external and internal to the duplexer) through impedance
mismatch, especially at off-main-lobe frequencies. In order to avoid such
distortion, a passive matching network may be used. Such passive networks can
be constructed with an insertion loss less than 1 dB and for very low cost
[18].
Table 8.1.1-2 provides the same analysis for 5 MHz UL TX channel at
1646.7-1651.7 and DL carrier at 1670-1675 MHz, using an un-optimized PA, with
the OOBE characteristics depicted in Figure 8-1. Note that the PA OOBE at 18.3
MHz away from carrier edge is obtained assuming 25.8 maximum UL TX power.
Table 8.1.1-2: 5 MHz Receiver Desensitation for in-device isolation for Option
1 Pairing
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Max UE PA OOBE (25 PRBs), 18.3 MHz from carrier edge -125
dBm/Hz Duplexer isolation at 18.3 MHz from carrier edge 50 dB TX noise at
1670-1675 MHz -175 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the RX carrier for 1 dB RX
desensitization -170.9 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the RX carrier for 3 dB RX
desensitization -165 dBm/Hz Margin for 1 dB Desense. 4.1 dB Margin for 3 dB
Desense. 10 dB
* * *
As seen above, for 5 MHz channel, no additional isolation is needed, and we
have 4.1 and 10 dB margin for 1 dB and 3 dB R _X_ accepted desensitization,
respectively.
### 8.1.2 Potential device receiver chain requirements for Option 1
The ANT-RX filter in the duplexer is mainly used to attenuate interference
coming from the TX band in addition to UE transmission leakage via TX-RX
isolation. The most likely scenario for such interference is a proximate UE
transmitting in an uplink band corresponding to either Option 1 or Option 2.
Clearly, an UE using Option 1 would be more challenging as the transmit
frequency would be closer to the victim receive frequency.
Band 24 UE vendors had identified that the own TX leakage into the RX band, at
the duplexer's receive port should be no more than -27 dBm. Assuming that UE
supports the power class 3 requirements, with the maximum power of 23 dBm at
the output of the PA, and 55 dB TX to RX duplexer isolation for the Option 1
TX band (specified in Table 8.1-1), the actual TX to RX leakage would be
23-55=-32 dBm, i.e. less than the maximum threshold of -27 dBm.
Establishing a requirement that the received interference power must be 20 dB
below the own device TX-RX leakage power at the input of the receive chain
(input of the LNA), Table 8.1.2-1 determines the required minimum ANT-RX
rejection that must be provided by the duplexer's RX filter. The UE is assumed
to be 1 meter from the victim UE.
Table 8.1.2-1: Required ANT-RX Rejection at 1670 - 1680 MHz
* * *
Parameter Value Unit
Aggressor UE TX Power 23 dBm Antenna gain + Body Loss per device 8.0 dB
Propagation Loss for 1 m UE Distance 36.7 dB Noise at the Receiver Antenna
Port -29.7 dBm Allowed own TX Leakage into RX chain at the TX band -27.0 dBm
Received Interference power Margin over -27 dBm 20.0 dB Allowed received
Interference power at the input of RX Chain in the TX band -47.0 dBm Maximum
Required ANT-RX rejection at the RX band 1670-1680 MHz 17.3 dB
* * *
As seen from this table, the minimum required ANT-RX rejection at the RX band
1670 -- 1680 MHz is 17.3 dB. If the aggressor mobile is transmitting using
Option 1 UL, then the duplexer ANT-RX filter needs to provide at least 17.3 dB
isolation to an UL frequency 13.3 MHz away. Table 8.1-1 shows that the minimum
ANT-RX rejection in TX band is 45 dB, providing a 45-17.3=27.7 dB margin over
the minimum requirement. If the aggressor is transmitting from 1627.5-1637.5
MHz UL frequency band, the duplexer ANT-RX filter has to provide the minimum
rejection of 17.3 dB at an UL frequency 32.5 MHz away. This is obviously less
challenging than the case mentioned in previous paragraph.
3GPP has identified [15] the blocking characteristics of the UE to be the
measure of UE's receiver ability to receive its wanted signal at its assigned
RX band in the presence of an unwanted interferer on frequencies other than
those of the spurious response or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted
input signal causing a degradation of the performance of the receiver beyond a
specified limit. The in-band blocking applies to unwanted interfering signal
falling into the UE receive band or into the first 15 MHz below or above the
UE receive band at which the relative throughput shall meet or exceed the
minimum requirement for the specified measurement channels. 3GPP has
identified -44 dBm as the UE in-band blocking requirement in Table 7.6.1.1-2
in [15]. Assuming 17.3 dB as the minimum required ANT-RX filter rejection at
the RX band, the input level at the receive RF chain would -44 - 17.3 = -61.3
dBm considerably lower than the -47 dB threshold specified in the Table
7.6.1.1-2. Therefore, in-band blocking requirement -44 dBm is applicable for
this proposed band.
### 8.1.3 Mobile to Mobile OOBE Effect
Assuming that two 10 MHz UEs using this band, one transmitting in UL
(1646.7-1656.7 MHz as an aggressor), and one receiving in the DL (1670 \--
1680 MHz as a victim) with 1 meter separation , Table 8.1.3-1 calculates the
OOBE noise level from aggressor-UE transmitter as received by the victim
receiver UE. In this analysis, it is assumed that sum of antenna and body loss
is 8 dB for each UE [17], with maximum 23 dBm TX power. It is assumed that the
total of TX-ANT rejection of duplexer TX filter, and the Ant-RX rejection of
duplexer RX filter provide at least 45 dB isolation from TX band into RX band,
corresponding to the requirements stated in Table 8.1-1.
Table 8.1.3-1: Same band 10 MHz Mobile to Mobile Noise, assumiung Option 1
pairing
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Max UE PA OOBE (50 PRBs), 13.3 MHz from carrier edge -92
dBm/Hz Duplexer TX filter attenuation at 1670-1680 MHz (worst case) 45 dB Path
Loss at 1m 36.6 dB Minimum Coupling Loss (MCL) 52.6 dB TX noise at 1670-1680
MHz -189.6 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the RX carrier for 1 dB RX
desensitization -170.9 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the RX carrier for 3 dB RX
desensitization -165 dBm/Hz Margin for 1 dB Desense. 18.7 dB Margin for 3 dB
Desense. 24.6 dB
* * *
As seen above, for a 10 MHz channel, we have 18.7 and 24.6 dB margin for 1 dB
and 3 dB RX accepted desensitization, respectively.
Table 8.1.3-2 provides the same analysis for 5 MHz UEs, where the margins are
changed to 51.7 and 57.6 dB for 1dB and 3dB RX accepted desensitization,
respectively.
Table 8.1.3-2: Same band 5 MHz Mobile to Mobile Noise, assumiung Option 1
pairing
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Max UE PA OOBE (25PRBs), 18.3MHz from carrier edge -125
dBm/Hz Duplexer TX filter attenuation at 1670-1675 MHz (worst case) 45 dB Path
Loss at 1m 36.6 dB Minimum Coupling Loss (MCL) 52.6 dB TX noise at 1670-1675
MHz -222.6 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the RX carrier for 1 dB RX
desensitization -170.9 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the RX carrier for 3 dB RX
desensitization -165 dBm/Hz Margin for 1 dB Desense 51.7 dB Margin for 3 dB
Desense 57.6 dB
* * *
The margins are even greater in this case. The likelihood of interference is
therefore considered low, in both cases.
## 8.2 UE Special Issues for Pairing Lower UL Carrier (Option 2)
If the lower UL carrier is paired with the DL carrier, the edge to edge UL-DL
gap is 32.5 MHz (1670 -- 1637.5=32.5 MHz) for the 10 MHz wide carrier, and
37.5 MHz (1670 -- 1632.5=37.5 MHz) for 5 MHz wide carrier. Consequently, the
duplexer design is not as critical as the case where the upper UL carrier is
used. A typical 50 dB TX-RX isolation would be enough to avoid receiver
desensitization. This is because as the PA OOBE PSD level in the RX band would
be much less than for Option 1.
_Using the PA output of an un-optimized PA depicted in Figure 8.1, the OOBE
PSD at an 32.5 MHz offset from the channel edge is -130 dBm/Hz, compared to
-92 dBm/Hz for Option 1. Using the same analysis as in Table 8.1.1-1, Table
8.2-1 provides the required isolation TX-RX isolation for 1 dB and 3dB
desensitization._
Table 8.2-1: 10 MHz Receiver Desensitation for in-device isolation for Option
2 Pairing
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Max UE PA OOBE (50 PRBs), 32.5 MHz from channel edge -130
dBm/Hz Noise Figure 9 dB Acceptable noise at the RX carrier for 1 dB RX
desensitization -170.9 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the RX carrier for 3 dB RX
desensitization -165.0 dBm/Hz Required duplexer TX-RX isolation for 1 dB
Desense 40.9 dB Required duplexer TX-RX isolation for 3 dB Desense 35.0 dB
* * *
For 5 MHz channel BW, the separation is 37.5 MHz, and the rejection at 37.5
MHz away from the channel edge is -132.3 dBm/Hz, as compared to -125 dBm/Hz
for Option 1. Using the same analysis as in Table 8.2-1, the required TX-RX
duplexer isolation for 1 dB and 3 dB desensitization would decrease to 40.9 -
[-130 - (-132.3)] = 38.6 dB and 35 - [-130 - (-132.3)] = 32.7 dB,
respectively.
In the case of 10 MHz channel bandwidth, for the 1 dB desensitization, the
duplexer has to provide 40.9 dB rejection, at 32.5 MHz offset from the right
channel edge. This is a relatively easy requirement to achieve. However, the
duplexer has to provide a steep roll-off on the left to meet Band 24 uplink
regulatory OOBE requirements in the GNSS band. The following discussion
calculates the required duplexer rejection in the GNSS band.
We assume 0 dBi antenna gain (which is a conservative value [17]), and use the
FCC requirement of Band 24 UE requirements for OOBE in GNSS band (-65 dBm/MHz
at 1605 MHz as given in Section 5.3). From Figure 8-1, the PA OOBE mask at
22.5 MHz (1627.5 -- 1605=22.5) offset from the left channel edge is -103
dBm/Hz. The TX-ANT rejection at 22.5 MHz offset is calculated to be -103 -
(-65-60) = 22 dB. The above shows that 30 dB rejection by the TX-ANT filter at
22.5 MHz offset from channel edge provides more than 8 dB margin).
As shown in Figure 8.2-1, Band 24 SAW duplexer's TX-ANT filter already meets
this requirement, while also providing a roll-off on the right side similar to
that required for meeting the isolation requirements for Option 2
(approximately 50 dB rejection at 32 MHz offset). Therefore, it is not
expected that this filter will pose any significant technical challenges.
Specifically, the TX-ANT filter shown in Figure 8.2-1 provides an attenuation
of approximately 50 dB at a right side frequency offset greater than 32 MHz
from the channel edge. If the filter can provide this selectivity while
maintaining a passband width of 34 MHz, the filter complexity to realize
similar roll-off (50 dB in 32 MHz) with a smaller (10 MHz) passband, as
required by Option 2, would be less. It is noteworthy that filter complexity
depends, in part, on the Transition Ratio (TR) of the filter, defined as
(stopband width)/(passband width). A larger TR value requiring fewer
poles/zeros, and therefore less implementation complexity. Hence the 50 dB
isolation requirement should be achievable without exceptional technical risk.
{width="6.270138888888889in" height="3.295138888888889in"}
Figure 8.2-1: EPCOS LI68A L-band duplexer TX-ANT
### 8.2.1 Mobile to Mobile OOBE Effect
With Option 2, the 10 MHz UL, 1627.5-1637.5 MHz, is paired with the 1670 \--
1680 MHz DL, and the other 10 MHz UL carrier, 1646.7-1656.7 MHz, is used as a
modified Band 24 UL, paired with a 1526 -- 1536 MHz band DL. Assuming two UEs,
one transmitting in modified Band 24 UL (aggressor) at 1646.7-1656.7 MHz, and
one receiving in the proposed DL carrier (victim) at 1670-1680 MHz, are in 1
meter proximity of each other, Table 8.2.2-1 calculates the required rejection
from the TX PA output to the input of receiver LNA.. In this analysis, it is
assumed that antenna and body loss is 8 dB at each UE [17], with maximum 23
dBm TX power. Once again, a 9 dB NF is assumed at UE receiver.
Table 8.2.1-1: 10MHz M2M Noise
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Max UE PA OOBE (50 PRBs), 13.3 MHz from carrier edge -92
dBm/Hz Path Loss at 1m 36.6 dB Minimum Coupling Loss (MCL) 52.6 dB TX noise at
1670-1680 MHz -144.6 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the RX carrier for 1 dB RX
desensitization -170.9 dBm/Hz Acceptable noise at the RX carrier for 3 dB RX
desensitization -165 dBm/Hz Minimum required isolation from TX-ANT duplexer
filter for 1 dB Desense. 26.3 dB Minimum required isolation from TX-ANT
duplexer filter for 3 dB Desense. 20.4 dB
* * *
As seen above, for a 10 MHz channel, we need at least 26.3 and 20.4 dB TX-ANT
duplexer filter isolation for 1 dB and 3 dB RX desensitization levels,
respectively. These isolations could be provided by the modified Band 24
duplexer's TX-ANT filter on the right side once we relax the sharp roll-off
required on the left side to meet the regulatory OOBE requirement in the GNSS
band. We now have a transition band of 1646.7 -1605 = 41.5 MHz with a passband
of 10 MHz. A rejection of 50 dB should be realizable with this transition
band, as in Section 8.2 it was shown that it is not very challenging to
achieve 50 dB rejection over a transition band of 32 MHz.
### 8.2.2 Device Receiver Chain Requirements for Option 2
In Section 8.1.2, assuming that the maximum acceptable leakage from own TX
leakage at the duplexer receive port to be no more than -27 dBm, the
requirements of duplexer's ANT-RX filter was derived to avoid desensitization
due to an interference from a proximate aggressor. Table 8.1.2-1 calculated
the minimum required ANT-RX rejection at the RX band 1670-1680 MHz to be 17.3
dB.
If the aggressor mobile is transmitting using Option 2, then the duplexer's
ANT-RX filter needs to provide such isolation at an UL frequency 32.5 MHz
(1670 -- 1637.5=32.5) away.
If the aggressor is transmitting from 1646.7-1656.7 MHz UL frequency band, the
duplexer ANT-RX filter has to provide the minimum rejection of 17.3 dB at an
UL frequency 13.3 MHz away. In each case the 45 dB minimum ANT-RX rejection in
TX band, shown in Table 8.1-1 provides at least 27.7 dB margin over the
minimum requirement.
Similar to Option 1, the in-band blocking requirements of -44 dBm (case 2) and
-56 dBm (case 1) is also valid for this option.
## 8.3 UE REFSENS
The reference sensitivity power level REFSENS is the minimum mean power
applied to both the UE antenna ports at which the throughput shall meet or
exceed the requirements for the specified reference measurement channel.
For the Band 24 UE, PREFSENS = -100 dBm for 5 MHz and PREFSENS = -97 dBm for
10 MHz channel bandwidths. These values are obtained by assuming NF (noise
figure) = 9 dB, combined SNR (for QPSK1/3) = - 1 dB before considering
implementation margin, DG (Rx diversity gain) = 3 dB, and IM (implementation
margin) = 2 dB. The reference measurement channel for which the reference
receive sensitivity requirement must be met is assumed to be full allocation
with number of allocated uplink resource blocks of 25 for 5MHz and 50 for
10MHz channel.
### 8.3.1 Maximum Sensitivity Degradation (MSD)
For calculating the REFSENS, the method described in [12] is used when two-
branch Rx antenna along with MRC receiver processing, and a certain coupling
between the Rx antennas are assumed at the UE receiver.
The Reference sensitivity is calculated using
$P_{\text{REFSENS}} = \text{SNR} - \text{DG} + \text{IM} +
\text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}\left( V_{n} \right) +
\text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}\alpha$ (8.3.1-1)
Where _V~n~_ is the receive noise power per branch and is
$V_{n} = \text{kTB}\text{10}^{\left( N_{F}\text{10} \right)}$
$V_{n}(\text{dB}) = - \text{174} + \text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}B + N_{F}$
(8.3.1-2)
The term _α_ is the additional margin for excessive transmitter noise and is
considered to be _α_ (dB) = 0.5 dB applicable for most operating band and
bandwidth combinations.
If we assume that the UE transmitter causes an emission of P~OOB~ in its own
receive band, the corresponding transmitter noise power per branch is
$V_{t} = \frac{P_{\text{OOB}}L_{\text{rx}}}{a_{\text{tx} - \text{rx}}}$
$V_{t}\left( \text{dB} \right) = P_{\text{OOB}}\left( \text{dB} \right) +
L_{\text{rx}}\left( \text{dB} \right) - a_{\text{tx} - \text{rx}}\left(
\text{dB} \right)$ (8.3.1-3)
Where _L~rx~_ is the duplexer Rx filter insertion loss, and _a~tx-rx~_ is the
duplexer isolation. One way to calculate the _P~OOB~_ , is to assume a certain
transmit power (say 23dBm) and using _P~OOB~ = Tx Power / ACLR_. Another
approach is to integrate the PA output emission graph over the receive
bandwidth.
With these values, and assuming that \|c\|^2^ is the inverse of L~coupling,~
the coupling between the two Rx antenna branches, the Maximum Sensitivity
Degradation (MSD) could be calculated according to the following rules:
1\. If the transmitter noise, _V~t~_ and the receiver noise, _V~n~_ satisfy
(8.3.1-4), which means that the receive noise is dominant, then the MSD can be
estimated from the usual MRC expression (8.3.1-5).
$\left( 1 + \frac{V_{t}}{V_{n}} \right)\text{>}V_{n}$ and$V_{t}\text{>>}V_{n}$, then MSD is
calculated form (8.3.1-6)
$\text{MSD} = \frac{2}{\alpha}\left( 1 + \left| c
\right|^{2}\frac{V_{t}}{V_{n}} \right)$ (8.3.1-6)
3\. if $V_{t} \approx V_{n}$ then (8.3.1-6) is not a reasonable approximation,
and (8.3.1-7) can be used to calculate the MSD
$\text{MSD} = \frac{1}{\alpha}\left( 1 + \frac{\text{Vt}}{\text{Vn}} \right)$
(8.3.1-7)
### 8.3.2 MSD and UE REFSENS for Upper UL pairing (Option 1)
Assuming $\text{SNR} + \text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}\alpha = -
0\text{.}5\text{dB}$[12], and the same parameters as used for Band 24, the
reference sensitivity power for 5 and 10 MHz channel bandwidths could be
calculated to be -100 dBm and -97 dBm, respectively. Using the UE duplexer RX
insertion loss and TX-RX isolation loss in Table 8.1-1, we have listed the
parameters required for calculating the MSD and UE REFSENS for both 5 and 10
MHz channel bandwidths of Option 1 in Table 8.3.2-1. Here, it is assumed that
the coupling between the two RX antennas is 10 dB, and the receiver noise
figure is 9 dB. The PA output OOBE PSD for 10 MHz channel BW is calculated
using a linear interpolation from -92 dBm/Hz at 1670 MHz, and -104 dBm/Hz at
1680 MHz, using an un-optimized PA output, depicted in Figure 8-1.
Table 8.3.2-1: Calculation of MSD for Option 1 UL pairing (without post-PA
bandpass filter)
BW  
(MHz) | Lcoupling  
(dB) | _α  
_(dB) | PA output OOB Density (dBm/Hz) | _L rx  
_(dB) | _a tx-rx  
_(dB) | B  
(MHz) | NF  
(dB) | POOB  
(dBm) | Vn  
(dBm) | Vt  
(dBm) | MSD (dB)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
5 | 10 | 0.5 | -128 | 3 | 50 | 4.5 | 9 | -61.47 | -98.5 | -108.47 | -0.28  
10 | 10 | 0.5 | -98.00 | 3 | 50 | 9 | 9 | -28.46 | -95.5 | -75.46 | 12.92  
As evident from this table, the sensitivity degradation for the 5 MHz channel
BW is not significant, while the maximum sensitivity degradation for 10 MHz
channel, without a post-PA filter is in the range of 12.92 dB. This
degradation is due to small duplexing gap between the UL and DL carrier (13.3
MHz), and the fact that the UE PA output OOBE density in the own RX channel
can't be ignored. From Table 8.1.1-1, the required additional isolation to
achieve maximum 1 dB desensitization in RX noise floor per antenna branch is
calculated to be 28.9 dB. This means that a~tx-rx~ must be increased to 50 +
28.9 = 78.9 dB. Assuming 78.9 dB as the isolation value, Table 8.3.2-2 shows
the MSD calculated to be -0.22 dB.
Table 8.3.2-2: Calculation of MSD for Option 1 UL pairing for 10 MHz with
post-PA bandpass filter
BW  
(MHz) | Lcoupling  
(dB) | _α  
_(dB) | PA output OOB Density (dBm/Hz) | _L rx  
_(dB) | _a tx-rx  
_(dB) | B  
(MHz) | NF  
(dB) | POOB  
(dBm) | Vn  
(dBm) | Vt  
(dBm) | MSD (dB)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
10 | 10 | 0.5 | -98.00 | 3 | 78.9 | 9 | 9 | -28.46 | -95.5 | -104.36 | -0.22  
### 8.3.3 UE REFSENS for Lower UL pairing (Option 2)
The TX-RX separation for Option 2 pairing is 32.5 MHz. Using -134 dBm/Hz as
the PA output density, the MSD in this case is calculated to be zero.
Therefore, the reference sensitivities are the same as Band 24 values (-100
dBm for 5 MHz and -97 dBm for 10 MHz channel bandwidth).
## 8.4 UE Tx RF Requirements
### 8.4.1 UE Tx RF harmonic and IMD analysis
In Tables 8.4.1-1 and 8.4.1-2 the IMD and harmonic products for the two UL
options for this proposed band are presented, respectively. These harmonics
and IMD products are caused by the nonlinearities at the output of the UE
transmit PA, and could potentially appear at the receiver antenna connector as
spurious emission. These products will not be attenuated by the receiver
filter, and could potentially pass into the receive path and desensitize the
receiver.
Table 8.4.1-1: UE IMD products for the two pairing options for the proposed
bands
* * *
UL Pairing Options Option 1 Option 2  
f1_low f1_low f1_high f1_low f1_high UL frequency (MHz) 1646.7 1656.7 1627.5
1637.5 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*f1_low -- f1_high\| \|2*f1_high
-- f1_low\| \|2*f1_low -- f1_high\| \|2*f1_high -- f1_low\| IMD frequency
range (MHz) 1636.7 to 1666.7 1617.5 to 1647.5
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (2*f1_low + f1_high) (2*f1_high + f1_low)
(2*f1_low + f1_high) (2*f1_high + f1_low) IMD frequency range (MHz) 4950.1 to
4960.1 4892.5 to 4902.5
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products (3*f1_low -- 2*f1_high) (3*f1_high --
2*f1_low) (3*f1_low -- 2*f1_high) (3*f1_high -- 2*f1_low) IMD frequency range
(MHz) 1626.7 to 1676.7 1607.5 to 1657.5
Two-tone 7^th^ order IMD products (4*f1_low -- 3*f1_high) (4*f1_high
-3*f1_low) (4*f1_low -- 3*f1_high) (4*f1_high -3*f1_low) IMD frequency range
(MHz) 1616.7 to 1686.7 1597.5 to 1667.7
* * *
Table 8.4.1-2: UE harmonic products for the two pairing options for the
proposed bands
* * *
UE UL carriers f1_low f1_high f1_low f1_high UL frequency (MHz) 1646.7 1656.7
1627.5 1637.5 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 3293.4 to 3313.4
3255 to 3275  
3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 4940.1 to 4970.1 4882.5 to 4912.5
* * *
From Tables 8.4.1-1 and 8.4.1-2 the following impacts from IMD and harmonics
from each of the two alternatives can be observed:
1\. Option 1:
a. None of the harmonic products fall into either own DL or any other LTE
band, which means there is no harmonic problem from this proposed band.
b. The 5th order IMD product falls into own DL band, however this 5th order
IMD is suppressed by the duplexer Tx filter.
c. The 7th order IMD product falls into own DL band, however this 7th order
IMD is suppressed by the duplexer Tx filter.
1\. Option 2:
a. None of the harmonics fall into either own DL or any other LTE band, which
means there is no harmonic problem from this proposed band.
b. None of the IMD products fall into own DL.
c. The 5th order IMD product falls into the upper edge of GNSS band, however
this 5th order IMD is suppressed by the duplexer Tx filter.
d. The 7th order IMD falls into GNSS band, however this 7th order IMD is
suppressed by the duplexer Tx filter.
### 8.4.2 Spurious emission for UE co-existence
From the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis and harmonic/IMD product analysis in
this paper, Tables 8.4.2-1 and 8.4.2-2 provide the spurious emission
requirements for UE-to-UE coexistence of this proposed band for the two
alternative UL pairings, respectively.
Table 8.4.2-1: Spurious emission band UE co-existence of this proposed band
for option 1 UL pairing
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | E-UTRA | Sp | | | | | | | | Band | urious | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | | Pro | Fre | Level | Ban | C | | | | | tected | quency | (dBm) | dwidth | omment | | | | | band | range | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | XX | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, 41 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+
Table 8.4.2-2: Spurious emission band UE co-existence of this proposed band
for option 2 UL pairing
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | E-UTRA | Sp | | | | | | | | Band | urious | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | | Pro | Fre | Level | Ban | C | | | | | tected | quency | (dBm) | dwidth | omment | | | | | band | range | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | XX | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, 41 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+
### 8.4.3 Other expected UE TX/RX RF requirements
In Table 8.4.3-1, detailed descriptions on UE RF requirements are provided to
predict any potential requirements changes for two pairing alternatives of
this proposed band.
Table 8.4.3-1: Considering UE RF requirements for the proposed band
* * *
Clause Description Requirement for Option 1 Requirement for Option 2 6.2.2 UE
Maximum Output Power Referring to the solution provided in Section 8.1.1 for
small TX-RX duplexing separation, power class 3 can be applied to the UEs in
this band. No changes are needed for power class 3. 6.2.4 UE Maximum Output
Power with additional requirements (A-MPR) Referring to the solution provided
in Section 8.1.1 for small TX-RX duplexing separation, no A-MPR is required in
addition to MPR stated in [15], Table 6.2.3-1. No changes are expected.
6.6.2.2 Additional Spectrum Emission Mask No changes are needed to protect
adjacent coexistence bands, due to no IMD and harmonic with other DL bands No
changes are needed to protect adjacent coexistence bands, due to no IMD and
harmonic with other DL bands. 6.6.3.2 Spurious emission band UE coexistence
Defines SE requirements as -50 dBm/MHz to protect UE coexistence bands. SE
requirements to protect self-receiver is specified in Table 8.4.2-1. Defines
SE requirements as -50 dBm/MHz to protect UE coexistence bands. For
coexistence with Band 24, and SE requirements to protect self-receiver is
specified in Table 8.4.2-2. 7.3.1 Reference sensitivity requirement See
Section 8.3. No changes are expected. 7.5, 7.6, 7.7, and 7.8 ACS, blocking,
spurious, and intermod As discussed in Section 8.1.2, no additional
requirements are needed as compared to Band 24. As discussed in Section 8.2.2,
no additional requirements are needed as compared to Band 24.
* * *
## 8.5 UE Related Concluding Remarks
In Section 8, several characteristics of two UL pairing options were compared
using a conservative un-optimized PA OOBE PSD mask, depicted in Figure 8-1.
Option 1 (which comprises pairing the proposed DL carrier (1670-1680 MHz) with
upper UL carrier (1646.7-1656.7 MHz)) is clearly more challenging than Option
2 (pairing proposed DL carrier with lower UL carrier (1626.5-1636.5).
Using conventional PAs and duplexers, with FBAR technology, which yields one
of the best frequency selectivity in the present state of the art, it is not
possible to achieve the isolation necessary to limit own receiver
desensitization to targets below 1 dB or 3 dB. Moreover, due to self-
overloading and TX OOBE, this option requires at least 12.92 dB MSD. However,
there are solutions to achieve the necessary isolation. One solution is to use
a post-PA bandpass filter between the PA and duplexer in the TX chain. The
required selectivity (isolation) of \~35 dB in the transition band of 13.3 MHz
is readily available with current filter technologies. Using this filter, the
REFSENS values used for band 24 can be applied to this proposed band without
MSD.
For Option 2 pairing, the technical challenge is lower than Option 1. The
selectivity requirement on the right side of the UL channel is 40.9 dB
isolation at a 32.5 MHz frequency separation (DL receive band) to avoid own
receiver desensitization. The selectivity requirement on the left side of the
UL channel is 30 dB isolation at a 22 MHz frequency separation to meet FCC's
requirement to protect the GNSS band. Both selectivity requirements are
achievable with present SAW duplexer technologies for Band 24. Hence, Option 2
is considered feasible with relatively little technical challenge
Regardless of whether Option 1 or Option 2 is selected, the present Band 24
duplexer cannot be reused.
If Option 1 is selected, then a new duplexer will be required for pairing the
upper UL with the new 1670 -- 1680 MHz downlink. Assuming that the lower UL
carrier is paired with Band 24 lower DL (1526-1536 MHz), one may be tempted to
reuse the present Band 24 duplexer for this FDD pair. However, it makes more
sense to reduce the width of the present Band 24 duplexer's passband to 10 MHz
to free up greater transition bandwidth (1636.5 to 1670 MHz) to the 1670-1680
MHz of proposed DL band. This reduces the potential for interference between
proximate UEs. Owing to the large transition band, a SAW filter is likely to
suffice for this application.
If Option 2 were selected, the Band 24 duplexer could not be used as it would
provide insufficient TX-RX isolation to the 1670 -- 1680 MHz DL receiver in a
mobile to mobile proximate situation.
It is worthy of mention that in both pairing options, a common duplexer cannot
support this proposed band and a modified Band 24, if both the proposed band
and Band 24 are supported in a given UE. Therefore for devices supporting both
Band 24 (perhaps modified in future) and this proposed band, two separate
duplexers will be required for the device.
# 9 Study of E-UTRA specific issues for BS
## 9.1 BS TX RF filtering
The frequency separations between the uplink and downlink of the proposed
pairing options are given in Table 9.1-1 below.
Table 9.1-1: Frequency Separations of proposed UL pairings
* * *
Pairing option Uplink (MHz) Downlink (MHz) Edge to edge Frequency separation
between the uplink and downlink (MHz) 1 1646.7 - 1656.7 1670 - 1680 13.3 2
1627.5 - 1637.5 1670 - 1680 32.5
* * *
It can be seen that pairing option 1 is the more challenging BS to BS
coexistence scenario where the frequency separation between the BS uplink and
downlink is 13.3 MHz. To protect the BS receiver from own or different BS
transmitter, the operators should ensure the following:
● The BS transmitter unwanted emissions received by the BS receiver do not
cause unacceptable BS receiver desensitization.
● The total carrier power of the BS transmitter attenuated by the BS receiver
RF, IF and baseband filters do not result in BS receiver blocking.
Currently, the BS spurious emissions limits for protection of the BS receiver
of own or different BS is specified in 3GPP as -96 dBm/100 kHz (-86 dBm/MHz)
in the UL frequency range of the BS receiver for Wide Area BS [10]. This
requirement value is obtained assuming a 5 dB BS noise figure, a 30 dB BS to
BS minimum coupling loss (MCL) and a 0.8 dB victim BS receiver desensitization
[10]. The calculation for 5 MHz and 10 MHz channel bandwidths is shown in
Table 9.1-2 below.
Table 9.1-2: Calculation of spurious emission limits for BS receiver
protection
* * *
Thermal Noise power spectral density dBm/Hz -174  
BS noise figure dB 5  
Channel bandwidth MHz 5 10 Noise bandwidth MHz 4.5 9 Receiver noise floor dBm
-102.47 -99.46 BS Spurious emissions limits dBm/MHz -86  
BS-BS MCL dB 30  
Receiver interference dBm -109.47 -106.46 Receiver interference + noise floor
dBm -101.68 -98.67 Receiver sensitivity degradation dB 0.79 0.79
* * *
Note that for BS with common transmit and receive antenna port, there may not
be any considerable coupling loss between the BS transmitter and receiver,
hence the 30 MCL cannot be used and the BS spurious emission limits shall be
(-86 -- 30 =) -116 dBm/MHz. Now, if we assume the out-of-band (OOB) emission
from the power amplifier (PA) is designed to meet the -13 dBm/MHz specified in
3GPP [10], then the required rejection by the BS RF transmit (TX) filter to
meet the -116 dBm/MHz emission limit will be (-13 - (-116) =) 103 dB.
The RF filter simulation results for pairing option 2 with five metal
resonators are shown in Figure 9.1-1 below. It can be seen that the required
minimum rejection of 103 dB over the receive frequencies (1627.5 - 1637.5 MHz)
can be achieved (with likely drift of \~100 kHz due to manufacturing and
environmental variations), with an acceptable transmit pass-band (1670 - 1680
MHz) insertion loss of \<1.0 dB (including an additional \~0.2 dB for
connectors and internal transmission lines). Note that temperature-
compensation and implementation margin were not included in the simulation,
thus the simulation results should only be used as an approximation but not
the expectation of actual products performance.
Figure 9.1-1: Simulated BS RF TX Filter Characteristics -- 5 Metal Resonators
The RF filter simulation results for pairing option 1 with five metal
resonators are shown in Figure 9.1-2 below. It can be seen that in order to
maintain an acceptable insertion loss of \~1.0 dB over the transmit
frequencies (1670 - 1680 MHz), the required minimum rejection of 103 dB over
the receive frequencies (1646.7 - 1656.7 MHz) cannot be met with five metal
resonators. But it can be seen that \~93 dB of rejection can be achieved (with
likely drift of \~100 kHz due to manufacturing and environmental variations),
and the remaining rejection can be obtained by using separate transmit and
receive antenna ports to provide enough coupling loss between the transmitter
and receiver. Otherwise, with 93 dB of rejection, the receiver interference
will be (-13 -- 93 =) -106 dBm/MHz, leading to \~5 dB receiver sensitivity
degradation. Note that temperature-compensation and implementation margin were
not included in the simulation, thus the simulation results should only be
used as an approximation but not the expectation of actual products
performance.
Figure 9.1-2: Simulated BS RF TX Filter Characteristics -- 5 Metal Resonators
The RF filter simulation results for pairing option 1 with ceramic resonators
are shown in Figure 9.1-3 below. It can be seen that using ceramic resonators,
the required minimum rejection of 103 dB over the 1646.7 - 1656.7 MHz receive
frequencies can be achieved (with likely drift of \~100 kHz due to
manufacturing and environmental variations) with \<1.0 dB insertion loss over
the 1670-1680 MHz transmit frequencies (including an additional \~0.2 dB for
connectors and internal transmission lines). However, it should be noted that
ceramic resonators will increase the weight and cost of the RF filter. Note
that temperature-compensation and implementation margin were not included in
the simulation, thus the simulation results should only be used as an
approximation but not the expectation of actual products performance.
Figure 9.1-3: Simulated BS RF TX Filter Characteristics -- Ceramic Resonators
To summarize, the simulation results in Figures 9.1-1, 9.1-2, and 9.1-3 show
that it could be feasible for the BS RF TX filter to provide the required
rejections for pairing the 1670 - 1680 MHz downlink with either 1627.5 -
1637.5 MHz uplink or 1646.7 - 1656.7 MHz uplink. However, pairing 1670 - 1680
MHz downlink with 1646.7 - 1656.7 MHz uplink will require the use of separate
transmit and receive antenna ports or ceramic resonators, with which the
increase in cost, size, weight, and complexity of the filter still need to be
considered.
## 9.2 BS RX RF filtering
It can be seen in Table 9.1-1 that the frequency separation between the uplink
and downlink is larger than 10 MHz, hence the BS transmitted carrier is
outside the adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) region of the BS receive
frequency, and thus the BS in-band general blocking requirement is used here
for the analysis.
RAN4 has specified -43 dBm for the interfering signal power of the BS in-band
blocking requirement in order to achieve a maximum of 6 dB victim BS receiver
desensitization in Table 7.6.1.1-1 of [10]. In Table 7.6.1.1-2 of [10], the
reference measurement channel bandwidth is specified as 5 MHz. Therefore, the
analysis provided here considers only the channel bandwidth of 5 MHz. The
centre frequency of the blocker is located within 20 MHz below the lower
uplink channel edge and 20 MHz above the upper uplink channel edge (from
1626.7 MHz to 1676.7 MHz for option 1, and from 1607.5 MHz to 1657.5 MHz for
option 2). Assuming 5 dB BS noise figure, Table 2 calculates the minimum
rejection required by the BS receiver IF and baseband filter with 5 MHz uplink
channel bandwidth and 5 MHz in-band blocker. As calculated in Table 9.2-1,
this requirement means that the minimum rejection by the BS receiver IF and
baseband filters on the in-band blocker is 54.72 dB for 5 MHz interferer. This
requirement is applicable to both uplink pairing options. Note that the
calculation in Table 9.2-1 is also valid for 10, 15 or 20 MHz channel
bandwidth because the same reference measurement channel as for 5 MHz channel
bandwidth is specified for the in-band general blocking requirement.
Table 9.2-1: Calculation of BS in-band general blocking requirement
* * *
Thermal Noise power spectral density dBm/Hz -174 BS noise figure dB 5 Channel
bandwidth MHz 5 Noise bandwidth MHz 4.5 Receiver noise floor dBm -102.47
Interfering signal power (general blocking) dBm -43 Receiver sensitivity
degradation (general blocking) dB 6 Allowed receiver interference (general
blocking) dBm -97.72 Required receiver filter rejection (general blocking) dBm
54.72
* * *
Assuming the BS transmitted carrier power is 43 dBm/5 MHz, there is a
rejection requirement of (43 + 43 =) 86 dB from the BS RF RX filter over the
BS transmit frequency to protect the BS receiver from its own transmit signal
(with 6 dB receiver desensitization). On the other hand, if a more stringent
BS receiver desensitization (e.g. 0.8 dB instead of 6 dB) is required, then
the allowed receiver interference will be (e.g. 4.74 + 6.94 = 11.7 dB) lower
and thus the BS RX RF filter rejection will need to be higher (e.g. 86 + 11.7
= 97.7 dB for 0.8 dB receiver desensitization).
The RF filter simulation results for pairing option 1 with five metal
resonators are shown in Figure 9.2.1 below. It can be seen that the required
minimum rejection of 97.7 dB (for 0.8 dB receiver desensitization) over the
receive frequencies (1627.5 - 1637.5 MHz) can be achieved (with likely drift
of \~100 kHz due to manufacturing and environmental variations), with an
acceptable receive passband insertion loss of \<2.0 dB (including an
additional \~0.2 dB for connectors and internal transmission lines). Note that
temperature-compensation and implementation margin were not included in the
simulation, thus the simulation results should only be used as an
approximation but not the expectation of actual products performance.
Figure 9.2.1: Simulated BS RF RX Filter Characteristics -- 5 Metal Resonators
The RF filter simulation results for pairing option 2 with six metal
resonators are shown in Figure 9.2.2 below. It can be seen that the required
minimum rejection of 97.7 dB (for 0.8 dB receiver desensitization) over the
receive frequencies (1646.7 - 1656.7 MHz) can be achieved (with likely drift
of \~100 kHz due to manufacturing and environmental variations), with an
acceptable receive passband insertion loss of \<2.0 dB (including an
additional \~0.2 dB for connectors and internal transmission lines). Note that
temperature-compensation and implementation margin were not included in the
simulation, thus the simulation results should only be used as an
approximation but not the expectation of actual products performance.
Figure 9.2.2: Simulated BS RF RX Filter Characteristics -- 6 Metal Resonators
To summarize, the simulation results in Figures 9.2.1 and 9.2.2 show that it
could be feasible for the BS RF RX filter to provide the required rejections
for pairing the 1670 - 1680 MHz downlink with either 1627.5 - 1637.5 MHz
uplink or 1646.7 - 1656.7 MHz uplink. On the other hand, pairing 1670 - 1680
MHz downlink with 1627.5 - 1637.5 MHz uplink is the easier of the two options
from filter implementation viewpoint, as there is 32.5 MHz of separation
between the BS transmit and receive frequencies.
## 9.3 BS Related Concluding Remarks
In sub-Sections 9.1 and 9.2, BS RF TX filter and BS RF RX filter requirements
were studied for both uplink pairing options. For both TX and RX filter
requirements, it was concluded that both options are technically feasible,
with different levels of development complexities. In other words, it is
possible to design BS TX filter to provide at least 103 dB rejection at the
received uplink carrier. However, for option 2 (lower uplink pairing) this is
possible with 5-metal resonators filters, while it is required to use
6-ceramics resonators filters for Option 1 UL pairing. This means providing
103 dB rejection by the BS TX filter is feasible for both options, but with
more complex and potentially higher costs for option 1 pairing.
Also, the required 97.7 dB receiver filter rejection for own transmit can be
provided for both uplink pairing options. However, similar to the TX filter
design, 5-metal resonators filters can be used to design the RX filter for
option 2 (lower uplink pairing), while 6-ceramic resonators filter are
required for option 1 pairing.
Therefore, it is concluded that the BS TX and RX filters can be designed to
meet the 3GPP required TX OOBE in own RX band and the required receiver filter
rejection from own transmit band for both pairing options. However, it is
concluded that designing the required filters for option 1 (higher uplink
pairing) is more complex and potentially more costly than those for option 2.
# 10 Required changes to E-UTRA and MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the new band are
summarised in a Table 10-1.
Table 10-1: he required changes to the 3GPP specifications
* * *
Table 11-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes3GPP
specification Clause in TR 30.007 where the required changes are given Clause
in the present document identifying additional changes TS 36.101 8.2.1.1  
TS 36.104 8.2.1.2  
TS 36.106 8.2.1.3  
TS 36.113 8.2.1.4  
TS 36.124 8.2.1.5  
TS 36.133 8.2.1.6  
TS 36.141 8.2.1.7  
TS 36.143 8.2.1.8  
TS 36.307 8.2.1.9  
TS 25.101 8.2.2.1  
TS 25.102 8.2.2.2  
TS 25.104 8.2.2.3  
TS 25.105 8.2.2.4  
TS 25.106 8.2.2.5  
TS 25.113 8.2.2.6  
TS 25.123 8.2.2.7  
TS 34.124 8.2.2.8  
TS 25.133 8.2.2.9  
TS 25.141 8.2.2.10  
TS 25.142 8.2.2.11  
TS 25.143 8.2.2.12  
TS 25.307 8.2.2.13  
TS 25.331 8.2.2.14  
TS 25.461 8.2.2.15  
TS 25.466 8.2.2.16  
TS 37.104 8.2.3.1  
TS 37.113 8.2.2.2  
TS 37.141 8.2.2.3
* * *
###### ### Annex A: Change history