# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The concept of a joint optimization of multiuser (MU) operation from both
transmitter and receiver's perspective has the potential to further improve MU
system capacity even if the transmission/precoding is non-orthogonal which
could come from, for example but not limited to, the simultaneous transmission
of a large number of non-orthogonal beams/layers with the possibility of more
than one layer of data transmission in a beam. Such non-orthogonal
transmission could allow multiple users to share the same resource elements
without spatial separation, and allow improving the MU system capacity for
networks. An example of such joint Tx/Rx optimization associated with adaptive
Tx power allocation and CW-IC receiver is recently a remarkable technical
trend, including schemes based on superposition coding. Joint Tx/Rx
optimization might require standardization effort. Hence it is important to
study the trade-off, in terms of system performance, complexity, and
signalling overhead.
A study item, "Study on Downlink Multiuser Superposition Transmission," was
approved at 3GPP TSG RAN #67 [2]. This study is to evaluate the system
performance of potential LTE enhancements enabling downlink multiuser
superposition transmission (MUST). The objectives of the study include the
definition of target deployment scenarios and an evaluation methodology for
MUST, identification of potential MUST schemes and corresponding LTE
enhancements, an assessment of feasibility and system-level performance of the
potential MUST schemes. The results and findings of the study are documented
in this technical report.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the results and findings of the study item
"Study on Downlink Multiuser Superposition Transmission" [2][3]. The purpose
of this TR is to document the identified LTE enhancements to enable downlink
multiuser superposition transmission and corresponding evaluation results in
the target deployment scenarios.
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
potential impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP
systems.
This document defines evaluation methodology and target deployment scenarios
for the study on downlink multiuser superposition transmission.
This document identifies LTE enhancements and potential specification impacts
to enable downlink multiuser superposition transmission.
This document contains an assessment of feasibility and performance of the
identified LTE enhancements to enable downlink multiuser superposition
transmission.
This document is a 'living' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-150496: \"New SI Proposal: Study on Downlink Multiuser Superposition
Transmission for LTE\", 3GPP RAN Plenary Session #66, Maui, USA, Dec. 8-11,
2014.
[3] RP-151100: "Revised SID: Study on Downlink Multiuser Superposition
Transmission for LTE", 3GPP RAN Plenary Session #68, Malmo, Sweden, June
15-18, 2014..
[4] 3GPP TR 36.866: "Study on network-assisted interference cancellation and
suppression for LTE".
[5] RP-141895, "Motivation for Enhanced Multiuser Transmissions and Network
Assisted Interference Cancellation for LTE", MediaTek Inc., 3GPP RAN Plenary
Session #66, Maui, USA, Dec. 8 -11, 2014.
[6] RP-141917, "Motivation for a study on enhancements for multiuser
transmission in R13", RP-141917, Huawei, HiSilicon, 3GPP RAN Plenary Session
#66, Maui, USA, Dec. 8-11, 2014.
[7] RP-141936, "Justification for NOMA in New Study on Enhanced Multi-User
Transmission and Network Assisted Interference Cancellation for LTE", NTT
DOCOMO, 3GPP RAN Plenary Session #66, Maui, USA, Dec. 8 -11, 2014.
[8] R1-152493, "Candidate Schemes for Superposition Transmission", Huawei,
HiSilicon, 3GPP RAN1 Session #81, Fukuoka, Japan, May 25-29, 2015.
[9] R1-153333, "Candidate non--orthogonal multiplexing access scheme", NTT
DOCOMO, 3GPP RAN1 Session #81, Fukuoka, Japan, May 25-29, 2015.
[10] R1-153044, "Downlink multiuser superposition transmission scheme",
MediaTek Inc., 3GPP RAN1 Session #81, Fukuoka, Japan, May 25-29, 2015.
[11] R1-154184, "Bit to Symbol Mapping for Multiuser Superposition
Transmission", Samsung, 3GPP RAN1 Session #82, Beijing, China, Aug 24-28,
2015.
[12] R1-152806, "Multiuser superposition schemes", Qualcomm Inc., 3GPP RAN1
Session #81, Fukuoka, Japan, May 25-29, 2015.
[13] R1-152974, "Potential transmission schemes for MUST", ZTE, 3GPP RAN1
Session #81, Fukuoka, Japan, May 25-29, 2015.
[14] R1-153058, "Constellation mapping enhancements for downlink multiuser
superposition transmission", Sharp, 3GPP RAN1 Session #81, Fukuoka, Japan, May
25-29, 2015.
[15] R1-152762, "Discussion on multiuser superposition schemes and initial
link level results", LG Electronics, 3GPP RAN1 Session #81, Fukuoka, Japan,
May 25-29, 2015.
[16] R1-154454, "Multiuser superposition transmission scheme for LTE",
MediaTek Inc., 3GPP RAN1 Session #82, Beijing, China, August 24-28, 2015.
[17] R1-154656, "Discussion on the DL superposed transmissions schemes", Nokia
Networks, 3GPP RAN1 Session #82, Beijing, China, August 24-28, 2015.
[18] R1-153985, "Discussion on downlink multiuser superposition schemes and
signaling assistance", Intel Corporation, 3GPP RAN1 Session #82, Beijing,
China, August 24-28, 2015.
[19] R1-154701, "Candidate schemes for superposition transmission based on
dirty paper coding", Xinwei, 3GPP RAN1 Session #82, Beijing, China, August
24-28, 2015.
[20] R1-154458, "Link-abstraction method for ML receiver in MUST", MediaTek
Inc., 3GPP RAN1 Session #82, Beijing, China, August 24-28, 2015.
[21] R1-151873, "Candidate schemes for superposition transmission", Huawei,
HiSlicon, 3GPP RAN1 Session #80bis, Belgrade, Serbia, Apr. 20-24, 2015.
[22] IEEE 802.16m-08/004r2, "IEEE 802.16m Evaluation Methodology Document
(EMD)", IEEE 802.16 Broadband Wireless Access Working Group.
[23] R1-154749, "System-level evaluation results for downlink multiuser
superposition schemes", NTT DOCOMO, 3GPP RAN1 Session #82, Beijing, China,
August 24-28, 2015.
[24] R1-154545, "MuST Link Level Performance and Receiver Modeling", Ericsson,
3GPP RAN1 Session #82, Beijing, China, August 24-28, 2015.
[25] R1-153986, "System-level modelling of the downlink multi-user
superposition transmission schemes", Intel Corporation, 3GPP RAN1 Session #82,
Beijing, China, August 24-28, 2015.
[26] R1-155700, "Link-level performance for downlink MUST", MediaTek Inc.,
3GPP RAN1 Session #82bis, Malmo, Sweden, October 5-9, 2015.
[27] R1-156096, "Link-level performance of downlink multi-user superposition
transmission schemes", Intel, 3GPP RAN1 Session #82bis, Malmo, Sweden, October
5-9, 2015.
[28] R1-155408, "Link-level performance evaluation for MUST", LG Electronics,
3GPP RAN1 Session #82bis, Malmo, Sweden, October 5-9, 2015.
[29] R1-155640, "Link-level performance of MUST schemes", Huawei, HiSilicon,
3GPP RAN1 Session #82bis, Malmo, Sweden, October 5-9, 2015.
[30] R1-153822, "Link level simulations for downlink MUST", Alcatel-Lucent,
3GPP RAN1 Session #82, Beijing, China, August 24-28, 2015.
[31] R1-154537, "Link-level evaluation results for downlink multiuser
superposition schemes", NTT DOCOMO Inc., 3GPP RAN1 Session #82, Beijing,
China, August 24-28, 2015.
[32] R1-154058, "Preliminary link level simulation results for MUST", ZTE,
3GPP RAN1 Session #82, Beijing, China, August 24-28, 2015.
[33] R1-154220, "Block error rate evaluation of link-level simulation", Sony
Corp., 3GPP RAN1 Session #82, Beijing, China, August 24-28, 2015.
[34] R1-157194, "More link-level evaluation results with EVM in MUST",
MediaTek, Anaheim, USA, November 5-9, 2015.
[35] R1-157195, "Feasibility of TM blind detection in MUST", MediaTek,
Anaheim, USA, November 5-9, 2015.
[36] R1-157236, "Further link performance analysis of MUST schemes", Nokia
Networks, Anaheim, USA, November 5-9, 2015.
[37] R1-157533, "Link level simulation results of MUST", Xinwei, Anaheim, USA,
November 5-9, 2015.
[38] R1-157191, "_Further System-Level Analysis for MUST_ ", MediaTek,
Anaheim, USA, November 5-9, 2015.
[39] R1-155931, "System-level evaluation results for downlink multiuser
superposition schemes", NTT DOCOMO, Malmö, Sweden, October 5 -- 9 2015.
[40] R1-157352, "System-level evaluation results for downlink multiuser
superposition schemes", NTT DOCOMO, Anaheim, USA, November 5 \-- 9 2015.
[41] R1-157558, "System-level performance of MUST schemes", Huawei, HiSilicon,
Anaheim, USA, November 15-22, 2015.
[42] R1-156630, "Simulation results for DL MUST", ZTE, Anaheim, USA, November
15-22, 2015.
[43] R1-157541, "System-level performance of MUST", Nokia Networks, Anaheim,
USA, November 15-22, 2015.
[44] R1-156531, "System level evaluation of MuST", Intel Corporation, Anaheim,
USA, November 15-22, 2015.
[45] R1-157748, "MuST System Level Performance and Observations", Ericsson,
Anaheim, USA, November 15-22, 2015.
[46] R1-154402, "Preliminary system-level evaluation results for superposition
transmission", China Telecom, Beijing, China, August 24-28, 2015.
[47] R1-157456, "System-level evaluation results for MUST", LG Electronics,
Anaheim, USA, November 15-22, 2015.
[48] R1-156719, "System Level Evaluations for Downlink Multiuser Superposition
Transmission", Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, Alcatel-Lucent, Anaheim, USA,
November 15-22, 2015.
[49] R1-156599, "System-level simulation of downlink superposition
transmission," CATT, Anaheim, USA, November 15-22, 2015.
[50] R1-156432, "System level simulation results for the superposition of PMCH
and PMCH", Huawei, HiSlicon, Anaheim, USA, November 15-22, 2015.
[51] R1-157457, "System-level evaluation results for PMCH MUST", LG
Electronics, Anaheim, USA, November 15-22, 2015.
[52] R1-155699, "Further system-level evaluation of superposition transmission
in PMCH", MediaTek, Malmo, Sweden, October 5-9, 2015.
[53] R1-157610, "Multi-rate superposition transmission of PMCH", ZTE, Anaheim,
USA, November 15-22, 2015.
[54] R1-156707, "Control signaling on DMRS pairing for MUST", Sony Corp.,
Anaheim, USA, November 15-22, 2015.
[55] R1-156708, "Assistance information on HARQ enhancement for MUST", Sony
Corp., Anaheim, USA, November 15-22, 2015.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
None
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
IC Interference Cancellation
IRC Interference Rejection Combining
SIC Successive Interference Cancellation
ML Maximum Likelihood
# 4 Targeted network deployment and intra-cell interference scenarios
## 4.1 Network deployment scenarios
The network deployment scenarios for evaluation are described in this clause
and Figure 4.1-1.
\- MUST Scenario 1:
\- Homogeneous network
\- Macro cells only, ISD = 500m
\- 2, 4 and 8 transmit antennas
\- No intra-site and inter-site coordination is assumed
\- MUST Scenario 2:
\- Heterogeneous network with non-co-channel deployment
\- Macro cells, ISD = 500m
\- Small cells, uniformly distributed within the geographical area of a macro
cell
\- 2, 4 and 8 transmit antennas for macro cells
\- 2 transmit antennas for small cells
\- No intra-site and inter-site coordination is assumed
\- MUST Scenario 3:
\- Heterogeneous network with co-channel deployment
\- Macro cells, ISD = 500m
\- Small cells, uniformly distributed within the geographical area of a macro
cell
\- 2, 4 and 8 transmit antennas for macro cells
\- 2 transmit antennas for small cells
\- No intra-site and inter-site coordination is assumed
* * *
MUST Scenario 1 MUST Scenario 2 MUST Scenario 3
* * *
Figure 4.1-1: MUST scenarios
## 4.2 Intra-cell interference scenarios
The targeted physical channel for evaluation is PDSCH/PMCH, i.e. only
superposition transmission of PDSCHs/PMCHs to co-scheduled/received users will
be evaluated and superposition transmission of PDSCH/PMCH and other physical
channel or superposition transmission of other physical channels is not
considered for evaluation in this study. However, the evaluation works for the
superposition transmission of PMCHs should be done with 2nd priority in this
study if time permits [3].
**In MUST, a spatial layer may consist of multiple superposed data layers
using the same spatial percoding vector or same diversity transmission scheme
for co-scheduled users. For** _the scheme of using the same spatial precoding
vector, it can be generalized as the cases when rank-K~1~ precoder matrix for
UE1 is_ $\lbrack v_{1,1},\cdots,v_{1,K_{1}}\rbrack$ _and rank-K~2~ precoder
matrix for UE2 is_ $\lbrack v_{2,1},\cdots,v_{2,K_{2}}\rbrack$ _and_ $$_,
where 1 ≤ a~j~ ≤ K~1~, 1 ≤ b~j~ ≤ K~2~ and K ≤ min(K~1~, K~2~)._ **For MUST
evaluation, up to two superposed data layers for two co-scheduled users within
one spatial layer are considered. The maximal number of spatial layer within a
cell is dependent on the number of transmit antennas processed by an eNB, e.g.
up to 2/4/8 spatial layers can be supported by an eNB with 2/4/8 transmit
antennas, respectively.**
**The evaluation works for the superposition transmission using the following
combinations of mixed transmission schemes can be considered in this study if
time permits.**
\- Transmit diversity scheme and large delay CDD scheme
\- Transmit diversity scheme and closed-loop spatial multiplexing scheme
\- Transmit diversity scheme and up to 8 layer transmission scheme
\- Single-antenna port scheme (port 7 or 8) and large delay CDD scheme
# 5 Multiuser superposition transmission schemes
## 5.1 Candidate multiuser superposition transmission schemes
This subsection describes MUST schemes enabling the simultaneous transmission
of more than one superposed data layer for co-scheduled users using the same
spatial precoding vector or the same transmit diversity. Three key
characteristics are identified in Table 5.1-1 for the categorization of MUST
schemes proposed in [5-19]. Based on the listed characteristics, the proposed
MUST schemes can be categorized into three categories -- MUST Category 1 [5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 18, 19], MUST Category 2 [6, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16], MUST
Category 3 [8, 12, 17]. More details are described in the following sections.
Table 5.1-1: Classification of MUST schemes and their key characteristics
* * *
Categories Power ratio Gray mapping Label-bit assignment MUST Category 1
adaptive, on component constellations N on component constellations MUST
Category 2 adaptive, on component constellations Y on the composite
constellation MUST Category 3 N/A Y on the composite constellation
* * *
Among the two UEs that are superposed, the UE with higher SINR is considered
as MUST-near UE, while the UE with lower SINR is considered as MUST-far UE.
### 5.1.1 MUST Category 1: Superposition transmission with adaptive power
ratio on component constellations and non-Gray-mapped composite constellation
This category includes MUST schemes with independent mapping of coded bits of
two or more co-scheduled UEs to component constellation symbols which are
superposed with adaptive power ratio. The composite constellation does not
have Gray mapping. The assignment of label bits to UEs is done on component
constellations.
An example of transmitter side processing for this category is shown in Figure
5.1.1-1. After independent channel coding, rate matching (RM), scrambling,
mapping to modulation symbols, the signals of MUST-near UE and MUST-far UE are
combined with amplitude-weight $\sqrt{\alpha}$ and$\sqrt{1 - \alpha}$,
respectively, where $\alpha$ is the transmission power ratio for a MUST-near
user. Figure 5.1.1-2 shows an example composite constellation of MUST Category
1.
{width="5.8069444444444445in" height="2.1125in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1: An example of transmitter side processing of MUST Category 1*
(*The figure is for illustration purpose only, and does not imply any
restriction for multiuser superposition transmission schemes. In addition, the
figure may not represent a complete flow of a specific multiuser superposition
transmission scheme.)
{width="3.2020833333333334in" height="3.0145833333333334in"}
Figure 5.1.1-2: An example of composite constellation of MUST Category 1
### 5.1.2 MUST Category 2: Superposition transmission with adaptive power
ratio on component constellations and Gray-mapped composite constellation
This category includes MUST schemes with joint mapping of coded bits of two or
more UEs to component constellations which are superposed with adaptive power
ratio. The composite constellation has Gray mapping. The assignment of label
bits to UEs is done on the composite constellation.
An example of transmit side processing for this category is shown in Figure
5.1.2-1. After channel coding, rate matching (RM) and scrambling, the coded
bits for MUST-near and MUST-far UEs are jointly mapped to modulation symbols
with $\alpha$ which is the transmission power ratio for a MUST-near user. More
specifically, the modulation symbols of MUST-near UE depend on not only the
coded bits of MUST-near UE but also the coded bits of MUST-far UE. With joint
modulation mapping for MUST-near and MUST-far UEs, Gray mapping is kept for
the label bits of the composite constellation. Figure 5.1.2-2 shows an example
composite constellation of MUST Category 2.
{width="5.6722222222222225in" height="2.1305555555555555in"}
Figure 5.1.2-1: An example of transmitter side processing of MUST Category 2*
(*The figure is for illustration purpose only, and does not imply any
restriction for multiuser superposition transmission schemes. In addition, the
figure may not represent a complete flow of a specific multiuser superposition
transmission scheme.)
{width="3.2020833333333334in" height="3.0145833333333334in"}
Figure 5.1.2-2: An example of composite constellation of MUST Category 2
### 5.1.3 MUST Category 3: Superposition transmission with label-bit
assignment on Gray-mapped composite constellation
This category includes MUST schemes where the coded bits in the codewords of
two or more UEs are directly superposed onto the symbols of a composite
constellation. The assignment of label bits to UEs is done on the composite
constellation.
An example of transmitter side processing for this category is shown in Figure
5.1.3-1. In this category, all operations are performed on the composite
constellation, instead of component constellations. The composite
constellation is uniform quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) with Gray
mapping and legacy constellation can be reused. Figure 5.1.3-2 shows an
example composite constellation of MUST Category 3.
{width="5.973611111111111in" height="1.538888888888889in"}
Figure 5.1.3-1: An example of transmitter side processing of MUST Category 3*
(*The figure is for illustration purpose only, and does not imply any
restriction for multiuser superposition transmission schemes. In addition, the
figure may not represent a complete flow of a specific multiuser superposition
transmission scheme.)
{width="3.2368055555555557in" height="3.0145833333333334in"}
Figure 5.1.3-2: An example of composite constellation of MUST Category 3
## 5.2 Candidate receiver schemes
Candidate receiver schemes to enable various MUST schemes for both MUST-far
and MUST-near UEs are listed as follows, respectively. Detailed description of
each candidate receiver scheme can be referred to [4].
\- Candidate receiver schemes for MUST-far UEs
\- Linear minimum mean square error with interference rejection combining
(LMMSE-IRC) receiver
\- Maximum likelihood (ML) receiver
\- Reduced complexity maximum likelihood (R-ML) receiver
\- Symbol level interference cancellation (SLIC) receiver
\- Candidate receiver schemes for MUST-near UEs
\- Maximum likelihood (ML) receiver
\- Reduced complexity maximum likelihood (R-ML) receiver
\- Symbol level interference cancellation (SLIC) receiver
\- Linear codeword level successive interference cancellation (L-CWIC)
receiver
\- Maximum likelihood codeword level successive interference cancellation (ML-
CWIC) receiver
## 5.3 Potential assistance information
In MUST schemes, assistance information is required for UE receivers to cancel
the inter-superposition-layer interference, with details depending on MUST
categories and receiver types. Methods which may be considered for obtaining
assistance information are: blind detection, signalling (higher layer
signalling or dynamic signalling), tied to the UE's scheduling information, or
tied to specific UE assumptions (e.g. UE assumes aligned resource allocation).
The following should be considered as potential MUST-specific PDSCH assistance
information for UEs.
### 5.3.1 MUST category 1 & category 2
**MUST-near UE:**
> **R-ML/SLIC receiver**
\- Information of each paired MUST-far UE
\- Existence/processing of MUST interference per spatial layer
\- Transmission power allocation of its PDSCH and MUST far UE's PDSCH
\- It may be information per spatial layer if different power can be allocated
to each spatial layer.
\- Spatial precoding vector(s)
\- Codebook subset restriction(s)
\- Full rank PMI used for virtualization of transmit diversity
\- Modulation order of each codeword
\- Only if not restricted to QPSK only.
\- Resource allocation
\- If all the scheduled RBs of the MUST-near UE have superposed transmission
and all assistance information of all the paired far UEs is the same, this
information is not needed
\- DMRS information of MUST-far UE
\- Only if DMRS information is used to estimate effective channel of MUST-far
UE or to derive power allocation of MUST-far UE
\- PDSCH RE mapping information
\- Only if it is different from its own PDSCH RE mapping information, e.g.
PDSCH starting symbol or PDSCH RE mapping at DMRS RE
\- Transmission scheme
\- Only if mixed transmission schemes, e.g. transmit diversity and closed-loop
spatial multiplexing
\- Enhanced HARQ information
\- Only if needed
> **CW-IC receiver**
\- The above potential assistance information for R-ML receiver
\- Information of each paired MUST-far UE
\- Resource allocation
\- Always needed unless it is the same as MUST-near UE;
\- Transport block size
\- HARQ information
\- New data indicator;
\- Redundancy version;
\- LBRM (Limited Buffer Rate Matching) assumption
\- Parameters for descrambling and CRC checking for the PDSCH
\- RNTI
**MUST-far UE:**
**MMSE receiver**
\- Transmission power allocation of its own MUST layer
\- It is not needed when the modulation order of MUST-far UE is QPSK or when
the power ratio for MUST-far UE is quite large, such as 0.95, or when it can
be estimated by DMRS information
\- Full rank PMI used for virtualization of transmit diversity
\- Only if mixed transmission schemes, e.g. SFBC and closed-loop spatial
multiplexing
### 5.3.2 MUST category 3
**MUST-near UE:**
> **R-ML receiver**
\- The above potential assistance information for R-ML receiver for MUST
category 1&2 except for the power allocation information and the modulation
order of paired UE
\- Information of each paired MUST-far UE
\- Composite modulation order and label bit assignment, for each codeword
> **CW-IC receiver**
\- The above potential assistance information for R-ML receiver
\- Information of each paired MUST-far UE
\- Resource allocation
\- Always needed, unless it is the same as MUST-near UE
\- Transport block size
\- HARQ information
\- New data indicator
\- Redundancy version
\- LBRM (Limited Buffer Rate Matching) assumption
\- Parameters for descrambling and CRC checking for the PDSCH
\- RNTI
**MUST-far UE:**
**MMSE receiver**
\- Composite modulation order and label bit assignment for each codeword
\- It may not be needed when higher-capacity bits are assigned to the MUST-far
UE and lower-capacity bits are assigned to the MUST-near UE
**R-ML receiver**
\- The above list of potential assistance information for R-ML receiver at
MUST-near UE except that the entity "MUST-far UE" in the list is substituted
with "MUST-near UE" and the entity "MUST-near UE" in the list is substituted
with "MUST-far UE
## 5.4 Link-level performance evaluation
[26]-[37] provide the link-level simulation results based on the following
assumptions.
\- 2x2 antenna configuration
\- Same transmission scheme of either TM4 or TM9
\- Same RI/PMI
\- Same resource allocation for MUST users
\- Same PDSCH RE mapping for MUST users
\- The following assistance information is assumed known
\- Transmission power or bit rate ratio of co-scheduled users
\- Modulation order of co-scheduled users
\- DMRS information if TM9 is applied
\- Existence of MUST interference
Based on the link-level simulation results in [26]-[37], observations can be
drawn as follows.
\- For the MUST-near users:
\- In MUST Category 1, R-ML/ML receiver can achieve similar link-level
performance as CWIC receiver when the MUST-far user uses QPSK and holds high
transmission power ratio
\- In MUST Category 2, R-ML/ML receiver can achieve similar link-level
performance as CWIC receiver when MUST-far user uses QPSK
\- In MUST Category 3, R-ML/ML receiver can achieve similar link-level
performance as CWIC receiver when MUST-far user uses significant bit(s) in the
label bits of a modulation symbol
\- For other cases, there may be noticeable performance degradation of R-ML/ML
receiver, compared to CWIC receiver
\- Performance degradation due to Release 12 EVM requirements for 64QAM is
negligible for MUST using QPSK+QPSK and 16QAM+QPSK
\- For MUST using mixed transmission schemes of 2Tx SFBC for the far-UE and
large-delay CDD for the near-UE, performance degradation due to TM blind
detection is negligible when the Tx power ratio for MUST-far UEs is high and
the number of constellation points in the composite constellation is not more
than 64, assuming Release 12 EVM requirements for 64QAM. Note that this
observation is based on a limited number of simulation inputs.
\- For the MUST-far users:
\- In MUST Category 1, MMSE-IRC receiver can achieve similar link-level
performance as R-ML/ML receiver when the MUST-far user uses QPSK
\- In MUST Category 2, MMSE-IRC receiver can achieve similar link-level
performance as R-ML/ML receiver
\- In MUST Category 3, MMSE-IRC receiver can achieve similar link-level
performance as R-ML/ML receiver
\- For other cases, there may be noticeable performance degradation of MMSE-
IRC receiver, compared to R-ML/ML receiver
\- MUST interference conditions are more favourable for blind detection than
NAICS conditions in some cases, because:
\- Both useful and interfering signals are originating from the same
transmission point.
\- Dominant interfering layer, a MUST-far UE layer, is several dB stronger
than MUST-near UE layer.
\- Unlike in NAICS, MUST-near UE is in favourable SNR conditions.
\- Blind detection for the MUST-near UE can be applied for at least one of the
following information based on the evaluation using 2Tx: interference
presence, transmission mode/scheme, modulation order, PMI/RI, a set of power
offsets, and DMRS ports (port 7 and 8). Note that this observation is based on
a limited number of simulation inputs.
\- Blind detection is simplified if restrictions are imposed to the MUST-far
UE, such a QPSK only operation or rank 1 only transmission.
## 5.5 Potential specification impacts
Potential changes to RAN1 specifications to enable downlink multiuser
superposition transmission for PDSCH are as follows:
\- MUST transmission scheme(s) to support superposed transmission of PDSCH
\- Downlink signaling to provide necessary assistance information to MUST-near
UE to facilitate the interference cancellation
\- Potential CSI feedback enhancements to assist eNB to perform scheduling
# 6 System-level performance evaluation
## 6.1 Evaluation results of MUST for PDSCH
In this section, evaluation results for MUST Scenario 1 are provided based on
[38]-[49].
### 6.1.1 Evaluation results for full-buffer traffic
The gain values for full-buffer traffic in Sect. 6.1 are not relevant to the
conclusions and provided only as a comparative benchmark for the purpose of
comparing simulations.
Tables 6.1-1 -- 6.1-3 show the system level evaluation results for 2 transmit
antennas in MUST Scenario 1 for MUST Categories 1, 2, and 3, respectively when
wideband scheduling is used.
Table 6.1-1: MUST Category 1 with 2 transmit antennas for wideband scheduling
* * *
Source Throughput (Mbps) Baseline MUST Category 1  
Rx Scheme #1 Gain Rx Scheme #2 Gain Source 1 Cell average 17.1 19.3 12.9%  
Cell edge 0.316 0.357 13.0%  
Note Ideal CWIC; realistic CE/NE; EVM is modelled  
Source 4 Cell average 13.65 16.22 18.8%  
Cell edge 0.35 0.44 24.8%  
Note Rx Scheme #1: Hard CW-IC.  
Source 10 Cell average 16.77 19.79 18.0%  
Cell edge 0.341 0.385 12.9%  
Note Rx Scheme #1: Ideal CWIC Receiver, Ideal channel estimation.  
Source 12 Cell average 14.56 16.58 13.9%  
Cell edge 0. 179 0.235 31.0%  
Note Rx Scheme #1: Ideal CWIC Receiver, Ideal channel estimation
* * *
Table 6.1-2: MUST Category 2 with 2 transmit antennas for wideband scheduling
* * *
Source Throughput (Mbps) Baseline MUST Category 2  
Rx Scheme #1 Gain Rx Scheme #2 Gain Source 4 Cell average 13.65 16.22 18.8%
16.02 17.3% Cell edge 0.35 0.44 24.8% 0.43 23.4% Note Rx Scheme #1: Hard CW-
IC, Rx Scheme #2 is R-ML receiver.  
Source 5 Cell average 13.483 14.072 4.37%  
Cell edge 0.212 0.242 13.92%  
Note Ideal CWIC; realistic CE/NE; EVM is modelled
* * *
Table 6.1-3: MUST Category 3 with 2 transmit antennas for wideband scheduling
* * *
Source Throughput (Mbps) Baseline MUST Category 3  
Rx Scheme #1 Gain Rx Scheme #2 Gain Source 4 Cell average 12.53 13.98 11.55%
13.74 9.63% Cell edge 0.25 0.29 16.0% 0.29 16.0% Note Rx Scheme #1: Hard CW-
IC; Rx Scheme #2: MMSE-IRC; rank-1 transmission
* * *
Tables 6.1-4 -- 6.1-5 show the system level evaluation results for 2 transmit
antennas in MUST Scenario 1 for MUST Categories 1, and 2, respectively when
**subband scheduling** is used.
Table 6.1-4: MUST Category 1 with 2 transmit antennas for subband scheduling
+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Thr | B | MUST | | | | | | oughput | aseline | C | | | | | | (Mbps) | | ategory | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Cell | 20.6 | 21.7 | 5.3% | | | | 1 | average | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Cell | 0.440 | 0.485 | 10.2% | | | | | edge | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC; | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | alistic | | | | | | | | CE/NE; | | | | | | | | EVM is | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | odelled | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Cell | 17.3 | 19.6 | 13.4% | | | | 4 | average | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Cell | 0.45 | 0.52 | 16.6% | | | | | edge | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Hard | | | | | | | | CW-IC. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Cell | 20.02 | 20.12 | 4.9% | 20.13 | 5.4% | | 7 | average | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Cell | 0.46 | 0.51 | 11% | 0.52 | 13% | | | edge | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | # | | | | | | | | 2:Ideal | | | | | | | | IC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | No | | | | | | | | impa | | | | | | | | irments | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Cell | 1.83 | 1.84 | 0.5% | | | | 7 | average | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Cell | 0.429 | 0.465 | 8.4% | | | | | edge | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Tx/Rx | | | | | | | | impa | | | | | | | | irments | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Cell | 17.87 | 20.27 | 13.46% | | | | 9 | average | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Cell | 0.479 | 0.568 | 18.52% | | | | | edge | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC; | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | est | | | | | | | | imation | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Cell | 20.23 | 22.04 | 8.95% | | | | 10 | average | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Cell | 0.474 | 0.529 | 11.6% | | | | | edge | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | ceiver, | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | esti | | | | | | | | mation. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Cell | 17.12 | 19.12 | 11.8% | | | | 12 | average | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Cell | 0.247 | 0.293 | 18.5% | | | | | edge | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | ceiver, | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | est | | | | | | | | imation | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Cell | 8.474 | 8.721 | 2.9% | 8.725 | 2.69% | | 11 | average | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Cell | 0.50 | 0. 571 | 14.2% | 0.573 | 14.6% | | | edge | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Total | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ubframe | | | | | | | | s=10000 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML, | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+
Table 6.1-5: MUST Category 2 with 2 transmit antennas for subband scheduling
* * *
Source Throughput (Mbps) Baseline MUST Category 2  
Rx Scheme #1 Gain Rx Scheme #2 Gain Source 2 Cell average 23.70 26.61 12.28%  
Cell edge 0.476 0.5503 15.61%  
Note Rx Scheme #1: R-ML  
Source 4 Cell average 17.3 19.6 13.4% 19.5 12.7% Cell edge 0.45 0.52 16.6%
0.52 16.1% Note Rx Scheme #1: Hard CW-IC, Rx Scheme #2 is R-ML receiver.  
Source 5 Cell average 16.481 16.703 1.35%  
Cell edge 0.304 0.323 6.26%  
Note Ideal CWIC; realistic CE/NE; EVM is modelled
* * *
Tables 6.1-6 shows the system level evaluation results for **4 transmit
antennas** in MUST Scenario 1 for MUST Categories 1 when **wideband
scheduling** is used.
Table 6.1-6: MUST Category 1 with 4 transmit antennas for wideband scheduling
* * *
Source Throughput (Mbps) Baseline MUST Category 1  
Rx Scheme #1 Gain Rx Scheme #2 Gain Source 12 Cell average 15.90 17.18 8.1%  
Cell edge 0.249 0.300 20.3%  
Note Rx Scheme #1: Ideal CWIC Receiver, Ideal channel estimation
* * *
Tables 6.1-7 shows the system level evaluation results for **4 transmit
antennas** in MUST Scenario 1 for MUST Categories 1 when **subband
scheduling** is used.
Table 6.1-7: MUST Category 1 with 4 transmit antennas for subband scheduling
* * *
Source Throughput (Mbps) Baseline MUST Category 1  
Rx Scheme #1 Gain Rx Scheme #2 Gain Source 12 Cell average 18.23 19.29 5.8%  
Cell edge 0.332 0.365 10.1%  
Note Rx Scheme #1: Ideal CWIC Receiver, Ideal channel estimation
* * *
### 6.1.2 Evaluation results for FTP traffic
In this subsection, evaluation results for MUST Scenario 1 are provided when
FTP traffic is assumed.
Tables 6.2-1 -- 6.2-3 show the system level evaluation results for 2 transmit
antennas in MUST Scenario 1 with a middle traffic load of 60% RU for MUST
Categories 1, 2, and 3, respectively when wideband scheduling is used.
Table 6.2-1: MUST Category 1 with 2 transmit antennas for wideband scheduling
for middle traffic load (\~60% RU)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Thr | B | MUST | | | | | | oughput | aseline | C | | | | | | (Mbps) | | ategory | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 13.3 | 14.2 | 7.23% | | | | 1 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 1.54 | 1.78 | 15.58% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 2.01 | 2.31 | 14.88% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 9.02 | 10.11 | 12.05% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 39.94 | 39.94 | 0.00% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 58.2% | 54.8% | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 99.7% | 99.7% | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 60000) | 60000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 9.0 | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 ms | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 7.90 | 8.53 | 7.97% | | | | 4 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 1.07 | 1.24 | 15.89% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.43 | 1.64 | 14.69% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 6.06 | 6.78 | 11.88% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 21.05 | 21.05 | 0.00% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.63 | 0.59 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | >0.99 | | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 8. | | | | | | | packet | 0/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Hard | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | 000TTI. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 9.81 | 9.87 | +0.6% | | | | 6 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.25 | 1.32 | +5.6% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 8.25 | 8.51 | +3.2% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 23.53 | 22.86 | -2,85% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 66.5% | 65.6% | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 99.39 | 99.32% | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 8 pa | | | | | | | packet | cket/s; | | | | | | | size | 100 KB | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | CWIC IC | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | ceiver, | | | | | | | | rank 1 | | | | | | | | limited | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esults, | | | | | | | | 10s | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated | | | | | | | | in all | | | | | | | | cases. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 12.233 | 12.524 | 2% | 12.339 | 1% | | 8 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.435 | 1.566 | 9% | 1.481 | 3% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 8.616 | 8.962 | 4% | 8.550 | -1% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 36.413 | 36.881 | 1% | 37.312 | 2% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 61% | 59% | | 60% | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 98% | 98% | | 98% | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 1.57 | | | | | | | packet | 3/500kB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | actical | | | | | | | | OLLA | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | impai | | | | | | | | rments, | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | rank1 | | | | | | | | UEs are | | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | MUST | | | | | | | | pairing | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | scheme | | | | | | | | #2; | | | | | | | | SLIC | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | actical | | | | | | | | OLLA | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | impai | | | | | | | | rments, | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | rank1 | | | | | | | | UEs are | | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | MUST | | | | | | | | pairing | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 9.862 | 9.528 | -3% | 9.546 | -3% | | 8 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.348 | 1.394 | 3% | 1.282 | -5% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 7.903 | 7.439 | -6% | 7.469 | -5% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 25.902 | 25.168 | -3% | 25.468 | -2% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 61% | 62% | | 62% | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 100% | 100% | | 100% | | | | Offered | (56000) | (56000) | | (56000) | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 7.8 | | | | | | | packet | 5/100kB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | actical | | | | | | | | OLLA | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | impai | | | | | | | | rments, | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | rank1 | | | | | | | | UEs are | | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | MUST | | | | | | | | pairing | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | scheme | | | | | | | | #2; | | | | | | | | SLIC | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | actical | | | | | | | | OLLA | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | impai | | | | | | | | rments, | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | rank1 | | | | | | | | UEs are | | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | MUST | | | | | | | | pairing | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 9.862 | 9.135 | -7% | 8.94 | -9% | | 8 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.348 | 1.254 | -7% | 1.167 | -13% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 7.903 | 7.122 | -10% | 6.883 | -13% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 25.902 | 24.361 | -6% | 24.199 | -7% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 61% | 63% | | 64% | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 100% | 100% | | 100% | | | | Offered | (56000) | (56000) | | (56000) | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 7.8 | | | | | | | packet | 5/100kB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | actical | | | | | | | | OLLA | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | impai | | | | | | | | rments, | | | | | | | | rank | | | | | | | | 1&2 UEs | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | MUST | | | | | | | | pairing | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | scheme | | | | | | | | #2; | | | | | | | | SLIC | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | actical | | | | | | | | OLLA | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | impai | | | | | | | | rments, | | | | | | | | rank | | | | | | | | 1&2 UEs | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | MUST | | | | | | | | pairing | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 12.542 | 12.747 | 1.63% | | | | 10 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.943 | 0.988 | 4.77% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.296 | 1.373 | 5.94% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 8.423 | 8.639 | 2.56% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 38.095 | 37.736 | -0.94% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.61 | 0.6 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.957\ | 0.958\ | | | | | | Offered | (10000) | (10000) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 1. | | | | | | | packet | 9/500KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | ceiver, | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | esti | | | | | | | | mation, | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 8000 | | | | | | | | ms. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 6.986 | 7.245 | 3.71% | 7.246 | 3.98% | | 11 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.40 | 0.466 | 16.5% | 0.471 | 17.85% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 1.983 | 2.032 | 2.47% | 2.033 | 2.56% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 17.329 | 17.517 | 1.09% | 17.533 | 1.18% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.7682 | 0.7443 | | 0.7439 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 98.75% | 98.75% | | 98.76% | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ | 8. | | | | | | | /packet | 5/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Total | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ubframe | | | | | | | | s=50000 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML, | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+
Table 6.2-2: MUST Category 2 with 2 transmit antennas for wideband scheduling
for middle traffic load (\~60% RU)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Thr | B | MUST | | | | | | oughput | aseline | C | | | | | | (Mbps) | | ategory | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 7.90 | 8.53 | 7.97% | 8.50 | 7.64% | | 4 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 1.07 | 1.24 | 15.89% | 1.24 | 15.80% | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.43 | 1.64 | 14.69% | 1.63 | 14.24% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 6.06 | 6.78 | 11.88% | 6.74 | 11.19% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 21.05 | 21.05 | 0.00% | 21.05 | 0.00% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.63 | 0.59 | | 0.60 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | >0.99 | | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 8. | | | | | | | packet | 0/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Hard | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2 is | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | ceiver. | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | 000TTI. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 9.92 | 10.09 | +1.7% | 10.12 | +1.9% | | 6 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.26 | 1.34 | +6.3% | 1.42 | +12.7% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 8.42 | 8.70 | +3.3% | 8.79 | +4.4% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 23.5 | 23.53 | 0.1% | 28.86 | -2.7% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 65.8% | 64.7% | | 63.8% | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 99.29% | 99.37% | | 99.44% | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 8 / 100 | | | | | | | packet | KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rank 1 | | | | | | | | limited | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esults, | | | | | | | | 10s | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated | | | | | | | | in all | | | | | | | | cases. | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML; | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2: | | | | | | | | CSI | | | | | | | | enha | | | | | | | | ncement | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | second | | | | | | | | best | | | | | | | | PMI | | | | | | | | fe | | | | | | | | edback, | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 6.986 | 7.245 | 3.71% | 7.246 | 3.98% | | 11 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.40 | 0.466 | 16.5% | 0.471 | 17.85% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 1.983 | 2.032 | 2.47% | 2.033 | 2.56% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 17.329 | 17.517 | 1.09% | 17.533 | 1.18% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.7682 | 0.7443 | | 0.7439 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 98.75% | 98.75% | | 98.76% | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ | 8. | | | | | | | /packet | 5/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Total | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ubframe | | | | | | | | s=50000 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML, | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+
Table 6.2-3: MUST Category 3 with 2 transmit antennas for wideband scheduling
for middle traffic load (\~60% RU)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+------+ | Source | Th | Baseline | MUST | | | | | | roughput | | Category | | | | | | (Mbps) | | 3 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+------+ | Source 8 | Mean UPT | 9.862 | 9.509 | -4% | 9.532 | -3% | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+------+ | | 5%ile | 1.348 | 1.302 | -3% | 1.328 | -2% | | | UPT | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+------+ | | 50%ile | 7.903 | 7.384 | -7% | 7.447 | -6% | | | UPT | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+------+ | | 95%ile | 25.902 | 25.548 | -1% | 25.232 | -3% | | | UPT | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+------+ | | RU | 61% | 62% | | 62% | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+------+ | | Served | 100% | 100% | | 100% | | | | /Offered | (56000) | (56000) | | (56000) | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ubframes | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+------+ | | λ / | 7. | | | | | | | packet | 85/100kB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | ractical | | | | | | | | OLLA and | | | | | | | | receiver | | | | | | | | impa | | | | | | | | irments, | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | rank1 | | | | | | | | UEs are | | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | pairing | | | | | | | | for MUST | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | scheme | | | | | | | | #2; | | | | | | | | SLIC | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | ractical | | | | | | | | OLLA and | | | | | | | | receiver | | | | | | | | impa | | | | | | | | irments, | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | rank1 | | | | | | | | UEs are | | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | pairing | | | | | | | | for MUST | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+------+
Tables 6.2-4 -- 6.2-5 show the system level evaluation results for 2 transmit
antennas in MUST Scenario 1 with **a high traffic load of \~80 \- 90% RUs**
for MUST Categories 1, and 2, respectively when wideband scheduling is used.
Table 6.2-4: MUST Category 1 with 2 transmit antennas for wideband scheduling
for high traffic load (\~80% -- 90% RU)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Thr | B | MUST | | | | | | oughput | aseline | C | | | | | | (Mbps) | | ategory | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 6.890 | 8.284 | 20.23% | | | | 1 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.407 | 0.668 | 64.12% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.760 | 0.993 | 30.65% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 3.510 | 4.739 | 35.03% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 26.21 | 28.92 | 10.34% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 81.9% | 76.6% | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 99.22% | 99.24% | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 60000) | 60000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 11.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 | | | | | | | size | Kbytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 ms | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 5.23 | 5.81 | 11.09% | | | | 4 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.52 | 0.66 | 26.92% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.76 | 0.94 | 23.68% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 3.52 | 4.12 | 17.05% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 16.0 | 17.02 | 6.38% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.812 | 0.80 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.987 | >0.99 | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 10.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Hard | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | 000TTI. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 4.63 | 5.33 | 15.12% | | | | 4 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.36 | 0.57 | 58.33% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.67 | 0.84 | 25.37% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 3.09 | 3.72 | 20.39% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 14.55 | 15.68 | 7.77% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.86 | 0.82 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.975 | 0.987 | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 10. | | | | | | | packet | 8/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Hard | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | 000TTI. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 8.47 | 9.64 | +2.0% | | | | 6 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.71 | 0.77 | +8.5% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 6.40 | 6.90 | +7.8% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 23.53 | 21.62 | -2,7% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 83.3% | 82.1% | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 97.47% | 97.91% | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 8 pa | | | | | | | packet | cket/s; | | | | | | | size | 100 KB | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rank 1 | | | | | | | | limited | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esults, | | | | | | | | 10s | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated | | | | | | | | in all | | | | | | | | cases. | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML; | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2: | | | | | | | | CSI | | | | | | | | enha | | | | | | | | ncement | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | second | | | | | | | | best | | | | | | | | PMI | | | | | | | | fe | | | | | | | | edback, | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 8.594 | 8.784 | 2.21% | | | | 10 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.042 | 0.081 | 92.86% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.429 | 0.511 | 19.11% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 5.096 | 5.405 | 6.06% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 28.571 | 28.571 | 0% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.82 | 0.82 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.947\ | 0.952\ | | | | | | Offered | (10000) | (10000) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 10.7 | | | | | | | packet | 5/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | ceiver, | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | esti | | | | | | | | mation, | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 ms | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 7.563 | 7.799 | 3.12% | | | | 10 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0 | 0 | 0% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 3.636 | 4.0 | 10.01% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 27.586 | 27.586 | 0% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.89 | 0.89 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.893\ | 0.903\ | | | | | | Offered | (10000) | (10000) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 1 | | | | | | | packet | 2/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWICC | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | ceiver, | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | esti | | | | | | | | mation, | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 ms | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 10.4575 | 10.7162 | 2.47% | | | | 12 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.4068 | 0.4502 | 10.67% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.7019 | 0.7637 | 8.8% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 7.4798 | 7.7851 | 4.08% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 28.2570 | 28.2570 | 0% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 76.24% | 75.5% | - | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 98.69% | 98.86% | - | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 1 | | | | | | | packet | 1/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | ceiver, | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | esti | | | | | | | | mation, | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 40000 | | | | | | | | ms. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 2.317 | 2.489 | 7.43% | 2.494 | 7.65% | | 11 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.233 | 0.286 | 22.70% | 0.288 | 23.96% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 1.328 | 1.397 | 5.21% | 1.399 | 5.36% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 5.850 | 6.017 | 2.86% | 6.021 | 2.94% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.8536 | 0.8097 | | 0.8085 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 98.57% | 98.53% | | 98.54% | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ | 1 | | | | | | | /packet | 2/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Total | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ubframe | | | | | | | | s=50000 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML, | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+
Table 6.2-5: MUST Category 2 with 2 transmit antennas for wideband scheduling
for high traffic load (\~80% -- 90% RU)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Thr | B | MUST | | | | | | oughput | aseline | C | | | | | | (Mbps) | | ategory | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 5.23 | 5.81 | 11.09% | 5.79 | 10.69% | | 4 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.52 | 0.66 | 26.92% | 0.66 | 26.79% | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.76 | 0.94 | 23.68% | 0.94 | 23.49% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 3.52 | 4.12 | 17.05% | 4.10 | 16.51% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 16.0 | 17.02 | 6.38% | 16.90 | 5.63% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.812 | 0.80 | | 0.806 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.987 | >0.99 | | >0.99 | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 10.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Hard | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2 is | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | ceiver. | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | 000TTI. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 4.63 | 5.33 | 15.12% | 5.31 | 14.60% | | 4 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.36 | 0.57 | 58.33% | 0.57 | 57.85% | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.67 | 0.84 | 25.37% | 0.83 | 24.63% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 3.09 | 3.72 | 20.39% | 3.72 | 20.34% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 14.55 | 15.68 | 7.77% | 15.58 | 7.08% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.86 | 0.82 | | 0.83 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.975 | 0.987 | | 0.985 | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 10.8 / | | | | | | | packet | 100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Hard | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2 is | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | ceiver. | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | 000TTI. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 7.0685 | 7.5386 | 6.65% | | | | 5 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.8827 | 0.9768 | 10.65% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 4.5726 | 5.0842 | 11.19% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.7325 | 0.7084 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.9774 | 0.9868 | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 40000) | 40000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 10.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 | | | | | | | | ms; | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC; | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 4.4583 | 4.8930 | 9.75% | | | | 5 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.6529 | 0.6891 | 5.54% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 2.5421 | 2.9106 | 14.50% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.8715 | 0.8524 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.9151 | 0.9382 | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 40000) | 40000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 11.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 | | | | | | | | ms; | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC; | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 8.67 | 8.76 | +1.0% | 8.76 | +1.0% | | 6 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.78 | 0.81 | +4.4% | 0.83 | +7.3% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 6.72 | 6.96 | +3.3% | 7.02 | +4.4% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 22.22 | 22.22 | 0% | 22.22 | 0% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 81.8% | 81.2% | | 80.8% | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 97.99% | 98.23% | | 98.27% | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 10.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rank 1 | | | | | | | | limited | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esults, | | | | | | | | 10s | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated | | | | | | | | in all | | | | | | | | cases. | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML; | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2: | | | | | | | | CSI | | | | | | | | enha | | | | | | | | ncement | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | second | | | | | | | | best | | | | | | | | PMI | | | | | | | | fe | | | | | | | | edback, | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+
Tables 6.2-6 -- 6.2-8 show the system level evaluation results for 2 transmit
antennas in MUST Scenario 1 with a middle traffic load of 60% RU for MUST
Categories 1, 2, and 3, respectively when **subband scheduling** is used.
Table 6.2-6: MUST Category 1 with 2 transmit antennas for subband scheduling
for middle traffic load (\~60% RU)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Thr | B | MUST | | | | | | oughput | aseline | C | | | | | | (Mbps) | | ategory | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Mean | 13.42 | 13.16 | -1.94% | | | | 1 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 0-5% | 1.861 | 1.854 | -0.38% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 5%ile | 2.383 | 2.376 | -0.29% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 50%ile | 9.532 | 9.320 | -2.22% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 95%ile | 38.13 | 38.13 | 0.00% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | RU | 58.1% | 58.9% | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Served/ | 99.77% | 99.77% | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 60000) | 60000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | λ / | 10.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 | | | | | | | size | KBytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 ms | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Mean | 8.5 | 8.74 | 2.82% | | | | 4 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 0-5% | 1.34 | 1.58 | 17.91% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 5%ile | 1.8 | 1.87 | 3.89% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 50%ile | 6.8 | 7.12 | 4.71% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 95%ile | 20.5 | 20.50 | 0.00% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | RU | 0.63 | 0.60 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Served/ | >0.99 | >0.99 | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | λ / | 9.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Hard | | | | | | | | CW-IC. | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | 000TTI. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Mean | 16.13 | 16.17 | 0.2% | 16.41 | 1.7% | | 7 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 5%ile | 2.10 | 2.21 | 5.2% | 2.30 | 9.5% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 50%ile | 9.96 | 10.04 | 0.8% | 10.10 | 1.4% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 95%ile | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | RU % | 59.4 | 57.4% | | 57.2% | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Served/ | 96.5% | | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | λ / | 1.8 / | | | | | | | packet | 0.5 | | | | | | | size | Mbytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | # | | | | | | | | 2:Ideal | | | | | | | | IC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | No | | | | | | | | impa | | | | | | | | irments | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Mean | 13.4301 | 13.4523 | 0.17% | | | | 12 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 0-5% | 1.0275 | 1.0380 | 1.07% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 5%ile | 1.6842 | 1.7106 | 1.5% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 50%ile | 11.7375 | 11.9209 | 1.56% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 95%ile | 28.2570 | 28.2570 | 0% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | RU | 60.12% | 60.23% | - | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Served/ | 99.39% | 99.43% | - | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | λ / | 1 | | | | | | | packet | 1/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | ceiver, | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | esti | | | | | | | | mation, | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 40000 | | | | | | | | ms. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | Source | Mean | 6.986 | 7.245 | 3.71% | 7.254 | 3.84% | | 11 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 5%ile | 1.060 | 1.153 | 8.77% | 1.155 | 8.95% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 50%ile | 4.211 | 4.337 | 2.99% | 4.352 | 3.35% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | 95%ile | 20.513 | 20.713 | 0.97% | 20.714 | 0.98% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | RU | 0.5795 | 0.5586 | | 0.5583 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Served/ | 98.76% | 98.72% | | 98.72% | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | λ | 8/100KB | | | | | | | /packet | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Total | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ubframe | | | | | | | | s=50000 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML, | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+-------+
Table 6.2-7: MUST Category 2 with 2 transmit antennas for subband scheduling
for middle traffic load (\~60% RU)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Source | Thr | B | MUST | | | | | | oughput | aseline | C | | | | | | (Mbps) | | ategory | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 14.0598 | 14.4284 | 2.62% | | | | 3 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.8824 | 1.9754 | 4.94% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | | | | (1.372) | ( | (5.44%) | | | | | (Mean | | 1.4467) | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | 5%) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 9.4121 | 9.8766 | 4.94% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 42.1055 | 42.1058 | 0.00% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 63.81% | 63.14% | - | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 99.78% | 99.80% | - | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 45000) | 45000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 11.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 | | | | | | | size | Kbytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 | | | | | | | | ms; Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 8.5 | 8.74 | 2.82% | 8.71 | 2.51% | | 4 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 1.34 | 1.58 | 17.91% | 1.57 | 17.13% | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.8 | 1.87 | 3.89% | 1.86 | 3.16% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 6.8 | 7.12 | 4.71% | 7.10 | 4.48% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 20.5 | 20.50 | 0.00% | 20.50 | 0.00% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.63 | 0.60 | | 0.61 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | >0.99 | >0.99 | | >0.99 | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 9. | | | | | | | packet | 0/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Hard | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2 is | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | ceiver. | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | 000TTI. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
Table 6.2-8: MUST Category 3 with 2 transmit antennas for subband scheduling
for middle traffic load (\~60% RU)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | Source | Thr | B | MUST | | | | | | oughput | aseline | C | | | | | | (Mbps) | | ategory | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | Source | Mean | 14.0598 | 14.6642 | 4.30% | | | | 3 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | 5%ile | 1.8824 | 1.9231 | 2.16% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | | | | (1.372) | ( | (1.85%) | | | | | (Mean | | 1.3974) | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | 5%) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | 50%ile | 9.4121 | 9.8767 | 4.94% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | 95%ile | 42.1055 | 44.4444 | 5.55% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | RU | 63.81% | 63.48% | - | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | Served/ | 99.78% | 99.78% | - | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 45000) | 45000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | λ / | 11.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 | | | | | | | size | Kbytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | Note | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 | | | | | | | | ms; Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+
Tables 6.2-9 -- 6.2-11 show the system level evaluation results for 2 transmit
antennas in MUST Scenario 1 with **a high traffic load of \~80 \- 90% RUs**
for MUST Categories 1, 2, and 3, respectively when wideband scheduling is
used.
Table 6.2-9: MUST Category 1 with 2 transmit antennas for subband scheduling
for high traffic load (\~80% -- 90% RU)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Thr | B | MUST | | | | | | oughput | aseline | C | | | | | | (Mbps) | | ategory | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 6.988 | 7.285 | 4.25% | | | | 1 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.643 | 0.808 | 25.66% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.934 | 1.087 | 16.38% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 3.994 | 4.194 | 5.01% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 24.67 | 24.67 | 0.00% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 82.8% | 82.0% | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 99.40% | 99.33% | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 60000) | 60000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 13.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 | | | | | | | size | Kbytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 ms | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 5.576 | 5.917 | 6.12% | | | | 1 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.368 | 0.531 | 44.29% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.702 | 0.816 | 16.24% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 2.954 | 3.289 | 11.34% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 20.46 | 20.97 | 2.49% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 87.4% | 86.9% | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 99.04% | 99.2% | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 60000) | 60000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 14.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 | | | | | | | size | KBytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 ms | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 6.13 | 6.79 | 10.77% | | | | 4 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.90 | 1.09 | 21.11% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.18 | 1.35 | 14.41% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 4.57 | 5.27 | 15.32% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 16.66 | 17.71 | 6.30% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.802 | 0.77 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | >0.99 | >0.99 | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 10. | | | | | | | packet | 8/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1. | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | 000TTI. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 4.96 | 5.51 | 11.09% | | | | 4 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.59 | 0.69 | 16.95% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.89 | 1.04 | 16.85% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 3.54 | 4.05 | 14.41% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 14.04 | 15.23 | 8.48% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.882 | 0.862 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | >0.99 | >0.99 | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 12. | | | | | | | packet | 2/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Hard | | | | | | | | CW-IC. | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | 000TTI. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 8.33 | 8.7 | 4.4% | 8.76 | 5.1% | | 7 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.73 | 0.81 | 11.0% | 0.81 | 11.0% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 4.3 | 4.79 | 11.4% | 4.8 | 11.6% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 87.6% | 86.7% | 86.6% | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 93.4% | 92.4% | 91.9% | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 12 / | | | | | | | packet | 0.1 | | | | | | | size | Mbytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | # | | | | | | | | 2:Ideal | | | | | | | | IC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | No | | | | | | | | impa | | | | | | | | irments | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 5.33 | 5.65 | 6.0% | | | | 7 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.45 | 0.50 | 11.1% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 2.22 | 2.45 | 10.3% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 93.7 % | 93.1% | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 89.4% | 90.9% | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 12 / | | | | | | | packet | 0.1 | | | | | | | size | Mbytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Tx/Rx | | | | | | | | impa | | | | | | | | irments | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | | 000TTIs | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 9.248 | 9.306 | 0.63% | | | | 10 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.334 | 0.348 | 4.19% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.722 | 0.729 | 0.97% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 5.97 | 6.061 | 1.52% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 28.571 | 28.571 | 0% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.8 | 0.79 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.968 | 0.969 | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 10000) | 10000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 11. | | | | | | | packet | 5/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | ceiver, | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | esti | | | | | | | | mation, | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 ms | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 8.135 | 8.195 | 0.74% | | | | 10 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.005 | 0.015 | 200% | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.306 | 0.399 | 30.39% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 4.651 | 4.734 | 1.78% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 27.586 | 27.586 | 0% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.88 | 0.88 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.942 | 0.944 | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 10000) | 10000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 1 | | | | | | | packet | 3/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | ceiver, | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | esti | | | | | | | | mation, | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 ms | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 4.394 | 4.589 | 4.43% | 4.593 | 4.54% | | 11 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.039 | 1.186 | 14.15% | 1.194 | 14.96% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 2.996 | 3.086 | 3.11% | 3.088 | 3.17% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 14.035 | 14.200 | 1.18% | 14.203 | 1.20% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.8653 | 0.8385 | | 0.8381 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 98.58% | 98.56% | | 98.55% | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | λ | 1 | | | | | | | /packet | 2/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Total | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ubframe | | | | | | | | s=50000 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML, | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+
Table 6.2-10: MUST Category 2 with 2 transmit antennas for subband scheduling
for high traffic load (\~80% -- 90% RU)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Source | Thr | B | MUST | | | | | | oughput | aseline | C | | | | | | (Mbps) | | ategory | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 8.7860 | 9.3872 | 6.84% | | | | 3 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.0001 | 1.1060 | 10.59% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | ( | | | | | (Mean | 0.6646) | 0.7592) | 14.23%) | | | | | UPT | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | 5%) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 5.2981 | 5.7556 | 8.64% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 29.6297 | 30.7693 | 3.85% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 82.60% | 81.51% | - | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 98.95% | 99.20% | - | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 45000) | 45000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 13.5 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 | | | | | | | size | Kbytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 | | | | | | | | ms; Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 7.0017 | 7.7319 | 10.43% | | | | 3 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.7588 | 0.8621 | 13.61% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | ( | | | | | (Mean | 0.4214) | 0.5451) | 29.35%) | | | | | UPT | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | 5%) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 3.9802 | 4.5455 | 14.20% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 24.2426 | 25.8067 | 6.45% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 88.23% | 86.99% | - | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 97.97% | 98.55% | - | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 45000) | 45000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 14.5 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 | | | | | | | size | Kbytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 | | | | | | | | ms; Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 6.13 | 6.79 | 10.77% | 6.78 | 10.64% | | 4 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.90 | 1.09 | 21.11% | 1.08 | 20.33% | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.18 | 1.35 | 14.41% | 1.34 | 13.77% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 4.57 | 5.27 | 15.32% | 5.26 | 15.01% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 16.66 | 17.71 | 6.30% | 17.64 | 5.91% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.802 | 0.77 | | 0.78 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | >0.99 | >0.99 | | >0.99 | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 10. | | | | | | | packet | 8/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1, Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2 is | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | ceiver. | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | 000TTI. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 4.96 | 5.51 | 11.09% | 5.48 | 10.40% | | 4 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 0-5% | 0.59 | 0.69 | 16.95% | 0.69 | 16.33% | | | mean | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.89 | 1.04 | 16.85% | 1.04 | 16.65% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 3.54 | 4.05 | 14.41% | 4.04 | 14.03% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | 14.04 | 15.23 | 8.48% | 15.14 | 7.83% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.882 | 0.862 | | 0.870 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | >0.99 | >0.99 | | >0.99 | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 12. | | | | | | | packet | 2/100KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Hard | | | | | | | | CW-IC, | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2 is | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | ceiver. | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | | _drop) | | | | | | | | = 1600 | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | 000TTI. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 7.1938 | 7.2828 | 1.24% | | | | 5 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 1.0601 | 1.0935 | 3.15% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 4.8967 | 5.0049 | 2.21% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.7675 | 0.7613 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.9890 | 0.9904 | | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 40000) | 40000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 11.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 | | | | | | | | ms; | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC; | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Source | Mean | 5.2627 | 5.6441 | 7.25% | | | | 5 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 5%ile | 0.7745 | 0.8095 | 4.53% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 50%ile | 3.3139 | 3.6253 | 9.40% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | 95%ile | | | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | RU | 0.8698 | 0.8492 | - | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Served/ | 0.9582 | 0.9397 | - | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 40000) | 40000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | λ / | 12.0 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Note | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 | | | | | | | | ms; | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC; | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
Table 6.2-11: MUST Category 3 with 2 transmit antennas for subband scheduling
for high traffic load (\~80% -- 90% RU)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | Source | Thr | B | MUST | | | | | | oughput | aseline | C | | | | | | (Mbps) | | ategory | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | Source | Mean | 8.7860 | 9.5097 | 8.24% | | | | 3 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | 5%ile | 1.0001 | 1.0297 | 2.96% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | (4.17%) | | | | | (Mean | 0.6646) | 0.6923) | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | 5%) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | 50%ile | 5.2981 | 5.6383 | 6.42% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | 95%ile | 29.6297 | 32.0000 | 8.00% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | RU | 82.60% | 82.32% | - | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | Served/ | 98.95% | 99.05% | - | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 45000) | 45000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | λ / | 13.5 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 | | | | | | | size | Kbytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | Note | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 | | | | | | | | ms; Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | Source | Mean | 7.0017 | 7.7781 | 11.09% | | | | 3 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | 5%ile | 0.7588 | 0.7874 | 3.77% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | (8.88%) | | | | | (Mean | 0.4214) | 0.4588) | | | | | | UPT | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | 5%) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | 50%ile | 3.9802 | 4.3479 | 9.24% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | 95%ile | 24.2426 | 26.6669 | 10.00% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | RU | 88.23% | 87.87% | - | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | Served/ | 97.97% | 98.17% | - | | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | (# of | 45000) | 45000) | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | λ / | 14.5 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 | | | | | | | size | Kbytes | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | | Note | Maximum | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 1600 | | | | | | | | ms; Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+
Tables 6.2-12 -- 6.2-13 show the system level evaluation results for **4
transmit antennas** in MUST Scenario 1 with a middle traffic load of 60% RU
for MUST Categories 1,and 2, respectively when wideband scheduling is used.
Table 6.2-12: MUST Category 1 with 4 transmit antennas for wideband scheduling
for middle traffic load (\~60% RU)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+----------+------+ | Source | Th | Baseline | MUST | | | | | | roughput | | Category | | | | | | (Mbps) | | 1 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+----------+------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+----------+------+ | Source | Mean UPT | 14.5449 | 14.8025 | 1.77% | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+----------+------+ | | 5%ile | 2.1076 | 2.1736 | 3.13% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+----------+------+ | | 50%ile | 13.1541 | 13.6239 | 3.57% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+----------+------+ | | 95%ile | 28.2570 | 28.2570 | 0% | | | | | UPT | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+----------+------+ | | RU | 55.05% | 54.1% | - | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+----------+------+ | | Served | 99.68% | 99.72% | - | | | | | /Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ubframes | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+----------+------+ | | λ / | 11/100KB | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+----------+------+ | | Note | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | CWIC | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | eceiver, | | | | | | | | Ideal | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | est | | | | | | | | imation, | | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | | | time = | | | | | | | | 40000 | | | | | | | | ms. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+----------+------+
Table 6.2-13: MUST Category 2 with 4 transmit antennas for wideband scheduling
for middle traffic load (\~60% RU)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | Source | Thr | B | MUST | | | | | | oughput | aseline | C | | | | | | (Mbps) | | ategory | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | | | | Rx | Gain | Rx | Gain | | | | | Scheme | | Scheme | | | | | | #1 | | #2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | Source | Mean | 11.54 | 11.65 | +1.0% | 11.66 | +1.1% | | 6 | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | | 5%ile | 1.68 | 1.75 | +4.4% | 1.79 | +6.5% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | | 50%ile | 10.13 | 10.39 | +2.6% | 10.013 | +2.6% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | | 95%ile | 25.81 | 25.81 | 0% | 25.81 | 0% | | | UPT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | | RU | 65.5% | 64.9% | | 64.6% | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | | Served/ | 99.74% | 99.78% | | 99.78% | | | | Offered | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (# of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | sim | | | | | | | | ulated) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | | λ / | 10 / | | | | | | | packet | 100 KB | | | | | | | size | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | | Note | Rank 1 | | | | | | | | limited | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esults, | | | | | | | | 10s | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulated | | | | | | | | in all | | | | | | | | cases. | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #1: | | | | | | | | R-ML; | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | #2: | | | | | | | | CSI | | | | | | | | enha | | | | | | | | ncement | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | second | | | | | | | | best | | | | | | | | PMI | | | | | | | | fe | | | | | | | | edback, | | | | | | | | R-ML | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+
## 6.2 Evaluation results of MUST for PMCH
Initial evaluation results of MUST for PMCH can be found in [50], [51], [52]
and [53].
## 6.3 Observations
Based on the evaluation results of MUST for PDSCH, observations can be drawn
as follows.
\- For system-level simulation results using wideband scheduling for FTP
traffic, assuming Release 12 EVM requirements for 64QAM
\- MUST provides **0.85% \~ 8%** performance gain in average UPT when RU is
less than 60%
\- MUST provides **4.54% \~ 14.9%** performance gain in 5%ile UPT when RU is
less than 60%
\- MUST provides **-4% \~ 7.6%** performance gain in average UPT when RU is
between 60% and 70%
\- MUST provides **-7% \~ 14.2%** performance gain in 5%ile UPT when RU is
between 60% and 70%
\- MUST provides **3.71% \~ 20.2%** performance gain in average UPT when RU is
between 70% and 80%
\- MUST provides **10.7% \~ 30.7%** performance gain in 5%ile UPT when RU is
between 70% and 80%
\- For system-level simulation results using subband scheduling for FTP
traffic, assuming Release 12 EVM requirements for 64QAM
\- MUST provides -1.9% \~ 3.84% performance gain in average UPT when RU is
less than 60%
\- MUST provides -0.69% \~ 8.95% performance gain in 5%ile UPT when RU is less
than 60%
\- MUST provides 2.5% \~ 4.3% performance gain in average UPT when RU is
between 60% and 70%
\- MUST provides 2.16% \~ 4.94% performance gain in 5%ile UPT when RU is
between 60% and 70%
\- MUST provides 0.6% \~ 10.8% performance gain in average UPT when RU is
between 70% and 80%
\- MUST provides 1.0% \~ 14.4% performance gain in 5%ile UPT when RU is
between 70% and 80%
\- QPSK accounts for most (i.e., about 90% or more) of MUST-far UE's
modulation order, assuming Release 12 EVM requirements for 64QAM
\- MUST with QPSK restriction for MUST-far UE can achieve similar performance
to MUST without the restriction, assuming Release 12 EVM requirements for
64QAM.
# 7 Conclusion
_For multiuser superposition of PDSCH and PDSCH:_
\- MUST can increase system capacity as well as improve user experience in
certain scenarios at least for 2Tx case
\- MUST is generally more beneficial when the network experiences higher
traffic load
\- MUST is generally more beneficial in user perceived throughput for wideband
scheduling case, compared to subband scheduling case
\- MUST is generally more beneficial in user perceived throughput for cell-
edge UEs, compared to other UEs
\- MUST-far UEs can be legacy UEs when QPSK is applied to MUST-far UEs or the
most two significant bits in the modulation symbol are assigned to far UE
###### ### Annex A: Evaluation methodology
## A.1 System-level evaluation assumptions
### A.1.1 Evaluation assumptions for PDSCH
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameters | MUST Scenario 1 | MUST Scenario 2/3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Layout | Hexagonal grid, 3 | | | | sectors per site, 19 | | | | macro sites | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-macro-eNB | 500 m | | | distance | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System bandwidth per | 10 MHz | | | carrier | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2.0 GHz | Macro cell: same as | | | | MUST Scenario 1 | | | | | | | | Small cell: 3.5 GHz | | | | for MUST Scenario 2; | | | | 2.0 GHz for MUST | | | | Scenario 3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total eNB TX power | 46 dBm | Macro cell: same as | | | | MUST Scenario 1 | | | | | | | | Small cell: 30 dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distance-dependent | ITU UMa, with 3D | Macro cell: same as | | path loss | distance between an | MUST Scenario 1 | | | eNB and a UE applied | | | | | Small cell: ITU UMi | | | | for small cell, with | | | | 3D distance between | | | | an eNB and a UE | | | | applied | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Penetration loss | For outdoor UEs: 0 | Same as MUST | | | dB\ | Scenario 1 | | | For indoor UEs: | | | | (20+0.5 _d~in~_) dB | | | | (_d~in~_ : | | | | independent uniform | | | | random value between | | | | [0, 25] for each | | | | link) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | ITU UMa | Macro cell: same as | | | | MUST Scenario 1 | | | | | | | | Small cell: ITU UMi | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fast fading channel | ITU UMa | Macro cell: same as | | between eNB and UE | | MUST Scenario 1 | | | | | | | | Small cell: ITU UMi | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eNB antenna pattern | 3D | Macro cell: same as | | | | MUST Scenario 1 | | | | | | | | Small cell: 2D | | | | Omni-directional is | | | | baseline for small | | | | cell; directional | | | | antenna is not | | | | precluded | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eNB antenna height | 25 m | Macro cell: same as | | | | MUST Scenario 1 | | | | | | | | Small cell: 10 m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eNB antenna gain + | 17 dBi | Macro cell: same as | | connector loss | | MUST Scenario 1 | | | | | | | | Small cell: 5 dBi | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE antenna height | 1.5 m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE antenna gain | 0 dBi | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna | eNB: | Macro-cell eNB: same | | configuration | | as MUST Scenario 1 | | | 2 Tx, | | | | cross-polarized | Small-cell eNB: 2 | | | | Tx, cross-polarized | | | 4 Tx, | | | | cross-polarized, | UE: 2 Rx, | | | 0.5-wavelength | cross-polarized | | | spacing between | | | | antenna groups | | | | | | | | 8 Tx, | | | | cross-polarized, | | | | 0.5-wavelength | | | | between antenna | | | | groups | | | | | | | | UE: | | | | | | | | 2 Rx, | | | | cross-polarized | | | | | | | | 4 Rx, | | | | cross-polarized, | | | | 0.5-wavelength | | | | between antenna | | | | groups | | | | | | | | Mandatory: 2Tx/2Rx, | | | | 4Tx/2Rx | | | | | | | | Optional: 4Tx/4Rx, | | | | 8Tx/2Rx | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic model | FTP traffic model 1 | | | | with | | | | | | | | Packet size of 0.1 | | | | Mbytes for resource | | | | utilization of 60%, | | | | 80% and 90%, and | | | | | | | | Packet size of 0.5 | | | | Mbytes for resource | | | | utilization of 60% | | | | | | | | Statistics of the | | | | number of UEs | | | | simultaneously | | | | scheduled in a | | | | subframe should be | | | | reported | | | | | | | | Duration of the | | | | simulation should | | | | also be reported in | | | | terms of the number | | | | of subframes | | | | | | | | Companies are also | | | | free to submit full | | | | buffer traffic model | | | | results but RAN1 | | | | will not draw | | | | conclusions of | | | | performance gains | | | | from full buffer | | | | traffic model | | | | results | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Small cell dropping | N/A | Uniformly dropped | | | | within a macro cell | | | | geographical area | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Small cell number | N/A | 4 | | per macro cell | | | | geographical area | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE dropping | 20% UEs are outdoor; | 20% UEs are outdoor | | | 80% UEs are indoor | and 80% UEs are | | | | indoor; | | | | | | | | 2/3 UEs randomly and | | | | uniformly dropped | | | | within a 40 m radius | | | | of each small cell | | | | eNB (configuration | | | | 4b defined in TR | | | | 36.814), 1/3 UEs | | | | randomly and | | | | uniformly dropped | | | | throughout the macro | | | | geographical area | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum distance (2D | Macro -- UE : > 35m | Macro -- | | distance) | | RRH/Hotzone: > 75m\ | | | | Macro -- UE : > | | | | 35m\ | | | | RRH/Hotzone -- | | | | RRH/Hotzone: > 40m | | | | | | | | RRH/Hotzone -- UE : | | | | > 10m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of superposed | 2 | | | signals in | | | | superposition | | | | transmission | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE receiver | In baseline scheme, | | | | the following is | | | | assumed: | | | | | | | | MMSE-IRC for | | | | inter-cell | | | | interference | | | | suppression | | | | | | | | Either MMSE-IRC or | | | | SLIC/R-ML for | | | | inter-spatial-layer | | | | interference | | | | suppression for | | | | MU-MIMO | | | | | | | | Both MMSE and | | | | SLIC/R-ML are | | | | assumed for | | | | inter-spatial-layer | | | | interference | | | | suppression for | | | | SU-MIMO | | | | | | | | In MUST scheme, each | | | | company should | | | | describe UE receiver | | | | assumptions and one | | | | example is as | | | | follows: | | | | | | | | For all users, | | | | MMSE-IRC is assumed | | | | for inter-cell | | | | interference | | | | suppression | | | | | | | | For MUST near-users | | | | the following is | | | | assumed | | | | | | | | Either SLIC/R-ML or | | | | CWIC for | | | | intra-spatial-layer | | | | interference | | | | cancellation | | | | | | | | Either MMSE-IRC or | | | | SLIC/R-ML is assumed | | | | for | | | | inter-spatial-layer | | | | interference | | | | suppression for | | | | MU-MIMO, and both | | | | MMSE and SLIC/R-ML | | | | are assumed for | | | | inter-spatial-layer | | | | interference | | | | suppression for | | | | SU-MIMO | | | | | | | | For other users, | | | | MMSE-IRC is assumed | | | | for | | | | inter | | | | /intra-spatial-layer | | | | interference | | | | suppression | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE noise figure | 9 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE speed | Outdoor UEs: 3 | | | | km/hr, 60 km/hr; | | | | | | | | Indoor UEs: 3 km/hr | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell selection | RSRP for | RSRP for both | | criteria | intra-frequency | intra-frequency and | | | | inter-frequency | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Unified handover | 3 dB | | | margin | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Overheard | 3 symbols for DL | | | | CCHs, CRS ports and | | | | DM-RS with 12/24 REs | | | | per PRB depending on | | | | the assumed number | | | | of MIMO layers and | | | | TM | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Performance metrics | For MUST Scenario 1: | | | | 5/50/95%ile and mean | | | | user perceived | | | | throughput (UPT); | | | | | | | | For MUST Scenario 2: | | | | 5/50/95%ile and mean | | | | user perceived | | | | throughput (UPT) of | | | | small cells; | | | | | | | | For MUST Scenario 3: | | | | 5/50/95%ile and mean | | | | user perceived | | | | throughput (UPT) of | | | | both macro cells and | | | | small cells; | | | | | | | | Ratio of served cell | | | | throughput over | | | | offered cell | | | | throughput | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmission schemes | Single point | | | | transmission | | | | schemes, i.e. | | | | SU-MIMO, MU-MIMO, | | | | and MU superposition | | | | transmission | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Scheduling | Dynamic switching | | | assumption | among the considered | | | | transmission | | | | schemes. MU pairing | | | | together with the | | | | assumed enhancements | | | | should be described | | | | by companies in | | | | details | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Feedback assumption | Non-ideal CRS or | | | | CSI-RS | | | | channel/interference | | | | estimation | | | | | | | | Release 12 CSI | | | | feedback schemes | | | | | | | | Feedback | | | | periodicity: 5 ms | | | | | | | | Feedback delay: 5 ms | | | | | | | | Any feedback | | | | enhancements assumed | | | | in the evaluation | | | | should be described | | | | by companies in | | | | details. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Receiver impairment | Non-ideal CRS or | | | modeling for | DM-RS channel | | | demodulation | estimation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | EVM | Tx EVM: 8%, FFS | Macro cell Tx EVM: | | | smaller values | same as MUST | | | | Scenario 1 | | | UE Rx EVM: 4% | | | | | Small cell Tx EVM: | | | | 3.5% | | | | | | | | UE Rx EVM: same as | | | | MUST Scenario 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### A.1.2 Evaluation assumptions for PMCH
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Layout | Hexagonal grid, 3 sectors per | | | site, 19 macro sites (other | | | sizes of MBSFN and heterogeneous | | | scenario are optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Inter Macro eNB distance | 500m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | System bandwidth per carrier | 10 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2.0GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Total BS TX power | 46dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Distance-dependent path loss | ITU UMa | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Penetration loss | For outdoor UEs:0dB | | | | | | For indoor UEs: 20dB+0.5din (din | | | : independent uniform random | | | value between [ 0, min(25,d) ] | | | for each link) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Shadowing | ITU UMa | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna pattern | 3D | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna Height: | 25m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna Height | 1.5m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna gain + connector loss | 17 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna gain of UE | 0 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Fast fading channel between eNB | ITU UMa | | and UE | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration | 2 Tx, cross-polarized, 0.5lambda | | | | | | UE: 2 Rx, cross-polarized | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic model | Full buffer | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE dropping | 20% UEs are outdoor and 80% UEs | | | are indoor. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Minimum distance | Macro-UE: >35m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE receiver | MMSE-IRC as baseline | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE noise figure | 9dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE speed | 3km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Performance metrics | UE throughput that only base | | | data layer is decoded (Enhanced | | | layer is also transmitted) | | | | | | UE throughput that only enhanced | | | layer is decoded, for each value | | | of enhanced layer coverage (Base | | | layer is also transmitted. The | | | coverage of enhanced data layer | | | are 30%, 50%, 70%, and other | | | coverage value of enhanced data | | | layer is not precluded.) | | | | | | Baseline Rel-12 MBMS UE | | | throughput (single layer | | | transmission) | | | | | | The coverage of one data layer | | | is defined as the proportion of | | | UEs whose BLER for the data | | | layer is no higher than 1% | | | | | | The coverage of base layer is | | | 95% for both baseline and | | | evaluated MUST schemes. 99% | | | coverage of base layer is | | | optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Considered transmission schemes | single antenna port | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Baseline MMSE-IRC receiver | Non-ideal channel estimation of | | impairment modelling | PMCH for MMSE-IRC. Companies | | (demodulation) | should describe simulation | | | details for reproducing results. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of symbols for control | 2 | | region | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | EVM | Tx EVM: 8%, FFS smaller values | | | | | | UE Rx EVM: 4% | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## A.2 Link-level evaluation assumptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2GHz or 3.5GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | System BW | 10MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Allocated resource | 5MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downlink power allocation | $\rho_{A}$: 3dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | $\rho_{B}$: 3dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cell-specific reference signals | Antenna ports 0,1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Propagation channel & UE | EPA/ETU/EVA, (3km/h or 60km/h) | | velocity | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Correlation | Low | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (# of Tx antennas, # of Rx | (2, 2), (4, 2), or (4, 4) | | antennas) | | | | (4, 4) is optional | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cyclic Prefix | Normal | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of control OFDM symbols | 3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Transmission scheme(s) | 2Tx: CRS based transmission | | | scheme(s), | | | | | | 4Tx: DMRS based transmission | | | scheme(s) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CSI delay | 5ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CSI reporting interval | 5ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CSI reporting granularity | WB or SB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Link adaptation | Dynamic or fixed | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | EVM requirement (Tx, Rx) | (8%, 4%) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HARQ | Maximum 4 retransmission | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## A.3 Methodology for link-to-system modelling
### A.3.1 Methodology for ML/R-ML modelling
#### A.3.1.1 Method 1
The approach to model the BLER performance of an ML/R-ML receiver for a PDSCH
over any allocation under an instantaneous channel is a) deriving the mutual
information per transmitted bit (MIB) on each RE of the PDSCH, and then b)
averaging the MIB over all REs, and finally c) mapping avg(MIB) to a BLER. The
received MIB of an ML/R-ML receiver at an RE, denoted as MIB~ML~, is based on
a weighting of the bit interleaved coded modulation (BICM) normalized spectral
efficiency, given as
$\text{MIB}_{\text{ML}} = \beta \cdot C_{\text{BICM}}$,
where _C_ ~BICM~ is the BICM normalized spectral efficiency under of the
environments of the target RE, and 0 \ 1 \\                                                         
     \end{matrix} \right.\ $$$
* * *
Concerning the far UE, _MMIB_ ~F~ is computed similarly.
If needed, effective SINR values for the near UE and far UE can be computed
using the inverse of function _J(_.) defined in [22] based on _MMIB_ ~F~ and
_MMIB_ ~N~.
The BLock Error Rate (BLER) at the far UE is computed as [22]
* * *
* * *
where _MCS_(F) is the index of the Modulation and Coding Scheme (MCS) employed
by the far UE and _erfc_(·) is the complementary error function. Concerning
the near user, _BLER_ ~N~ is computed in the same way using _MCS_(N).
Parameters _b~MCS~_ and _c~MCS~_ are specific of the code rate (see Table
A.3.1.5-2 for few example values).
Table A.3.1.5-2: Coefficients for BLER computation
* * *
_MCS_ _Information word length [bits]_ _Codeword length [bits]_ _Code rate_
_b~MCS~_ _c~MCS~_ 1 200 1008 0.2 0.255 0.036 2 400 1008 0.4 0.430 0.042 3 608
1008 0.6 0.645 0.038
* * *
This model has been validated in [21].
### A.3.2 Methodology for hard CW-IC
In this section, near UE is noted as UE1 while far UE is noted as UE2. CW-IC
is assumed here. Since CW-IC may not succeed in detecting the signal of UE2,
the cancellation process can be divided into two branches. When the CRC of UE2
signal indicates successful decoding, the interference from UE2 signal can be
completely cancelled, and then the BLER of UE1 can be calculated with
conventional model like MMSE model. When the CRC of UE2 signal indicates
unsuccessful decoding, it is assumed that the interference from UE2 signal can
be partially cancelled, and the impacts of UE2 signal on UE1 BLER can be
modeled by the modeling of CW-IC in [4]. The L2S modeling of hard CW-IC is
illustrated in Figure A.3.2-1, which reuses the conventional modeling and the
CW-IC modeling of [4]. Please note that all grey blocks are the existing
modeling methodologies.
Figure A.3.2-1: SNR mapping for hard CW-IC
### A.3.3 Simplified link to system models for CWIC, SLIC, and MMSE-IRC
receivers.
This section provides simple link to system models for CWIC and SLIC receivers
as well as for MMSE-IRC that model MuST receiver impairments, including
channel estimation error. Such models are at least appropriate for initial
evaluations of the potential of MuST. Depending on the observed MuST gains,
more elaborate models could be used.
We focus on reception in the 'near' UE. Models suitable for at least initial
analyses for reception for the far UE can be extended from the near UE model
in a straightforward manner from the MMSE receiver type.
In these link-to-system models, the aim is to provide a BLock Error
Probability (BLEP) for each data layer of interest. We will use existing BLEP
models for the LTE Turbo Decoder given a set of input symbol SINRs.
Assume we receive in total _N_ data layers, and assume for notational
simplicity that all layers are completely overlapping in terms of used
resource elements (if this is not true, then the unused elements for a data
stream can be replaced with zeros). The receiver data signal vector per
resource element _r_ is
$y_{\text{rx}}(r) = \sum_{n = 0}^{N}{H(r)x(r) + e_{\text{IN}}(r)} +
e_{\text{EVM}}(r)$,
where
\- $H(r)$ is the effective channel
\- $x(r)$ is the transmitted signal containing components from the near and/or
far UE. Note that the transmitted power is included in the channel matrix,
that is: $\left\| x(r) \right\| = 1$.
\- $e_{\text{IN}}$is interference and noise. The variable
$e_{\text{EVM}}$models EVM as spatially white complex AWGN with standard
deviation $\sigma_{\text{EVM},i} = \sqrt{\text{EVM}_{\text{RX}}^{2} +
\text{EVM}_{\text{TX}}^{2}}\left\| h_{n,i} \right\|_{F}$on each receive
antenna _i_. with $\text{EVM}_{\text{RX}} = 0\text{.}\text{04}$and
$\text{EVM}_{\text{TX}} = 0\text{.}\text{08}$.
While it is unlikely to be useful for most MuST near/far power ratio operating
ranges, the MMSE receiver can form a basis for CWIC and may be simply extended
for use in the far UE, and so we discuss it first. In the case of no
interference cancellation of any stream and when the far UE is coscheduled
with the near UE on every spatial layer, the expected SINR for data stream _n_
per resource element _r_ then becomes
$\text{SINR}_{n}^{\text{MMSE}}(r) = \frac{p_{\text{near}}\left\|
w_{n}(r)h_{n}(r) \right\|^{2}}{p_{\text{far}}\left\| w_{n}(r)h_{n}(r)
\right\|^{2} + \sum_{m \neq n}^{}{\left\| w_{n}(r)h_{m}(r) \right\|^{2} +
w_{n}(r)R_{\text{ee}}w_{n}^{H}(r)}}$,
where
\- $R_{\text{ee}} = E\left{ e_{T}e_{T}^{H} \right}$ with $e_{T} =
e_{\text{IN}} + e_{\text{EVM}}$is the covariance of the interference and
noise, including EVM.
\- $h_{n}(r)$ is the effective channel vector of data stream _n_
\- $w_{n}(r)$ is a receive weight vector for stream _n_ , calculated by the
receiver given certain channel and interference estimates (e.g. MMSE-IRC
weights)
\- $0 < p_{\text{near}} \leq 1$is the fraction of power allocated to the
'near' UE coscheduled on the spatial layer.
As discussed in [24], when the relative power of the near UE to the far UE is
near that used in 'REMA' schemes, the UE can decode the far UE interference,
and therefore the main error effect is after this successful CWIC cancellation
is driven by channel estimation error. Therefore, _with the essential caveat
that the near UE to far UE power is within the proper operating range_ , CWIC
can be modeled as ideal interference cancellation but with a residual noise
component from channel estimation on the reference symbols added.
The corresponding data layer SINR with CWIC applied within a spatial layer
after MMSE is then:
$\text{SINR}_{n}^{\text{CWIC}}(r) = \frac{p_{\text{near}}\left\|
w_{n}(r)h_{n}(r) \right\|^{2}}{p_{\text{far}}\sigma_{\overset{\sim}{H}}^{2} +
\sum_{m \neq n}^{}{\left\| w_{n}(r)h_{m}(r) \right\|^{2} +
w_{n}(r)R_{\text{ee}}w_{n}^{H}(r)}}$,
where
\- $\sigma_{\overset{\sim}{H}}^{2} = \text{tr}\frac{\left( R_{\text{ee}}
\right)}{\left( G_{\text{CE}}N_{\text{RX}} \right)}$ is the variance of the
channel estimation error $\overset{\sim}{H} = H - \hat{H}$, $N_{\text{RX}}$is
the number of receive antennas, and $G_{\text{CE}}$is the channel estimation
processing gain. A value of $G_{\text{CE}} = \text{10}$may typically be
assumed, as discussed in [24].
\- $p_{\text{far}} = 1 - p_{\text{near}}$is the fraction of power allocated to
the 'far' UE coscheduled on the spatial layer.
A very simple way to model SLIC is to assume a constant SINR gap over CWIC
reception. Based on analysis of link level results as discussed in [24], SLIC
can be roughly modeled as having 0.7 dB loss above channel estimation error as
long as:
$\frac{p_{\text{near}}}{p_{\text{far}}} < \frac{\lbrack 2\rbrack
p_{\text{near},0}}{p_{\text{far},0}}$,
where
$\frac{p_{\text{near},0}}{p_{\text{far},0}}$ is the relative power of the near
and far UE if they are co-multiplexed with bit level superposition into a
larger constellation (i.e. the 'REMA' power share).
The corresponding data layer SINR with SLIC is then:
$\text{SINR}_{n}^{\text{SLIC}}(r) =
\frac{\Delta_{\text{SLIC}}p_{\text{near}}\left\| w_{n}(r)h_{n}(r)
\right\|^{2}}{p_{\text{far}}\sigma_{\overset{\sim}{H}}^{2} + \sum_{m \neq
n}^{}{\left\| w_{n}(r)h_{m}(r) \right\|^{2} +
w_{n}(r)R_{\text{ee}}w_{n}^{H}(r)}}$,
where the SLIC SINR penalty factor is $\Delta_{\text{SLIC}} = \text{10}^{-
0\text{.}\text{07}}$.
#