# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report for the Study Item to identify
the scope and WI objectives for LTE DL 4 Rx AP in Rel-13.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.101 (V12.6.0): \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[3] RP-142299: \"New Study Item: Study on LTE DL 4 Rx antenna ports\",
Ericsson
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Carrier aggregation: Aggregation of two or more component carriers in order
to support wider transmission bandwidths.**
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
BW~Channel_CA~ Aggregated channel bandwidth, expressed in MHz
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AP Antenna Port
CA Carrier Aggregation
CQI Channel Quality Information
CSI Channel Status Information
CWIC Codeword IC
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
EUTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
IRC Interference Rejection Combining
LTE Long Term Evolution
MIMO Multi Input Multi Output
MMSE Minimum Mean Square Error
MRC Maximum Ratio Combining
PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel
PCFICH Physical Control Format Indicator Channel
PDCCH Physical DL Control Channel
PDSCH Physical DL Shared Channel
PHICH Physical HARQ Indicator Channel
PMI Precoder Matrix Index
RI Rank Index
RF Radio Frontend
RRM Radio Resource Management
RLM Radio Link Monitoring
R-ML Reduced complexity-ML
RSRP Reference Symbol Received Power
RSRQ Reference Symbol Received Quality
SINR Signal-to-Interference-and-Noise Ratio
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
SU-MIMO IS Single User MIMO Interference SuppressionTDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
# 4 Introduction
## 4.1 Study item objective
The general objective from [3] is to identify the scope and objectives of the
potential WI on UE requirements for 4 Rx AP:
The main objectives are as follows:
\- Identify the scope and objectives of UE RF requirements for 4 Rx AP
\- Identify the scope and objectives of RRM core requirements for 4 Rx AP
\- Identify the scope and objectives of RRM performance requirements for 4 Rx
AP
\- Identify the scope and objectives of UE performance requirements for 4 Rx
AP:
\- UE demodulation requirements and
\- CSI requirements
# 5 Objective of Core part WI
## 5.1 RF core requirement with 4 Rx AP
### 5.1.1 Scope for non-CA operation
1) No changes anticipated for RF Tx requirements
2) All RF Rx requirements are in the scope of the work item:
a) specification of requirements in sub-clauses 7.1-7.10 of 36.101 applicable
to 4Rx
3) For each band the RF requirements are verified according to the number of
Rx ports supported by the UE
### 5.1.2 Objectives for test coverage
2 Rx performance needs to be guaranteed if the 4 Rx operates with 2 Rx chains.
2 Rx test in addition to 4 Rx needs to be considered during the work item
phase, if 2 Rx operations would not meet 2 Rx requirements when 4 Rx
requirements are met.
### 5.1.3 Scope for CA operation
Specify 4 Rx RF requirements for CA after the non-CA requirements have been
completed. The non-CA should be agreed and included in TS 36.101.
## 5.2 RRM core requirement with 4 Rx AP
\
# 6 Objective of Performance part WI
## 6.1 General
Define proper antenna configuration, MIMO channel correlation matrices,
propagation channel condition for 4 Rx AP based MIMO in order to support UE
performance and CSI requirement
## 6.2 RRM performance requirement with 4 Rx AP
\
## 6.3 UE performance requirement with 4 Rx AP
### 6.3.1 Demodulation of PDSCH
\- Specify UE performance requirements with 4 Rx antenna including
\- Demodulation of PDSCH (Cell-Specific Reference Symbols)
\- Demodulation of PDSCH (User-Specific Reference Symbols)
\- PDSCH demodulation requirements support up to 4 layers
\- No prioritization on number of layers.
\- MMSE-MRC/IRC, RML and CWIC receivers will be investigated as candidate
reference receivers.
### 6.3.2 Demodulation of Control Channels
\- Study feasibility of control channels demodulation with 4 Rx antenna with
respect to:
\- Impact on UE power performance
\- System benefit
\- UE behavior in network
\- The outcome of the feasibility study is decision on whether control channel
demodulation performance needs to be specified and which control channel needs
to be specified.
\- Specify control channels demodulation performance based on the outcome of
the above feasibility of using 4 Rx for control channels.
## 6.4 CSI requirement for 4 Rx AP
\- WI scope includes CSI requirements for 4 Rx antenna including
\- CQI
\- PMI
\- RI
\- CSI requirements support up to 4 layers.
\- No prioritization on number of layers.
\- MMSE-MRC/IRC, RML and CWIC receivers will be investigated as candidate
reference receivers.
# 7 Conclusions
The SID of LTE DL 4Rx work is concluded with the purpose to identify scope and
WI objectives. The conclusions are made in clauses 5 and 6 above.
#