# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is work item technical report for 2 GHz LTE Band in
Region 1, which was approved at TSG RAN #64 [2]. The present document provides
background, analysis of the requirements, and a list of recommended changes to
the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-141009: \"New WID: 2 GHz LTE Band for Region 1\", DISH Network, Solaris
Mobile Ltd., TSG RAN #64, Sophia Antipolis, France, June 2014.
[3] RP-122031: \"Study on 2GHz FDD for UTRA and LTE in Region 1 (1980-2010 MHz
and 2170-2200 MHz Bands)\", Solaris Mobile Ltd. Eutelsat S.A., SES S.A,
Inmarsat plc, DISH Network. 3GPP RAN #58, Barcelona, Spain, December 2012.
This was revised in RP-15024 which was approved at TSG RAN#67, Shanghai,
China, March 2015.
[4] Commission Decision 2007/98/EC on the harmonised use of radio spectrum in
the 2GHz frequency bands for the implementation of systems providing mobile
satellite services (MSS), http://eur-
lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2007:043:0032:0034:EN:PDF.
[5] Commission Decision of 13 May 2009 on the selection of operators of pan-
European systems providing mobile satellite services (MSS) (notified under
document number C(2009) 3746) (2009/449/EC), http://eur-
lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2009:149:0065:0068:EN:PDF.
[6] 3GPP TR 37.846 v12.0.0: \"FS_UTRA_LTE_1980_2170_REG1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.102: \" User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception
(TDD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
Within the European Union (EU), the frequency band 1980-2010 MHz and 2170-2200
MHz can be authorised for use for an integrated terrestrial mobile networks
operations. A study Item on \"2 GHz FDD for UTRA and LTE in Region 1
(1980-2010 MHz and 2170-2200 MHz Bands)\" was approved at RAN #58 [3]. The
purpose of the study item was to facilitate the efficient use of this band for
LTE technologies in applicable countries in Region 1. A new work item, which
builds upon the study item findings, was approved in RAN #64 [2] and revised
in RAN#67 [2] in order to standardize the band for LTE in Region 1.
## 4.1 Task descriptions
The WI is to specify the band specific core and performance requirements for
standardizing the 2 GHz band in Region 1.
**The core objectives of this WI are:**
\- Under the agreed 2x90 MHz (1920-2010 MHz uplink and 2110-2200 MHz downlink)
band plan [BXXX]:
\- The duplexer assumption for [BXXX] requirements specification will be:
\- The lower duplexer is LTE Band 1 (2x60MHz).
\- The upper duplexer is 2x90MHz.
\- For a UE that supports both LTE Band 1 and the new band [BXXX], no
relaxation is allowed for Band 1 when all the carrier(s) are located within
Band 1 operating frequency range.
\- For BXXX, we study the specification impact of the following approaches:
\- Specifying requirements based on channel bandwidth assignment (e.g. when
all the channel bandwidth(s) is confined within LTE Band 1 frequency range, at
least the Band 1 requirements apply).
\- UEs that support the new band [BXXX] shall also support LTE band 1 and all
its capabilities.
\- Other approaches are not precluded.
\- Standardization of new FDD E-UTRA band 1920-2010 MHz uplink and 2110-2200
MHz downlink in Region 1.
\- **Specify band numbering and RF characteristics of the new band.**
\- Address potential BS an UE coexistence issues.
\- **Update the related E-UTRA technical specifications to include support for
the new band.**
\- **Identify RAN5 testing requirements.**
# 5 Frequency band arrangements and regulatory background
## 5.1 General regulatory situation within Region 1
### 5.1.1 1980-2010 MHz and 2170-2200 MHz band
As set out in the Radio Regulations the band 1980-2010 MHz and 2170-2200 MHz
is allocated globally on a co-primary basis for mobile satellite service and
the terrestrial mobile service. Also, the Radio Regulations identify the band
1980-2010 MHz and 2170-2200 MHz for the satellite component of IMT throughout
Region 1 (RR 5.388 and Resolution 212 (rev. WRC-07)). In addition,
complementary terrestrial networks operated in complement to the satellite
component of IMT are permitted in certain countries including throughout the
European Union, subject to national authorizations.
Within ITU Region 1, only CEPT countries (including all EU Member States) can
be considered applicable countries for the current study, even though other
countries may also adopt a similar concept (complementary ground component
operating within a mobile satellite system) at a later stage. The European
Union has established a legally binding regulatory framework enabling selected
operators to deploy complementary ground component (CGC) networks as an
integral part of its satellite network. A similar framework may also be
adopted by other CEPT Member States as well as other ITU Member States in
accordance with the ECC Decision ECC(06)09.
In February 2007 the European Commission adopted a decision [4] on the
harmonised use of radio spectrum in the 2 GHz frequency bands for the
implementation of systems providing mobile satellite services (MSS). On 13 May
2009, the European Commission confirmed the assignment of 2x15 MHz of spectrum
to each of two operators within the 2 GHz Band across Europe [5]. This
provides the two selected operators with the obligation to provide MSS, and
the right to deploy CGC in the European Union within the 2x15 MHz assigned to
each of them. Only the selection of the operators of systems of mobile
satellite services has been made at the level of the European Union. Operators
are to be authorized by each European Union Member State, subject to a number
of harmonised authorization conditions for MSS and CGC.
In summary, the legal framework within the European Union, which is legally
binding on the Member States of the European Union, enables each operator to
deploy CGC networks as an integral part of its satellite network. There are no
restrictions on the technologies used on the ground (or on the satellite),
enabling the deployment of LTE and similar technologies as typically defined
by 3GPP.
Additional information on the Region 1 regulatory matters, including detailed
technical requirements for CGC wideband BS and UE, can be found on the
preceding study item\'s technical report [6].
### 5.1.2 1900-1980 MHz, 2010-2025 MHz and 2110-2170 MHz
**The European Communication Committee Decision ECC/DEC/(06)01 (March 2006)
[1] designated the** bands 1900--1980 MHz, 2010-2025 MHz and 2110-2170 MHz for
terrestrial IMT-2000/UMTS and harmonized this spectrum usage for
IMT-2000/UMTS.
This ECC decision was implemented in the 3GPP specification TS 25.101 for the
1920-1980 MHz block paired with 2110-2170 MHz block as a single UTRA FDD band
in sub-clause 5.3 as shown below:
> _UTRA/FDD is designed to operate in either of the following paired bands:_
Table 5.1.2-1:
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | _Operating Band_ | _UL Frequencies_ | _DL frequencies_ | | | | | | | _UE transmit, Node B |_ UE receive, Node B | | | receive _| transmit_ | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | _I_ | _1920 -- 1980 MHz_ | _2110 --2170 MHz_ | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
And in the 3GPP specification TS 25.102 for the 1900-1920 MHz and 2010-2025
MHz blocks as two separate UTRA TDD bands in TS 25.102 in sub-clause 5.3 as
shown below:
> _UTRA/TDD is designed to operate in the following bands:_
>
> _a) 1900 -- 1920 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission\ 2010 -- 2025 MHz
> Uplink and downlink transmission_
Following the European Commission mandate to introduce technology flexibility
(WAPECS concept) a common and minimal (least restrictive) technical condition
for the 2GHz band was developed by ECC PT1 which was captured in CEPT Report
39 (June 2010). This report allows for other technologies besides UMTS to be
deployed based on a Block Edge Mask (BEM). The BEM was specified for the FDD
Base Station (BS) as it was agreed not to include a BEM for FDD terminals. A
BEM for the TDD BS and UE was not included as the unpaired bands were not used
in CEPT countries.
In 3GPP the above bands were also specified for E-UTRA FDD and TDD duplex mode
in TS36.101 in sub-clause 5.5 as shown below:
_E-UTRA is designed to operate in the operating bands defined in Table 5.5-1._
Table 5.1.2-1: Table 5.5-1 E-UTRA operating bands
* * *
_E‑UTRA Operating Band_ _Uplink (UL) operating band\_ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ _Duplex Mode_  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit _UE receive_
                            *F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~*    *F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~*
_1_ _1920 MHz_ _\--_ _1980 MHz_ _2110 MHz_ _\--_ _2170 MHz_ _FDD_
_33_ _1900 MHz_ _\--_ _1920 MHz_ _1900 MHz_ _\--_ _1920 MHz_ _TDD_
_34_ _2010 MHz_ _\--_ _2025 MHz_ _2010 MHz_ _\--_ _2025 MHz_ _TDD_
* * *
In September 2011, ECC PT1 initiated a review of the existing regulatory
framework with a focus on the usage of the unpaired spectrum noting that the
1900-1920 MHz and 2010-2015 MHz was not used for IMT in many CEPT countries.
Based on this review, the unpaired 2 GHz band was removed from the ECC
Decision and amended (**ECC/DEC/(06)01 (November 2012)). This decision was
consistent with Commission Decision 2012/688/EU which only addressed the
paired FDD band** 1920-1980 MHz with 2110-2170 MHz
In the EC draft mandate (RESCOM12-17 rev3 September 2012) to CEPT, CEPT was
asked to undertake studies on the harmonized technical conditions for the
unused 1900-1920 MHz and 2010-2025 MHz band in CEPT countries. The **draft
CEPT Report 52** proposed three scenarios for the use of the unpaired bands.
However, since the European Commission expressed a preference for a single
solution, only scenario 2 as reflected in draft CEPT Report 52 (as approved
for public consultation in June 2014 and approved by ECC in Mar 2015).
Scenario 2 consists of the deployment of a broadband Direct-Air-to-Ground
Communications (DA2GC) within the frequency band 1900-1920 MHz and VLCC (Video
link and Cordless Camera) for PMSE and ad-hoc PPDR in the frequency band
2010-2025 MHz as shown below in Figure 5.2.1-1.
{width="6.663888888888889in" height="1.1493055555555556in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1: Scenario 2 for the un-paired spectrum 1900-1920 MHz and
2010-2025 MHz in CEPT countries
# 6 List of band specific issues for the 2 GHz band in Region 1
General issues:
\- UE architecture protecting existing Band 1 requirements
\- UE-to-UE co-existence issues with other 3GPP bands
\- BS-to-BS co-existence issues with other 3GPP bands
E-UTRA UE Specific issues:
\- Emission mask
\- UE REFSENS
\- Signalling for A-MPR
\- UE MOP
E-UTRA BS specific issues:
\- Emission mask
# 7 General issues
## 7.1 UE architecture protecting existing Band 1 requirements
In order to ensure Band 1 performance in the 1920-2010/2110-2200 MHz band
within 1920-1980/2110-2180 MHz, a UE architecture with a split duplexer is
assumed. The lower duplexer is then the Band 1 duplexer.
The upper duplexer could be of any pass-band between 2x50MHz and 2x90MHz
depending on the capabilities supported within the band, see Figure 7.1-1:
1) If intra-band CA within the 1980-2010/2110-2200MHz band is not supported by
the UE, an upper duplexer of 2x50MHz will be enough passband.
2) If contiguous CA within the 2x90MHz band is supported by the UE, the
passband of the upper duplexer must be at least 2x70MHz.
3) If NC CA is declared by the UE within the band, the upper duplexer must be
2x90MHz.
Figure 7.1-1: possible UE duplexer implementation (only the UL part is shown)
with a 2x60MHz lower duplexer (Band 1) and 2x50MHz (left), 2x70MHz (middle)
and 2x90MHz (right) upper duplexer
For flexibility, an upper duplexer of 2x90MHz.The following UE reference
architecture is assumed:
\- The lower duplexer is LTE Band 1 (2x60MHz)
\- The upper duplexer is 2x90MHz
## 7.2 UE-to-UE co-existence issues with other 3GPP bands
Table 7.2-1: Requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Spu | | | | | | | | -UTRA | rious | | | | | | | | Band | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | Note | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1880 | | 1895 | -40 | 1 | 15,27 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1895 | | 1915 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26, | | | range | | | | | | 27 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1915 | | 1920 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26, | | | range | | | | | | 27 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 13 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 13 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | 859 | - | 869 | -27 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 26 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 875 | -37 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 875 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 7 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | 8 | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2570 | - | 2575 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2575 | - | 2595 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2620 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | band | | | high~ | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 23 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 23 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 23 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 10 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 11 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 10 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 13 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 15 | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 12, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 12, | | | range | | | | | | 15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 10 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 18 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 19 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 788 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 21 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 22 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 3510 | - | 3525 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 3525 | - | 3590 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 23 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 24 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 25 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 0,12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 26 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 703 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 27 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 28 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | F~DL\ | - | 790 | -50 | 1 | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 28 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 4, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 19, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 24 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 19, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 25 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 470 | - | 694 | -42 | 8 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 35 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 470 | - | 710 | -26.2 | 6 | 34 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 773 | -32 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 773 | - | 803 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 662 | - | 694 | -26.2 | 6 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 19 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 30 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 33 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 34 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8,39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 35 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37 | | | - | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2620 | - | 2645 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2645 | - | 2690 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1805 | | 1855 | -40 | 1 | 32 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1855 | | 1875 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26,32 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1875 | | 1880 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26,33 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 40 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 41 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13 , | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 30 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | | 1 | -50 | 1 | 30 | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 30 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 42 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 43 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 1,32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | [ | [1] | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | -50] | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 44 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 5, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 65 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1900 | | 1915 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 27 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1915 | | 1920 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 27 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | refer | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 5.5-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | Due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | spre | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mmedi | | | | | | | | | ately | | | | | | | | | ou | | | | | | | | | tside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | ntred | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | (2MHz | | | | | | | | | + N x | | | | | | | | | L | | | | | | | | | ~CRB~ | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 180 | | | | | | | | | kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 4, | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | pecti | | | | | | | | | vely. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | rval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: To | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | non | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | nchro | | | | | | | | | nised | | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 7: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1919. | | | | | | | | | 6MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 8: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1915. | | | | | | | | | 7MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 9: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 10: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 11: | | | | | | | | | Wh | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | 793-8 | | | | | | | | | 05MHz | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | stead | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 799-8 | | | | | | | | | 05MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | TBD | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 12: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | ffici | | | | | | | | | ently | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | ave | | | | | | | | | raged | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nsure | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | ndard | | | | | | | | | devi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | \ 3\. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 24: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -38 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 25: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -36 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 26: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 27: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1920 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1980 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 927.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 929.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1930 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1938 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 28: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 29: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 30: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | | | 45-25 | | | | | | | | | 75MHz | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | | | 95-26 | | | | | | | | | 45MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | is 10 | | | | | | | | | or 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 31: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 32: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | [54 | | | | | | | | | RB] | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 887.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 889.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1890 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1898 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 33: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 1885 | | | | | | | | | -1920 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | (r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | 1RB | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 1880 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1885 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pecif | | | | | | | | | ied). | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | [54 | | | | | | | | | RB] | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 892.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 894.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1895 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1903 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 34: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for 5 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | allo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | 18-72 | | | | | | | | | 8MHz. | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 10 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth, | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 30 | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | > 1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | \50dB than
the average insertion loss from three different filter vendor for a B1 filter
is much higher at 2.4 dB
##### B65 insertion loss {#b65-insertion-loss .H6}
B65 is an extension of B1 and therefore we need to review the insertion loss
for this band compared with Band 1. In this clause, we detail the B65 filter
simulation results presented in [2].
Table 8.1.2.1-3: B65 filter data
* * *
**E-UTRA BAND** **Reference** **Rx Insertion loss** **Tx/Rx Isolation**  
**Rx** **Tx** **Rx** **[dB]** **[dB]** **[dB]** B65 Filter 12 3.9 52 43 Filter
13 2.8 55 52 Filter 14 2.0 55 55
* * *
Worst case filter data 12, 13 and 14 is provided by three different filter
vendors. Taking into account the need to account from multiple filter vendors
sourcing, we propose that the RFSENS requirements are based on filter 13 and
14 to support the need for multi-sourcing filters and need to provide **a
Tx/Rx isolation values >50 dB**. **In this case the delta increase in Rx
filter losses would -0.4 dB to +0.4 dB compared with the average value for B1
(2.4 dB).**
##### B65 RFSENS {#b65-rfsens .H6}
Therefore using the same methodology to determine RFSENS as B1 (and **NOT**
taking in account a more realistic value for the RFIC NF contribution) the
RFSENS for B65 would be -0.4 dB to +0.4 dB relative to B1 depending on
implementation either filter 13 or filter 14. In this case we have two options
for defining the RFSENS for B65
> **Option 1:** B65 RFSENS requirements could be based on the average filter
> loss as per normal R4 methodology i.e. **0dB degradation with respect to
> B1.**
**Option 2:** B65 RFSENS requirements could be based on a small **relaxation
with respect to B1.**
##### Summary {#summary .H6}
We propose the RFSENS requirements as shown below for B65;
Table 8.1.2.1-4: B65 RFSENS requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **E |** 1.4 | **3 |** 5 | **10 |** 15 | **20 |** Dup | | -UTRA | MHz**| MHz** | MHz**| MHz** | MHz**| MHz** | lex**| | B | | | | | | | | | and** | | | | | | | **M | | | | | | | | | ode** | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **(d |**(d | **(d |**(d | **(d |**(d | | | | Bm)**| Bm)** | Bm)**| Bm)** | Bm)**| Bm)** | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | | | **\- | ** |** -9 | ** | FDD | | | | | 100**| -97** | 5.2**| -94** | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | ** ** | ** ** | **\- |** \- | **-9 |** \- | FDD | | _65_ _| | | 9 | 9 | 4.7_ _| 9 | | | | | | 9.5_ _| 6.5_ _| | 3.5_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
A UE that complies with the E-UTRA Band 65 minimum requirements must also
comply with the E-UTRA Band 1 minimum requirements. Thus, for UEs supporting
inter-band CA including B1 the reference sensitivity would be increased by the
amount given in ΔR~IB,c~ in TS36.101 Table 7.3.1-1A and Table 7.3.1-1B when B1
is signalled.
### 8.1.3 Signalling for A-MPR
### 8.1.4 UE MOP
### 8.1.5 Band 1 support
A UE that signals support for the 2x90MHz band, i.e. 1920-2010/2110-2200 MHz,
should also signal support of Band 1. The capabilities support is part of TS
36.306. However, this specification is general and does not contain band
specific requirements. The UE band specific requirements are included in TS
36.101. This TS specifies minimum RF characteristics and performance
requirements for UE. A UE fulfilling the minimum requirements for a specific
E-UTRA band in TS 36.101, will signal support for this band as a capability.
A single statement in TS 36.101 to specify that \"a UE supporting the 2x90MHz
band should also support Band 1\". The most adequate place, in our view, is to
include this under clause _5.6.1.Channel bandwidths per operating band,_ where
there is already a statement indicating that _The requirements in this
specification apply to the combination of channel bandwidths and operating
bands shown in Table 5.6.1-1._ In addition, we propose to include this
requirement in terms of \"fulfilment of minimum requirements\" rather than
\"support\" considering the scope of TS 36.101.
The Proposed changes in TS 36.101 are inside Table 5.6.1-1.
Table 8.1.5-1: Table 5.6.1-1 on E-UTRA channel bandwidth on TS 36.101
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | | | | | | | | _E-UTRA | | | | | | | | band / | | | | | | | | Channel | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | width_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * |__1.4 |__3 |__5 |__10 |__15 |__20 | |_ E-UTRA | MHz**| MHz** | MHz**| MHz** | MHz**| MHz** | | Band**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1 | | | Yes | Yes |** Yes**|** Yes**| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2 |** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes**|** Y | **Y | | | | | | | es^1^** | es^1^**| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 |** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes | **Y | | | | | | | ^1\ ^** | es^1^**| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4 |** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes**| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5 |** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes**|** Y | | | | | | | | es^1^**| | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 6 | | |** Yes**|** Y | | | | | | | | es^1^**| | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 7 | | |** Yes**|** Yes**|** Y | **Yes^1 | | | | | | | es^3^** | ,\ 3^**| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 |** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes**|** Y | | | | | | | | es^1^**| | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 9 | | |** Yes**|** Yes**|** Y | **Y | | | | | | | es^1^** | es^1^**| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 10 | | |** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes**|** Yes**| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 11 | | |** Yes**|** Y | | | | | | | | es^1^**| | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 12 | Yes | Yes |** Y | **Y | | | | | | | es^1^** | es^1^**| | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 13 | | |** Y | **Y | | | | | | | es^1^** | es^1^**| | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 14 | | |** Y | **Y | | | | | | | es^1^** | es^1^**| | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ... | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 17 | | |** Y | **Y | | | | | | | es^1^** | es^1^**| | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 18 | | | Yes | Yes^1^ | Yes^1^ | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 19 | | | Yes | Yes^1^ | Yes^1^ | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 20 | | | Yes | Yes^1^ | Yes^1^ | Yes^1^ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 21 | | | Yes | Yes^1^ | Yes^1^ | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 22 | | |** Yes**|** Yes**|** Y | **Y | | | | | | | es^1^** | es^1^**| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 23 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |** Y | **Y | | | | | | | es^1^** | es^1^**| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 24 | | | Yes | Yes | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 25 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes^1^ | Yes^1^ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 26 | Yes | Yes | Yes |** Y | **Y | | | | | | | es^1^** | es^1^**| | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 27 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes^1^ | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 28 | | Yes | Yes |** Y | **Y |** Yes^1 | | | | | | es^1^**| es^1^** | ,\ 2^**| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** 30**| | |** Yes**|** Y | | | | | | | | es^1^**| | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** 31**|** Yes**|** Y | **Y | | | | | | | es^1^** | es^1^**| | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | | | | | | | | *...** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 33 | | | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 34 | | | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 35 | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 36 | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 37 | | | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 38 | | | **Yes** | **Yes** | Yes | Yes | | | | | | | **^3^** | **^3^** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 39 | | | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Y |** Y | | | | | | | es^3^**| es^3^** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 40 | | | Yes | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 41 | | | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 42 | | | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 43 | | | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 44 | | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | [B1+M | | | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | | SS]^4^ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | **^1^** | | | | | | | | refers | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | which a | | | | | | | | rel | | | | | | | | axation | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | ecified | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | sens | | | | | | | | itivity | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | (su | | | | | | | | bclause | | | | | | | | 7.3) is | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | llowed. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | **^2^** | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | | | 20 MHz | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | dwidth, | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | ecified | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | uencies | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | onfined | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | either | | | | | | | | 713-723 | | | | | | | | MHz or | | | | | | | | 728-738 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | **^3^ | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | efers** | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | tricted | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | assi | | | | | | | | gnments | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | co-ex | | | | | | | | istence | | | | | | | | sc | | | | | | | | enarios | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | to meet | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | nwanted | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | issions | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | (Clause | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | 6.3.2). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | | A UE | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | omplies | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | [B | | | | | | | | 1+MSS] | | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | in this | | | | | | | | specif | | | | | | | | ication | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | comply | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | Band 1 | | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | | | requir | | | | | | | | ements. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 8.1.6 Filter simulations
Worst case filter simulation results for a MSS 90 MHz filter are provided.
Band 1 filter performance is also provided for the purpose of comparison.
Table 8.1.6-1: Worst case filter simulation results for MSS band 90 MHz filter
and Band 1 for the purpose of comparison
+--------------+------------+------------+------------+----------+----------+ | | Vendor A | Vendor B | Vendor C | Vendor B | Vendor C | | | | | | | | | | MSS 90 MHz | MSS 90 MHz | MSS 90 MHz | Band 1 | Band 1 | +--------------+------------+------------+------------+----------+----------+ | Tx IL | 3.5 | 2.5 | TBD | 1.9 | 2.3 | +--------------+------------+------------+------------+----------+----------+ | Rx IL | 3.5 | 3.9 | TBD | 2.2 | 2.4 | +--------------+------------+------------+------------+----------+----------+ | Tx isolation | 47 | 52 | TBD | 55 | 55 | +--------------+------------+------------+------------+----------+----------+ | Rx isolation | 50 | 43 | TBD | 52 | 55 | +--------------+------------+------------+------------+----------+----------+
Additional data is presented for:
\- B1 (worst case) based on standalone duplexer filter specification data
provided by different filter vendors.
\- B65 (worst case) is based on simulation data from three filter vendors.
Table 8.1.6-2: Additional B1 and B65 filter data and simulation results
* * *
**E-UTRA BAND** **Reference** **Insertion loss** **Isolation** **Filter
vendor**  
**Tx** **Rx** **Tx** **Rx**  
**[dB]** **[dB]** **[dB]** **[dB]**  
B1 Filter 1 2.0 2.2 53 45 A Filter 2 2.3 2.4 55 55 A Filter 3 2.4 2.5 50 55 A
Filter 4 1.8 2.2 55 44 B Filter 5 2.2 2.2 54 55 B Filter 6 1.9 2.2 52 43 C
Filter 7 1.6 2.0 51 48 D Filter 8 1.5 2.0 53 43 D Filter 9 1.6 2.0 53 43 D
Filter 10 2.0 2.3 53 50 D Filter 11 1.8 2.2 44 44 D
B65 Filter 12 2.5 3.9 52 43 C Filter 13 2.8 2.8 55 52 B Filter 14 2.0 2.0 55
55 D
* * *
We note that RAN4 does not provide a common template for specifying the filter
requirements as part of the band discussions and the filter data that is
normally presented in RAN4 is based on the duplex distance to duplex gap ratio
and taking into account the adjacent band co-existence requirement. The key
figure of merit is the Tx and Rx insertion loss and Tx/Rx isolation.
## 8.2 E-UTRA BS specific issues
Although UTRA BS spectrum mask has so far been assumed for CGC base station in
Europe [6], the standard E-UTRA emissions are adequate for the new 2GHz FDD
LTE band as it would be consistent with the standard in-band coexistence
requirement as well as the out-of-band coexistence. For the operating band
unwanted emissions, both Category A and Category B shall be included in the
specification to align with all other 2GHz bands in Europe, i.e. band 1, 33 or
34. For the spurious emission requirement, Category B according to ITU-R
SM.329 is applied in Region 1\. This standard spurious emission is also
presumed as the mandatory requirement for the coexistence with the adjacent
services, i.e. EESS/SOS/SRS Earth stations operating in the band 2200-2290 MHz
# 9 Study of MSR specific issues
# 10 Channel Numbering for E-UTRA, MSR
The carrier frequency in the uplink and downlink is designated by the E-UTRA
Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) in the range 0 \-- 262143.
The relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the downlink
is given by the following equation, where F~DL_low~ and N~Offs-DL~ are given
in table 10-1 and N~DL~ is the downlink EARFCN.
F~DL~ = F~DL_low~ + 0.1(N~DL~ -- N~Offs-DL~)
The relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the uplink is
given by the following equation where F~UL_low~ and N~Offs-UL~ are given in
table 10-1 and N~UL~ is the uplink EARFCN.
F~UL~ = F~UL_low~ + 0.1(N~UL~ -- N~Offs-UL~)
Table 10-1: E-UTRA channel numbers
* * *
**E-UTRA Operating Band** **Downlink** **Uplink**  
**F~DL_low~ [MHz]** **N~Offs-DL~** **Range of N~DL~** **F~UL_low~ [MHz]**
**N~Offs-UL~** **Range of N~UL~** 65 2110 65536 65536 -- 66435 1920 131072
131072 -- 131971
* * *
# 11 Required changes to E-UTRA and MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the new band are
summarised in a Table 12-1.
Table 11-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes
* * *
3GPP specification Clause in TR 30.007 where the required changes are given
Clause in the present document identifying additional changes TS 36.101
8.2.1.1  
TS 36.104 8.2.1.2  
TS 36.106 8.2.1.3  
TS 36.113 8.2.1.4  
TS 36.124 8.2.1.5  
TS 36.133 8.2.1.6  
TS 36.141 8.2.1.7  
TS 36.143 8.2.1.8  
TS 36.307 8.2.1.9  
TS 25.101 8.2.2.1  
TS 25.102 8.2.2.2  
TS 25.104 8.2.2.3  
TS 25.105 8.2.2.4  
TS 25.106 8.2.2.5  
TS 25.113 8.2.2.6  
TS 25.123 8.2.2.7  
TS 34.124 8.2.2.8  
TS 25.133 8.2.2.9  
TS 25.141 8.2.2.10  
TS 25.142 8.2.2.11  
TS 25.143 8.2.2.12  
TS 25.307 8.2.2.13  
TS 25.331 8.2.2.14  
TS 25.461 8.2.2.15  
TS 25.466 8.2.2.16  
TS 37.104 8.2.3.1  
TS 37.113 8.2.2.2  
TS 37.141 8.2.2.3
* * *
#