# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for LTE Advanced Dual Uplink Inter-
band Carrier Aggregation under Rel-13 time frame. The purpose is to gather the
relevant background information and studies in order to address Dual Uplink
Inter-band Carrier Aggregation requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 30.007: "Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands"
[3] 3GPP TS 36.101: "E-UTRA UE radio transmission and reception (Release 12)
[4] 3GPP TR 36.850: "Inter-band Carrier Aggregation Technical Report (Release
11)
[5] 3GPP TR 36.851: "Inter-band Carrier Aggregation Technical Report (Release
12)
[6] 3GPP TR 36.860: "Dual uplink Inter-band Carrier Aggregation Technical
Report (Release 12)
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Carrier aggregation** : Aggregation of two or more component carriers in
order to support wider transmission bandwidths.
**Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Inter-band carrier aggregation: Carrier aggregation of component carriers in
different operating bands.**
NOTE: Carriers aggregated in each band can be contiguous or non-contiguous.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
ΔR~IB,c~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for inter-
band CA operation, for serving cell _c_.
ΔT~IB,c~ Allowed maximum configured output power relaxation due to support for
inter-band CA operation, for serving cell _c_.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction
BS Base Station
CA Carrier Aggregation
CA_X-Y CA for band X and band Y where X and Y are the applicable E-UTRA
operating band
CC Component Carriers
DL Downlink
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
PA Power Amplifier
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity power level
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for LTE Advanced Dual Uplink Inter-
band Carrier Aggregation under Rel-13 time frame. It covers both the UE and BS
side. The document is divided in two different parts:
\- Common part: this part covers general BS and UE issues for all CA classes.
\- CA class part: this part covers each CA class in parallel clauses. For each
CA class, general part for this specific CA class and each band combination
with specific issues will be structured in separate sub-clauses.
## 4.1 TR Maintenance
A single company is responsible for introducing all approved TPs in the
current TR, TR editor. However, it is the responsibility of the rapporteur of
each WI to ensure that the TPs related to the WI have been implemented.
# 5 Dual Uplink Inter-band Carrier Aggregation: CA classes general part
## 5.1 BS specific
Void
## 5.2 UE specific
Void
## 5.3 RRM specific
Void
# 6 Class A1. Low-high band combination without harmonic relation between
bands or intermodulation problem
## 6.1 Dual unlink inter-band CA class A1 operating bands
E-UTRA dual uplink inter-band carrier aggregation class A1 is designed to
operate in the operating bands defined in table 6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: Dual Uplink Inter-band CA class A1 operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_1-18 1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD 18 815 MHz -- 830 MHz
860 MHz -- 875 MHz  
CA_2-5 2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD 5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz
869 MHz -- 894 MHz  
CA_2-12 2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD 12 699 MHz -- 716 MHz
729 MHz -- 746 MHz
* * *
## 6.2 LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 1 and Band 18
### 6.2.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.2.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands for CA_1-18
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | E | E | U | Dow | D | | | | | | -UTRA | -UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | CA | | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | Band | Band | band | band | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | t | re | | | | | | | | | ransm | ceive | | | | | | | | | it^1^ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA\ | 1 | 1920 | -- | 1980 | 2110 | -- | 2170 | FDD | | _1-18 | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | 18 | 815 | -- | 8 | 860 | -- | 875 | | | | | MHz | | 30MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 6.2.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.2.2-1: E-UTRA CA configuration and bandwidth combination sets for
CA_1-18
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_1A-18A | 1 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 35 | 0  
| 18 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
CA_1A-18A | 1 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  | 20 | 1  
| 18 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
### 6.2.3 Harmonics and IMD study
Table 6.2.3-1 lists B1+B18 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and 3^rd^
order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
Table 6.2.3-1: Band 1 and Band 18 UL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 815 830 1920
1980 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1630 -- 1660 3840 -- 3960  
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 2445 -- 2490 5760 -- 5940  
2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low
+ fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1090 -- 1165 2735
-- 2810  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 260 -- 350 3010 -- 3145  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 3550 -- 3640 4655 -- 4790
* * *
Frequency limits for 5^th^ order IMD are presented in Table 6.2.3-2.
Table 6.2.3-2: CA_1A-18A 5th order UL IMD product frequency ranges
* * *
\|2*fx - 3*fy\| 4100 -- 4310 \|2*fx + 3*fy\| 7390 -- 7600 \|2*fy - 3*fx\| 1350
-- 1515 \|2*fy + 3*fx\| 6285 -- 6450 \|fx - 4*fy\| 6850 -- 7105 \|fx + 4*fy\|
8495 -- 8750 \|fy -- 4*fx\| 1280 -- 1400 \|fy + 4*fx\| 5180 -- 5300
* * *
When 2ULs inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have
impact on these systems. Table 6.2.3-3 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics
and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving bands.
Table 6.2.3-3: 2UL B1+ B18 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | - | US | - | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | B18 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | - | US | - | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | - | Europe | - | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | - | | - | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | IMD5 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | B1 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 6.2.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For inter-band CA_1-18, since there is no 2nd/3rd/5th order intermodulation
problem with own DL, ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for 1UL is reused for 2UL.
For two simultaneous UL, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table
6.2.4-1 and in table 6.2.4-2:
Table 6.2.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_1-18 1 0.3 18 0.3
* * *
Table 6.2.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_1-18 1 0 18 0
* * *
## 6.3 LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 2 and Band 5
### 6.3.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.3.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands for CA_2-5
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | E | E | U | Dow | D | | | | | | -UTRA | -UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | CA | | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | Band | Band | band | band | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | t | re | | | | | | | | | ransm | ceive | | | | | | | | | it^1^ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA | 2 | 1850 | -- | 1910 | 1930 | -- | 1990 | FDD | | _2-5 | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | 5 | 824 | -- | 849 | 869 | -- | 894 | | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 6.3.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.3.2-1: E-UTRA CA configuration and bandwidth combination sets for
CA_2-5
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_2A-5A | 2 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 30 | 0  
| 5 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
| 2 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  | 20 | 1  
| 5 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
### 6.3.3 Harmonics and IMD study
Table 6.3.3-1 lists B2+B5 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics. Table
6.3.3-2 lists the IMDs from 2rd order to 5^th^ order.
Table 6.3.3-1: Band 2 and Band 5 UL harmonics
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 1850 1910 824
849 2nd harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high 2nd
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 3700 3820 1648 1698 3rd harmonics frequency
limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3rd harmonics frequency limits
(MHz) 5550 5730 2472 2547
* * *
Table 6.3.3-2: 2UL CA_2A-5A IMD products
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 1850 1910 824
849 2^nd^ order IMD products \|fx_low -- fy_high\| \|fx_high -- fy_low\|
\|fy_low + fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1001 1086
2674 2759 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\|
\|2*fx_high -- fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 2851 2996 262 152 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products
\|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\|
\|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4524 4669 3498 3608 Two-
tone 4th order IMD products \|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
2*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- 2*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- 2*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 2002 2172 2172 2002 Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|2*fx_low
+2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +2* fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 2*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high +
2*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5348 5518 5348 5518 Two-tone 4th order
IMD products \|3*fx_low --1* fy_high\| \|3*fx_high -- 1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low --
1*fx_high\| \|3*fy_high -- 1*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4701 4906 562
697 Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|3*fx_low +* fy_low\| \|3*fx_high +1*
fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + 1*fx_low\| \|3*fy_high + 1*fx_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 6374 6579 4322 4457 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low --
4*fy_high\| \|fx_high -- 4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high --
4*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1546 1386 6816 6551 Two-tone 5th order
IMD products \|fx_low + 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high + 4*fy_high\| \|fy_low +
4*fx_low\| \|fy_high + 4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5146 5306 8224
8489 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- 3*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 1153 1348 4082 3852 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|2*fx_low +
3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high +
3*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 6172 6367 7198 7428
* * *
harmonics and intermodulation products can have impact on these systems. Table
6.3.3-3 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls
into one of these receiving bands. It can be shown that no harmonics nor IMD
falls back to UE B2 or B5 receiving band.
Table 6.3.3-3: 2UL B2+ B5 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | Yes | US | 3^rd^ | | band | | | | | /Europe | order | | | | | | | | ha | | ( | | | | | | rmonics | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | of B5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | rmonics | | | | | | | | of B5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | Yes | US | 3^rd^ | | band | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | ha | | (5GHz) | | | | | | rmonics | | | | | | | | of B2, | | | | | | | | IMD4 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | Yes | Europe | IMD4 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | Yes | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | rmonics | | | | | | | | of B2 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | IMD4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | rmonics | | | | | | | | of B2, | | | | | | | | IMD4 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 6.3.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For inter-band CA_2-5, since there is no 2nd/3rd/4th/5th order intermodulation
problem with own DL, ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for 1UL is reused for 2UL.
For two simultaneous UL, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table
6.3.4-1 and in table 6.3.4-2:
Table 6.3.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_2-5 2 0.3 5 0.3
* * *
Table 6.3.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_2-5 2 0 5 0
* * *
## 6.4 LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 2 and Band 12
### 6.4.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.4.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands for CA_2-12
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | E | E | U | Dow | D | | | | | | -UTRA | -UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | CA | | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | Band | Band | band | band | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | t | re | | | | | | | | | ransm | ceive | | | | | | | | | it^1^ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA\ | 2 | 1850 | -- | 1910 | 1930 | -- | 1990 | FDD | | _2-12 | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | 12 | 699 | -- | 716 | 729 | -- | 746 | | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 6.4.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.4.2-1: E-UTRA CA configuration and bandwidth combination sets for
CA_2-12
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_2A-12A | 2 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 30 | 0  
| 12 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
| 2 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 30 | 1  
| 12 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
| 2 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  | 20 | 2  
| 12 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
### 6.4.3 Harmonics and IMD study
Table 6.4.3-1 lists B2+B12 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and 3^rd^,
4^th^ and 5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
Table 6.4.3-1: Harmonic and IMD analysis
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 1850 1910 699
716 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 3700 3820 1398 1432 3^rd^ harmonics
frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^ harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 5550 5730 2097 2148 Two tone 2^nd^ order IMD products
\|fy_low - fx_high\| \|fy_high - fx_low\| \|fy_low + fx_low\| \|fy_high +
fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1211 1134 2549 2626 Two-tone 3^rd^ order
IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- fy_low\| \|2*fy_low --
fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2984 3121 512 418
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 4399 4536 3248 3342 Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|3*fx_low -
fy_high\| \|3*fx_high - fy_low\| \|3*fy_low - fx_high\| \|3*fy_high - fx_low\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4834 5031 187 298 Two-tone 4th order IMD products
\|3*fx_low + fy_low\| \|3*fx_high + fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + fx_low\|
\|3*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 6249 6446 3947 4058 Two-
tone 4th order IMD products \|2*fx_low - 2*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high - 2*fy_low\|
\|2*fx_low + 2*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 2*fy_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
2268 2422 5098 5252 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\|
\|fx_high -- 4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 1014 886 6941 6684 Two-tone 5th order IMD products
\|fx_low + 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high + 4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high
+ 4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4646 4774 8099 8356 Two-tone 5th
order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- 3*fy_low\|
\|2*fy_low -- 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- 3*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
1552 1723 4332 4118 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|2*fx_low + 3*fy_low\|
\|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + 3*fx_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5797 5968 6948 7162
* * *
When 2ULs inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have
impact on these systems. Table 6.4.3-2 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics
and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving bands.
Table 6.4.3-2: 2UL B2+ B12 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | 5th | | | | | | | | order | | ( | | | | | | IMD | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | 5th | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | IMD | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | Yes | | 5th | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | IMD | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | Yes | | 5th | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | IMD | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | Yes | US | 4th | | band | | | | | /Europe | order | | | | | | | | IMD | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | - | Asia | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | - | US | 4th | | band | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | IMD | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5th | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | IMD | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | - | Europe | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | - | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 6.4.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For inter-band CA_2-12, since there is no 2nd/3rd/5th order intermodulation
problem with own DL, ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for 1UL is reused for 2UL.
For two simultaneous UL, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table
6.4.4-1 and in table 6.4.4-2:
Table 6.4.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_2A-12A 2 0.3 12 0.3
* * *
Table 6.4.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_2A-12A 2 0 12 0
* * *
# 7 Class A2. Low-high band combination with harmonic relation between bands
## 7.1 Dual uplink inter-band CA class A2 operating bands
E-UTRA dual uplink inter-band carrier aggregation class A2 is designed to
operate in the operating bands defined in table 7.1-1.
Table 7.1-1: Dual Uplink Inter-band CA class A2 operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_1-28 1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD 28 703 MHz -- 748 MHz
758 MHz -- 803 MHz
* * *
## 7.2 LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 1 and Band 28
### 7.2.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 7.2.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands for CA_1-28
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | E | E | U | Dow | D | | | | | | -UTRA | -UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | CA | | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | Band | Band | band | band | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | t | re | | | | | | | | | ransm | ceive | | | | | | | | | it^1^ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA\ | 1 | 1920 | -- | 1980 | 2110 | -- | 2170 | FDD | | _1-28 | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | 28 | 703 | -- | 748 | 758 | -- | 803 | | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 7.2.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 7.2.2-1: E-UTRA CA configuration and bandwidth combination sets for
CA_1-28
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_1A-28A | 1 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 40 | 0  
| 28 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
CA_1A-28A | 1 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  | 20 | 1  
| 28 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
### 7.2.3 Harmonics and IMD study
Table 7.2.3-1 lists B1+B28 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and 3^rd^
order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
Table 7.2.3-1: Band 1 and Band 28 UL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 703 748 1920
1980 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1406 -- 1496 3840 -- 3960  
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 2109 -- 2244 5760 -- 5940  
2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low
+ fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1172 -- 1277 2623
-- 2728  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 424 -- 574 3092 -- 3257  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 3326 -- 3476 4543 -- 4708
* * *
Frequency limits for 5^th^ order IMD are presented in Table 7.2.3-2.
Table 7.2.3-2: CA_1A-28A 5th order UL IMD product frequency ranges
* * *
\|2*fx - 3*fy\| 4264 -- 4534 \|2*fx + 3*fy\| 7166 -- 7436 \|2*fy - 3*fx\| 1596
-- 1851 \|2*fy + 3*fx\| 5949 -- 6204 \|fx - 4*fy\| 6932 -- 7217 \|fx + 4*fy\|
8383 -- 8668 \|fy -- 4*fx\| 832 -- 1072 \|fy + 4*fx\| 4732 -- 4972
* * *
When 2ULs inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have
impact on these systems. Table 7.2.3-3 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics
and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving bands.
Table 7.2.3-3: 2UL B1+ B28 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | Yes | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | No | US | - | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | No | Asia | - | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | - | US | - | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | No | Europe | - | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | No | | - | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | B1 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 7.2.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For inter-band CA_1-28, since there is no 2nd/3rd/5th order intermodulation
problem with own DL, ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for 1UL is reused for 2UL.
For two simultaneous UL, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table
7.2.4-1 and in table 7.2.4-2:
Table 7.2.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_1-28 1 0.3 28 0.6
* * *
Table 7.2.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_1-28 1 0 28 0.2
* * *
### 7.2.5 MSD
Table 7.2.5-1: Reference sensitivity for carrier aggregation QPSK P~REFSENS,\
CA~
* * *
Channel bandwidth
EUTRA CA Configuration EUTRA band 1.4 MHz\ 3 MHz\ 5 MHz\ 10 MHz\ 15 MHz\ 20
MHz\ Duplex mode (dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm)
CA_1A-28A 1 [-89.8] [-89.4] [-89] [-88.7] FDD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 28                               -98.3       -95.3       -93.5     -90.8
NOTE 1: These requirements apply when there is at least one individual RE
within the transmission bandwidth of the low band for which the 3rd harmonic
is within transmission bandwidth of the high band. The requirements should be
verified for UL EARFCN of the low band (superscript LB) such that
$f_{\text{UL}}^{\text{LB}} = \left\lfloor f_{\text{DL}}^{\text{HB}}/0\text{.}3
\right\rfloor\ 0\text{.}1$in MHz and $F_{\text{UL}_{\text{low}}}^{\text{LB}} +
\text{BW}_{\text{Channel}}^{\text{LB}}/2 < f_{\text{UL}}^{\text{LB}} <
F_{\text{UL}_{\text{high}}}^{\text{LB}} -
\text{BW}_{\text{Channel}}^{\text{LB}}/2$ with$f_{\text{DL}}^{\text{HB}}$ the
carrier frequency of the high band in MHz and
$\text{BW}_{\text{Channel}}^{\text{LB}}$ the channel bandwidth configured in
the low band.
* * *
Table 7.2.5-2: Uplink configuration for the low band
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | EUTRA | UL | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | CA | band | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | uplex | | Con | | | | | | | | mode | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA_1 | 28 | | | 8 | 16 | 25 | 25 | FDD | | A-28A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | | bl | | | | | | | | | | ocks, | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | | ntred | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idth. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | | regar | | | | | | | | | | dless | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | low | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nless | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | | xceed | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | alloc | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | | lies. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 8 Class A3. Low-low or high-high band combinations
## 8.1 Dual unlink inter-band CA class A3 operating bands
E-UTRA dual uplink inter-band carrier aggregation class A3 is designed to
operate in the operating bands defined in table 8.1-1.
Table 8.1-1: Dual Uplink Inter-band CA class A3 operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_18-28 18 815 MHz -- 830 MHz 860 MHz -- 875 MHz FDD 28 703 MHz -- 748 MHz
758 MHz -- 803 MHz
* * *
## 8.2 LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 18 and Band 28
### 8.2.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 8.2.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands for CA_18-28
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | E | E | U | Dow | D | | | | | | -UTRA | -UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | CA | | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | Band | Band | band | band | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | t | re | | | | | | | | | ransm | ceive | | | | | | | | | it^1^ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA_ | 18 | 815 | -- | 830 | 860 | -- | 875 | FDD | | 18-28 | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | 28 | 703 | -- | 733 | 758 | -- | 788 | | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 8.2.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 8.2.2-1: E-UTRA CA configuration and bandwidth combination sets for
CA_18-28
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_18A-28A | 18 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | 25 | 0  
| 28 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
### 8.2.3 Harmonics and IMD study
Table 8.2.3-1 lists B18+B28 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and 3^rd^
order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
Table 8.2.3-1: Band 18 and Band 28 UL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 703 733 815
830 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1406 -- 1466 1630 -- 1660  
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 2109 -- 2199 2445 -- 2490  
2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low
+ fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 82 -- 127 1518 --
1563  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 576 -- 651 897 -- 957  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 2221 -- 2296 2333 -- 2393
* * *
Frequency limits for 5^th^ order IMD are presented in Table 8.2.3-2.
Table 8.2.3-2: CA_18A-28A 5th order UL IMD product frequency ranges
* * *
\|2*fx - 3*fy\| 979 -- 1084 \|2*fx + 3*fy\| 3851 -- 3956 \|2*fy - 3*fx\| 449
-- 569 \|2*fy + 3*fx\| 3739 -- 3859 \|fx - 4*fy\| 2527 -- 2617 \|fx + 4*fy\|
3963 -- 4053 \|fy -- 4*fx\| 1982 -- 2117 \|fy + 4*fx\| 3627 -- 3762
* * *
When 2ULs inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have
impact on these systems. Table 8.2.3-3 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics
and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving bands.
Table 8.2.3-3: 2UL B18+ B28 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD2 | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD2 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | - | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | Yes | | IMD2 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | - | US | - | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | B18 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | - | US | - | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | - | Europe | - | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | - | | - | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | No | Asia | - | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 8.2.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For inter-band CA_18-28, since there is no 2nd/3rd/5th order intermodulation
problem with own DL, ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for 1UL is reused for 2UL.
For two simultaneous UL, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table
8.2.4-1 and in table 8.2.4-2:
Table 8.2.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_18-28 18 0.5 28 0.5
NOTE: For Band 28, the requirements only apply for the restricted frequency
range specified for this CA configuration (Table 8.X.1-1).
* * *
Table 8.2.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_18-28 18 0 28 0 NOTE:
For Band 28, the requirements only apply for the restricted frequency range
specified for this CA configuration (Table 8.X.1-1).
* * *
### 8.2.5 MSD
Table 8.2.5-1: Reference sensitivity for carrier aggregation QPSK P~REFSENS,\
CA~ (exceptions)
* * *
Channel bandwidth
EUTRA CA Configuration EUTRA band 1.4 MHz\ 3 MHz\ 5 MHz\ 10 MHz\ 15 MHz\ 20
MHz\ Duplex mode (dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm)
CA_18A-28A 18 -100 -97 -95.2 FDD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               28                               -94      -92.5
NOTE: These requirements apply when the uplink is active in Band 18 and the
downlink channels in Band 28 are confined within the restricted frequency
range specified for this CA configuration (Table 8.X.1-1). For each channel
bandwidth in Band 28, the requirement applies regardless of channel bandwidth
in Band 18
* * *
Table 8.2.5-2: Uplink configuration for the low band
* * *
E-UTRA Band / Channel bandwidth of the high band / N~RB~ / Duplex mode  
EUTRA CA Configuration UL band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Duplex
mode CA_18A-28A^1^ 18 25 25 25 FDD NOTE1: refers to the UL resource blocks
shall be located as close as possible to the downlink channel in Band 18 but
confined within the transmission bandwidth configuration for the channel
bandwidth.
* * *
# 9 Class A4. Low-low, low-high or high-high band combination with
intermodulation problem (low order IM)
## 9.1 Dual unlink inter-band CA class A4 operating bands
E-UTRA dual uplink inter-band carrier aggregation class A4 is designed to
operate in the operating bands defined in table 9.1-1.
Table 9.1-1: Dual Uplink Inter-band CA class A4 operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_1-26 1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD 26 814 MHz -- 849MHz
859 MHz -- 894 MHz  
CA_3-5 3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD 5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz
869 MHz -- 894 MHz  
CA_4-5 4 1710 MHz -- 1755 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz FDD 5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz
869 MHz -- 894 MHz
* * *
## 9.2 LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 1 and Band 26
### 9.2.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 9.2.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands for CA_1-26
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | E | E | U | Dow | D | | | | | | -UTRA | -UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | CA | | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | Band | Band | band | band | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | t | re | | | | | | | | | ransm | ceive | | | | | | | | | it^1^ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA\ | 1 | 1920 | -- | 1980 | 2110 | -- | 2170 | FDD | | _1-26 | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | 26 | 814 | -- | 8 | 859 | -- | 894 | | | | | MHz | | 49MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 9.2.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 9.2.2-1: E-UTRA CA configuration and bandwidth combination sets for
CA_1-26
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_1A-26A | 1 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 35 | 0  
| 26 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
CA_1A-26A | 1 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  | 20 | 1  
| 26 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
### 9.2.3 Harmonics and IMD study
Table 9.2.3-1 lists B1+B26 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and 3^rd^
order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
Table 9.2.3-1: Band 1 and Band 26 UL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 814 849 1920
1980 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1628 -- 1698 3840 -- 3960  
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 2442 -- 2547 5760 -- 5940  
2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low
+ fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1071 -- 1166 2734
-- 2829  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 222 -- 352 2991 -- 3146  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 3548 -- 3678 4654 -- 4809
* * *
Table 9.2.3-1a: Band 1 and Band 26 UL IMD4 products with difference of
frequency components
* * *
\|3*fx - 1*fy\| 462 to 627 MHz \|3*fy - 1*fx\| 4911 to 5126 MHz \|2*fx -
2*fy\| 2142 to 2332 MHz
* * *
Frequency limits for 5^th^ order IMD are presented in Table 9.2.3-2.
Table 9.2.3-2: CA_1A-26A 5th order UL IMD product frequency ranges
* * *
\|2*fx - 3*fy\| 4062 -- 4312 \|2*fx + 3*fy\| 7388 -- 7638 \|2*fy - 3*fx\| 1293
-- 1518 \|2*fy + 3*fx\| 6282 -- 6507 \|fx - 4*fy\| 6831 -- 7106 \|fx + 4*fy\|
8494 -- 8769 \|fy -- 4*fx\| 1276 -- 1476 \|fy + 4*fx\| 5176 -- 5376
* * *
When 2ULs inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have
impact on these systems. Table 9.2.3-3 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics
and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving bands. Note that
there is possibility that Band 26 is operated or operating in US. However,
Band 1 deployments can be found only in EU or Asia therefore, we do not have
to consider impacts on systems in US or Europe for this combination.
Table 9.2.3-3: 2UL B1+ B26 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | - | US | - | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | B26 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | - | US | - | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | - | Europe | - | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | - | | - | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | IMD5 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | B1 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 9.2.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For inter-band CA_1-26, since there is no 2nd/3rd/5th order intermodulation
problem with own DL, ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for 1UL is reused for 2UL.
For two simultaneous UL, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table
9.2.4-1 and in table 9.2.4-2:
Table 9.2.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_1-26 1 0.3 26 0.3
* * *
Table 9.2.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_1-26 1 0 26 0
* * *
### 9.2.5 MSD requirements
Lower edge of IM4 products locate @ 2142 MHz as calculated in Table 9.2.3-1a.
In this case, UL frequencies for Band 1 and Band 26 are chosen as 1920 MHz and
849 MHz, respectively. Therefore, as a possible case, one can assume channel
assignments as below in Figure 9.2.5-1;
{width="6.759722222222222in" height="1.3104166666666666in"}
Figure 9.2.5-1: Possible channel assignments
In order for IM4 to hit Band 1 DL, channel assignments for Band 1 and Band 26
should be UL/DL = 834 -- 849/879 -- 894 MHz and 1920 -- 1940/2110 -- 2130 MHz,
respectively (depicted in **[Green Square]{.underline}**). For these
assignments, IM4 products occur between 2142 MHz and above, which is shown in
**[Purple Square]{.underline}**. This means that IM4 never hits Band 1 DL
channel and desensitization would not be observed. In summary, RAN4 does not
need to specify MSD requirements for dual uplink CA_1A-26A.
## 9.3 LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 3 and Band 5
### 9.3.1 Operating bands for CA
Void
### 9.3.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA_3A-5A
Table 9.3.2-1: Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA_3A-5A
* * *
CA operating / channel bandwidth  
E-UTRA CA Configuration E-UTRA Bands 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz
Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] Bandwidth Combination Sets CA_3A-5A 3 Yes
Yes Yes 30 0 5 Yes Yes  
3 Yes 20 1 5 Yes Yes  
3 Yes Yes Yes Yes 30 2 5 Yes Yes  
3 Yes Yes Yes Yes 30 3 5 Yes Yes Yes
* * *
### 9.3.3 Harmonics and IMD study
2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order intermodulation frequencies are considered when studying
UE-to-UE co-existence. In other cases, such as Rx desensitization and GNSS/ISM
co-existence, also higher order IMD may be considered.
A harmonics and IMD co-existence table for dual uplink inter-band CA within
band combination (3+5) is provided in Table 9.3.3-1.
Table 9.3.3-1: Band 3 and band 5 UL IMD products and harmonics
* * *
UE UL Carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 824 849 1710
1785 2nd harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2*fy_low 2*fy_high 2nd
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1648 - 1698 3420 - 3570  
3rd harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3*fy_low 3*fy_high 3rd
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 2472 - 2547 5130 - 5355  
2nd order IMD products \|fy_low - fx_high\| \|fy_high - fx_low\| \|fy_low +
fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 861 - 961 2534 -
2634  
Two-tone 3rd order IMD products \|2*fx_low - fy_high\| \|2*fx_high - fy_low\|
\|2*fy_low - fx_high\| 2*fy_high - fx_low IMD frequency limits (MHz) 12 - 137
2571 - 2746  
Two-tone 3rd order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + fy_high\|
\|2*fy_low + fx_low\| 2*fy_high + fx_high IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3358 -
3483 4244 - 4419
* * *
Frequency limits for 5^th^ order IMD is provided in table 9.3.3-2.
Table 9.3.3-2: Band 3 and band 5 5th order UL IMD product frequency ranges.
* * *
\|2*fx - 3*fy\| 3432 - 3707 \|2*fx + 3*fy\| 6778 - 7053 \|2*fy - 3*fx\| 873 -
1098 \|2*fy + 3*fx\| 5892 - 6117 \|fx - 4*fy\| 5991 - 6316 \|fx + 4*fy\| 7664
- 7989 \|fy -- 4*fx\| 1511 - 1686 \|fy + 4*fx\| 5006 - 5181
* * *
Based on Table 9.3.3-1 2^nd^ order IMD may fall into own Rx of band 5. In
addition to this 5^th^ order IMD may fall into band 5 Rx also, which is seen
in Table 9.3.3-2 and may have to be considered in Rx desensitization studies.
2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order IMD and harmonics may also fall into Rx frequencies of
bands 5, 6, 7, 8, 18, 19, 22, 26, 27, 38, 41 and 42.
In addition to E-UTRA bands also co-existence with GNSS and ISM frequencies
was studied. GNSS and ISM frequencies which were included in the study are
captured in Table 9.3.3-3.
Table 9.3.3-3: Frequency bands reserved for GNSS and ISM operation.
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD5 | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | Yes | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | Yes | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | Yes | US | H3 | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | H3 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | Yes | US | H3, | | band | | | | | | IMD5 | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | Yes | Europe | H3, | | | | | | | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | H3, | | | | | | | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 9.3.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
## 9.4 LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 4 and Band 5
### 9.4.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 9.4.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_4-5 4 1710 MHz -- 1755 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz FDD 5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz
869 MHz -- 894 MHz
* * *
### 9.4.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 9.4.2-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets defined
for inter-band CA
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4  
MHz | 3  
MHz | 5  
MHz | 10  
MHz | 15  
MHz | 20  
MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_2UL_4A-5A | 4 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  | 20 | 0  
| 5 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
| 4 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 30 | 1  
| 5 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
### 9.4.3 Harmonics and IMD study
Table 9.4.3-1 lists B4+B5 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics. Table
9.4.3-2 lists the IMDs from 2rd order to 5^th^ order.
Table 9.4.3-1: Band 4 and Band 5 UL harmonics
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 1710 1755 824
849 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 3420 3510 1648 1698 3^rd^ harmonics
frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^ harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 5130 5265 2472 2547
* * *
Table 9.4.3-2: 2UL CA_4A-5A IMD products
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 1710 1755 824
849 2^nd^ order IMD products \|fx_low -- fy_high\| \|fx_high -- fy_low\|
\|fy_low + fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 861 931
2534 2604 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\|
\|2*fx_high -- fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 2571 2686 107 12 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products
\|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\|
\|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4244 4359 3358 3453 Two-
tone 4th order IMD products \|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
2*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- 2*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- 2*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 1722 1862 1862 1722 Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|2*fx_low
+2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +2* fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 2*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high +
2*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5068 5208 5068 5208 Two-tone 4th order
IMD products \|3*fx_low --1* fy_high\| \|3*fx_high -- 1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low --
1*fx_high\| \|3*fy_high -- 1*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4281 4441 717
837 Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|3*fx_low +* fy_low\| \|3*fx_high +1*
fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + 1*fx_low\| \|3*fy_high + 1*fx_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 5954 6114 4182 4302 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low --
4*fy_high\| \|fx_high -- 4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high --
4*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1686 1541 6196 5991 Two-tone 5th order
IMD products \|fx_low + 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high + 4*fy_high\| \|fy_low +
4*fx_low\| \|fy_high + 4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5006 5151 7664
7869 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- 3*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 873 1038 3617 3432 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|2*fx_low +
3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high +
3*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5892 6057 6778 6963
* * *
Harmonic and intermodulation products can have impact on these systems. Table
9.4.3-3 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls
into one of these receiving bands. IMD2 and IMD5 of B4+B5 may fall into B5
receiving band.
Table 9.4.3-3: 2UL B4+ B5 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD5 | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | Yes | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | Yes | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | Yes | US | 3^rd^ | | band | | | | | /Europe | order | | | | | | | | ha | | ( | | | | | | rmonics | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | of B5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | rmonics | | | | | | | | of B5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | Yes | US | 3^rd^ | | band | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | ha | | (5GHz) | | | | | | rmonics | | | | | | | | of B4, | | | | | | | | IMD4 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | Yes | Europe | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | rmonics | | | | | | | | of B4, | | | | | | | | IMD4 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | rmonics | | | | | | | | of B4, | | | | | | | | IMD4 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 9.4.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
For inter-band CA_4-5, ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for 1UL is reused for 2UL.
For two simultaneous UL, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table
9.4.4-1 and in table 9.4.4-2:
Table 9.4.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_4-5 4 0.3 5 0.3
* * *
Table 9.4.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_4-5 4 0 5 0
* * *
### 9.4.5 MSD and test configuration
Table 9.4.5-1: B4+B5 Reference sensitivity QPSK PREFSENS and uplink/downlink
configurations
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | EUTRA | EUTRA | UL | UL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | | CA | band | F~c~\ | BW\ | C | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | | | | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~LRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | Con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | CA_ | 4 | 1721 | 5 | 25 | 2121 | N/A | FDD | | 4A-5A | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | | 5 | 838 | 5 | 25 | 883 | 26 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
# 10 Class A5. Combinations not classified in A1-A4
## 10.1 Dual uplink inter-band CA class A5 operating bands
E-UTRA dual uplink inter-band carrier aggregation class A5 is designed to
operate in the operating bands defined in table 10. 1-1
Table 10.1-1: Dual Uplink Inter-band CA class A5 operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_X-Y X FDD Y
* * *
## 10.2 LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band X and Band Y
### 10.2.1 Operating bands for CA
Void
### 10.2.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Void
### 10.2.3 Harmonics and IMD study
Void
### 10.2.4 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~
Void
# 11 FDD-TDD dual uplink inter-band CA
## 11.1 FDD-TDD dual uplink inter-band CA operating bands
This new class of E-UTRA dual uplink inter-band carrier aggregation is
designed to operate in the FDD-TDD operating bands defined in table 11. 1-1
Table 11.1-1: Dual Uplink Inter-band CA with FDD-TDD operating bands
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_1-42 1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD 42 3400 MHz -- 3600
MHz 3400 MHz -- 3600 MHz TDD
* * *
## 11.2 LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 1 and Band 42
### 11.2.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 11.2.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands for CA_1-42
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | E | E | U | Dow | D | | | | | | -UTRA | -UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | CA | | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | Band | Band | band | band | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | t | re | | | | | | | | | ransm | ceive | | | | | | | | | it^1^ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA\ | 1 | 1920 | -- | 1980 | 2110 | -- | 2170 | FDD | | _1-42 | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | 42 | 3400 | -- | 3600 | 3400 | -- | 3600 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 11.2.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 11.2.2-1: E-UTRA CA configuration and bandwidth combination sets for
CA_1-42
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_1A-42A | 1 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 40 | 0  
| 42 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
### 11.2.3 Harmonics and IMD study
Table 11.2.3-1 lists B1+B42 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and 3^rd^
order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
Table 11.2.3-1: Band 1 and Band 42 UL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 1920 1980 3400
3600 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 3840 -- 3960 6800 -- 7200  
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 5760 -- 5940 10200 -- 10800  
2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low
+ fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1420 -- 1680 5320
-- 5580  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 240 -- 560 4820 -- 5280  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 7240 -- 7560 8720 -- 9180
* * *
Table 11.2.3-1a: Band 1 and Band 42 UL IMD4 products with difference of
frequency components
* * *
\|3*fx - 1*fy\| 2160 to 2540 MHz \|3*fy - 1*fx\| 8220 to 8880 MHz \|2*fx -
2*fy\| 2840 to 3360 MHz
* * *
Frequency limits for 5^th^ order IMD are presented in Table 11.2.3-2.
Table 11.2.3-2: CA_1A-42A 5th order UL IMD product frequency ranges
* * *
\|2*fx - 3*fy\| 6240 -- 6960 \|2*fx + 3*fy\| 14040 -- 14760 \|2*fy - 3*fx\|
860 -- 1440 \|2*fy + 3*fx\| 12560 -- 13140 \|fx - 4*fy\| 11620 -- 12480 \|fx +
4*fy\| 15520 -- 16380 \|fy -- 4*fx\| 4080 -- 4520 \|fy + 4*fx\| 11080 -- 11520
* * *
When 2ULs inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have
impact on these systems. Table 11.2.3-3 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics
and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving bands. Band 1
deployments can be found only in EU or Asia therefore, we do not have to
consider impacts on systems in US for this combination.
Table 11.2.3-3: 2UL B1+ B42 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD2 | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD2 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | Yes | | IMD2 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | Yes | | IMD2 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | - | US | IMD4 | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | IMD4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | - | US | - | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | - | Europe | IMD2, | | | | | | | | IMD3 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | - | | IMD2 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | IMD2, | | | | | | | | IMD3, | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | of B1 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 11.2.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For inter-band CA_1-42, same requirements on values for ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ can
apply with 1UL-2DL case. Therefore, for two simultaneous UL, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 11.2.4-1 and in table 11.2.4-2:
Table 11.2.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_1-42 1 0.3 42 0.8
* * *
Table 11.2.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_1-42 1 0 42 0.5
* * *
#