# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides descriptions of requirements and solutions with
regards to extension of dual connectivity in Rel-13.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.401: \"Architecture Description (E-UTRAN)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"X2 application protocol (X2AP)\".
[6] R3-150100 \"UE throughput history information\", contribution to RAN3#87
[7] 3GPP TS 36.425 \"X2 interface user plane protocol\"
[8] R3-151266 \"**TP for Capacity Enhancement** \", contribution to RAN3#88
[9] R3-151178 \"Response to R3-150985\", contribution to RAN3#88
[10] R3-151065 \"Text Proposal and Conclusion for DC System Throughput
Enhancements\", contribution to RAN3#88
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
**Dual Connectivity:** as defined in TS 36.300 [3].
**Hybrid cell:** as defined in TS 36.300 [3].
**Master eNB:** as defined in TS 36.300 [3].
**MCG bearer:** as defined in TS 36.300 [3].
**Secondary eNB:** as defined in TS 36.300 [3].
**SCG bearer:** as defined in TS 36.300 [3].
**Split bearer:** as defined in TS 36.300 [3].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AMBR Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate
DC Dual Connectivity
LIPA Local IP Access
LHN Local Home Network
LHN ID Local Home Network ID
L-GW Local Gateway
MCG Master Cell Group
MeNB Master eNB
S-GW Serving Gateway
SCG Secondary Cell Group
SeNB Secondary eNB
SIPTO Selected IP Traffic Offload
SIPTO\@LN Selected IP Traffic Offload at the Local Network
TAI Tracking Area Identify
# 4 Description of the requirements and functionality for dual connectivity
extension
## 4.1 SIPTO in the dual connectivity
### 4.1.1 SIPTO at the Local Network with stand-alone GW for Dual Connectivity
There are the following architecture alternatives for different scenarios:
Figure 4.1.1-1：Architectures of SIPTO at local network with standalone GW for
DC
SIPTO\@LN with a stand-alone GW provides the possibility to select the most
appropriate GW according to the UE location in a certain neighborhood (LHN,
Local Home Network). All eNBs in an LHN have IP connectivity for SIPTO\@LN via
the L-GW. The obvious conclusion is that all MeNBs and SeNBs in the same LHN
have IP connectivity to a stand-alone GW in that LHN.
**[Alternative 1: standalone GW connects to both MeNB and the
SeNB.]{.underline}**
In this alternative, SIPTO bearers can be configured to MeNB and/or SeNB. For
SIPTO bearer in SeNB, it can be SCG bearer or split bearer. It is the MeNB to
decide one bearer is setup in MeNB or the SeNB. If SIPTO bearer is decided for
the UE, the MeNB shall select the SeNB in the local network to configure the
SIPTO bearer. The MeNB can know the local home network ID of the SeNB by
configuration or through X2 procedure.
For SIPTO at local network with standalone architecture, it is the MME to
trigger SIPTO bearer deactivation procedure after handover if the UE moves out
the source local home network. In case of DC, the MeNB can transmit the target
LHN ID to the MME with the current Path Switch Request message so that the MME
can trigger the bearer deactivation procedure correspondingly.
This alternative is used in the scenario that MeNB and the SeNB belong to the
same local home network.
**[Alternative 2: standalone GW connects to MeNB.]{.underline}**
The bearers in MeNB can be SIPTO bearer. Whether split bearer can be setup to
SeNB needs to be discussed. From one aspect, it is not allowed considering
SeNB is not in the local home network. From another hand, there is no reason
to block it since there is connectivity between MeNB and SGW/LGW. SCG bearer
in SeNB is not possible. The MeNB shall configure SIPTO bearer in MeNB or
split bearer in SeNB.
It is the MME to trigger bearer deactivation procedure after handover if the
UE moves out the source local home network. To support bearer deactivation,
the MeNB need to inform the MME the target local home network during handover
procedure.
This alternative is used in the scenario that MeNB is in the local home
network.
Table 4.1.1-1: Summary of the standalone architecture alternatives:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Architecture | Architecture | | | alternative 1 | alternative 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Architecture | Standalone GW | Standalone GW | | description | connects to both | connects to MeNB. | | | MeNB and the SeNB. | MeNB only is in the | | | | local home network | | | MeNB and the SeNB | | | | belong to the same | | | | local home network | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Specification impact | There is minimal | There is minimal | | | specification impact | specification impact | | | to support this | to support | | | alternative. | architecture 3C. | | | | Only Architecture 3C | | | | can be supported. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
It is worth noting that SIPTO\@LN is restricted to a single bearer only: while
in theory both the MeNB and the SeNB might connect to several standalone GWs,
only one at a time will ever be used for any given UE. Therefore, the
architecture forces a single termination point for that particular bearer from
the network side. The gain of such an arrangement depends on the relative
performance of the path from the SeNB through the MeNB and to the GW, with
respect to the Uu link from the UE to the SeNB.
### 4.1.2 SIPTO at the Local Network with collocated L-GW for Dual
Connectivity
There are the following architecture alternatives for different scenarios:
Figure 4.1.2-1: Architectures of SIPTO at local network with collocated LGW
for DC
In the following analysis the 2 alternatives are described on a per-PDN-
connection basis.
**[Alternative 1: LGW in MeNB.]{.underline}**
SIPTO bearers can be configured to MeNB and/or SeNB. For SIPTO bearer in SeNB,
it can be SCG bearer or split bearer. Service continuity can be assured if
MeNB is unchanged. Only S1 backhaul can be saved for SCG bearer.
For SIPTO bearer setup, switch and bearer deactivation procedure, the existing
procedure is enough. There is no stage 3 (at least ASN.1) impact. If SIPTO
bearer is configured to SeNB as SCG bearer, the MeNB set the uplink TEID and
TNL address as Correlation ID and TNL address of the LGW in X2AP message and
transmit to the SeNB.
This alternative is used in the scenario that MeNB has collocated LGW
function.
**[Alternative 2: LGW in SeNB.]{.underline}**
The bearers in SeNB can be offloaded. Only SCG bearer option can be configured
as SIPTO bearer. Once there is SeNB change, the bearer should be deactivated.
For SIPTO bearer setup, the MeNB report the LGW IP in SeNB to the MME. The MME
transmit the Correlation ID to MeNB when MME decide to setup SIPTO bearer for
the UE. To configure the local tunnel in SeNB, Correlation ID needs to be
transmitted to the SeNB over X2.
The existing procedure is enough for SIPTO trigger bearer deactivation during
handover or during bearer switch.
This alternative is used in the scenario that SeNB has collocated LGW
function.
Table 4.1.2-1: Summary of the collocated architecture alternatives:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Architecture | Architecture | | | alternative 1 | alternative 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Architecture | LGW in MeNB. MeNB | LGW in SeNB. SeNB | | description | has collocated LGW | has collocated LGW | | | function | function. SIPTO | | | | bearer has to be | | | | deactivated during | | | | SeNB change | | | | procedure. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Specification impact | No stage 3 impact | The MeNB transmits | | | | the IP address of | | | | the L-GW co-located | | | | with the SeNB to the | | | | MME. How to signal | | | | such address is to | | | | be clarified in the | | | | normative phase; | | | | MeNB transmits | | | | Correlation ID to | | | | SeNB for local | | | | tunnel setup in | | | | SeNB; | | | | | | | | MeNB obtains the LGW | | | | IP through X2 | | | | procedure. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The purpose of SIPTO\@LN is to select the most appropriate GW according to the
UE location information. Dual Connectivity puts two additional constraints on
SIPTO\@LN operation:
\- The location of the co-located L-GW may be more or less optimal with
respect to the location of the UE;
\- The choice of MCG, SCG or split bearer may or may not make sense depending
on the location of the L-GW.
Several combinations of SIPTO\@LN bearer type and L-GW location are
theoretically possible.
Some combinations seem to _always_ make sense, such as the cases of SIPTO\@LN
as M/SCG bearer when the L-GW is co-located with the M/SeNB (respectively): in
these cases the traffic termination point and the radio anchor are the same,
thereby ensuring the most optimized path. Other combinations seem to _never_
make sense, such as the cases of SIPTO\@LN as S/MCG bearer when the L-GW is
co-located with the M/SeNB (respectively): in these cases all the packets for
the SIPTO bearer terminate in one node and are transferred to the other
through X2-U, creating an obvious criticality in the traffic path.
For split bearers, for the case of L-GW in the MeNB the benefit depends on the
relative performance of X2-U with respect to Uu toward the SeNB (i.e. there is
the risk of "losing" due to transport what is "gained" over the radio). Notice
that this is similar to the case without SIPTO\@LN. The case of L-GW in the
SeNB is excluded because it is incompatible with the MeNB being in control.
These combinations are shown in Table 4.1.2-2 below.
Table 4.1.2-2: Possible combinations of bearer type and L-GW location.
* * *
                                  SIPTO bearer\                                            SIPTO bearer\                                            SIPTO bearer\
                                  =\                                                       =\                                                       =\
                                  MCG bearer                                               SCG bearer                                               split bearer
**L-GW co-located with MeNB** Beneficial Not beneficial -- all SIPTO traffic
routed to the MeNB Beneficial as long as X2-U between MeNB and SeNB is good
enough (similar to the case without SIPTO)
**L-GW co-located with SeNB** Not beneficial -- all SIPTO traffic routed to
the SeNB Beneficial Excluded
* * *
## 4.2 Location reporting enhancement
### 4.2.1 Introduction
According to TS 23.401 [2] _User location information reporting is based on
the identity of the cell that is serving the UE and supported by the eNB
terminating S1-MME_. According to TS 36.300 [3], in case of carrier
aggregation, the cell that provides the NAS mobility information (e.g. TAI)
and the security input at RRC connection establishment, re-establishment and
handover is the Primary Cell (PCell).
Currently there are no clear requirements known to enhance location reporting
from a pure accuracy purpose.
## 4.3 Handover enhancement
The handover enhancement includes handover with SeNB addition and inter-MeNB
handover without SeNB change.
### 4.3.1 Scenarios
For handover enhancement in dual connectivity, the following scenarios can be
considered.
#### 4.3.1.1 Single connectivity to dual connectivity
This section identifies inter-eNB handover scenarios, where the UE is
configured with single connectivity on the source side and with dual
connectivity on the target side, which is equivalent to inter-MeNB handover
with SeNB addition. Figure 4.3.1.1-1 shows scenarios of single connectivity to
dual connectivity handover.
Figure 4.3.1.1-1: Scenarios of single connectivity to dual connectivity
handover
In scenario 1, UE is handed over from eNB1 to eNB2, and during the handover
eNB2 decides to add eNB3 as SeNB for dual connectivity operation. After the
handover, UE will be configured as dual connectivity with eNB2 and eNB3.
In scenario 2, UE is handed over from eNB1 to eNB2, and during the handover
eNB2 decides to add eNB1 as SeNB for dual connectivity operation. After the
handover, UE will be configured as dual connectivity with eNB1 and eNB2.
In scenario 3, UE is handed over from eNB1 to eNB3, and during the handover
eNB3 decides to add eNB2 as SeNB for dual connectivity operation. After the
handover, UE will be configured as dual connectivity with eNB2 and eNB3.
#### 4.3.1.2 Dual connectivity to Dual connectivity
This section identifies scenarios for inter-eNB handover where the UE is
configured with dual connectivity on the source side and on the target side,
as described in Figure 4.3.1.2-1.
Figure 4.3.1.2-1: Scenarios of dual connectivity to dual connectivity handover
In scenario 1, UE is in dual connectivity with eNB1 and eNB3 serving as SeNB,
and then handed over to eNB2. During the handover eNB2 decides to keep eNB3 as
SeNB for dual connectivity. This scenario is equivalent to inter-MeNB handover
without SeNB change.
In scenario 2, UE is in dual connectivity with eNB1 and eNB3 serving as SeNB,
and then handed over to eNB2. During the handover eNB2 decides to add eNB4 as
SeNB for dual connectivity.
### 4.3.2 Solutions
#### 4.3.2.1 Signalling solution applicable for all scenarios
In order to cover the scenarios in section 4.3.1, one general solution which
is applied to all the scenarios should be firstly considered. General
procedure is provided in Figure 4.3.2.1-1, and the detailed solution for each
scenario is also provided in the following sections.
Figure 4.3.2.1-1: General procedure for enhanced handover in dual connectivity
Before the handover UE operates in single connectivity with eNB1 or dual
connectivity with eNB1 and SeNB.
1\. Measurement report is sent to eNB1 and handover is triggered.
2\. eNB1 sends Handover Request to eNB2 including UE's measurement report,
which is used for eNB2 to select an appropriate SeNB to continue dual
connectivity, if possible.
3\. If the eNB2 decides to add or keep the SeNB, the eNB2 sends SeNB Addition
Request to SeNB. If UE was in dual connectivity with the SeNB and eNB1 before
the handover, the eNB2 includes the SeNB UE X2AP ID as a reference to the UE
context in the SeNB that was established by eNB1.
4\. The SeNB replies with SeNB Addition Request Acknowledge and may also
provide forwarding addresses to eNB2.
5\. eNB2 replies with Handover Request Acknowledge.
6\. eNB1 sends SeNB Release Request to the SeNB.
7\. The eNB1 triggers the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure. The RRC
message includes SCG configuration.
8\. Random Access is performed towards the eNB2.
9\. UE replies with _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ to the eNB2.
10\. Random Access is performed towards the SeNB.
11\. Upon completion of the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure, eNB2
confirms the reconfiguration with the SeNB.
12\. eNB2 sends Path Switch Request to switch the bearers in both eNB2 and the
SeNB. If the SeNB is kept, eNB2 may include the same TEID used for SCG bearer.
13\. The MME replies with Path Switch Request Acknowledge. If new UL TEIDs at
the S-GW are included, eNB2 performs MeNB initiated SeNB Modification
procedure to provide them to the SeNB.
14\. eNB2 sends UE Context Release to eNB1.
15\. eNB1 sends UE Context Release to the SeNB.
NOTE: At inter eNB handover without SeNB change data forwarding can be omitted
for SCG bearers.
NOTE: Direct Data Forwarding from eNB1 to SeNB is not possible for split
bearer.
NOTE: Bearer type change during inter-MeNB handover w/o SeNB Change is
supported as long as the general restrictions specified in TS 36.300 §7.6 are
observed.
#### 4.3.2.2 Handover with SeNB addition
Handover with SeNB addition is used to transfer context data from a source eNB
to a target MeNB that adds an SeNB during the handover.
Figure 4.3.2.2-1: Handover with SeNB addition
Figure 4.3.2.2-1 shows an example signaling flow for handover with SeNB
addition:
1\. The source eNB starts the handover procedure by initiating the X2 Handover
Preparation procedure. The source eNB includes the SCG configuration in the
_HandoverPreparationInformation_.
2\. The target MeNB sends SeNB Addition Request to the target SeNB.
3\. The target SeNB replies with SeNB Addition Request Acknowledge.
4\. The target MeNB includes the field in HO command which includes SCG
configuration, and may also provide forwarding addresses to the source eNB.
5\. The source eNB triggers the UE to apply the new configuration.
6/7. The UE synchronizes to the target MeNB and replies with
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message.
8\. The UE synchronizes to the target SeNB
9\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the target
MeNB informs the target SeNB.
10/11. Data forwarding from the source eNB takes place.
NOTE: Direct Data Forwarding from the eNB to the Target SeNB is possible for
SCG bearers.
12-15. The target MeNB initiates the S1 Path Switch procedure.
16\. The target MeNB initiates the UE Context Release procedure towards the
source eNB.
#### 4.3.2.3 Inter-MeNB handover without SeNB change
Inter-MeNB handover without SeNB change is used to transfer context data from
a source MeNB to a target MeNB while the context at the SeNB is kept.
Figure 4.3.2.3-1: Inter-MeNB handover without SeNB change
Figure 4.3.2.3-1 shows an example signaling flow for inter-MeNB handover
without SeNB change:
1\. The source MeNB starts the handover procedure by initiating the X2
Handover Preparation procedure. The source MeNB includes the SCG configuration
in the _HandoverPreparationInformation_. The target MeNB needs to know whether
the source MeNB has configured SCG resources in order to decide whether the
SeNB can be kept, in which case the target MeNB needs to be able to contact
the SeNB. The source MeNB may include the SeNB ID in the Handover Request
message or alternatively the target MeNB can detect the identity of the SeNB
from the RRC container in Handover Request message. Slight preference of RAN3
is to include the SeNB ID in the Handover Request message explicitly.
2\. The target MeNB sends SeNB Addition Request to the SeNB including the SeNB
UE X2AP ID as a reference to the UE context in the SeNB that was established
by the Source MeNB.
3\. The SeNB replies with SeNB Addition Request Acknowledge.
4\. The target MeNB includes the field in HO command which includes SCG
configuration, and may also provide forwarding addresses to the source eNB.
> Three options for the release of the UE-associated signaling connection
> between the source-MeNB and the SeNB for inter-MeNB handover without SeNB
> change were discussed.
>
> Option 1: Both SeNB Release Request in step 5 and UE Context Release in step
> 18 are kept without adding a new IE to the messages. Specification work for
> the procedural description in stage 3 is needed.
>
> Option 2: An explicit indicator is included in the Handover Request
> Acknowledge message in case the SeNB keeps unchanged. UE Context Release in
> step 18 is skipped.
>
> Option 3: An explicit indicator is included in the Handover Request
> Acknowledge message, the SeNB Release Request message and the, UE Context
> Release message. Upon receiving this indicator, the SeNB shall only trigger
> the release of resources related to the UE-associated signalling connection
> between the source MeNB and the SeNB.
>
> Slight preference of RAN3 is to keep step 5 and step 18.
5\. The source MeNB sends SeNB Release Request to the SeNB.
6\. The source MeNB triggers the UE to apply the new configuration.
7/8. The UE synchronizes to the target MeNB and replies with
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message.
9\. The UE synchronizes to the SeNB.
10\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the
target MeNB informs the SeNB.
11/12. Data forwarding from the source MeNB takes place.
NOTE: Data Forwarding can be omitted for SCG bearers.
NOTE: Direct Data Forwarding from Source MeNB to SeNB is not possible for
split bearers.
13-16. The target MeNB initiates the S1 Path Switch procedure.
17\. The target MeNB initiates the UE Context Release procedure towards the
source MeNB.
18\. Upon reception of the UE Context Release message, the SeNB can release
C-plane related resource associated to the UE context. Any ongoing data
forwarding may continue.
NOTE: Bearer type change during inter-MeNB handover w/o SeNB Change is
supported as long as the general restrictions specified in TS 36.300 §7.6 are
observed.
#### 4.3.2.4 Range of the UE X2AP ID
It has been discussed and identified that TS 36.401 [4] specifies the UE X2AP
IDs to "be unique within the eNB logical node _"_.
There were concerns that the currently defined range of these IDs (INTEGER
(0..4095), see TS 36.423 [5]) would be not sufficient to handle the expected
higher numbers of UE-associated X2 signalling connections for dual
connectivity.
As a solution it was discussed whether it would be possible that during inter-
MeNB handover without SeNB change, the source MeNB could provide the MeNB ID
to the target MeNB, in which way that an UE X2AP ID would not need to "be
unique within the eNB logical node _"_. This would however contradict the
statements in TS 36.401 [4]. Backwards compatibility aspects of this solution
would need to be assessed.
As a possible alternative solution it was suggested to extend the currently
defined range of the X2AP ID.
## 4.4 Other enhancement or optimization
### 4.4.1 UE-AMBR coordination over X2
#### 4.4.1.1 Introduction
In Release 12, the MeNB sets the SeNB UE AMBR during the SeNB Addition
procedure and may modify it during the MeNB initiated SeNB Modification
procedure. The SeNB is currently not in the position to influence the MeNB's
decision. There are cases conceivable, where the SeNB should be enabled to
assist the MeNB to change the current share of the SeNB UE AMBR of the overall
UE AMBR.
#### 4.4.1.2 Solutions
The following solutions (or group of solutions) were identified:
Solution 1)
> The SeNB may propose a new SeNB UE AMBR value based on information available
> at the SeNB within the SENB MODIFICATION REQUIRED message. The MeNB may
> decide to take it into account and provide a new SeNB UE AMBR value. Whether
> the MeNB additionally provides the Total UE AMBR in the SeNB Addition
> Request and in the SeNB Modification Request or the SeNB Modification
> Confirm message needs to be further evaluated.
The following call flow describes a first variant of solution 1:
Figure 4.4.1.2-1: SeNB UE AMBR coordination with solution 1- variant 1
1\. The MeNB sets **initially in the SeNB Addition procedure one initial and
reasonable available SeNB AMBR for SeNB.**
2\. Radio conditions change and justify higher or lower SeNB AMBR from SeNB
viewpoint.
3\. The SeNB indicates a new "proposed SeNB UE AMBR" to the MeNB by sending a
SeNB Modification Required message.
4\. The MeNB checks whether it is useful to change the SeNB UE AMBR allocated
to the SeNB. At any point in time it remains in control of the split of UE
AMBR values. If useful it triggers step 5.
5\. The MeNB sets a new SeNB UE AMBR which is not necessarily the one proposed
at step 3.
6\. The SeNB updates the value of the SeNB UE AMBR accordingly.
7\. The MeNB receives the acknowledgment from the SeNB.
The following call flow describes a second variant of solution 1:
Figure 4.4.1.2-2: SeNB UE AMBR coordination with solution 1- variant 2
1\. The MeNB sets **initially in the SeNB Addition procedure one initial and
reasonable available SeNB AMBR for SeNB.**
2\. Radio conditions change and justify higher or lower SeNB AMBR from SeNB
viewpoint.
3\. The SeNB indicates a new "proposed SeNB UE AMBR" to the MeNB by sending a
SeNB Modification Required message.
4\. The MeNB checks whether it is useful to change the SeNB UE AMBR allocated
to the SeNB. If it decides that it is useful, it includes a new SeNB UE AMBR
value in the SeNB Modification Confirm message.
6\. The SeNB updates the value of the SeNB UE AMBR accordingly.
Solution 2)
The MeNB requests to the SeNB to report assistance information by the Report
Characteristic e.g. event trigger report, report only one time, report
periodically.
The SeNB provides"assistance information" to the MeNB.\ Examples for possible
assistance information are aggregated instantaneous,averaged arriving bitrate,
at the SeNB for uplink and downlink. Other factors such as load status and
buffer status of SeNB may be assisted for the decision in MeNB. It is still
FFS which assistance information would be necessary to enable the MeNB to make
a proper decision.
The MeNB decides to modify the SeNB UE AMRB based on the Assistance
Information and provides the new SeNB UE AMBR within the SENB MODIFICATION
REQUEST message.
There are two alternative of the signalling procedure for the request and
report the assistance information.
**Alternative 2-1: introduce two new general class 2 UE-associated
procedures.**
1\. The MeNB triggers reporting of assistance information at the SeNB.\
Respective information is e.g. contained in a _Report Characteristics_ IE in a
new UE-ASSOCIATED INFORMATION REPORT message.
2\. The SeNB reports the assistance information to the MeNB in a new UE-
ASSOCIATED INFORMATION REPORT message.
**Alternative 2-2: reusing SeNB/MeNB initiated SeNB Modification procedure.**
1\. The MeNB requests in the SeNB ADDITION REQUEST message and SeNB
MODIFICATION REQUEST message in a _Report Characteristics_ IE to the SeNB.
2\. The SeNB reports the assistance information to the MeNB in the SeNB
MODIFICATION REQUIRED message.
### 4.4.2 X2-UP flow control
#### 4.4.2.1 Ensuring delay target
SeNB and MeNB need to ensure that maximum delay targets of QCI (e.g., 2 or 4)
for split bearer are not exceeded.
Some alternatives are identified:
Solution 1: SeNB takes the transmission delay between MeNB and SeNB into
account. The SeNB can calculate the delay from SeNB to UE by subtract an
additional delay from the delay between MeNB and UE. The details can be left
to implementation.
Solution 2: This solution is to introduce timestamp information (i.e. time the
PDU has been queued in MeNB) within the DL USER DATA (PDU Type 0) frame under
assumption of synchronized network.
Solution 3: This solution is to introduce a discard indication sent from the
MeNB to the SeNB. The MeNB may, based on internal mechanisms e.g. the expiry
of an internal timer, decide to initiate the discard indication. Upon
receiving of discard indication, the SeNB needs to discard the particular RLC
SDUs.
Solution 4: This solution is to introduce delivery timer as an indication in
the SeNB to discard the PDCP PDU when after the timer expires when still the
PDCP PDU cannot be transmitted to the UE.
Ensuring packet delay target should not be a significant problem since SeNB
may know the delay from MeNB to SeNB by Solution 1 above.
#### 4.4.2.2 X2-U UL packet loss
In Release 12 DC, handling of X2-U DL packet loss is supported by observing
whether consecutive X2-U SNs are received at the SeNB in X2-U DL packets. Loss
of the report of packet loss may cause an issue. A possible solution is the
SeNB to keep the PDCP-PDU loss indications included in the successive DL DATA
DELIVERY STATUS frames until explicitly confirmed by MeNB. Alternatively
implementations could foresee e.g. repeat the status reporting; or to set an
appropriate PDCP reordering window and PDCP status reporting parameters.
Taking above analysis into account, there are several implementation specific
solutions possible to handle X2-U UL packet loss.
### 4.4.3 Handling of User Inactivity
#### 4.4.3.1 Optimized Setting of user inactivity timer in SeNB
##### 4.4.3.1.1 Introduction
In order to allow the SeNB to optimise network behaviour w.r.t. setting up and
releasing SCG resources the SeNB should be provided with all useful
information and in particular it could make use of the _Expected UE Behaviour_
information introduced in Release 12 to determine the UE's activity and
mobility behaviour.
#### 4.4.3.1.2 Solutions
The MeNB may include the _Expected UE Behaviour_ IE in the SeNB Addition
Request message.
#### 4.4.3.2 Avoid useless Release of SeNB due to user inactivity
##### 4.4.3.2.1 Introduction
It is beneficial foreseeing means to avoid releasing SCG resources
inappropriately, i.e. avoiding unnecessary increase of the overall network
signalling. Like the serving eNB in single connectivity, the SeNB would react
upon user plane inactivity and release the SCG resources. If the SeNB would be
provided with _Expected UE Behaviour_ information, as suggested above, this
would avoid either releasing SCG resources too early (in case user data is
still expected) or keeping SCG unnecessarily too long (if a rather long IDLE
period is expected).
For split bearers, the MeNB would be able to fully observe the UE's activity
on both, MCG and SCG resources. A reasonable implementation would leave it up
to the MeNB to typically trigger the release of SCG resources.
For SCG bearers, the MeNB would need to fully rely on the SeNB's observation
of user plane activity at the SCG.
##### 4.4.3.2.2 Solutions
Avoiding useless release of SCG resources due to user inactivity can be
handled by implementation means.
### 4.4.4 Proposed Methods to enhance capacity in the presence of UEs
configured with DC and without DC
#### 4.4.4.1 Problem Statement
Encouraged by simulation results provided in R3-150100 [6], which claim gains
in terms of system capacity, it was agreed to study the feasibility of the
assumptions under which such gains have been claimed.
It has been investigated for non-GBR split bearer whether overall system
capacity can be enhanced by coordinating radio resource usage between the MeNB
and the SeNB serving the UEs configured with DC.
It has been further investigated whether UEs not configured with DC or not
capable of performing DC could benefit as well from coordinating radio
resource usage between the MeNB and the SeNB serving the UEs configured with
DC.
New user plane and control plane solutions were studied.
The new solutions assume that DC UEs are kept in DC even if resource usage for
such UEs becomes rather costly instead of releasing the SCG in order to
maximize the system capacity.
#### 4.4.4.2 Proposed Solutions
##### 4.4.4.2.1 User Plane solution 1: Bi-directional exchange of UE
throughput history throughput information
###### 4.4.4.2.1.1 Description as of reference [8]
This solution introduces UE throughput history information in DL USER DATA
frame and DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS frame defined in TS 36.425 [7]. This
parameter indicates the UE throughput history per bearer at eNB, which is
provided in a certain period with average UE throughput served by the eNB only
when there is data to be transmitted to the UE (i.e. average user throughput
should only be updated when there is data to be sent to the UE otherwise
"zero" value is included).
In order to make sure that each RRM should not be in trouble resulting in
degrading capacity, it is necessary to clearly define the UE throughput
history information.
As example, how to capture this solution in TS 36.425 [7] is provided below.
In Section 4.1 (General aspects) and Section 5.1 (General), it may be
necessary to capture functional description.
  * _One eNB may take UE throughput history information for the UE from the other eNB into account for the radio resource allocation._
In Section 5.2 (X2 user plane protocol layer services), the following bullet
can be added as function.
  * _Information of average UE throughput history_
In Section 5.4.1.1 (Successful operation), the following statement can be
added.
The MeNB provides average UE throughput history in a certain period to the
SeNB.
In Section 5.4.2.1 (Successful operation), the following field can be added as
part of DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS frame.
_e) UE throughput history, only updated when there is data to be scheduled to
the UE._
In Section 5.5.2.1 (DL USER DATA), the following field can be added in Figure
5.5.2.1-1.
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+---+ | _Bits_ | > _Number | | | | | | | | | | > of | | | | | | | | | | > Octets_ | | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+---+ | _7_ | _6_ | _5_ | _4_ | _3_ | _2_ | _1_ | _0_ | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+---+ | _PDU Type |_ spare _|_**UE |_1 _| | | | | | | (=0)_ | | Thr. | | | | | | | | | | Hist. | | | | | | | | | | Ind._** | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+---+ | _X2-U |_ 2 _| | | | | | | | | Sequence | | | | | | | | | | Number_ | | | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+---+ | **_DL UE |_ 4* | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | | | hroughput | | | | | | | | | | H | | | | | | | | | | istory** _| | | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+---+ |_**UL UE |_4* | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | | | hroughput | | | | | | | | | | H | | | | | | | | | | istory_** | | | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+---+ | _Spare |_ 0-4 _| | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | | xtension_ | | | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+---+
_\ Figure 5.5.2.1-1: DL USER DATA (PDU Type 0) Format_
> In Section 5.5.2.2 (DL DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS), the following field can be
> added in Figure 5.5.2.2-1.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+ | _Bits_ | > | | | | | | | | | | _Number | | | | | | | | | | > of | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | Octets_ | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+ | _7_ | _6_ | _5_ | _4_ | _3_ | _2_ | _1_ | _0_ | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+ | _PDU |_ Spare _|_**UE |_Final |_Lost |_ 1 _| | | | | Type | | Thr. | Frame | Packet | | | | | | (=1)_ | | His. | Ind._| Report_ | | | | | | | | Ind._** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+ | * | _2_ | | | | | | | | | Highest | | | | | | | | | | succe | | | | | | | | | | ssfully | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | livered | | | | | | | | | | PDCP | | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | | equence | | | | | | | | | | Number _| | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+ | * |_ 4 _| | | | | | | | | Desired | | | | | | | | | | buffer | | | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | | | | E-RAB_ | | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+ | * | _4_ | | | | | | | | | Minimum | | | | | | | | | | desired | | | | | | | | | | buffer | | | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | | | | UE _| | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+ |_ Number | _1_ | | | | | | | | | of lost | | | | | | | | | | X2-U | | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | | equence | | | | | | | | | | Number | | | | | | | | | | ranges | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | ported _| | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+ |_ Start | _4* | | | | | | | | | of lost | (Number | | | | | | | | | X2-U | of | | | | | | | | | S | r | | | | | | | | | equence | eported | | | | | | | | | Number | lost | | | | | | | | | range_ | X2-u SN | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | anges)_| | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+ |_ End of | | | | | | | | | | lost | | | | | | | | | | X2-U | | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | | equence | | | | | | | | | | Number | | | | | | | | | | range _| | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+ |_**DL |_4* | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | Thr | | | | | | | | | | oughput | | | | | | | | | | His | | | | | | | | | | tory_** | | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+ | **_UL |_ 4* | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | Thr | | | | | | | | | | oughput | | | | | | | | | | His | | | | | | | | | | tory** _| | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+ |_ Spare | _0-4_ | | | | | | | | | ext | | | | | | | | | | ension* | | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+---+
_\ Figure 5.5.2.2-1: DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS (PDU Type 1) Format_
> In Section 5.5.3, the following parameters can be described as well as UE
> Throughput History Indication which indicates the existence of those.
>
> _5.5.3.x DL UE Throughput History_
>
> _**Description:** This parameter indicates the DL UE throughput history at
> eNB. This parameter is provided in a certain period with average UE
> throughput scheduled by the eNB only when there is data to be scheduled for
> the UE (i.e. average user throughput should only be updated when there is
> data to be scheduled to the UE otherwise "zero" value is included)._
>
> _**Value range:** {0..2^32^-1}._
>
> _**Field length:** 4 octets._
>
> _5.5.3.y UL UE Throughput History_
>
> _**Description:** This parameter indicates the UL UE throughput history at
> eNB. This parameter is provided in a certain period with average UE
> throughput scheduled by the eNB only when there is data to be scheduled for
> the UE (i.e. average user throughput should only be updated when there is
> data to be scheduled to the UE otherwise "zero" value is included)._
>
> _**Value range:** {0..2^32^-1}._
>
> _**Field length:** 4 octets._
###### 4.4.4.2.1.2 Discussion as of reference [9]
User Plane solution 1 was discussed in [9]. Relevant text as captured below
stems from [9] and is slightly reworded.
There are two different views on whether "MAC level information" (i.e. HARQ
throughput) is suited to represent UE throughput history:
\- One view is that HARQ throughput is beneficial as it provides a more
instantaneous image of the throughput than throughput deduced from
acknowledged PDCP PDUs.
\- The other view is that HARQ throughput provides an altered figure of what
application level throughput is, therefore making it impossible to evaluate
the exact data rate of services in the reporting node and from the fact that
simulation results in [6] built upon a 50ms feedback periodicity
instantaneousness it is believed that it might not be of fundamental
importance and that simulation results in [6] don't provide evidence that MAC-
level throughput information is important.
\- Further it is believed that introducing new throughput information from the
SeNB to the MeNB is not necessary, as already Rel-12 X2-UP provides _exactly_
this information.
For the proposed feedback from MeNB to SeNB, in the following, the feasibility
of the proposed solutions is investigated and whether they can lead to
interoperable mechanisms according to which the claimed gains can always be
achieved under the principle of RRM independence.\ The UP solution(s) builds
upon exchanging throughput history. Here are examples of how such solutions
may result in interoperability issues that would rather degrade performance
than enhance it.
[Example scenario:]{.underline}
A UE may be on a video streaming service for which the minimum bearer service
rate is e.g.500Kbps. If one of the eNBs serving the UE provides 300Kbps, this
is, to the service, insufficient throughput.\ However, in a different case the
same UE may not be on a video streaming service but on an FTP or background
data service, for which 300Kbps may be more than enough.
So, what action should the other eNB take given that service awareness and RRM
for such particular service is not coordinated?
Indeed, there could be interoperability issues: if the SeNB serving the UE
provides 200Kbps, which together with the 300Kbps of the MeNB would make it
for a good enough streaming video service, and if the SeNB believes that the
300Kbps provided by the MeNB are more than enough, it will de-allocate its
200Kbps, therefore causing a service interruption. Note that the MeNB may
still allocate resources to provide the 300Kbps, but such resources are
insufficient to deliver the service. The resources are therefore wasted.
This example is not a corner case. Many video streaming applications are
mapped to default bearers today, i.e. they go in the same QCI as background
traffic. Video streaming services are the most resource demanding ones.
Note that if the UE was on an FTP service, the action of the SeNB to de-
allocate resources for the 200Kbps provided would be plausible.
Therefore, if the principle of service awareness and RRM independence needs to
be respected it is impossible for a node to understand what throughput is "in
excess" and could be de-allocated.
If one assumes service awareness is given, both in the MeNB and the SeNB, e.g.
by an operator specific QCI. So both eNBs know the minimum bitrate that is
necessary to succeed on the non-GBR service (a minimum bitrate is a
contradiction to the definition of a non-GBR bearer service, but just for the
sake of this thought experiment let's neglect this contradiction).
If one also assumes that providing throughput history is able to sufficiently
predict the future throughput (periodicity of 50 ms feedback is almost
assuming quasi stationary radio conditions, which in reality may change many
times in a 50ms time window).
The minimum service bitrate 500kbps is known to the MeNB and the SeNB.
\- Situation 1) the SeNB reports 200kbps to the MeNB, the MeNB reports 200kbps
to the SeNB (this could happen as a momentary report, assuming the streaming
service application in the mobile works with a playout buffer). Which eNB
should increase the bitrate?
\- Situation 2) the SeNB reports 300kbps and the MeNB reports 300kbps. If
there is no resource shortage, both eNBs could be happy in continuing the same
way. But as we are investigating overall system capacity/throughput
enhancements at rather extreme load situations, there could be a resource
shortage in both eNBs resulting in both eNBs reducing their contribution,
ending up in situation 1).
\- Situation 3) Both eNBs recognise that the sum of the SeNB and MeNB
contribution results in 500 kbps overall momentary bitrate for the service. If
the contribution of one eNB is below the contribution of the other eNB,
according to the scenario outlined in the problem statement, one eNB could
interpret a lower-than-the-half contribution (or lower than any other
threshold) as a sign to take over completely the guarantee of the minimum QoS,
the other eNB could however interpret the same information in the completely
opposite direction. If the eNBs are not coordinated in such RRM management,
service interruptions may occur.
It can be stated that
\- the 3 situations show that solution 1) would not work at all without clear
rules (RRM algorithms) being co-ordinated between the eNBs -- which basically
confirms the observation that gains in terms of system capacity/throughput
enhancements with solution 1) can be only expected if the RRM entities in the
involved eNBs are tightly coordinated to work constructively together.
\- discussion above assumed service awareness at the E-UTRAN for services on
non-GBR bearers, which is not supported in 3GPP.
\- providing only UE throughput history information will not allow the
receiving eNB to know how to react on this information. This has been
demonstrated within the pCR text for TS 36.425 in [7]. The semantics are not
able to describe the action upon receipt of the IE.
\- even with exact knowledge of service requirements expected behind non-GBR
bearers, the RRM entities in both, the MeNB and the SeNB would need to be
quite coordinated in order to achieve gains expected for solution 1). Failure
to do so would lead to interoperability issues, i.e. losses in performance
rather than gains.
##### 4.4.4.2.2 User Plane solution 2: Uni-directional exchange of UE
throughput history throughput information
###### 4.4.4.2.2.1 Description as of reference [8]
This solution introduces UE throughput history information in DL USER DATA
frame defined in TS 36.425 [7], and utilizes the existing flow control
mechanism as the input of the information for the direction from the SeNB to
the MeNB. This parameter indicates the UE throughput history per bearer at
MeNB, which is provided in a certain period with average UE throughput served
by the MeNB only when there is data to be transmitted to the UE (i.e. average
user throughput should only be updated when there is data to be sent to the UE
otherwise "zero" value is included).
###### 4.4.4.2.2.2 Discussion
Discussion provided in 4.4.x.2.1.2 is also applicable for the user plane
solution 2.
##### 4.4.4.2.3 Control plane solution: Ensuring provision of minimum QoS by
only one eNB involved in DC through coordination between MeNB and SeNB over
X2AP
###### 4.4.4.2.3.1 Description as of reference [8]
This solution considers that for UEs in dual connectivity a simple
coordination over X2AP between the two eNBs allows spending the effort to
ensure fairness by only one of the two nodes when such resources are costly.
**Variant 1:**
This solution is applicable especially to the case the SeNB takes over the
task to ensure fairness from the MeNB among DC UEs when it is less costly in
terms of resources for the SeNB. More precisely, the MeNB ensures fairness for
the UE split bearer until it detects that radio conditions enable SeNB to
ensure fairness and at lower cost. The MeNB sends a SeNB Modification Request
message to delegate to the SeNB to ensure fairness.
Later on, the MeNB can take over back the task to ensure fairness if
conditions have deteriorated in the SeNB and the cost to ensure fairness in
terms of resources has become high in SeNB. The solution is depicted here-
below:
Figure 4.4.4.2.3.1-1: Fairness delegation
**Variant 2:**
This solution is applicable in similar conditions as variant 1. However the
triggers are different: The MeNB sends a SeNB Modification Request message to
request the SeNB to ensure a minimum QoS commitment for the split (non-GBR)
bearer. This can be through signalling a minimum bit rate or a minimum inter-
packet interval to be ensured.
Later on, the MeNB can take over back the task to ensure fairness if
conditions have deteriorated in SeNB and the cost to ensure fairness has
become high in SeNB. The MeNB sends a new SeNB Modification Request message to
the SeNB for cancelling the previous request to ensure a minimum QoS
commitment for the split (non-GBR) bearer. The cancellation can be indicated
through signalling a minimum bit rate equal to zero, or a particular dummy
value for a minimum inter-packet interval to be ensured. The solution is
depicted here-below:
Figure 4.4.4.2.3.1-2: Minimum QoS Commitment
###### 4.4.4.2.3.2 Description as of reference [10]
This solution considers ceasing provision of a certain minimum QoS for DC
users if the related cost in terms of necessary radio resources would not
significantly improve the contribution of the other eNB involved in DC to the
overall QoS experienced by the UE.
The related C-plane signalling foresees a start/stop signalling by means of
the already specified X2AP MeNB and SeNB initiated SeNB Modification
procedures.
An example message flow for a MeNB initiated scheme is provided below in
Figure 4.4.4.2.3.2-1.
As a variant of this signalling scheme the MeNB/SeNB might request the
SeNB/MeNB to ensure at least an explicitly indicated minimum bit rate to be
provided to the UE.
Figure 4.4.4.2.3.2-1: Delegating provision of minimum QoS to a single eNB
While adding additional information to the messages of the SeNB Modification
procedures is possible, it has been pointed out that the MeNB could easily
observe the radio conditions the UE is experiencing by means of UE
measurements and the success of delivering PDCP PDUs by means of the feedback
received via X2-U. Consequently the MeNB is very well able to decide about the
amount of user data to be provided to the UE via MCG or SCG resources.
Assuming that schedulers in general try to provide at least a minimum bitrate
for each non-GBR bearer, it could be followed that the scheduler in the SeNB
would behave in the same way even without the special indication provided in
step 3 as shown in Figure 4.4.4.2.3.2-1.
On explicitly indicating a minimum bitrate to be provided by the requested eNB
it was realised that the non-GBR bearer might mutate to a de-facto-GBR bearer.
Such concepts would need to be clarified on stage 1 and stage 2 level first,
which was deemed outside the scope of RAN3.
###### 4.4.4.2.3.3 Discussion as of reference [9]
It has been noted in [9] that the bitrate or amount of allocated radio
resources equivalent to the _minimum QoS_ , may differ depending on e.g. the
current load situation in the eNB, the number of non-GBR bearers to be served;
the RRM strategy may weight non-GBR bearers according to the radio conditions
the UE currently experiences, etc.
**On Variant 1 as of reference [8]**
Looking at the first variant of the CP solutions in more detail, one can see
that only a subset of possible transitions is explicitly depicted. The figure
below shows all possible transitions:
Figure 4.4.4.2.3.3-1: All possible transitions for the first variant of the
C-plane solution
1a) SCG put on hold: while serving the UE in DC it becomes too costly to
provide radio resources to the UE by the SeNB. A decision is taken to serve
the UE by MCG means only.
1b) SCG put back to active: while serving the UE by the MeNB only, the UE
context is kept in the SeNB although the UE hasn't received user data via the
SCG; conditions are becoming better so that providing radio resources via the
SCG is less costly.
Explanation of the other transitions follow descriptions of 1a) and 1b) in an
obvious way.
[8] explicitly describes transitions 2a and 3a. 3b is assumed to be reached by
the same signalling means as depicted for 2a. The state transition scheme is
depicted in the figure below:
Figure 4.4.4.2.3.3-2: Possible transitions along description
It needs to be investigated whether the other transitions are not needed to be
explicitly supported, or whether the radio resource allocation strategy
according to [8] is to toggle in between either only the MCG or only the SCG
providing radio resources to the UE.
[10] explicitly describes transitions 2a and 2b only. Especially 2b was seen
important to enable the system to return to full DC operation again. While in
[10] we have argued that the explicit indication for 2a and 2b wouldn't change
anything in the SeNB's behaviour, as the SeNB would anyhow try to provide a
minimum QoS to each UE, regardless whether it would be in DC or not. For 1a
and 1b, we don't see a need, as the MeNB would be in the position to steer
traffic while arbitrating user data in between MCG and SCG. So, in 1a, the
MeNB just ceases to provide user data to the SeNB, in 2a it resumes sending
user data.
**On Variant 2 as of reference [8]**
While for the second variant, introducing a "minimum bitrate" to be indicated
for a non-GBR bearer would turn the current 3GPP QoS concept upside down
without producing any advantage: it seems pointless to transform non-GBR
bearers in GBR when GBR bearers can be used already -- we shouldn't introduce
such things without explicit communication with other TSGs and WGs and without
clear and sound technical reasons.
##### 4.4.4.2.4 Applying local RRM strategies based on information available
via already specified means
###### 4.4.4.2.4.1 Description as of reference [10]
**[Information available at the MeNB]{.underline}**
The MeNB receives feedback about the successfully in-sequence transmitted PDCP
PDUs at an implementation/configuration specific rate, i.e. the MeNB can
calculate the amount of data that was successfully delivered to the UE by
observing the acknowledged PDCP PDUs, the size of the respective PDCP PDUs and
the time that had elapsed since the last feedback. Taking the X2-U feedback
into account the MeNB would be provided with SeNB specific UE throughput
history information.
Important information to which the MeNB has direct access is the current link
quality observed at both the MCG and SCG. To that respect, the MeNB is the
"real master" of the SCG as it may decide based on UE measurements when to add
and when to remove SCG resources -- and naturally, the SeNB is dependent on
the MeNB interpretation of the UE measurements.
The MeNB in turn is dependent on the admission control decisions of the SeNB.
The SeNB can very well request the release of a bearer or the release of the
whole SCG or not admit SCG resources in the first place, e.g. if the load
situation at the SeNB wouldn't result in throughput gains for DC users or a
certain minimum throughput for non-DC users cannot be guaranteed any more.
**[Information available at the SeNB]{.underline}**
At SCG addition and SCG SCell addition the SeNB may receive the latest UE
measurement results of the SCG cells. Further, the SeNB is aware of the MCG
configuration and the share of the UE capabilities that is "consumed" by the
MeNB already. The information available at the SeNB regarding the resources at
the MCG is less instantaneous than the information available at the MeNB,
basically it comprises information provided to the SeNB at SeNB
Addition/Modification by the MeNB. However, this can be regarded as a direct
consequence of the general DC design. The understanding of the radio resources
allocated at the MeNB and the SeNB however is mutual due to the exchange of
configuration information within transparent containers. Further, an eNB has a
good understanding of the available capacity of cells served by its
neighbouring eNBs.
On X2-U the SeNB provides the MeNB with feedback about the desired buffer size
for an E-RAB and the minimum desired buffer size for the UE. This information
would also provide means for the SeNB to control the (desired) amount of data
to be provided to the SeNB.
## 4.5 Support of CSG and LIPA for dual connectivity
### 4.5.1 HeNB with closed and hybrid access mode
Discussion on X2 mobility involving HeNBs in previous releases already
provides a good basis for discussions for CSG support for dual connectivity
(see Table 4.6.1-1 in TS 36.300 [3]). DC specific scenarios can be easily
obtained by replacing "Source" by "MeNB" and "Target" by "SeNB". If DC related
CSG discussions are kept within the limits already defined for X2 HO and if
scenarios where the MeNB role is assumed by a HeNB are deemed to be not
realistic, this results in the following support of HeNBs for dual
connectivity:
Table 4.5.1-1: support of HeNBs for Dual Connectivity
+-------+----------------------+---------------------+ | MeNB | SeNB | Notes | +-------+----------------------+---------------------+ | > eNB | > open access HeNB | > Already supported | +-------+----------------------+---------------------+ | > eNB | > hybrid access HeNB | > Possible support | +-------+----------------------+---------------------+
At X2 HO it is possible for hybrid HeNBs to admit resources to a UE without
having the membership status as claimed by the UE being verified by the MME.
The respective membership verification can be performed after resource
admission by the HeNB. This principle can be followed for the admission of
SeNB resources as well.
In case the UE has been admitted with SeNB resources from a hybrid HeNB and
moves within the coverage area of the macro towards another hybrid HeNB, which
has the same CSG ID as the first one, the MeNB would be able to re-use the
result of the membership verification performed for the first HeNB.
If the cell served by the SeNB belongs to a different PLMN than the PLMN
serving for the UE in the MeNB, the information provided to the MME for
membership verification needs to contain the PLMN-ID of the hybrid cell served
by the SeNB as well.
The MME would also need to be informed about the cell access mode of the cell
for which the UE's membership needs to be verified. It is FFS whether this
information needs to be explicitly provided to the MME.
There are three optional solutions raised:
Option1: Reuse E-RAB Modification Indication procedure for both SCG bearer and
split bearer.
Option2: Reuse E-RAB Modification Indication procedure for SCG bearer and
introduce new class 1 procedure for split bearer.
Option3: Introduce new class 1 procedure for both SCG bearer and split bearer.
**Proposed signalling scheme**
**Option 1:**
Figure 4.5.1-1 below depicts the first option of an example signalling flow
based on the principles discussed above:
Figure 4.5.1-1: CSG support for DC -- SeNB Addition towards a hybrid HeNB
1\. The UE is connected to an MeNB and detects a potential candidate cell.
2\. The UE reads System Information from the candidate cell (_csg-Indication_
, _csg-Identity_)
3\. The MeNB receives CSG related information from the UE (_csg-MemberStatus,
csg-Identity_)
4\. The MeNB initiates the SeNB Addition preparation procedure.
> New IE in SENB ADDITION REQUEST: CSG Membership Status
>
> As we only consider HeNB scenarios, the membership information does not need
> to be linked to the (S)Cell-ID or to the CSG-ID of that cell, as a HeNB
> serves a single cell only.
5\. The SeNB takes the membership information provided by the MeNB into
account (even if this was not yet verified with the MME).
10./12. The MeNB triggers the E-RAB Modification Indication procedure to
request the MME to verify the membership status of the UE for the CSG-ID
reported by the UE.\ If the split bearer option has been configured at the
SeNB, the procedure is performed only for membership verification. There are
different alternatives to achieve this. One example is to contain an
indication in the E-RAB Modification Indication message, so any information
related to E-RABs to be modified shall be ignored. Another example is that the
MME deduces this by observing the existence of new CSG ID IE and CSG
Membership Status IE and no change of the downlink tunnel path.
13.-16. If the result of the membership verification requires an update of the
UE context at the SeNB, the MeNB triggers the SeNB Modification procedure.
> New IE: CSG Membership Status
If the membership verification fails, it is up to the SeNB to decide on
further actions.
**Option 2:**
Figure 4.5.1-2 below depicts the second option of an example signalling flow
based on the principles discussed above:
Figure 4.5.1-2: CSG support for DC -- SeNB Addition towards a hybrid HeNB --
option 2
1\. The UE is connected to an MeNB and detects a potential candidate cell.
2\. The UE reads System Information from the candidate cell (_csg-Indication_
, _csg-Identity_)
3\. The MeNB receives CSG related information from the UE (_csg-MemberStatus,
csg-Identity_)
4\. The MeNB initiates the SeNB Addition preparation procedure.
> New IE in SENB ADDITION REQUEST: CSG Membership Status
>
> As we only consider HeNB scenarios, the membership information does not need
> to be linked to the (S)Cell-ID or to the CSG-ID of that cell, as a HeNB
> serves a single cell only.
5\. The SeNB takes the membership information provided by the MeNB into
account (even if this was not yet verified with the MME).
10./12. The MeNB requests the MME to verify the membership status of the UE
for the CSG-ID reported by the UE. For SCG bearer, ERAB MODIFICATION
INDICATION including the associated E-RAB ID is used. For split bearer,
another new class 1 procedure (UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION INDICATION, UE CONTEXT
MODIFICATION CONFIRM) is used.
13.-16. If the result of the membership verification requires an update of the
UE context at the SeNB, the MeNB triggers the SeNB Modification procedure.
> New IE: CSG Membership Status
If the membership verification fails, it is up to the SeNB to decide on
further actions.
**Option 3:**
Figure 4.5.1-3 below depicts the third option of an example signalling flow
based on the principles discussed above:
Figure 4.5.1-3: CSG support for DC -- SeNB Addition towards a hybrid HeNB --
option 3
1\. The UE is connected to an MeNB and detects a potential candidate cell.
2\. The UE reads System Information from the candidate cell (_csg-Indication_
, _csg-Identity_)
3\. The MeNB receives CSG related information from the UE (_csg-MemberStatus,
csg-Identity_)
4\. The MeNB initiates the SeNB Addition preparation procedure.
> New IE in SENB ADDITION REQUEST: CSG Membership Status
>
> As we only consider HeNB scenarios, the membership information does not need
> to be linked to the (S)Cell-ID or to the CSG-ID of that cell, as a HeNB
> serves a single cell only.
5\. The SeNB takes the membership information provided by the MeNB into
account (even if this was not yet verified with the MME).
10./12. The MeNB requests the MME to verify the membership status of the UE
for the CSG-ID reported by the UE. For SCG bearer and split bearer, new class
1 procedure (UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION INDICATION, UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION
CONFIRM) is used.
13.-16. If the result of the membership verification requires an update of the
UE context at the SeNB, the MeNB triggers the SeNB Modification procedure.
> New IE: CSG Membership Status
If the membership verification fails, it is up to the SeNB to decide on
further actions.
### 4.5.2 LIPA
Use cases for LIPA are covered by use cases for SIPTO with co-located L-GW.
LIPA is similar to the LGW located in SeNB in SIPTO collocated case.
# 5 Conclusions
The conclusions that can be drawn from the study are described below:
**[SIPTO in the dual connectivity:]{.underline}**
For standalone case, it is feasible to support Alternative 1.
For co-located case, the following beneficial architectures for L-GW co-
located with MeNB and L-GW co-located with SeNB have been identified for
future normative work:
L-GW co-located with MeNB: SIPTO bearer = MCG bearer
L-GW co-located with MeNB: SIPTO bearer = Split bearer (depending on the
performance of X2-U between MeNB and SeNB)
L-GW co-located with SeNB: SIPTO bearer = SCG bearer
**[Location Reporting Enhancement]{.underline}**
There is no clear requirement to enhance the Location Reporting from pure
location accuracy purpose.
**[Handover Enhancements]{.underline}**
Both handover with SeNB addition and inter-MeNB handover without SeNB change
have been identified as future normative work.
**[Extension of the range of the UE X2AP ID]{.underline}**
It was agreed to investigate possibilities to extend the range of the UE X2AP
ID as well as other possible solutions during future normative work.
**[UE-AMBR coordination over X2]{.underline}**
In order to optimize the overall throughputs for the UE and avoid restrict the
bitrate unnecessary, UE-AMBR coordination over X2 is feasible in Release 13.
Two solutions have been identified. The selection of the solution should be
performed in normative work, if any.
**[Ensuring delay target]{.underline}**
Ensuring packet delay target should not be a significant problem since SeNB
may know the delay from MeNB to SeNB.
**[X2-U UL packet loss]{.underline}**
There are several implementation specific solutions possible to handle X2-U UL
packet loss. No standardized solution will be further pursued.
**[Handling of User Inactivity]{.underline}**
In order to optimize the setting of the user inactivity timer in the SeNB, it
could be considered to provide the _Expected UE Behaviour_ information to the
SeNB in the SeNB Addition Request message. Other methods could be investigated
during the work item phase, if any.
**[Proposed Methods to enhance capacity in the presence of UEs configured with
DC and without DC]{.underline}**
There is no consensus on the claimed benefits of the solutions, each of them
needs to be demonstrated and acknowledged.
**[CSG support for Dual Connectivity]{.underline}**
CSG support for hybrid access HeNBs acting as SeNBs has been identified as the
only option for future normative work.
**[LIPA in the dual connectivity:]{.underline}**
Use cases for LIPA are covered by use cases for SIPTO with co-located L-GW.
The conclusion for SIPTO with collocated LGW can be applied to LIPA.
#