# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is related to the technical report of the study item
\"Study on further enhancement of small Cell high layer aspects for LTE\"
(RP-142283 [2]).
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
impacts on the Access Network of the 3GPP systems.
The present document gathers all technical outcome of the study item, and
draws a conclusion on the way forward.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-142283: \"New Study Item proposal: Study on further enhancement of
small Cell high layer aspects for LTE\", Contribution to 3GPP TSG-RAN meeting
#66.
[3] 3GPP TR 36.872: \"Small Cell enhancements for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN
\--Physical layer aspects\".
[4] 3GPP TR 36.842: \"Stay on Small Cell enhancements for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN;
High layer aspects\".
[5] 3GPP TR 36.932: \"Scenarios and requirements for small cell enhancements
for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN\".
[6] R3-150538: \"Consideration on UE associated signalling reduction\",
Contribution to RAN3 meeting #87bis.
[7] R3-151059: \"S1 Signalling load for indoor scenarios\", Contribution to
RAN3 meeting #88.
[8] R3-151060: \"S1 Signalling load for outdoor scenarios\", Contribution to
RAN3 meeting #88.
[9] R3-150345: \"LS on Paging Optimization\", Incoming LS from SA2 to RAN3
meeting #87.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DC Dual Connectivity
eNB E-UTRAN NodeB
EPC Evolved Packet Core
HO HandOver
MME Mobility Management Entity
RRC Radio Resource Control
UE User Equipment
# 4 Dense small cell scenarios
The dense deployment scenarios as described in TR 36.872 [3] are the reference
for this study.
# 5\. Potential Issues
## 5.1 X2 Signalling load reduction for DC operation
### 5.1.1 Potential Issues
Reduction for mobility related signalling load for single connectivity UEs has
been studied in Rel-12 and captured in the TR 36.842 [4]. While the focus in
Rel-12 was on S1 signalling load towards the core network, it might be
beneficial to focus on potential solutions to reduce the X2 signalling load
for DC operation. Solutions that foresee impact on Release-12 UEs shall be
precluded.
### 5.1.2 Conclusion
There is no conclusion during this study.
## 5.2 Increased S1 signalling load due to frequent HOs
### 5.2.1 Potential Issues
TR 36.842 [4] already delivered an upper bound estimation of S1 signalling
load due to HO (i.e. without the assumption of DC being deployed). Figure
5.1.3-1 in TR 36.842 [4] shows the difference for the number of HOs between a
macro only network and a heterogeneous network with 10 small cells per macro
area, which resulted in an increase of 120%-140% depending on the UE speed.
Looking into section 5.1.3 of TR 36.842 [4], an estimation of S1 messages
consumed for HO and connection setup is given in table 5.1.3-2, with varying
RRC Release timer and mobility rate (cell change per minute).
As shown in the Table 5.1.3-2 in TR 36.842 [4], setting an appropriate value
of RRC inactivity timer can reduce the handover signalling efficiently.
The paper [7] also mentions that the network may be able to deal with two
layers of cells (the small cell layer and the macro layer) in a way that
unnecessary mobility signalling can be avoided. The network would apply
reasonable mobility strategies to UEs with medium to higher speeds which would
then be preferably severed on the macro layer. [8] suggests, that for indoor
scenarios, S1 signalling is less likely to happen due, as very low UE mobility
may be assumed.
Several mobility anchor approaches were discussed. It was however identified
that small cells, as long as they are served by individual logical eNBs, would
need to perform an S1 Path Switch Request procedure in case of inter-eNB
handover. The only way to reduce path switch signalling towards the EPC would
be to allow as many neighbouring small cells as possible to be served by a
single logical eNB.
### 5.2.2 Conclusion
No issues have been identified w.r.t. increased S1 signalling load due to
frequent handovers.
## 5.3 Increased non UE associated signalling load
### 5.3.1 Potential Issues
**[Paging]{.underline}**
If network deployments foresee to introduce eNBs serving only a few small
cells, the MME may be impacted in terms of S1 paging signalling load.
Methods to reduce S1 paging signalling load are about to be introduced based
on e.g. an LS received in [9]. The solutions are naturally applicable also for
small cell deployment scenarios.
**[S1-MME connectivity]{.underline}**
Unlike for non-operator deployed eNBs, deployment under operator control is
not expected to be exposed to unreliable or intermittent eNB operation.
MMEs would need to cope with an increased number of S1-MME signalling
connections if network deployments foresee to introduce eNBs serving only a
few small cells, this is however regarded as implementation specific topic and
is out of scope for standardization.
### 5.3.2 Conclusion
No additional issues have been identified w.r.t. increased non-UE associated
signalling.
No issues have been identified w.r.t. S1-MME connectivity due to small cell
deployments.
###### ### Annex A: Increased Signalling Load
TR 36.932 [5] recommends to minimize signalling load (e.g., caused by mobility
to the CN as well as increase of backhaul traffic due to increasing number of
small cell nodes).
Table A-1 shows S1 signalling figures cause by different types of signalling
traffic within a macro LTE network with the inactivity timer set to 20
seconds. It can be seen that the main UE associated signalling towards core
network is caused by service request and handover.
Table A-1. S1 signalling traffic (according to [6]).
* * *
Traffic Parameter Signalling number per busy hour per subscriber Attach 0.26
Dedicated bearer(PDP) Active times 0 Bearer(PDP) Modify times 1.6 Service
Request times 24 Paging 11.6 TAU (Intra MME) 0.87 TAU(Inter MME) 0.02 Handover
(Intra MME) 6.8 Handover(Inter MME) 0.61
* * *
#