# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of the present document is to study the feasibility of specifying
two duplex spacings for a new asymmetrical LTE Band (1695-1710 MHz UL &
1995-2020 MHz DL) in order to provide deployment flexibility in protecting
primary Federal and non-Federal Meteorological Satellite (MetSat) receiver
sites and addressing market license variations.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 30.007: \"Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands\".
[3] RP-151626: \"New SI: New AWS-3/4 Band Plan\", DISH Network, Hughes Network
Systems, Nokia Network, Huawei, Intel, Samsung, Ericsson, 3GPP RAN#69,
Phoenix, U. S. A., September 2015.
[4] FCC, DA 13-2409: \"AWS-4 waiver Memorandum Opinion and Order\", December
20^th^, 2013.
[5] FCC, GN Docket No. 13-185: \"AWS-3 Report and Order\", March 31^st^, 2014.
[6] FCC, DA 14-1023: \"Coordination procedures in the 1695-1710 MHz and
1755-1780 MHz bands\", July 18^th^, 2014.
[7] R4-102412
[8] R4-102574
[9] R4-102413
[10] R4-156847
[11] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[14] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AWS Advanced Wireless Service
MetSat Federal and non-Federal Meteorological Satellite (space-to-Earth)
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
It is proposed to standardize a new E-UTRA operating band incorporating the
newly available mid-band spectrum in the US. Specifically, the proposed band
consists of:
  * 1695-1710 MHz (15 MHz) UL
  * 1995-2020 MHz (25 MHz) DL
The proposed band achieves the following key objectives:
\- Pairing standalone uplink (1695-1710 MHz) and downlink (2000-2020 MHz)
spectrum blocks made available through recent FCC auction and rule changes
\- Maximizing the downlink utility by incorporating the adjacent H block
downlink (1995-2000 MHz)
Figure 4.1-1 depicts the arrangement of the proposed band plan.
{width="6.298611111111111in" height="2.033333333333333in"}
Figure 4.1-1: Proposed band plan arrangement
## 4.2 Objectives
**The core objectives of this SI are:**
\- Analyse the feasibility of specifying two duplex spacings in the band
(1695-1710 MHz UL & 1995-2020 MHz DL) in order to provide deployment
flexibility in protecting federal satellite receiver sites and addressing
market license variations.
\- Identify duplex spacings depending on the outcome of the analysis.
# 5 Band plan
## 5.1 Background
In the United States, two recently completed auctions made additional 75 MHz
of mid-band spectrum available for wireless broadband. In early 2014, the FCC
successfully auctioned off the PCS H block consisting of 1915-1920 MHz UL and
1995-2020 MHz DL. In 2015, the successful completion of Auction #97 freed up
the following:
\- 1695-1710 MHz UL (unpaired AWS-3); 15 MHz of unpaired spectrum
\- 1755-1780 MHz UL & 2155-2180 MHz DL (paired AWS-3); 50 MHz of paired
spectrum
It is noted that the paired AWS-3 spectrum is currently being standardized in
the on-going Band 66 WI [1]. Additionally, the FCC has granted the AWS-4
licensee the flexibility to convert the 2000-2020 MHz block to downlink [2].
The flexibility provides a better harmonization with the neighboring spectrum
blocks (Band 2/25 and H block) and thereby allows for more efficient use of
the 2000-2020 MHz band by eliminating the co-existence issues relating to its
legacy uplink designation.
It is proposed to standardize a new E-UTRA operating band incorporating the
newly available mid-band spectrum mentioned above. The proposed band achieves
the following key objectives:
\- Pairing standalone uplink (1695-1710 MHz) and downlink (2000-2020 MHz)
spectrum blocks made available through recent FCC auction and rule changes
\- Maximizing the downlink utility by incorporating the adjacent H block
downlink (1995-2000 MHz)
Figure 5.1-1 below depicts the arrangement of the proposed band plan. It is
noted that the AWS-3 unpaired uplink spectrum was auctioned off in two
separate blocks; A1 (1695-1700 MHz) and B1 (1700-1710 MHz).
{width="6.660416666666666in" height="1.5222222222222221in"}
Figure 5.1-1: Proposed 15+25 MHz band plan
The proposed band plan is an asymmetric band plan which consists of both
paired and unpaired blocks:
\- 1695-1710 MHz UL & 1995-2010 MHz DL paired blocks
\- 2010-2020 MHz unpaired DL block
Figure 5.1-2 below depicts the arrangement of the proposed band plan AWS-3/4
[BXX] relative to the adjacent spectrum.
{width="5.934027777777778in" height="0.9854166666666667in"}
Figure 5.1-2: AWS-3/4 [BXX]
## 5.1.1 Protection of Federal Satellite Receiver sites
In the US, AWS-3 unpaired uplink licensees are required protect legacy
government satellite receiver locations which operate in both co-channel and
adjacent channel to the 1695-1710 MHz band. These locations are grouped into
27 protection zones and commercial licensees are required to coordinate with
the government in order to operate commercial services within these zones [3].
There are no coordination requirements for commercial licensees to operate
outside the protection zones. These protection zones impact over 10% of the
overall US population; however, the population impact will be much bigger if
the licenses choose to operate the uplink at higher power than 20 dBm EIRP
[4].
Protection of these federal satellite locations will be coordinated based on a
certain receiver protection criteria for the satellite receivers within the
protection zones. 14 zones out of the 27 zones have satellite receiver
frequencies tuned to 1695 MHz and below [4].
{width="6.66875in" height="4.9in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1: Federal government operations in and around 1695-1710 MHz band
{width="6.670138888888889in" height="4.49375in"}
Figure 5.1.1-2: 1695-1710 MHz protection zones in the continental US [5]
Whether operating outside protection zones or, after successful coordination,
within protection zones, commercial licensees will be under an obligation not
to cause harmful interference to the co-channel and adjacent channel federal
sites.
# 6 Deployment scenarios
## 6.1 Background
The purpose of this clause is to consider the AWS-3/4 band plan and look at
the required deployment scenarios to address the different licensees for the
AWS-3 spectrum and protection of Federal satellite receiver sites. The
proposed band plan is an asymmetric band plan which consists of both paired
and unpaired blocks:
\- 1695-1710 MHz UL & 1995-2010 MHz DL paired blocks
\- 2010-2020 MHz unpaired DL block
All potential deployment scenarios described in this clause are consistent to
the above asymmetric band plan configuration.
Table 6.1-1 depicts the current US spectrum licensing situation of the
spectrum blocks included in the band. While a single licensee has access to
both the PCS H and AWS-4 blocks, multiple entities hold licenses to AWS-3;
this means the amount of accessible uplink spectrum varies from market to
market depending on who the AWS-3 licensee is and this variability in
licensing results in a few relevant deployment scenarios.
Table 6.1-1: AWS-3 uplink, PCS H block and AWS-4 licensing in the US
* * *
Spectrum Licensee(s)  
AWS-3 A1 Multiple licensees B1 Multiple licensees PCS H Single \"nationwide\"
licensee  
AWS-4 Single \"nationwide\" licensee
* * *
All these deployment scenarios have one common goal which is to allow the
AWS-3 UL blocks (A1, B1) full access to the 25 MHz downlink spectrum via
intra-band carrier aggregation as shown below.
{width="5.964583333333334in" height="1.0347222222222223in"}
Figure 6.1-1: Scenerio 1/2/3
### 6.1.1 Scenario 1: Access to 15 MHz of Uplink
This scenario applies to markets in where the entire 15 MHz of uplink is
accessible. In this scenario, 1695-1710 MHz uplink can be paired with
1995-2010 MHz downlink, yielding a duplex spacing of 300 MHz The remaining
downlink spectrum at 2010-2020 MHz can be configured as a SCell and access to
the full 25 MHz downlink spectrum is possible via 2DL/1UL intra-band
contiguous CA (15+10 MHz).
{width="6.661111111111111in" height="1.5333333333333334in"}
Figure 6.1.1-1: Scenario 1: Pairing configuration with access to 15 MHz uplink
(300 MHz duplex)
### 6.1.2 Scenario 2: Access to 10 MHz of Uplink
This scenario applies to markets in where only 10 MHz of uplink (i.e. B1
block) is accessible (i.e. licensed) or within protection zones where the
legacy government satellite receivers need to be protected from harmful uplink
interference. 14 zones out of the 27 zones have satellite receiver frequencies
tuned to 1695 MHz and below [1] impacting 17 EA markets.
At these 14 zones, use of 1695-1700 MHz may be restricted as a coordination
mitigation mechanism to reduce potential impact to the government satellite
receivers. In such cases, the actual accessible uplink will be limited to 10
MHz even if a single licensee has access to both A1 and B1 blocks.
#### 6.1.2.1 Scenario 2A: Access to 10 MHz of Uplink (300 MHz duplex spacing)
When keeping the same duplexing spacing of 300 MHz as Scenario 1, this case
will yield two SCell DL blocks, requiring 3 DL intra-band CA to access the
full 25 MHz downlink (5+10+10 MHz); this option is depicted in Figure
6.1.2.1-1. It is noted that the current specifications do not support 3DL
contiguous CA whose aggregate bandwidth is less than 40 MHz.
{width="6.663194444444445in" height="1.4534722222222223in"}
Figure 6.1.2.1-1: Scenario 2A: Pairing configuration with access to 10 MHz
uplink (300 MHz duplex)
#### 6.1.2.2 Scenario 2B: Access to 10 MHz of Uplink (295MHz duplex spacing)
One other option is to specify a second duplex spacing which will allow full
access to the 25 MHz downlink via 2 DL CA. Figure 6.1.2.2-1 depicts the
pairing configuration with a second duplexing spacing of 295 MHz. In this
configuration, 1700-1710 MHz will be paired with 1995-2005 MHz and a single DL
SCell block at 2005-2020 MHz; access to the full 25 MHz of downlink spectrum
is possible via 2DL/1UL intra-band contiguous CA (10+15 MHz).
{width="6.6618055555555555in" height="1.5229166666666667in"}
Figure 6.1.2.2-1: Scenario 2B: Pairing configuration with access to 10 MHz
uplink (295 MHz Duplex)
## 6.1.3 Scenario 3: Access to 5 MHz of Uplink
This scenario applies to markets in where only 5 MHz of uplink (i.e. A1 block)
is accessible. In this scenario, 1695-1700 MHz uplink can be paired with
1995-2000 MHz downlink, yielding the same duplex spacing of 300 MHz as
Scenario 1. The remaining downlink spectrum at 2000-2020 MHz can be configured
as a SCell and access to the full 25 MHz downlink spectrum is possible via
2DL/1UL intra-band contiguous CA (5+20 MHz).
{width="6.6618055555555555in" height="1.5347222222222223in"}
Figure 6.1.3-1: Scenario 3: Pairing configuration with access to 5 MHz uplink
(300MHz duplex)
# 7 Duplex spacings
## 7.1 Introduction
In [R4-156847], a deployment scenario is discussed for which either an
additional TX/RX carrier spacing or 3DL intra-band is required to fully
utilize the entire 25 MHz of DL in the proposed band plan. In the present
document the implications of introducing an additional TX/RX carrier/duplex
spacing to support all three deployment scenarios are considered.
## 7.2 Additional duplex spacing
For the AWS-3/4 frequency arrangement assuming TX-RX frequency spacings of 295
MHz and 300 MHz, it would require the UE to support 2DL intra-band contiguous
CA with 25 MHz of aggregated DL bandwidth as shown below;
{width="6.670138888888889in" height="1.4965277777777777in"}
Figure 7.2-1: TX/RX carrier spacing for the three deployment scenarios
### 7.2.1 RF specification impacts
In Table 5.7.4-1 of TS 36.101, a single default UE TX-RX frequency separation
is defined for each E-UTRA band. However, the specification does not preclude
more than one duplex spacing as shown below in subclause 5.7.4 [R4-155587]:
> **_5.7.4 TX--RX frequency separation_**
>
> _a) The default E-UTRA TX channel (carrier centre frequency) to RX channel
> (carrier centre frequency) separation is specified in Table 5.7.4-1 for the
> TX and RX channel bandwidths defined in Table 5.6.1-1_
Table 5.7.4-1: Default UE TX-RX frequency separation
+-----------------------+-------------------------+ | E-UTRA Operating Band | TX -- RX carrier centre | | | | | | frequency separation | +-----------------------+-------------------------+ | 1 | 190 MHz | +-----------------------+-------------------------+ | .... | .... | +-----------------------+-------------------------+
> _b) The use of other TX channel to RX channel carrier centre frequency
> separation is not precluded and is intended to form part of a later
> release._
Similar text can be found in the UTRA FDD specification for both the UE (TS
25.101) and BS (TS 25.104) in subclause 5.7.4 as shown below:
> **_5.7.4 TX--RX frequency separation_**
>
> _b) UTRA/FDD can support both fixed and variable transmit to receive
> frequency separation._
>
> _c) The use of other transmit to receive frequency separations in existing
> or other frequency bands shall not be precluded._
Therefore, for AWS-3/4 frequency arrangement, TX-RX frequency spacings of 295
MHz and 300 MHz would need to be added to Table 5.7.4-1 of E-UTRA UE
specifications TS 36.101 and are in-line with the guidance given in the
specification that \"_the use of other TX channel to RX channel carrier centre
frequency separation is not precluded and is intended to form part of a later
release.\"_
### 7.2.2 RF performance perspective
From the UE implementation point of view protection of own receiver from own
transmitter sets the requirements in order to produce sufficient attenuation
in the DL RX band. The proposed AWS-3/4 band plan has a large 285 MHz duplex
gap and therefore the performance differences between the two TX/RX
carrier/duplex spacing are expected to be insignificant. In this case of the
AWS-3/4 band the 285 MHz duplex gap and the maximum 15 MHz TX channel
bandwidth would mitigate any RF self-interference issues so that both the
inner and outer duplexed channels will have the same reception and
transmission performance requirements. This means the minimum performance
requirements for the band can remain consistent regardless of the TX/RX
frequency or duplex spacing choice.
### 7.2.3 UE Architecture perspective
From [R4-155587] \"_Even though there are two duplex spacings, one duplexer
covers the whole DL spectrum. There is no need to modify the baseband, mixer,
LO, PA, and RF front-end. Supporting the additional duplex spacing can be done
by software, which provides tuning control to the RX LO_.\"
Supporting more than one duplex spacing in a band would be a proactive 3GPP
feature, which offers needed flexibility to operators, as more
\"unconventional\" spectrum (unpaired FDD, impaired spectrum, etc.) is being
made available for LTE. For example, the FCC will be mandating band plans with
two duplex spacings if the final band plan exceeds 35+35 MHz allocation as
stated in the recently published 600 MHz incentive auction Report and Order
[FCC Incentive Auction Report and Order, May 2014] as shown in Figure 7.2.3-1.
{width="6.500694444444444in" height="3.4805555555555556in"}
Figure 7.2.3-1: US 600 MHz band plans
### 7.2.4 Signalling perspective
In TS 36.331, the signalling support of additional duplex spacing is already
available [R4-155587], which is shown below in SIB2. If this field is absent,
the default TX-RX frequency separation is used. If the additional duplex
spacing is explicitly passed in SIB2, the additional duplex spacing is used.
_SystemInformationBlockType2 information element_
_\-- ASN1START_
_SystemInformationBlockType2 ::= SEQUENCE {_
_ac-BarringInfo SEQUENCE {_
_ac-BarringForEmergency BOOLEAN,_
_ac-BarringForMO-Signalling AC-BarringConfig OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ac-BarringForMO-Data AC-BarringConfig OPTIONAL -- Need OP_
_} OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_radioResourceConfigCommon RadioResourceConfigCommonSIB,_
_ue-TimersAndConstants UE-TimersAndConstants,_
_freqInfo SEQUENCE {_
_ul-CarrierFreq ARFCN-ValueEUTRA OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ul-Bandwidth ENUMERATED {n6, n15, n25, n50, n75, n100}_
_OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_additionalSpectrumEmission AdditionalSpectrumEmission_
_},_
_mbsfn-SubframeConfigList MBSFN-SubframeConfigList OPTIONAL, -- Need OR_
_timeAlignmentTimerCommon TimeAlignmentTimer,_
_...,_
_lateNonCriticalExtension OCTET STRING (CONTAINING
SystemInformationBlockType2-v8h0-IEs) OPTIONAL,_
_[[ ssac-BarringForMMTEL-Voice-r9 AC-BarringConfig OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ssac-BarringForMMTEL-Video-r9 AC-BarringConfig OPTIONAL -- Need OP_
_]],_
_[[ ac-BarringForCSFB-r10 AC-BarringConfig OPTIONAL -- Need OP_
_]],_
_[[ ac-BarringSkipForMMTELVoice-r12 ENUMERATED {true} OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ac-BarringSkipForMMTELVideo-r12 ENUMERATED {true} OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ac-BarringSkipForSMS-r12 ENUMERATED {true} OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ac-BarringPerPLMN-List-r12 AC-BarringPerPLMN-List-r12 OPTIONAL -- Need OP_
_]]_
_}_
_SystemInformationBlockType2-v8h0-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {_
_multiBandInfoList SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxMultiBands)) OF
AdditionalSpectrumEmission OPTIONAL, -- Need OR_
_nonCriticalExtension SystemInformationBlockType2-v9e0-IEs OPTIONAL_
_}_
_SystemInformationBlockType2-v9e0-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {_
_ul-CarrierFreq-v9e0 ARFCN-ValueEUTRA-v9e0 OPTIONAL, -- Cond ul-FreqMax_
_nonCriticalExtension SEQUENCE {} OPTIONAL_
_}_
_AC-BarringConfig ::= SEQUENCE {_
_ac-BarringFactor ENUMERATED {_
_p00, p05, p10, p15, p20, p25, p30, p40,_
_p50, p60, p70, p75, p80, p85, p90, p95},_
_ac-BarringTime ENUMERATED {s4, s8, s16, s32, s64, s128, s256, s512},_
_ac-BarringForSpecialAC BIT STRING (SIZE(5))_
_}_
_MBSFN-SubframeConfigList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxMBSFN-Allocations)) OF
MBSFN-SubframeConfig_
_AC-BarringPerPLMN-List-r12 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxPLMN-r11)) OF AC-
BarringPerPLMN-r12_
_AC-BarringPerPLMN-r12 ::= SEQUENCE {_
_plmn-IdentityIndex-r12 INTEGER (1..maxPLMN-r11),_
_ac-BarringInfo-r12 SEQUENCE {_
_ac-BarringForEmergency-r12 BOOLEAN,_
_ac-BarringForMO-Signalling-r12 AC-BarringConfig OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ac-BarringForMO-Data-r12 AC-BarringConfig OPTIONAL -- Need OP_
_} OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ac-BarringSkipForMMTELVoice-r12 ENUMERATED {true} OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ac-BarringSkipForMMTELVideo-r12 ENUMERATED {true} OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ac-BarringSkipForSMS-r12 ENUMERATED {true} OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ac-BarringForCSFB-r12 AC-BarringConfig OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ssac-BarringForMMTEL-Voice-r12 AC-BarringConfig OPTIONAL, -- Need OP_
_ssac-BarringForMMTEL-Video-r12 AC-BarringConfig OPTIONAL -- Need OP_
_}_
_\-- ASN1STOP_
Earlier studies on a similar topic [R4-102412, R4-102574, R4-102413] also
confirmed the existence of the necessary signaling (SIB2, _ul-CarrierFreq_) to
support additional duplex spacing(s) and recommended implementation a single
band plan with multiple duplex spacing, rather than multiple band plans, each
with a fixed duplexing scheme [R4-102412, R4-102574]. Therefore, from the
signaling point of view, it is possible to specify two TX/RX carrier spacings
for a single band as indicated in [R4-102412].
## 7.3 3DL CA
For AWS-3/4 frequency arrangement assuming a single TX-RX frequency spacing of
300MHz would require the UE to support 3DL intra-band contiguous CA with 25
MHz of aggregated DL bandwidth for Scenario 2a as shown below;
{width="6.670138888888889in" height="1.4965277777777777in"}
Figure 7.3-1: 300 MHz TX/RX carrier spacing requires 3DL CA
### 7.3.1 RF specification impacts
As noted in [R4-156847], the current specifications do not support 3DL intra-
band contiguous CA configurations whose aggregate bandwidths are less than 40
MHz. Table 5.6.A-1 in TS 36.101 lists the current CA bandwidth classes:
7.3.1: (Table 5.6A-1 in TS 36.101: CA bandwidth classes and corresponding
nominal guard bands)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _CA Bandwidth |_ Aggregated | _Number of |_ Nominal Guard | | Class _| Transmission | contiguous CC_ | Band BW~GB~_| | | Bandwidth | | | | | Configuration_ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _A_ | _N~RB,agg~ ≤ |_ 1 _|_ a~1~ | | | 100 _| | BW~Channel(1)~ | | | | | - 0.5∆f~1~ | | | | | (NOTE 2)_ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _B_ | _25 \ < | _2 _|_ 0.05 | | | N~RB,agg~ ≤ | | max(BW~ | | | 100 _| | Channel(1)~,BW | | | | | ~Channel(2)~)_ | | | | | | | | | | _\- 0.5∆f~1~_ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _C_ | _100 \ < | _2 _|_ 0.05 | | | N~RB,agg~ ≤ | | max(BW | | | 200 _| | ~Channel(1)~,B | | | | | W~Channel(2)~) | | | | | - 0.5∆f~1~_ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _D_ | _200 \ < | _3 _|_ 0.05 | | | N~RB,agg~ ≤ | | max(BW | | | 300 _| | ~Channel(1)~,B | | | | | W~Channel(2),~ | | | | | B | | | | | W~Channel(3)~) | | | | | - 0.5∆f~1~_ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _E_ | _300 \ < | _4 _|_ NOTE 3 _| | | N~RB,agg~ ≤ | | | | | 400_ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _F_ | _400 \ < | _5 _|_ NOTE 3 _| | | N~RB,agg~ ≤ | | | | | 500_ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _I_ | _700 \ < | _8 _|_ NOTE 3 _| | | N~RB,agg~ ≤ | | | | | 800_ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _NOTE 1: | | | | | B | | | | | W~Channel(j)~, | | | | | j = 1, 2, 3, | | | | | is the channel | | | | | bandwidth of | | | | | an E-UTRA | | | | | component | | | | | carrier | | | | | according to | | | | | Table 5.6-1 | | | | | and ∆f~1~ = ∆f | | | | | for the | | | | | downlink with | | | | | ∆f the | | | | | subcarrier | | | | | spacing while | | | | | ∆f~1~ = 0 for | | | | | the uplink._ | | | | | | | | | | _NOTE 2: a~1~ | | | | | = 0.16/1.4 for | | | | | BW~Channel(1)~ | | | | | = 1.4 MHz | | | | | whereas a~1~ = | | | | | 0.05 for all | | | | | other channel | | | | | bandwidths._ | | | | | | | | | | _NOTE 3: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | later | | | | | releases._ | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Currently, the CA bandwidth classes are classified per the aggregate bandwidth
and number of contiguous component carriers. Since many Class C and D CA
combinations have already been defined in TS36.101, modifying an existing CA
bandwidth class definition to accommodate 3DL intra-band contiguous CA with
less than 40 MHz of aggregate bandwidth should be avoided (e.g. changing the
Class D definition to accommodate aggregate bandwidth less than 40 MHz).
The other remaining option is then to define a new CA bandwidth class. This
however may break the current methodology of introducing a new bandwidth class
in multiples of 100 RB aggregated transmission bandwidth configurations.
### 7.3.2 RF performance impacts
From the UE implementation point of view protection of own receiver from own
transmitter sets the requirements in order to produce sufficient attenuation
in the DL RX band. The proposed AWS-3/4 band plan has a large 285 MHz duplex
gap and therefore the performance impacts are expected to be insignificant.
However, a new CA bandwidth class definition may require updates to the
following core RF requirements in TS 36.101:
\- 5.6A Channel bandwidth for CA
\- 6.3.5A Power control for CA
\- 6.5.2A Transmit modulation quality for CA
\- 6.6.2.1A Spectrum emission mask for CA
\- 6.6.2.3.2A Minimum requirements for CA UTRA (ACLR)
\- 6.6.2.3.3A Minimum requirements for CA E- UTRA (ACLR)
\- 6.6.3.1A Minimum requirements for CA (spurious emissions)
\- 6.7.1A Minimum requirement for CA (transmit intermodulaton)
\- 7.4.1A Minimum requirements for CA (maximum input level)
\- 7.5.1A Minimum requirements for CA (ACS)
\- 7.6.1.1A Minimum requirements for CA (in-band blocking)
\- 7.6.2.1A Minimum requirements for CA (out-of-band blocking)
\- 7.6.3.1A Minimum requirements for CA (narrowband blocking)
\- 7.7.1A Minimum requirements for CA (spurious response)
\- 7.8.1A Minimum requirements for CA (intermodulation characteristics)
\- 7.10.1A Minimum requirements for CA (receiver image)
It is also expected that new performance test cases and requirements would
need to be defined for the required 3DL intra-band contiguous CA.
### 7.3.3 Signalling perspective
Consideration would need to be given to understand the impact on signalling of
add a new bandwidth class.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | _UE-EUTRA-Capability field descriptions_ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **_BandCombinationParameters-v1130_** | | | | The field is applicable to each supported CA bandwidth class | | combination (i.e. CA configuration in TS 36.101 [42**, Section | | 5.6A.1**]) indicated in the corresponding band combination. If | | included, the UE shall include the same number of entries, and | | listed in the same order, as in _BandCombinationParameters-r10_. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **_CA-BandwidthClass_** | | | | _The CA bandwidth class supported by the UE as defined in TS 36.101 | | [42, Table 5.6A-1]._ | | | | _The UE explicitly includes all the supported CA bandwidth class | | combinations in the band combination signalling. Support for one CA | | bandwidth class does not implicitly indicate support for another CA | | bandwidth class._ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
# 8 Conclusions
The core objectives of this SI are:
\- Analyse the feasibility of specifying two duplex spacings in the band
(1695-1710 MHz UL & 1995-2020 MHz DL) in order to provide deployment
flexibility in protecting federal satellite receiver sites and addressing
market license variations.
\- Identify duplex spacings depending on the outcome of the analysis
The outcome of the SI are:
\- The specification allows the use of other TX channel to RX channel carrier
centre frequency separation; such a scheme is not precluded and is intended to
form part of a later release]
\- The proposed AWS-3/4 band plan has a large 285 MHz duplex gap and therefore
the performance differences between the two TX/RX carrier/duplex spacing are
expected to be insignificant. This means the minimum performance requirements
for the band can remain consistent regardless of the TX/RX frequency or duplex
spacing choice.
\- The actual performance and conformance test cases for the additional TX/RX
spacing (295 MHz) would be limited to the one specific deployment
configuration (Scenario 2b).
\- In TS 36.331, the signalling support of additional duplex spacing is
already available. Therefore, from the signalling point of view, it is
possible to specify two TX/RX carrier spacings for a single band
\- Supporting more than one duplex spacing in a band would be a proactive 3GPP
feature, which offers needed flexibility to operators, as more
\"unconventional\" spectrum (unpaired FDD, impaired spectrum and etc.) is
being made available for LTE.
Therefore, the SI addressed the objectives of the study item which was to
analyse the feasibility of specifying two duplex spacings in the band
(1695-1710 MHz UL & 1995-2020 MHz DL) in order to provide deployment
flexibility in protecting federal satellite receiver sites and addressing
market license variations.
Separately to the required objectives of the study item, has concluded that
maintaining a single carrier/duplex spacing for the AWS-3/4 band arrangements
would require the usage of 3DL CA, noting the current specifications do not
support 3DL intra-band contiguous CA configurations whose aggregate bandwidths
are less than 40MHz and is therefore not recommended
Hence, it is concluded that:
\- It is feasible to specify two duplex spacings in the proposed band
(1695-1710 MHz UL & 1995-2020 MHz DL) and
\- It is identified that two duplex spacings of 300 MHz and 295 MHz are
required to provide deployment flexibility in protecting federal satellite
receiver sites and addressing market license variations
#