# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Typically, Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) bands are defined as the symmetric
paired spectrum for DL and UL respectively; therefore, it can accommodate a
fixed ratio of the maximum downlink and uplink traffic correspondingly. Such
spectrum allocation in each region is quite static, generally will not change
within tens of years before refarming or re-allocation. In practice, the ratio
between uplink and downlink traffic changes over the time, then the static
allocation of the frequency resources between downlink and uplink transmission
in LTE is not efficient to support dynamic asymmetric cell traffic. According
to some statistics of mobile network traffic [3, 4], some measured traffic
ratio between DL and UL would be around than 4:1 and with the increased
portion of video data for mobile traffic (2/3 by 2018), the ratio between DL
and UL would be increased further.
This implies that uplink resource can be fairly underutilized for the paired
spectrum usage of FDD. Considering UL/DL traffic asymmetry and the limited
available spectrum, mechanisms to utilize the underutilized uplink resources
should be considered.
It is however noted that, in some cases, UL traffic can be heavier than DL
traffic depending on traffic situations (e.g., cloud computing). It can be
also noted that asymmetry in DL/UL traffic intensity may not be directly
translated to asymmetric resource utilization due to different data
rate/spectral efficiency between DL and UL.
# 1 Scope
The objectives of this study are:
Identify and document potential regional/band-specific regulatory
possibilities/constraints for the use cases of utilizing UL spectrum for
transmission from the network to UEs, including aspects such as Tx power
levels, modulation schemes, type of transmitting nodes, etc.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-150470, \"Study on regulatory aspects for flexible duplex for
E-UTRAN\", LG Electronics, China Telecom, Huawei
[3] \"Mobile Internet Usage -- Network Traffic Measurements\",
http://lib.tkk.fi/Dipl/2009/urn100072.pdf
[4] \"Cisco Visual Networking Index: Global Mobile Data Traffic Forecast
Update, 2013--2018\",
http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/solutions/collateral/service-provider/visual-
networking-index-vni/white_paper_c11-520862.pdf
[5] RP-150509, LS on 3GPP RAN Study on regulatory aspects for flexible duplex
for E-UTRAN (to: ECC PT1, FCC, RRA, National Communications Commission (TW),
ARIB, CCSA, Wireless Adviser to the Government of India; cc: -; contact:
Telecom Italia), source: RAN; RAN #67, March 2015
[6] RP-150561, \"Response LS to RP-150509 on 3GPP RAN requesting information
on the current regulations regarding regional/band-specific regulatory
possibilities/constraints of utilizing UL spectrum for transmission from the
network to UEs\", ECC PT1,
[7] RP-150575, \"Reply LS to RP-150509 on 3GPP RAN Study on regulatory aspects
for flexible duplex for E-UTRAN\", FCC
[8] RP-150576, \"Reply LS to RP-150509 on 3GPP RAN Study on regulatory aspects
for flexible duplex for E-UTRAN\", ARIB
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ARIB Association of Radio Industries and Businesses
CEPT Conférence Européenne des Administrations des Postes et des
Télécommunications,\ European Conference of Postal an Telecommunications
Administrations
ECC Electronic Communications Committee
# 4 Responses from Regulators
## 4.1 From ECC PT1 (RP-150561)
Reply LS RP-150561 [6] from ECC PT1 chairman to RAN LS RP-150509 [5]:
CEPT ECC-PT1 has considered the **LS on 3GPP RAN Study on regulatory aspects
for flexible duplex for E-UTRAN (RP-150509) at its meeting held from 20^th^ to
21^st^ April, 2015.**
After analysing the subject, ECC-PT1 would like to inform 3GPP that
1) CEPT has approved ECC Decisions containing harmonised technical conditions
(containing FDD frequency arrangements and associated technical conditions)
for the use of the 700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1500 MHz, 1800 MHz, 2 GHz, 2.6
GHz and 3.5 GHz bands for Mobile/Fixed Communication Networks (MFCN), which is
the technology-neutral term used in CEPT to describe IMT.
2) The current CEPT framework for the FDD bands as defined in the above
mentioned ECC Decisions does not allow to use the FDD uplink as downlink nor
the other way around.
**It should also be noted that for each CEPT ECC harmonised frequency band for
IMT, an EC (European Commission) Decision (drafted on the basis of CEPT
Reports in response to EC Mandates) is in force for the EU Member States.
Those EU/EC Decisions contain also frequency arrangements and technical
conditions in line with CEPT ECC Decisions, and in consequence, EC Decisions
do not allow flexible use of uplink and downlink for FDD bands neither.**
The relevant CEPT ECC Decisions are listed in the Annex.
ECC PT1 would like to be kept informed on the results of your study and any
follow up initiatives.
**Annex**
700 MHz:
ECC Decision (15)01 «Harmonised technical conditions for mobile/fixed
communications networks (MFCN) in the band 694-790 MHz including a paired
frequency arrangement (Frequency Division Duplex 2x30 MHz) and an optional
unpaired frequency arrangement (Supplemental Downlink)»
800 MHz:
ECC Decision (09)03 «Harmonised conditions for Mobile/Fixed Communications
Networks (MFCN) operating in the band 790-862 MHz»
900 MHz:
ECC Decision (06)13 «Designation of the bands 880-915 MHz, 925-960 MHz,
1710-1785 MHz and 1805-1880 MHz for terrestrial UMTS, LTE and WiMAX systems»
1500 MHz:
ECC Decision (13)03 «Harmonised use of the frequency band 1452-1492 MHz for
Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks Supplemental Downlink (MFCN SDL)»
1800 MHz:
ECC Decision (06)13 «Designation of the bands 880-915 MHz, 925-960 MHz,
1710-1785 MHz and 1805-1880 MHz for terrestrial UMTS, LTE and WiMAX systems»
2 GHz:
ECC Decision (06)01 «The harmonised utilisation of the bands 1920-1980 MHz and
2110-2170 MHz for mobile/fixed communications networks (MFCN) including
terrestrial IMT systems»
2.6 GHz:
ECC Decision (05)05 «Harmonised utilization of spectrum for Mobile/Fixed
Communications Networks (MFCN) operating within the band 2500-2690 MHz»
3.5 GHz:
ECC Decision (11)06 «Harmonised frequency arrangements for mobile/fixed
communications networks (MFCN) operating in the bands 3400-3600 MHz and
3600-3800 MHz»
## 4.2 From FCC (RP-150575)
Reply LS RP-150575 [7] from Chief Engineer, Wireless Telecommunications
Bureau, Federal Communications Commission to RAN LS RP-150509 [5]:
Thank you for your letter of March 27, 2015, inquiring as to what the FCC's
rules might say about the use of uplink spectrum for downlink transmissions,
including transmit power levels, modulations schemes, and types of
transmitters.
We encourage you to review the FCC's rules regarding the types of uses
permitted in specific bands. To read our rules online, visit
http://www.ecfr.gov/ and select "Title 47 -- Telecommunications." In our rules
we generally seek to maximize flexibility and therefore many bands permit
downlink or uplink use, but in some cases we have more restrictive rules to
reduce the likelihood of interference among services.
To assist and help focus your review, we include the table below, in which we
provide additional information on some of our rules for bands that we believe
3GPP has specified or may specify for uplink operation. This table shows the
most relevant technical rule subparts, authorized operations, and a reference
to the rules on frequencies and power limits. Please note that this is
representative of the relevant rules, but is not necessarily comprehensive.
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | F | 3GPP | Des | T | **Au |** Power | | requency | band UL | cription | echnical | thorized | limits | | Range | | | rules | Op | and | | | | | | erations | frequ | | (MHz) | | | (Part & | in 3GPP | encies**| | | | | Subpart) | UL | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | ortion** | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 699-716 | 12, 17 | Lower | Part 27 | base, | 27.5, | | | | 700 | Subpart | fixed, | 27.50(c) | | | | | C | control, | | | | | | | mobile, | | | | | | | portable | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 777-787 | 13 | Upper | Part 27 | base, | 27.5, | | | | 700 | Subpart | fixed, | 27.50(b) | | | | | C | control, | | | | | | | mobile, | | | | | | | portable | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 814-824 | 26 | SMR | Part 90 | mobile, | 90.613, | | | | | Subpart | control | 90.635 | | | | | S | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 824-849 | 5, 26 | Cellular | Part 22 | base, | 22.905, | | | | | Subpart | mobile | 22.913 | | | | | H | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | TBD | AWS-3 | Part 27 | mobile, | 27.5, | | 695-1710 | | unpaired | Subpart | portable | 27.50(d) | | | | | C | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | 4 | AWS-1 | Part 27 | fixed, | 27.5, | | 710-1755 | | | Subpart | mobile, | 27.50(d) | | | | | C | portable | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | 66 | AWS-3 | Part 27 | mobile, | 27.5, | | 755-1780 | | paired | Subpart | portable | 27.50(d) | | | | | C | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | 2, 25 | PCS | Part 24 | base, | 24.229, | | 850-1915 | | | Subpart | mobile, | 24.232 | | | | | E | portable | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | TBD | H block | Part 27 | fixed, | 27.5, | | 915-1920 | | | Subpart | mobile, | 27.50(d) | | | | | C | portable | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | 23 | AWS-4 | Part 27 | fixed | 27.5, | | 000-2020 | | | Subpart | mobile | 27.50(d) | | | | | C | and | | | | | | | portable | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | waiver | | | | | | | to allow | | | | | | | base | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | 30 | WCS | Part 27 | base, | 27.5, | | 305-2315 | | | Subpart | fixed, | 27.50(a) | | | | | C | mobile | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | portable | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | 41 | BRS/EBS | Part 27 | main, | 27.5, | | 496-2690 | | | Subpart | booster, | 27.50(h) | | | | | C | base, | | | | | | | mobile | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | stations | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
As shown in this table, in many cases our rules do not refer directly to
downlink or uplink but rather specify types of stations such as fixed, base,
portable, control, and mobile. The designation of the type of station is one
tool the FCC uses to promote compatibility of various spectrum uses. For each
case the transmission power and emissions limit \-- and in some cases antenna
height and other band specific factors -- are also captured in the rules.
Considering these factors, we note that 814-824 MHz, 1695-1710 MHz, and
1755-1780 MHz do not allow fixed or base transmissions, and therefore do not
permit downlink operation. Furthermore, while fixed transmissions are
permitted in 1710-1755 MHz and 1915-1920 MHz, the allowed power levels are the
same as those of mobiles in those bands, and fixed stations in 1710-1755 MHz
are limited to a 10 m AGL antenna height. Finally, we note that it is well
known that placing downlink operations co-channel or adjacent channel to
uplink operations increases the likelihood of interference, and licensees must
not only comply with the technical rules mentioned here, but also not cause
harmful interference to other licensees, including licensees currently using
these bands for uplink operations.
Finally, we suggest you consider reviewing the FCC Orders in which these rules
were adopted, which can serve as useful reference documents explaining the
underlying justification for the rules.
We are available to answer any further questions you may have. Thank you for
your interest in our rules.
## 4.3 From ARIB (RP-150576)
Reply LS RP-150576 [8] from ARIB to RAN LS RP-150509 [5]:
ARIB has reviewed the LS in [1*] together with its associated technical
document in [2*] and would like to inform the following analysis as the
consequence of the review.
1) Assignable frequencies in Japan are given in "Frequency assignment plan"
[3*][4*]. The Plan is established and disclosed by Minister of Internal
Affairs and Communications under the provisions of the item 1 of Article 26 of
the Radio Law. In its Annex 10-2 [3*][4*][5*], there is a table providing
frequencies for Portable Radio communications (FDD system) as shown below:
{width="6.319444444444445in" height="2.9027777777777777in"}
2) In Articles 4-6, 4-12, 4-7-3 of The Regulations for Enforcement of the
Radio Law[6*], definitions of base stations, land mobile stations and land
mobile relay stations are given, where land mobile relay stations are defined
as radio stations that relay communications between land mobile stations and
base stations. Based on the definitions in these articles, several technical
conditions are specified for base stations, land mobile stations and land
mobile relay stations in [7*].
According to the above mentioned rules, base stations shall use the frequency
band as defined in "Frequency assignment plan" [3*] and land mobile relay
stations relay the communications between land mobile stations and base
stations that use the frequencies listed in Annex 10-2 of [3*]. As the result
it is concluded that;
\- Land mobile relay stations are not allowed to use the FDD uplink as its
downlink.- Base stations are not allowed to use the FDD uplink as its
downlink.
It should also be noted that the Essential Standards for Establishing Radio
Stations other than Broadcasting Stations [8*] and other several ordinances or
public notices also specify technical conditions for mobile station
transmitters/receivers and base station transmitters/receivers according to
Annex 10-2 of [3*].
**References**
[1*] 3GPP TSG-RAN, RP-150509, "LS on 3GPP RAN Study on regulatory aspects for
flexible duplex for E-UTRAN," Source: TSG-RAN, (Mar. 2015).
[2*] 3GPP TSG-RAN, RP-150250, "Further discussion on regulatory aspects
related to flexible duplex operation for E-UTRAN," Source: LG Electronics,
China Telecom, Huawei, HiSilicon, IAESI (Mar. 2015).
[3*] "Frequency Assignment Plan," Minister of Internal Affairs and
Communications (as of January 2013)
http://www.tele.soumu.go.jp/e/adm/freq/search/share/index.htm.
[4*] "Frequency Assignment Plan," Ministry of Internal Affairs and
Communications Notice No. 714 of 2008 (in Japanese)
[5*] Partial revision of "Frequency Assignment Plan," Ministry of Internal
Affairs and Communications Notice No. 172 of 2012 (in Japanese)
http://www.soumu.go.jp/main_content/000155957.pdf
[6*] The Regulations for Enforcement of the Radio Law, (In Japanese)\
http://law.e-gov.go.jp/htmldata/S25/S25F30901000014.html.
[7*] The Rules for Regulating Radio Equipment, (In Japanese)\
http://law.e-gov.go.jp/htmldata/S25/S25F30901000018.html.
[8*] The Essential Standards for Establishing Radio Stations other than
Broadcasting Stations, (In Japanese)
http://law.e-gov.go.jp/htmldata/S25/S25F30901000012.html.
# 5 Summary
At least in one country and in some bands, utilizing UL spectrum for
transmission from the network to UEs is possible.
#