# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document captures the findings of the Study on further
enhancements of Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT) for E-UTRAN.
# 1 Scope
The objective of the study is to investigate technical solutions for MDT
enhancements, limited to aspects that can be observed at access stratum. In
particular the following:
\- Enhanced QoS Verification Use Case:
Study MDT measurements and procedures capabilities to support better
understanding of the QoS and its limiting factors for MMTEL voice and video
traffic, including:
Study necessary MDT measurements and procedures capabilities for assessing the
performance of MMTEL voice and video, e.g. delay, packet loss rate of PDCP
layer.
Study necessary MDT measurements and procedures capabilities for mobility
performance of MMTEL voice and video (e.g. add tags to the existing RLF report
in order to derive the particular MMTEL voice and video traffic failures).
Study necessary MDT measurements and procedures capabilities for identifying
hotspot areas of MMTEL voice and video.
\- Enhanced Coverage Optimization Use Case:
Consider provision of additional feedback from UE handling diverse
capabilities that impact MDT measurement results (e.g. new type of assistance
information such as IDC, etc) and analyze what benefit such information could
achieve.
The present document provides descriptions and possible solutions of use cases
and analysis of these solutions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 36.805 (v9.0.0): \"Study on Minimization of drive-tests in Next
Generation Networks\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.314: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Layer 2 - Measurements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio measurement collection for
Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
eICIC enhanced Inter-cell Interference Coordination
IDC In-Device Coexistence
MMTEL Multi Media Telephony
QCI QoS Class Identifier
TCE Trace Collection Entity
# 4 Requirements and constraints
The requirements and constraints captured in section 4 of TR 36.805 [2] are
applicable for this study.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 QoS verification use case
MDT data reported from UEs and the RAN may be used to verify Quality of
Service of bearers used for MMTEL voice/video and assess user experience of
these services from RAN perspective and to assist network capacity extension.
Use cases are:
\- **Traffic location** : MDT functionality to obtain information of where
MMTEL voice/video used within a cell.
\- **User QoS experience** : MDT functionality to assess the MMTEL voice/video
QoS experience for a specific UE together with location information
## 5.2 Coverage optimization use case
Coverage optimisation is one of the main use cases in legacy MDT. However, it
relies on measurements that may be affected by several functions such as eICIC
or IDC. Therefore, the following use case is considered:
\- **Coverage optimisation enhancement:** Due to the introduction of IDC,
transmission in the ISM bands affects UE reception of LTE signals in DL. Other
mechanisms, e.g. eICIC, can also affect UE measurements. This will lead to
unreliable LTE measurements. The polluted RSRP/RSRQ measurements may result in
wrong coverage diagnostics/optimisation conclusions. New mechanism is needed
to enable the network identify the polluted measurements and avoid negative
impact to the evaluation process.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solutions for enhanced QoS verification
For the QoS verification use case for MMTEL voice and video traffic, it is
desirable to obtain the following metrics:
\- Latency metrics for both downlink and uplink.
\- Packet Loss metrics for both downlink and uplink.
\- Traffic drop metric
Regarding latency metrics collection, UL PDCP queuing delay measurement should
be performed per QCI per UE and should reflect the packet delay observed at
UE's PDCP layer only (from packet arrival at PDCP upper SAP until the packet
starts to be delivered to RLC).
Regarding packet loss metrics collection, data loss visible to the Access
Stratum shall be measured. Data loss measurement shall be collected by the
eNB. Data loss measurement for UL and DL (except for UL dropping of PDCP SDUs)
are done based on existing L2 measurements (as specified today in TS 36.314
[3] but per UE). For uplink the UE logs number of PDCP SDUs that are discarded
and reports statistics thereof to the eNB. The UE distinguishes in the log the
number of dropped PDCP SDUs for which it had assigned PDCP SNs and had not
assigned a SN. (This enables the eNB to distinguish UL losses from UL drops.)
How and when the UE reports will be discussed in the work item phase.
Regarding traffic drop metric collection, UE should include presence of a QCI
1 bearer at the time of RLF in the RLF report. The UE also indicates failure
of subsequent re-establishment and NAS recovery.
Regarding user distribution, the VoLTE user distribution among different
geographical areas during different time can be derived through eNB
implementation and Rel-11 MDT functionality as described in TS 37.320 [4].
## 6.2 Solutions for enhanced coverage optimization
In order to filter the polluted measurement results due to in-device
interference, UEs in RRC_IDLE supporting the IDC mechanism should remove
measurements from the Logged MDT report that were affected by IDC
interference. UEs in RRC_CONNECTED shall measure and report RRM measurements
based on existing RRC measurement configuration and reporting procedures.
In the case that MDT measurements are affected by eICIC, a solution can be
considered where the eNB indicates to the TCE whether measurements have been
collected while eICIC was configured. Alternatively, the eNB decides to not
report those results to the TCE. Both solutions do impact network only.
# 7 Conclusion
**On solutions for QoS verification:**
As described in section 6.1 it is considered as beneficial to obtain the
latency, packet loss and traffic drop metrics of MMTEL voice and video
traffic.
\- Regarding latency metrics collection, UL PDCP queuing delay measurement
should be performed per QCI per UE and should reflect the packet delay
observed at UE's PDCP layer only (from packet arrival at PDCP upper SAP until
the packet starts to be delivered to RLC).
\- Regarding packet loss metrics collection, data loss measurement for UL and
DL (except for UL dropping of PDCP SDUs) can be done based on existing L2
measurements. For UL dropping of PDCP SDUs the UE should log number of PDCP
SDUs that are discarded and reports statistics thereof to the eNB.
\- Regarding traffic drop metric collection, UE should include presence of a
QCI 1 bearer at the time of RLF in the RLF report. The UE should also indicate
failure of subsequent re-establishment and NAS recovery.
\- Regarding user distribution, the VoLTE user distribution among different
geographical areas during different time can be derived through eNB
implementation and Rel-11 MDT functionality.
**On solutions for enhanced coverage optimization:**
As described in section 6.2 it is considered as beneficial when UEs in
RRC_IDLE supporting the IDC mechanism should remove measurements from the
Logged MDT report that were affected by IDC interference.
On network side solutions can be considered where either the eNB indicates to
the TCE whether measurements have been collected while eICIC was configured or
the eNB decides to not report those results to the TCE.
#