# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report for the work Item on UE core
requirements for uplink 64 QAM in LTE.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] R4-153335: \"MPR/A-MPR requirements for UL 64QAM\", Huawei.
[3] R4-152242: \"MPR and A-MPR for uplink 64QAM\", Qualcomm.
[4] R4-153030: \"MPR and A-MPR for uplink 64QAM\", Qualcomm.
[5] R4-153135: \"UL 64-QAM simulation results\", Nokia Networks.
[6] R4-152112: \"MPR of 64QAM for single CC and intra-contiguous CA\", LG
Electronics Inc.
[7] R4-151904: \"UL 64QAM MPR simulation results for LTE single carrier\",
ZTE: ZTE Mobile Telecom.
[8] R4-152689, \"UL 64QAM MPR simulation results for case 3\", ZTE, ZTE Mobile
Telecom.
[9] R4-152861: \"MPR requirements for UL 64QAM\", Ericsson.
[10] R4-151646: \"MPR/A-MPR requirements for UL 64QAM, Huawei\", Huawei.
[11] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Introduction
## 4.1 Work item objective
The objectives of the work item are the following:
\- Specify UE RF requirements for uplink 64QAM for single carrier with and
without UL MIMO and for carrier aggregation without UL MIMO e.g.:
\- MPR requirements for uplink 64QAM.
\- A-MPR requirements for uplink 64QAM, if needed:
\- For single carrier A-MPR, evaluate whether the existing single carrier
A-MPR requirements can be re-used for 64QAM.
\- For intra-band contiguous CA, RAN4 should focus the work on existing CA
band combinations. As long as one CA combination is completed, the WI can be
closed and work on the remaining CA combination can continue.
\- EVM requirement for uplink 64QAM.
# 5 MPR requirement for UL 64QAM
## 5.1 General
Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) is allowed for the maximum output power to meet
the spectrum related requirement.
For single carrier or inter-band CA there are two kinds of MPR cases, one is
for contiguous RB allocation, and the other is for non- contiguous RB
allocation, i.e. multi-cluster simultaneous transmission in single component
carrier. Different MPR values are defined for different modulation schemes for
contiguous RB allocation case, while for multi-cluster case, RAN4 needs
further discussion whether only one MPR formula is defined without
distinguishing of modulation schemes or not.
## 5.2 Evaluations
The cases in Table 5.2-1 are simulated to evaluate MPR requirements for UL
64QAM.
_Table 5.2-1: Simulation cases for evaluation of MPR requirements_
* * *
**Case** **Back off** **Single carrier or CA** **RB allocation** **Format in
current specification** 1 MPR Single carrier contiguous table 2 MPR Single
carrier non-contiguous formula 3 MPR Intra-band contiguous CA contiguous table
4 MPR Intra-band contiguous CA non-contiguous formula
* * *
### 5.2.1 Assumptions
Simulation assumptions for evaluation of MPR/A-MPR are listed below:
\- PA operating point: UTRAACLR1 = 33 dBc @ Pout = 22 dBm for 100RB QPSK
signal
\- Modulator IQ imbalance = 25 dBc
\- Modulator carrier leakage = 25 dBc
\- Modulator C_IM3 = 60 dBc
\- Phase noise=[33] dBc
\- Transceiver noise= [-29.5] dBc
### 5.2.2 Results of vendor A
The simulation results and proposals are based on [2] and [10].
Figure 5.2.2-1 shows calibrated PA requirement for power back off to single
carrier with QPSK modulation. Simulation results are enumerated with different
bandwidth and scheduled RB numbers.
{width="4.145138888888889in" height="3.417361111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.2-1: MPR for single carrier of QPSK modulation
From figure 5.2.2-1, it is observed that maximum power back off is not
determined by point of largest bandwidth (20MHz) and full RB allocation.
Figure 5.2.2-2 shows power back off requirement to single carrier with 64QAM
modulation compared to 16QAM modulation for different bandwidths and scheduled
RB numbers.
{width="4.145138888888889in" height="3.417361111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.2-2: MPR for single carrier of 64QAM and 16QAM modulation
From this figure, it is observed that MPR value for 16 QAM is less than 1dB
for small number of scheduled RBs and less than 2 dB for large number of
scheduled RBs.
Regarding 64QAM, for 10MHz 18RB case, nearly no more back off for 64QAM is
needed compared to that of 16QAM. For 100RB case, 0.2 dB more back off for
64QAM is needed compared to 16QAM. Moreover, the absolute MPR values shown for
64QAM are also less than 1dB for small number of scheduled RBs and less than 2
dB for large number of scheduled RBs. So MRP requirement for 16QAM can also
cover the power backoff of 64QAM, which means ACLR is not the limiting factor
for determine the MPR requirements for 64QAM
Changing the modulation to 64QAM and taking the PA input power backoff as a
variable parameter, the curves of EVM vs power backoff are shown in the Figure
5.2.2-3.
{width="3.9875in" height="3.417361111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.2-3: EVM versus power backoff of UL 64QAM for SC
In this figure, regarding the EVM performance, same result can be observed
with different bandwidth and scheduled RB number. When back off is 2 dB, the
EVM value caused by PA is lower than 4%.
**Proposal 1:** It is proposed to define 2 dB MPR for 64 QAM of single carrier
for small number of scheduled RBs and 3dB MPR for large number of scheduled
RBs, where extra 1dB is defined for A-MPR consideration, which will be
discussed later.
EVM performance for Intra-band CA is show in the figure 5.2.2-4. In this
figure, we take two channel BW combinations of CA as example to evaluate
performance of EVM versus power backoff by different number of scheduled RBs.
{width="4.069444444444445in" height="3.417361111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.2-4: EVM versus power backoff of UL 64QAM for Intra-band CA
From figure 5.2.2-4, it can be seen that to meet EVM 4% requirement obtained
by SC case, for small number of scheduled RBs power backoff is equal to 2 dB
shown as label of 20MHz+20MHz 18RB and 5MHz+20MHz 8RB, for media and large
number of scheduled RBs power backoff is equal to 3dB and 4dB respectively.
**Proposal 2:** It is proposed to define additional 1dB more MPR for intra-
band CA of 64 QAM compared to that of 16QAM for all RB allocations.
### 5.2.3 Results of vendor B
The simulation results and proposals are based on [3] and [4].
The simulations were PA only run against 8% EVM requirement where 4% was
allocated to the PA. The PA\'s were calibrated to just meet ACLR requirements.
ACLR, SEM, and spurious emissions were checked separately and found to also
conform with recommendations provided in this contribution.
Table 5.2.3-1 below for case 3 reaffirms the previous conclusion that an
additional 1 dB is required for 64QAM relative to 16QAM.
Table 5.2.3-1: MPR needed for case 3 intra-band contiguous CA for EVM, no
CA_NS signalled
* * *
**Bandwidth combination** **CC1** **CC2** **Backoff needed** **16QAM MPR
specification**  
**RBstart** **L_CRB** **RBstart** **L_CRB**  
20 + 20 **0** **100** **0** **100** **2.3** **3** 20 + 20 24 64 0 0 **1.4**
**2** 20 + 20 **68** **32** **0** **32** **2.3** **2** 20 + 20 **0** **1**
**0** **0** **1.3** **1** 20 + 20 60 40 0 100 **2.2** **3** 20 + 20 **0**
**18** **0** **0** **2.1** **1** 20 + 20 0 100 0 0 **1.4** **2** 5+20 **0**
**25** **0** **100** **3.1** **3** 10+20 0 50 0 100 **2.5** **3** 15+20 0 75 0
100 **2.3** **3**
* * *
Table 5.2.3-2 for case 4 illustrates a small set of non-contiguous RB
allocations where the backoff required for 64QAM to meet EVM is well below the
backoff required to meet ACLR, SEM, and spurious emissions. Moreover, since
64QAM ACLR, SEM, and spurious emissions can be met with the same backoff as
allowed for 16QAM, then no additional backoff is required for 64QAM. We
generalize this conclusion to other non-contiguous RB allocation cases as well
since the backoff is dominated by emissions rather than by EVM.
Table 5.2.3-2: MPR needed for case 4 intra-band contiguous CA, non-contiguous
resource allocation, for EVM, no CA_NS signalled
* * *
**Bandwidth combination** **CC1** **CC2** **Backoff needed** **16QAM MPR
specification**  
**RBstart** **L_CRB** **RBstart** **L_CRB**  
20 + 20 **0** **1** **99** **1** **1.9** **8** 20 + 20 68 32 0 32 **2.3**
**4** 20 + 20 0 36 64 36 **2** **4** 20 + 20 0 15 85 15 **2** **6** 20 + 20 0
60 40 60 **2** **3.5** 20 + 20 1 1 15 1 **1.9** **4.5** 20 + 20 0 40 60 40
**2** **3.5** 20 + 20 0 25 75 25 **1.9** **4** 20 + 20 0 80 20 80 **2.1**
**3.5** 20 + 20 52 1 47 1 **1.9** **6**
* * *
Table 5.2.3-3 for case 7 shows several cases where backoff is insufficient to
meet 64QAM EVM when CA_NS is signaled. We recommend that the CA_NS A-MPR
requirements for 64QAM are studied more carefully. To avoid unnecessary A-MPR,
it is recommended that case-by-case treatment may be needed.
Table 5.2.3-3: A- MPR needed for case 7 intra-band contiguous CA, contiguous
resource allocation, for EVM, with CA_NS signaled
* * *
**Bandwidth combination** **CA_NS** **CC1** **CC2** **Backoff needed** **16QAM
MPR specification**  
**RBstart** **L_CRB** **RBstart** **L_CRB**  
20 + 20 **01, 02, 03, 06** **24** **64** **0** **0** **1.4** **0** 20 + 20
**01, 02, 03, 04, 06** 68 32 0 32 **2.3** **0** 20 + 20 **05** 0 18 0 0
**2.1** **2** 20 + 20 **04** 0 100 0 0 **1.4** **0**
* * *
In [3], recommended MPR and A-MPR are provided for cases 6 and 7, and the MPR
for case 3 is revisited. Case 5 remains TBD.
The method of analysis is as follows. The MPR and A-MPR recommendations were
obtained by partitioning and allocating the UE Tx EVM requirement of 8% to
various components in the transmitter chain. The PA was allocated 4% Tx EVM
and studies were conducted to determine the backoff required to simultaneously
meet the EVM budget as well as the ACLR, SEM, and spurious emission
requirements when stimulated with a 64QAM uplink waveform. For cases where NS
or CA_NS is specified, additional spectrum emission requirements must also be
met. It was found that EVM was often the limiting factor driving the backoff
requirements; however, containment of emissions also requires consideration
compared to 16QAM. The analysis typically revealed, for example, that an
additional 0.5 dB backoff compared to 16QAM might be required to meet emission
requirements; however, an additional backoff of 2 dB compared to 16QAM might
be required to meet EVM. The two are not additive, of course, so the
additional 2 dB for EVM would be sufficient to allow the UE to meet emissions
requirements as well, in this example.
**Case 3: MPR for intra-band contiguous CA**
In [3] it was reported that the MPR for intra-band contiguous CA was required
to be 1 dB additional compared to 16QAM. Further study has shown that this
recommendation can be further refined. In particular, for allocations spanning
both component carriers, it was found that the backoff needed was 3 dB
compared to the previously reported 2 dB because of EVM. However, it was also
found that for large allocations, the backoff needed is only 3 dB compared to
the previously reported 4 dB.
Two alternatives are presented. The first is an optimized solution with
minimum MPR over all regions. However, the MPR table becomes more complex,
especially for non-symmetric channel bandwidths. The second option is simpler
in that a constant MPR is applied for all waveforms. However, the MPR for
allocations extending across both CC\'s would be 2 dB for single carrier and 3
dB for class C intra-band CA. The following options are shown below in
specification format.
For single carrier, the MPR for 64 QAM is 1 dB higher than for 16 QAM as
proposed below:
Table 5.2.3-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for Power Class 1 and 3
+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Modul | Ch | MPR | | | | | | | ation | annel | (dB) | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (N | | | | | | | | | ~RB~) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | QPSK | > 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 1 | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 16 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8 | ≤ 12 | ≤ 16 | ≤ 18 | ≤ 1 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 16 | > 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 2 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 64 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8 | ≤ 12 | ≤ 16 | ≤ 18 | ≤ 2 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 64 | > 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 3 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
For contiguous intra-band CA class C, the MPR can either be more highly
optimized.
Table 5.2.3-1A: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for Power Class 3
* * *
Modulation CA bandwidth Class C MPR (dB)  
25 RB + 100 RB 50 RB + 100 RB 75 RB + 75 RB 75 RB + 100 RB 100 RB + 100 RB  
QPSK > 8 and ≤ 25 > 12 and ≤ 50 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 18 and ≤ 100 ≤ 1
QPSK > 25 > 50 > 75 > 75 > 100 ≤ 2 16 QAM ≤ 8 ≤ 12 ≤ 16 ≤ 16 ≤ 18 ≤ 1 16 QAM >
8 and ≤ 25 > 12 and ≤ 50 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 18 and ≤ 100 ≤ 2 16 QAM
> 25 > 50 > 75 > 75 > 100 ≤ 3 64 QAM ≤ 8 and allocation wholly contained
within a single CC ≤ 12 and allocation wholly contained within a single CC ≤
16 and allocation wholly contained within a single CC ≤ 16 and allocation
wholly contained within a single CC ≤ 18 and allocation wholly contained
within a single CC ≤ 2 64 QAM > 8 or allocation extends across two CC\'s > 12
or allocation extends across two CC\'s > 16 or allocation extends across two
CC\'s > 16 or allocation extends across two CC\'s > 18 or allocation extends
across two CC\'s ≤ 3
* * *
It can be less optimized but greatly simplified.
Table 5.2.3-1B: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for Power Class 3
* * *
Modulation CA bandwidth Class C MPR (dB)  
25 RB + 100 RB 50 RB + 100 RB 75 RB + 75 RB 75 RB + 100 RB 100 RB + 100 RB  
QPSK > 8 and ≤ 25 > 12 and ≤ 50 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 18 and ≤ 100 ≤ 1
QPSK > 25 > 50 > 75 > 75 > 100 ≤ 2 16 QAM ≤ 8 ≤ 12 ≤ 16 ≤ 16 ≤ 18 ≤ 1 16 QAM >
8 and ≤ 25 > 12 and ≤ 50 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 18 and ≤ 100 ≤ 2 16 QAM
> 25 > 50 > 75 > 75 > 100 ≤ 3 64 QAM Any Any Any Any Any ≤ 3
* * *
**Case 6: A-MPR for single carrier NS**
For single carrier operation, when NS is signaled, additional spectrum
emission requirements apply. A-MPR is typically provided. Since this is single
carrier operation, the A-MPR is additive to any MPR. In our studies, we have
found that if MPR is provided according to case 1, that is, 1 dB additional
MPR compared to 16QAM, then no additional A-MPR is needed to meet NS emission
requirements. EVM is covered by the additional MPR as proposed.
**Case 7: A-MPR for intra-band contiguous CA_NS**
For intra-band contiguous CA with a continuous RB uplink allocation, the A-MPR
provided when CA_NS is signaled is not additive to MPR. Therefore, the A-MPR
table for each CA_NS was proposed to be studied case-by-case in [3]. All CA_NS
tables were simulated. It was found that to meet emission requirements,
additional A-MPR is required compared to 16 QAM by approximately 0.5 dB in
some cases. For all cases, additional A-MPR (since no MPR is given) is needed
to meet EVM requirements. Two approaches can be considered here. The first
approach is to modify all CA_NS A-MPR tables to include a column for 64 QAM
modulation. The second approach is to define the backoff for 64 QAM when CA_NS
is signaled to be max(MPR, A-MPR) where the MPR is as proposed in clause 2.1
of this paper and the A-MPR is the existing A-MPR provided when CA_NS is
signaled. The first option is more consistent with the currently method of
defining A-MPR when CA_NS is signaled for intra-band CA but requires that each
A-MPR table is examined and revised. The second option would apply a different
approach to determining the A-MPR for 64 QAM when CA_NS is signaled, but would
not require any change to the existing A-MPR tables.
### 5.2.4 Results of vendor C
The simulation results and proposals are based on [5].
#### 5.2.4.1 Single carrier MPR as a function of #RB
In Figures 5.2.4.1-1 to 5.2.4.1-4, we present 64-QAM backoff values that were
needed to be able to meet the standard emission requirements for different
channel bandwidths as a function of allocation size. It can be noted that
64-QAM requires more MPR than 16-QAM especially for small allocations. In
terms of absolute backoff it can be seen that all PA's would not meet emission
requirements for mid-size allocations if allowed MPR is what is allowed for
16-QAM.
{width="4.469444444444444in" height="3.345833333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.4.1-1: MPR vs. allocation size for 64-QAM; PA1
{width="4.469444444444444in" height="3.345833333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.4.1-2: MPR vs. allocation size for 64-QAM; PA2
{width="4.469444444444444in" height="3.345833333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.4.1-3: MPR vs. allocation size for 64-QAM; PA3
{width="4.469444444444444in" height="3.345833333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.4.1-4: MPR vs. allocation size for 64-QAM; PA4
**Proposal 1:** 64-QAM is allowed to have 1 dB more MPR than 16-QAM for single
cluster allocations as in Table below.
#### 5.2.4.2 Single carrier Multi-cluster MPR
Figure 5.2.4.2-1 presents the MPR for single-CC non-contiguous allocations for
16-QAM and 64-QAM. All channel bandwidths are included in the same figure. It
can be seen from the Figure 5.2.4.2-1that for non-contiguous resource
allocation transmission 64-QAM does not need more MPR than16-QAM thus current
MPR requirement is sufficient.
{width="4.469444444444444in" height="3.345833333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.4.2-1: MPR required by 64-QAM and 16-QAM with single-CC
multicluster allocations
**Proposal 2:** Current single carrier non-contiguous resource allocation MPR
requirement is sufficient also for 64-QAM.
#### 5.2.4.3 MPR for contiguous intraband CA
In Figure 5.2.4.3-1\~ 4 we present 64-QAM backoff values that were needed to
be able to meet the standard CA emission requirements for 20 MHz +20 MHz case
as a function of allocation size. All possible RBstart values were simulated.
It can be noted that 64-QAM requires more MPR than 16-QAM for all allocations
sizes. Allocations sizes of 18 RB and smaller 64-QAM do not meet the
requirements with 16-QAM MPR. For PA4 and mid-size allocations there is hardly
any margin if 16-QAM MPR is applied for 64-QAM.
{width="4.329166666666667in" height="2.588888888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3-1: Maximum needed MPR as function of allocation size for PA1
{width="4.329166666666667in" height="2.588888888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3-2: Maximum needed MPR as function of allocation size for PA2
{width="4.329166666666667in" height="2.592361111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3-3: Maximum needed MPR as function of allocation size for PA3
{width="4.329166666666667in" height="2.592361111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3-4: Maximum needed MPR as function of allocation size for PA4
**Proposal:** 64-QAM is allowed to have 1 dB more MPR than 16-QAM for
intraband contiguous CA contiguously allocated transmissions for small
allocations as presented in Table below.
### 5.2.5 Results of vendor D
The simulation results and proposals are based on [6].
#### 5.2.5.1 MPR of 64QAM for single component carrier
To compare cubic metric according to the modulation order, we evaluated
simulation based on the number of RB allocation and computed the CM/PAPR. From
the CM calculation using raw data signal of SC-FDMA, we can depicted the CM
level in Figure 5.2.5.1-1.
{width="4.35in" height="2.9208333333333334in"}
Figure 5.2.5.1-1: Cubic metric level according to the number of allocated RB
for SC-FDMA
Table **5.2.5.1-** 1: CM results for SC-FDMA based on modulation schemes
* * *
Multiple Access schemes Modulation CM [dB] PAPR (99.9%) [dB]  
1RB Full RBs 1RB Full RBs **SC-FDMA** **QPSK** **1.22** **1.27** **5.64**
**5.75** **16-QAM** **2.18** **2.22** **6.45** **6.52** **64-QAM** **2.34**
**2.36** **7.00** **7.04**
* * *
**From the CM results in Table 5.2.5.1-1 and Figure 5.2.5.1-1, it is**
proposed the required MPR level of 64QAM for single component carrier as
follow:
> Table **5.2.5.1** -2: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for Power Class 1 and 3
+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Modul | Ch | MPR | | | | | | | ation | annel | (dB) | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (N | | | | | | | | | ~RB~) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | QPSK | > 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 1 | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 16 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8 | ≤ 12 | ≤ 16 | ≤ 18 | ≤ 1 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 16 | > 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 2 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 64 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8 | ≤ 12 | ≤ 16 | ≤ 18 | ≤ 1 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 64 | > 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 2 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
Figure **5.2.5.1** -2 is MPR simulation results of 64QAM for 20MHz channel
Bandwidth according to the RB allocation ratio A. And Figure **5.2.5.1** -3
was collected the required MPR levels all supported channel BW in single
component carrier according to the RB allocation ratio A.
{width="4.654166666666667in" height="3.347916666666667in"}
Figure 5.2.5.1-2: Required MPR mask for 20MHz CH BW
{width="4.661111111111111in" height="3.347916666666667in"}
Figure 5.2.5.1-3: Required MPR mask for 5/10/15/20MHz CH BW
In the Figure **5.2.5.1** -3, we **observe that the r** equired MPR level of
64QAM for multi clustered transmission on single CC is needed more than the
conventional MPR mask for 16QAM. From the observation, the required MPR mask
of 64QAM is analysed as follows:
MPR = CEIL {MA, 0.5}
where MA is defined as follows:
MA = 10.0, ; 0\ Table **5.2.5.2** -2: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for Power Class 3
* * *
Modulation CA bandwidth Class C MPR (dB)  
25 RB + 100 RB 50 RB + 100 RB 75 RB + 75 RB 75 RB + 100 RB 100 RB + 100 RB  
QPSK > 8 and ≤ 25 > 12 and ≤ 50 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 18 and ≤ 100 ≤ 1
QPSK > 25 > 50 > 75 > 75 > 100 ≤ 2 16QAM/64QAM ≤ 8 ≤ 12 ≤ 16 ≤ 16 ≤ 18 ≤ 1
16QAM/64QAM > 8 and ≤ 25 > 12 and ≤ 50 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 18 and ≤
100 ≤ 2 16QAM/64QAM > 25 > 50 > 75 > 75 > 100 ≤ 3
* * *
Figure **5.2.5.2** -2 is MPR simulation results of 64QAM for 40MHz aggregated
channel Bandwidth for intra contiguous CA class C according to the RB
allocation ratio A. And figure **5.2.5.2** -3 was collected the required MPR
levels all supported aggregated channel BWs in intra-contiguous CA class C.
{width="4.6506944444444445in" height="3.345138888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.5.2-2: Required MPR mask for 40MHz aggregated CH BW
{width="4.502083333333333in" height="3.3472222222222223in"}
Figure 5.2.5.2-3: Required MPR mask for intra-contiguous CA class C
From the observation, the required MPR mask of 64QAM is analysed as follows
MPR = CEIL {MA, 0.5}
where MA is defined as follows
MA = 10.0, ; 0\ 8 > 12 > 16 > 16 > 18 ≤ 3
* * *
### 5.2.7 Results of vendor F
The simulation results and proposals are based on [9].
#### 5.2.7.1 Single carrier contiguous allocation
Figure 5.2.7.1-1 and Figure 5.2.7.1-2 show simulation results for 20 MHz with
full RB and 1 RB allocations, respectively. In the two figures the PSDs are
compared with the spectral emission mask (SEM) and the spurious emission
level. The simulations have been conducted at full output power considering
MPR, i.e. 22/23 dBm for QPSK depending on allocation, and 1 dB lower for 16QAM
and also for 64QAM. One can note that in all cases, QPSK is the dimensioning
modulation format, and even if 64QAM in most cases are slightly worse than
16QAM it still shows better margins than QPSK does. Thus it seems that we can
have the same MPR as for 16QAM here.
{width="4.195138888888889in" height="3.1479166666666667in"}
Figure 5.2.7.1-1: PSD of contiguous single carrier signal with 1RB allocation
{width="4.201388888888889in" height="3.1479166666666667in"}
Figure 5.2.7.1-2: PSD of contiguous single carrier signal with full RB
allocation
#### 5.2.7.2 Single carrier non-contiguous allocation
Figure5.2.7.2-1 shows simulation results for non-contiguous allocation with
1+1RB. With one single resource block allocated at each end of the carrier and
8 dB MPR is used, it is the margin towards the spurious emission requirement
that is the main dimensioning factor. Currently there is no distinction
between modulation formats for this case in the specification, which means
that currently 16QAM is the dimensioning modulation format. Simulations show
that the margin is only slightly smaller for 64 QAM, and that there is a
substantial margin for all modulation formats. Thus it is proposed to reuse
the existing MPR formula for 64QAM as well.
{width="4.201388888888889in" height="3.1479166666666667in"}
Figure 5.2.7.2-1: PSD of non-contiguous single carrier signal with 1+1 RB
allocation
## 5.3 MPR requirements
### 5.3.1 Single carrier
For transmissions with contiguous resource allocation in single component
carrier, the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the maximum output
power in Table 6.2.2-1in TS 36.101 due to 64QAM and transmit bandwidth
configuration (resource blocks) is specified in Table 5.3.1-1.
Table 5.3.1-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for Power Class 1 and 3
+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Modul | Ch | MPR | | | | | | | ation | annel | (dB) | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (N | | | | | | | | | ~RB~) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 64 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8 | ≤ 12 | ≤ 16 | ≤ 18 | ≤ 2 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 64 | > 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 3 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
For transmissions with non-contiguous resource allocation in single component
carrier, the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the maximum output
power in Table 6.2.2-1 of TS 36.101 can be applied to 64QAM as well.
### 5.3.2 CA
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation the allowed Maximum Power
Reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power in Table 6.2.2A-1in TS 36.101 due
to 64QAM and contiguously aggregated transmit bandwidth configuration
(resource blocks) is proposed in Table 5.3.2-1.
Table 5.3.2-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for Power Class 3
* * *
Modulation CA bandwidth Class C MPR (dB)  
25 RB + 100 RB 50 RB + 100 RB 75 RB + 75 RB 75 RB + 100 RB 100 RB + 100 RB  
64 QAM ≤ 8 and allocation wholly contained within a single CC ≤ 12 and
allocation wholly contained within a single CC ≤ 16 and allocation wholly
contained within a single CC ≤ 16 and allocation wholly contained within a
single CC ≤ 18 and allocation wholly contained within a single CC ≤ 2 64 QAM >
8 or allocation extends across two CC\'s > 12 or allocation extends across two
CC\'s > 16 or allocation extends across two CC\'s > 16 or allocation extends
across two CC\'s > 18 or allocation extends across two CC\'s ≤ 3
* * *
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation bandwidth class C with non-
contiguous resource allocation, the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for
the maximum output power in Table 6.2.2A-1 of TS 36.101 can be applied to
64QAM as well.
# 6 A-MPR requirement for UL 64QAM
## 6.1 General
In order to meet additional ACLR and spectrum emission requirements, NS
signalling can be signalled by the network to indicate that the UE shall also
meet additional requirements in a specific deployment scenario with additional
Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR).
A-MPR is added additionally to MPR for single carrier/ inter-band CA if NS
value is signalled by the network. But similar as multi-cluster case, it is
not clarified clearly in the specification which modulation scheme is based to
derive the A-MPR requirement.
For intra-band contiguous CA, how to use A-MPR is different from that of
single carrier/inter-band CA. As described in the specification, \"_for intra-
band contiguous aggregation with the UE configured for transmissions within
the aggregated channel bandwidth, the maximum output power reductions
specified in Table 6.2.4A-1 is allowed when the applicable CA network
signalling value is indicated by the IE additionalSpectrumEmissionSCell-r10.
Then clause 6.2.3A does not apply, i.e. carrier aggregation MPR = 0dB\"_. This
means if NS value is signalled, A-MPR is used alone for the CA case. The A-MPR
values are specified clearly for specific modulation schemes, though the
values are the same for both QPSK and 16QAM.
For multi-cluster transmission in intra-band contiguous CA, RAN4 needs further
discussion whether only one MPR formula is defined for all modulation schemes
or not.
## 6.2 Evaluations
The cases in Table 6.2-1 are simulated to evaluate A-MPR requirements for UL
64QAM.
_Table 6.2-1: Simulation cases for evaluation of A-MPR requirements_
* * *
**Case** **Back off** **Single carrier or CA** **RB allocation** **Format in
current specification** 1 MPR+A-MPR Single carrier contiguous table 2 A-MPR
Intra-band contiguous CA contiguous table 3 A-MPR Intra-band contiguous CA
non-contiguous formula
* * *
### 6.2.1 Assumptions
Same assumptions as listed in clause 5.2.1.
### 6.2.2 Results of vender A
The simulation results and proposals are based on [2] and [10].
Considering that there are too many Network Signalings for single carrier and
CA combinations, we pick up some TDD bands as example bands for A-MPR
simulations to see if we can find some general rules to define A-MPR
requirements for both single carrier and carrier aggregation cases.
#### 6.2.2.1 A-MPR for Single Carrier
A-MPR simulation results for Band41 are provided in this clause.
{width="3.196527777777778in"
height="2.401388888888889in"}{width="3.196527777777778in"
height="2.401388888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.2.1-1: A-MPR evaluation of UL 64QAM for single carrier
Figure 6.2.2.1-1 shows the A-MPR simulation results for 16QAM and 64QAM for
B41 single carrier.
{width="3.4125in" height="2.5590277777777777in"}
Figure 6.2.2.1-2: Comparison of A-MPR between 64QAM and 16QAM for B41 single
carrier
Figure 6.2.2.1-2 shows the comparison of A-MPR between 64QAM and 16QAM for B41
single carrier. It can be observed that for only few RB allocations, A-MPR of
64QAM is larger than that of 16QAM, but the maximum additional power backoff
is less than 1dB.
Though the simulation has not been done for every NS for single carrier, based
on the results for B41 and 42 [10], we see that the A-MPR difference between
64QAM and 16QAM is not obvious and 1 dB relaxation could be enough. Therefore,
we propose to add the relaxation to MPR and keep A-MPR unchanged for 64QAM.
**Proposal 3:** It is proposed to keep A-MPR requirements unchanged for single
carrier and only define MPR requirements for UL 64QAM.
#### 6.2.2.2 A-MPR for Intra-band CA
A-MPR simulation results for CA_38C, CA_39C and CA_41C are provided in this
clause.
##### CA_38C {#ca_38c .H6}
{width="3.2020833333333334in" height="2.401388888888889in"}
{width="3.2020833333333334in" height="2.401388888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: A-MPR evaluation of UL 64QAM for CA_38C
Figure 6.2.2.2-1 shows the A-MPR simulation results for 16QAM and 64QAM for
CA_38C.
{width="3.4125in" height="2.5590277777777777in"}
Figure 6.2.2.2-2: Comparison of A-MPR between 64QAM and 16QAM for CA_38C
Figure 6.2.2.2-2 shows the comparison of A-MPR between 64QAM and 16QAM for
CA_38C. It can be observed that for some RB allocations, A-MPR of 64QAM is
larger than that of 16QAM, but for some RB allocation, the situation is
reverse. For all RB allocations, one more dB power backoff is enough for
64QAM.
##### CA_39C {#ca_39c .H6}
{width="3.2020833333333334in" height="2.401388888888889in"}
{width="3.2020833333333334in" height="2.401388888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.2.2-3: A-MPR evaluation of UL 64QAM for CA_39C
Figure 6.2.2.2-3 shows the A-MPR simulation results for 16QAM and 64QAM for
CA_39C.
{width="3.4125in" height="2.5590277777777777in"}
Figure 6.2.2.2-4: Comparison of A-MPR between 64QAM and 16QAM for CA_39C
Figure 6.2.2.2-4 shows the comparison of A-MPR between 64QAM and 16QAM for
CA_39C. It can be observed that for some RB allocations, A-MPR of 64QAM is
larger than that of 16QAM, but for some RB allocation, the situation is
reverse. For all RB allocations, one more dB power backoff is enough for
64QAM.
##### CA_41C {#ca_41c .H6}
{width="3.2020833333333334in" height="2.401388888888889in"}
{width="3.2020833333333334in" height="2.401388888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.2.2-5: A-MPR evaluation of UL 64QAM for CA_41C
Figure 6.2.2.2-5 shows the A-MPR simulation results for 16QAM and 64QAM for
CA_41C.
{width="3.4125in" height="2.5590277777777777in"}
Figure 6.2.2.2-6: Comparison of A-MPR between 64QAM and 16QAM for CA_41C
Figure 6.2.2.2-6 shows the comparison of A-MPR between 64QAM and 16QAM for
CA_41C. The results are a little bit different from those for CA_38C and
CA_39C. More A-MPR is needed for CA_41C. CA_NS_04 was also mentioned as an
exception in [3].
We know that A-MPR can be used alone for intra-band contiguous CA if NS value
is signalled, in this case, carrier aggregation MPR = 0dB _._ Based on the
simulation results above, we see that for most CA band combinations, the
additional power backoff for 64QAM does not exceed 1 dB compared to the A-MPR
of 16QAM and CA_41C is an exception. We propose to define A-MPR for 64QAM in a
general way but allow some exceptions. For example, when NS value is signalled
for a CA band combination, carrier aggregation MPR = 1 dB. But for CA_NS_04,
carrier aggregation MPR could be relaxed to 2 dB.
**Proposal 4** : It is proposed to keep A-MPR requirements unchanged for
intra-band CA and define additional power backoff in MPR requirements for UL
64QAM. Exceptions can be considered for some CA band combinations in the
carrier aggregation MPR requirement.
### 6.2.3 Results of vendor B
The simulation results and proposals are based on [4].
#### 6.2.3.1 A-MPR for single carrier NS
For single carrier operation, when NS is signaled, additional spectrum
emission requirements apply. A-MPR is typically provided. Since this is single
carrier operation, the A-MPR is additive to any MPR. In our studies, we have
found that if MPR is provided according to case 1, that is, 1 dB additional
MPR compared to 16QAM, then no additional A-MPR is needed to meet NS emission
requirements. EVM is covered by the additional MPR as proposed.
#### 6.2.3.2 A-MPR for intra-band contiguous CA_NS
For intra-band contiguous CA with a continuous RB uplink allocation, the A-MPR
provided when CA_NS is signaled is not additive to MPR. Therefore, the A-MPR
table for each CA_NS was proposed to be studied case-by-case in [3]. All CA_NS
tables were simulated. It was found that to meet emission requirements,
additional A-MPR is required compared to 16 QAM by approximately 0.5 dB in
some cases. For all cases, additional A-MPR (since no MPR is given) is needed
to meet EVM requirements. Two approaches can be considered here. The first
approach is to modify all CA_NS A-MPR tables to include a column for 64 QAM
modulation. The second approach is to define the backoff for 64 QAM when CA_NS
is signaled to be max(MPR, A-MPR) where the MPR is as proposed in Section 2.1
of this paper and the A-MPR is the existing A-MPR provided when CA_NS is
signaled. The first option is more consistent with the currently method of
defining A-MPR when CA_NS is signaled for intra-band CA but requires that each
A-MPR table is examined and revised. The second option would apply a different
approach to determining the A-MPR for 64 QAM when CA_NS is signaled, but would
not require any change to the existing A-MPR tables.
For the first option, the proposed modification to the specification is as
follows
For intra-band contiguous aggregation with the UE configured for transmissions
within the aggregated channel bandwidth, the maximum output power reductions
specified in Table 6.2.3.2 is allowed when the applicable CA network
signalling value is indicated by the IE _additionalSpectrumEmissionSCell-r10._
Then clause 5.2.3 does not apply, i.e. carrier aggregation MPR = 0dB for QPSK
and 16 QAM modulations. For 64 QAM modulations, the maximum output power
reduction is given by the maximum of MPR as defined in clause 5.2.3 and A-MPR
as defined in clause 6.2.3.2.
Each A-MPR table in clause 6.2.3.2 would then be modified to indicate that the
A-MPR defined applies to 64 QAM as well as 16 QAM and QPSK, but no numerical
changes would be required.
For the second option, each A-MPR table is modified. Proposed changes to each
A-MPR table are shown below.
Table 6.2.3.2-1: Contiguous allocation A-MPR for CA_NS_01
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA_1C: | R | L~CRB~ | R | A-MPR | **A-MPR | | CA | B~start~ | [RBs] | B~start~ | for QPSK | for | | _NS_01 | | | + L~CRB~ | and | 64-QAM | | | | | | 16-QAM | [dB]** | | | | | [RBs] | [dB] | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 100 RB / | 0 -- 23 | > 0 | N/A | ≤ 12.0 | ≤ 12.0 | | 100 RB | and 176 | | | | | | | -- 199 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 24 -- | > 64 | N/A | ≤ 6.0 | ≤ 6.0 | | | 105 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | ≤ 64 | N/A | 0 | ≤ | | | | | | | [3.0] | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 106 -- | N/A | > 175 | ≤ 5.0 | ≤ 5.0 | | | 175 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | N/A | ≤ 175 | 0 | ≤ | | | | | | | [2.0] | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 75 RB / | 0 -- 6 | 0 \ 10 | N/A | ≤ 6.0 | ≤ 6.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 7 -- 90 | > 44 | N/A | ≤ 5.0 | ≤ 5.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | ≤ 44 | N/A | 0 | ≤ | | | | | | | [3.0] | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 91 -- | N/A | > 142 | ≤ 2.0 | ≤ 2.0 | | | 142 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 91 -- | N/A | ≤ 142 | 0 | ≤ | | | 142 | | | | [2.0] | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | RB~ | | | | | | | _start~ | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndicates | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | lowest | | | | | | | RB index | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsmitted | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | L~_CRB~ | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | length | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | ocation. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | intra- | | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tersects | | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | | notes 1 | | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | apply on | | | | | | | a per | | | | | | | slot | | | | | | | basis. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | intra- | | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tersects | | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | larger | | | | | | | A-MPR | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | for both | | | | | | | slots in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ubframe. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 6.2.3.2-2: Contiguous allocation A-MPR for CA_NS_02
* * *
CA_1C: CA_NS_02 RB~end~ L~CRB~ [RBs] A-MPR for QPSK and 16 --QAM [dB] A-MPR
for 64-QAM [dB] 100 RB / 100 RB 0 --20 > 0 ≤ 4 dB ≤ 4 dB 21 -- 46 > 0 ≤ 3 dB ≤
3 dB 47 -- 99 > RB~end~ - 20 ≤ 3 dB ≤ 3 dB ≤ RB~end~ - 20 0 ≤ [2 dB] 100 --
184 > 75 ≤ 6 dB ≤ 6 dB ≤ 75 0 ≤ [3 dB] 185 -- 199 > 0 ≤ 10 dB ≤ 10 dB 75 RB /
75 RB 0 -- 48 > 0 ≤ 2 dB ≤ 2 dB 49 -- 80 > RB~end~ - 20 ≤ 3 dB ≤ 3 dB ≤
RB~end~ - 20 0 ≤ [3 dB] 81 -- 129 > 60 ≤ 5 dB ≤ 5 dB ≤ 60 0 ≤ [3 dB] 130 --
149 > 84 ≤ 6 dB ≤ 6 dB 130 -- 149 1 -- 84 ≤ 2 dB ≤ 3 dB
* * *
Table 6.2.3.2-3: Contiguous allocation A-MPR for CA_NS_03
* * *
CA_1C: CA_NS_03 RB~end~ L~CRB~ [RBs] A-MPR for QPSK and 16-QAM [dB] A-MPR for
64-QAM [dB] 100 RB / 100 RB 0 -- 26 > 0 ≤ 10 dB ≤ 10 dB 27 -- 63 ≥ RB~end~ -
27 ≤ 6 dB ≤ 6 dB 27 -- 63 \ RB~end~
- 20 ≤ 4 dB ≤ 4 dB ≤ RB~end~ - 20 0 ≤ [2 dB] 101 -- 171 > 68 ≤ 7 dB ≤ 7 dB ≤
68 0 ≤ [3 dB] 172 -- 199 > 0 ≤ 10 dB ≤ 10 dB 75 RB / 75 RB 0 -- 20 > 0 ≤ 10 dB
≤ 10 dB 21 -- 45 > 0 ≤ 4 dB ≤ 4 dB 46 -- 75 > RB~end~ -- 13 ≤ 2 dB ≤ 2 dB ≤
RB~end~ -- 13 0 ≤ [2 dB] 76 -- 95 > 45 ≤ 5 dB ≤ 5 dB ≤ 45 0 ≤ [3 dB] 96 -- 149
> 43 ≤ 8 dB ≤ 8 dB 96 -- 119 ≤ 43 0 ≤ [3 dB] 120 -- 149 1 - 43 ≤ 6 dB ≤ 6 dB
* * *
Table 6.2.3.2-4: Contiguous Allocation A-MPR for CA_NS_04
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | CA | RB | L~CRB~ | RB | A-MPR | A-MPR | **A-MPR | | Ba | ~Start~ | [RBs] | ~start~ | for | for | for | | ndwidth | | | + | QPSK | 16QAM | 64QAM | | Class C | | | L~CRB~ | [dB] | [dB] | \ | | | | | [RBs] | | | [dB]** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 50RB / | 0 -- 44 | >0 | N/A | ≤ 4dB | ≤ 4dB | ≤ 4dB | | 100 RB | and 105 | | | | | | | | -- 149 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 45 -- | N/A | >105 | ≤ 3dB | ≤ 4dB | ≤ 4dB | | | 104 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | ≤ 105 | 0 | 0 | ≤ | | | | | | | | [3dB] | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 75 RB / | 0 -- 44 | >0 | N/A | ≤ 4dB | ≤ 4dB | ≤ 4dB | | 75 RB | and 105 | | | | | | | | -- 149 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 45 -- | N/A | >105 | ≤ 4dB | ≤ 4dB | ≤ 4dB | | | 104 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | ≤ 105 | 0 | 0 | ≤ | | | | | | | | [3dB] | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 100 RB | 0 -- 49 | >0 | N/A | ≤ 4dB | ≤ 4dB | ≤ 4dB | | / 75 RB | and 125 | | | | | | | | -- 174 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 50 - | N/A | >125 | ≤ 3dB | ≤ 4dB | ≤ 4dB | | | 124 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | ≤ 125 | 0 | 0 | ≤ | | | | | | | | [3dB] | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 100 RB | 0 -- 59 | >0 | N/A | ≤ 3dB | ≤ 4dB | ≤ 4dB | | / 100 | and 140 | | | | | | | RB | -- 199 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 60-- | N/A | >140 | ≤ 3dB | ≤ 4dB | ≤ 4dB | | | 139 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | ≤ 140 | 0 | 0 | ≤ | | | | | | | | [3dB] | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | ~start~ | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | dicates | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | lowest | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | index | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | | smitted | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | blocks. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | L~CRB~ | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | | length | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | tiguous | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | allo | | | | | | | | cation. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | intra-s | | | | | | | | ubframe | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | ersects | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | egions, | | | | | | | | notes 1 | | | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | on a | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | slot | | | | | | | | basis. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | intra-s | | | | | | | | ubframe | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | ersects | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | egions, | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | larger | | | | | | | | A-MPR | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bframe. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 6.2.3.2-5: Contiguous Allocation A-MPR for CA_NS_05
+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CA_38C | RB~end~ | L~CRB~ | A-MPR for | A-MPR for | | | | [RBs] | QPSK and | 64-QAM | | | | | 16-QAM | [dB] | | | | | [dB] | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 100RB/100RB | 0 -- 12 | >0 | ≤ 5 dB | ≤ 5 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 13 -- 79 | > RB~end~ | ≤ 2 dB | ≤ 2 dB | | | | -- 13 | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ RB~end~ | 0 | ≤ [2 dB] | | | | -- 13 | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 80 -- 180 | >60 | ≤ 6 dB | ≤ 6 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 60 | 0 | ≤ [3 dB] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 181 -- 199 | > 0 | ≤ 11 dB | ≤ 11 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 75RB/75RB | 0 -- 70 | > max (0, | ≤ 2 dB | ≤ 2 dB | | | | RB~end~ | | | | | | -10) | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ max (0, | 0 | ≤ [2 dB] | | | | RB~end~ | | | | | | -10) | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 71- 108 | > 60 | ≤ 5 dB | ≤ 5 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 60 | 0 | ≤ [3 dB] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 109 -- 139 | >0 | ≤ 5 dB | ≤ 5 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 140 -- 149 | ≤ 70 | ≤ 2 dB | ≤ 2 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 140 -- 149 | >70 | ≤ 6 dB | ≤ 6 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | RB~end~ | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the highest | | | | | | RB index of | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | resource | | | | | | blocks. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | L~CRB~ is | | | | | | the length | | | | | | of a | | | | | | contiguous | | | | | | resource | | | | | | block | | | | | | allocation. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For | | | | | | int | | | | | | ra-subframe | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | which | | | | | | intersects | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | notes 1 and | | | | | | 2 apply on | | | | | | a per slot | | | | | | basis. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For | | | | | | int | | | | | | ra-subframe | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | which | | | | | | intersects | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | the larger | | | | | | A-MPR value | | | | | | may be | | | | | | applied for | | | | | | both slots | | | | | | in the | | | | | | subframe. | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 6.2.3.2-6: Contiguous Allocation A-MPR for CA_NS_06
+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CA | RB~end~ | L~CRB~ | A-MPR for | A-MPR for | | Bandwidth | | [RBs] | QPSK and | 64-QAM | | Class C | | | 16-QAM | [dB] | | | | | [dB] | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 100RB/100RB | 0 --22 | >0 | ≤ 4 dB | ≤ 4 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 23 -- 33 | > RB~end~ | ≤ 2 dB | ≤ 2 dB | | | | -- 10 | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ RB~end~ | 0 | ≤ [2 dB] | | | | -- 10 | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 106 -- 142 | > 75 | ≤ 3 dB | ≤ 3 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 75 | 0 | ≤ [3 dB] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 143 -- 177 | >70 | ≤ 5 dB | ≤ 5 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 70 | 0 | ≤ [2 dB] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 178 -- 199 | > 0 | ≤ 10 dB | ≤ 10 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 75RB/75RB | 0 -- 7 | >0 | ≤ 5 dB | ≤ 5 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 20- 74 | > RB~end~ | ≤ 2 dB | ≤ 2 dB | | | | -- 10 | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ RB~end~ | 0 | ≤ [2 dB] | | | | -- 10 | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 75 -- 109 | >64 | ≤ 2 dB | ≤ 2 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 64 | 0 | ≤ [3 dB] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 110 -- 144 | >35 | ≤ 6 dB | ≤ 6 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 35 | 0 | ≤ [2 dB] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 145 -- 149 | >0 | ≤ 10 dB | ≤ 10 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 50RB/100RB | 0 -- 10 | > 0 | ≤ 5 dB | ≤ 5 dB | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | 100RB/50RB | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 11 -- 75 | > max(0, | ≤ 2 dB | ≤ 2 dB | | | | RB_End -- | | | | | | 25) | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ max(0, | 0 | ≤ [2 dB] | | | | RB_End -- | | | | | | 25) | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 76 -- 103 | > 50 | ≤ 3 dB | ≤ 3 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 50 | 0 | ≤ [3 dB] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 104 -- 144 | > 25 | ≤ 6 dB | ≤ 6 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 25 | 0 | ≤ [2 dB] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 145 -- 149 | > 0 | ≤ 10 dB | ≤ 10 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 75RB/100RB | 0 -- 15 | > 0 | ≤ 5 dB | ≤ 5 dB | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | | | 100RB/75RB | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 16 -- 75 | > max(0, | ≤ 2 dB | ≤ 2 dB | | | | RB_End -- | | | | | | 15) | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ max(0, | 0 | ≤ [2 dB] | | | | RB_End -- | | | | | | 15) | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 76 -- 120 | > 50 | ≤ 3 dB | ≤ 3 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 50 | 0 | ≤ [ dB] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 121 -- 160 | > 50 | ≤ 6 dB | ≤ 6 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 50 | 0 | ≤ [2 dB] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 161 -- 174 | > 0 | ≤ 10 dB | ≤ 10 dB | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 6.2.3.2-7: Contiguous Allocation A-MPR for CA_NS_07
+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CA_39C: | RB~Start~ | L~CRB~ | A-MPR for | A-MPR for | | CA_NS_07 | | [RBs] | QPSK and | 64-QAM | | | | | 1 | [dB] | | | | | 6-QAM[dB] | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 75 RB / 100 | 0 -- 13 | > 0 | ≤ 11 | ≤ 11 | | RB | | | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | | | 100 RB / 75 | | | | | | RB | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 14 -- 50 | ≤ 60 | ≤ 3 | ≤ 3 | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 51 -- 100 | ≤ 60 | 0 | ≤ [3] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 14 -- 100 | > 60 | ≤ 7 | ≤ 7 | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 101 -- 155 | > max(155 | ≤ 2 | ≤ 2 | | | | - RBstart, | | | | | | 0) | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ max(155 - | 0 | ≤ [2] | | | | RBstart, 0) | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 156 -- 174 | > 0 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 5 | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 50 RB / 100 | 0 -- 5 | > 0 | ≤ 11 | ≤ 11 | | RB | | | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | | | 100 RB / 50 | | | | | | RB | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 6 -- 42 | ≤ 25 | ≤ 3 | ≤ 3 | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | > 25 | ≤ 6 | ≤ 6 | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 43 -- 80 | > 50 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 5 | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 50 | 0 | ≤ [3] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 81 -- 138 | > 20 | ≤ 2 | ≤ 2 | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 20 | 0 | ≤ [2] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 139 -- 149 | > 0 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 5 | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 25 RB / 100 | 0 -- 32 | ≥ 84 | ≤ 6 | ≤ 6 | | RB | | | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | | | 100 RB / 25 | | | | | | RB | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | \ 50 | ≤ 3 | ≤ 3 | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 50 | 0 | ≤ [2] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 61 -- 124 | > 20 | ≤ 3 | ≤ 3 | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ≤ 20 | 0 | ≤ [3] | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 6.2.4 Results of vendor C
The simulation results and proposals are based on [5].
#### 6.2.4.1 Single carrier A-MPR study
In this clause we present result of an A-MPR study for 64-QAM. As an example
we have studied NS_07 case which has additional emission requirement as
presented in Table below.
Table 6.2.4.1-1: Additional requirements
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Frequency band** | **Channel bandwidth |** Measurement | | | / Spectrum emission | bandwidth**| |**(MHz)**| limit (dBm)** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **10 MHz** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 769 ≤ f ≤ 775 | -57 | 6.25 kHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: The emissions | | | | measurement shall be | | | | sufficiently power | | | | averaged to ensure | | | | standard deviation | | | | \= 35 meters | | | between UE and Cell | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic model | Full buffer | | | | transmission on | | | | PUSCH | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eNB noise figure | 5 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Thermal noise | -174 dBm/Hz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | Synchronized | | | synchronization | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Backhaul Modelling | Assume that there is | | | | no exchange of the | | | | information for the | | | | assistance for BS | | | | MMSE-IRC receiver | | | | between cells | | | | located in different | | | | sites. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Uplink transmission | Single port uplink | | | schemes | transmission on | | | | PUSCH; No MU-MIMO is | | | | used. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Uplink scheduling | PF scheduling and | | | | provide the N | | | | interferences DIPs | | | | per PRB; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL power control | Open loop power | | | | control, K_s = 0, | | | | P0 = [-82] dBm and | | | | alpha = [0.8] for | | | | macro UE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE power class | 23dBm (200mW)\ | | | | This corresponds to | | | | the sum of PA powers | | | | in multiple Tx | | | | antenna case | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-cell | No CoMP and | | | coordination | (f)(e)ICIC | | | techniques | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell selection | RSRP based | | | criteria | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | EVM modelling | AWGN with range 2-10 | | | | %, Rx EVM is 0% | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
{width="4.458333333333333in" height="3.34375in"}
Figure 7.2.2-1 Throughput reduction as a function of EVM
## 7.3 EVM requirements
### 7.3.1 Single carrier
The RMS average of the basic EVM measurements for 10 sub-frames excluding any
transient period for the average EVM case, and 60 sub-frames excluding any
transient period for the reference signal EVM case, for 64QAM shall not exceed
the value specified in Table 7.3.1-1 for the parameters defined in Table
7.3.1-2.
Table 7.3.1-1: Minimum requirements for Error Vector Magnitude
* * *
Parameter Unit Average EVM Level Reference Signal EVM Level 64QAM \% 8 8
* * *
Table 7.3.1-2: Parameters for Error Vector Magnitude
* * *
Parameter Unit Level UE Output Power dBm ≥ -40 Operating conditions Normal
conditions
* * *
### 7.3.2 CA
For the intra-band contiguous and non-contiguous carrier aggregation, the
Error Vector Magnitude requirement should be defined for each component
carrier. Requirements only apply with PRB allocation in one of the component
carriers.
The EVM requirement for 64QAM is according to Table 7.3.2-1 if CA is
configured in uplink.
Table 7.3.2-1: Minimum requirements for Error Vector Magnitude
* * *
Parameter Unit Average EVM Level per CC Reference Signal EVM Level 64QAM \% 8
8
* * *
# 7 Conclusions
Based on the extensive evaluations, the MPR requirements for UL 64QAM are
provided in clause 5.3, the A-MPR requirements for UL 64QAM are provided in
clause6.3, and the EVM requirements for UL 64QAM are provided in clause 7.3.
#