# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
With the wider usage of mobile applications like social networking and point-
to-point video/file sharing, uplink traffic load is becoming much heavier, and
LTE uplink spectral efficiency improvement tends to be an essential and
practical requirement for operators.
In typical LTE homogenous network, frequency reuse factor of one is utilized,
and inter-cell interference has a substantial impact on uplink performance.
For heterogeneous network with co-channel deployment of macro and low power
base stations (BSs), the interference is even stronger due to a large number
of low power BSs deployed. In both cases, BS MMSE-IRC (Minimum mean square
error - interference rejection combining) receiver is considered as a
promising approach for spatial domain interference handling. The MMSE-IRC
receiver can suppress inter-cell interference as well as intra-cell
interference, and thus achieve cell-edge and cell-average spectral efficiency
gain over MMSE receiver. Moreover, the implementation complexity increase is
moderate, since this kind of baseband processing technique is relatively
mature nowadays.
To verify BS receiver\'s ability of inter-cell interference suppression, a new
work item on \"Performance requirements of MMSE-IRC receiver for LTE BS\" was
approved at RAN #66 [2], and the present document summarizes the work done
under this work item.
# 1 Scope
The present document should fulfil the following objectives:
\- Phase I:
\- Identify target deployment scenarios and agree on relevant network
parameters. Both homogeneous deployment (macro cell only) and heterogeneous
deployment (co-channel between macro cell and low power node) should be
considered.
\- Conduct system-level simulation to determine the inter-cell interference
modelling methodology and other side conditions needed for link-level
simulation, and link-level simulation to evaluate gain of MMSE-IRC over
baseline receiver (MMSE receiver)
\- Phase II:
\- LTE BS MMSE-IRC receiver is assumed as the reference receiver structure for
specifying the requirements.
\- Demodulation RS based MMSE-IRC receiver can be considered as baseline, and
practical and realizable implementation should be taken into account.
\- Specify the enhanced demodulation performance requirements for verification
of BS receiver\'s ability on inter-cell interference suppression.
\- For PUSCH, specify enhanced demodulation performance requirements based on
the reference receiver.
\- For PUCCH, with lower priority, determine whether to specify enhanced
demodulation performance requirements based on the reference receiver.
\- Specify the enhanced conformance test requirements.
Note: The enhanced demodulation performance requirements only apply to the
base station capable of MMSE-IRC receiver.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TSG RAN RP-142223: \"New WI on performance requirements of MMSE-IRC
receiver for LTE BS\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.814: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Further advancements for E-UTRA physical layer aspects\".
[4] 3GPP TR 36.872: \"Small cell enhancements for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN -
Physical layer aspects\".
[5] 3GPP TR 36.819: \"Coordinated multi-point operation for LTE physical layer
aspects\".
[6] 3GPP TSG RAN4 R4-155444: \"Updated summary of phase-I link level
simulation results for BS MMSE-IRC receiver\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[8] 3GPP TSG RAN4 R4-161523: \"Summary of BS IRC alignment and impairment
results for synchronous network\".
[9] 3GPP TSG RAN4 R4-163888: \" Updated summary of BS-IRC simulation results
for asynchronous network\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
DFT Discrete Fourier Transformation
DIP Dominant Interferer Proportion
DM-RS Demodulation Reference Signal
IDFT Inverse Discrete Fourier Transformation
MMSE Minimum Mean Square Error
MMSE-IRC Minimum Mean Square Error - Interference Rejection Combining
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
RB Resource Block
RE Resource Element
SINR Signal-to-Interference-and-Noise Ratio
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
# 4 Receiver structure
## 4.1 Signal model
For PUSCH, the receiver equations are provided as the reference receiver for
evaluation purpose.
Assume that $d_{j}(k,l)$ is the $N_{\text{Stream}} \times 1$ frequency domain
representation of the _k_ -th subcarrier in the -th DFT-OFDM symbol for the
-th UE scheduled by its serving BS. $d_{j}(k,l)$ is obtained with DFT
operation of the time-domain modulating symbol, denoted as $s_{j}(m,l)$, where
, with DFT size of . The _N~Rx~_ -dimensional received signal vector $r(k,l)$
of the _k_ -th subcarrier and the _l_ -th DFT-OFDM symbol by the serving BS of
the 1^st^ UE is assumed to be expressed as a sum of the signal
{width="1.0277777777777777in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}from the 1^st^ UE,
the interference signals {width="1.0694444444444444in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"} (_j_ >1) from other UEs and the white noise ,
as
where , represent the _(N~Rx~_ x _N~Stream~)_ effective channel matrix between
the -th UE and the serving BS of the 1^st^ UE, containing the contribution
from all receiver branches. is the total number of UEs scheduled by their
corresponding BSs in the network.
The recovered _N~Stream~_ x 1 signal vector ${\hat{d}}_{1}(k,l)$ for the 1^st^
UE at its serving BS is detected as follows:
where the (_N~Stream~_ x _N~Rx~_) receiver weight matrix {width="0.75in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"} is determined according to the type of PUSCH
receiver, as discussed in the following sections. The detected time-domain
modulating symbol, denoted as , can be obtained with a IDFT operation for
${\hat{d}}_{1}(k,l)$.
There will be two types of PUSCH receiver, as MMSE receiver and MMSE-IRC
receiver. The equalization is assumed to be performed in the frequency domain.
## 4.2 Baseline receiver: MMSE receiver
The MMSE receiver weight matrix is expressed as follow:
{width="1.7638888888888888in" height="0.2916666666666667in"},
where {width="0.5833333333333334in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}and
$\sigma^{2}$denote the estimated channel matrix and noise power, respectively.
_P_ ~1~ is the transmission power of UE scheduled by the serving cell and is
equal to {width="0.9166666666666666in" height="0.25in"}.
## 4.3 MMSE-IRC receiver
The MMSE-IRC receiver weight matrix is usually defined as
{width="1.7638888888888888in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
where {width="0.5833333333333334in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}and
{width="0.2361111111111111in" height="0.2777777777777778in"}denote the
estimated channel matrix and covariance matrix, respectively.
To obtain the MMSE-IRC receiver weight matrix, the covariance matrix including
the sources of inter-cell interference needs to be estimated. The covariance
matrix is estimated at DM-RS REs by following equations:
{width="3.4722222222222223in" height="0.4861111111111111in"},
{width="2.1805555555555554in" height="0.2638888888888889in"},
where the DM-RS symbols are used to estimate the covariance matrix, and
_N~sp~_ is the number of sampling DM-RS REs.
The estimation of interference covariance matrix is performed at per PRB and
per TTI basis.
# 5 Scenarios and targeted/interference channels
## 5.1 Network deployment scenarios
To estimate the link gain that BS Interference Rejection (IRC) receivers might
provide for LTE/LTE-Advanced uplink it is necessary to first define the
network scenarios under which the receivers can operate. The following two
scenarios are introduced for the evaluation of BS MMSE-IRC, and the pictures
for these two scenarios are provided in Figure 5.1‑1.
**\- Scenario 1:** Homogeneous deployment with macro cell only
**\- Scenario 2:** Heterogeneous deployment with co-channel low power
node(LPN) within the macro cell coverage
{width="5.175in" height="2.1798611111111112in"}
(a) BS IRC Scenario 1: Homogeneous network (b) BS IRC Scenario 2:
Heterogeneous network\ Figure 5.1-1: BS MMSE IRC Scenarios
The system level assumptions for homogeneous scenario and heterogeneous
scenario are provided in the Tables 5.1-1 and 5.1-2 respectively.
For the placing of LPN and UE in heterogeneous scenario, there are the
following two options considered in the simulation:
\- Spare and non-clustered outdoor LPN deployment, i.e., configuration #4b in
TR 36.814 [3] (Baseline). LPNs are uniformly and randomly dropped within macro
geographical area.
\- Clustered outdoor LPN deployments, i.e., small cell scenario 1 in TR 36.872
[4] (Optional). Clusters are uniformly and randomly distributed within macro
geographical area, and multiple LPNs are uniformly and randomly dropped within
cluster area.
For the UE dropping in configuration #4b scenario, there are two options
considered in the simulation:
\- Option1: 100 % outdoor UEs are assumed for configuration #4b
\- Option2: 20 % outdoor and 80 % indoor UEs are assumed for configuration #4b
Considering that option 2 is the more realistic scenario for heterogeneous
scenario, option 2 is adopted.
For the uplink scheduling, there are two options considered in the simulation:
\- Baseline: The same frequency domain multiplexing based round-robin (RR)
scheduling in TR 36.814 [3].
\- Interested companies are welcome to provide the simulation results based on
proportional fairness (PF) scheduling.
It is noted that interference levels to be derived from system simulation
evaluation are long term statistics, so it is insensitive to the scheduler to
be used. Furthermore based on simulation results from source company, the
performance gap between PF scheduling and RR scheduling is neglectable
therefore only results using RR scheduling are captured.
System level simulation are then conducted based on the agreed assumptions for
the purpose of collecting interference statistics. From these collected
statistics certain key measures are developed, which provide some insight into
how well an interference rejection receiver might work.
Table 5.1-1: System-level assumptions for homogeneous scenarios
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameters | Values (for Macro | | | | cell) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bandwidth | 10 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2 GHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cellular Layout | Hexagonal grid, 19 | | | | cell sites, 3 | | | | sectors per site | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ISD | 500 m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total BS TX Power | 46 dBm | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distance-dependent | ITU UMa, with 2D | | | path loss | distance between an | | | | eNB and a UE | | | | applied. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing standard | ITU UMa | | | deviation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | 0 between macro-cell | | | correlation | sites, 1 between | | | | macro-cells | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Penetration loss | 0dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna pattern | Horizontal | {width="2.125in" | | | | height="0. | | | | 6111111111111112in"} | | | | | | | | {width="0 | | | | .5958333333333333in" | | | | height="0.22638888 | | | | 88888889in"}degrees, | | | | {width="0 | | | | .7777777777777778in" | | | | height="0.25in"} | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Vertical | {width="2 | | | | .4305555555555554in" | | | | height="0. | | | | 6111111111111112in"} | | | | | | | | {width="0.625in" | | | | heig | | | | ht="0.25in"}degrees, | | | | {width="0.78125in" | | | | height="0.2 | | | | 111111111111111in"}, | | | | {width="0.25625in" | | | | height="0.2 | | | | 222222222222222in"}= | | | | 12 degrees | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Combining method in | {width="2 | | | | .5965277777777778in" | | | | height="0.25in"} | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS antenna Height | 25 m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE antenna Height | 1,5 m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain | 17 dBi | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain of UE | 0 dBi | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Feeder loss | 0 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of UEs | 10 per cell | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE dropping | UEs are randomly and | | | | uniformly | | | | distributed in the | | | | macro geographical | | | | area, 100 % UEs are | | | | outdoor | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum distance | >= 35 m | | | between UE and Cell | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic model | Full buffer | | | | transmission on | | | | PUSCH | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eNB noise figure | 5 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Thermal noise | -174 dBm/Hz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | **Synchronized** | | | synchronization | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Backhaul Modelling | Assume that there is | | | | no exchange of the | | | | information for the | | | | assistance for BS | | | | MMSE-IRC receiver | | | | between cells | | | | located in different | | | | sites. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Uplink transmission | Single port uplink | | | schemes | transmission on | | | | PUSCH; No MU-MIMO is | | | | used. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Uplink scheduling | > • Option 1 | | | | > (Baseline): | | | | > Round-robin FDM | | | | > scheduling from | | | | > 36.814 [3] | | | | > calibration, i.e., | | | | > | | | | > \- Share available | | | | > bandwidth between | | | | > users connected to | | | | > the cell, all | | | | > users get | | | | > resources in every | | | | > uplink subframe. | | | | > With M users and | | | | > Nrb PRBs | | | | > available, | | | | > Mh=mod(Nrb,M) | | | | > users get | | | | > floor(Nrb/M)+1 | | | | > PRBs whereas | | | | > Ml=M-Mh users get | | | | > floor(Nrb/M) PRBs | | | | > | | | | > • Option 2 | | | | > (Optional): PF | | | | > scheduling | | | | > | | | | > \- Provide the | | | | > DIPs per PRB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL power control | Open loop power | | | | control, K_s = 0, | | | | P0 = -82 dBm and | | | | alpha = 0.8 for | | | | macro UE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE power class | 23 dBm (200mW)\ | | | | This corresponds to | | | | the sum of PA powers | | | | in multiple Tx | | | | antenna case | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-cell | No CoMP and | | | coordination | (f)(e)ICIC | | | techniques | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell selection | RSRP based | | | criteria | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Hard handover | 3 dB | | | hysteresis | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 5.1-2: System-level assumptions for heterogeneous scenarios
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Macro cell | LPN | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cellular | Hexagonal | | | | Layout | grid, 19 macro | | | | | sites, 3 | | | | | sectors per | | | | | site | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Carrier | 2 GHz | | | | frequency | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | System | 10 MHz | | | | bandwidth | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ISD | 500 m | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Total BS TX | 46 dBm | 30 dBm | | | power | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Dist | Same as | Same as | | | ance-dependent | scenario 3 in | scenario 3 in | | | path loss | CoMP SI, i.e., | CoMP SI, i.e., | | | | ITU Uma, with | ITU UMi, with | | | | 2D distance | 2D distance | | | | between an eNB | between an eNB | | | | and a UE | and a UE | | | | applied. | applied. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Penetration | Outdoor UE: 0 | | | | loss | dB | | | | | | | | | | Indoor UE: 20 | | | | | dB | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Shadowing | Same as | Same as | | | standard | scenario 3 in | scenario 3 in | | | deviation | CoMP SI, i.e., | CoMP SI, i.e., | | | | ITU UMa | ITU UMi | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Shadowing | 0 between | 0 between LPNs | | | correlation | macro-cell | | | | | sites, 1 | | | | | between | | | | | macro-cells | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Antenna | Horizontal | {wi | Om | | | | dth="1.8375in" | ni-directional | | | | he | | | | | ight="0.538194 | | | | | 4444444444in"} | | | | | | | | | | {w | | | | | idth="0.315277 | | | | | 77777777777in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.2479166 | | | | | 6666666667in"} | | | | | = 70 degrees, | | | | | _A~m~_ = 25 dB | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Vertical | { | | | | | width="2.06805 | | | | | 55555555555in" | | | | | he | | | | | ight="0.520833 | | | | | 3333333334in"} | | | | | | | | | | {w | | | | | idth="0.247916 | | | | | 66666666667in" | | | | | height= | | | | | "0.20416666666 | | | | | 666666in"}=10, | | | | | _SLA~v~_ | | | | | =20 dB, | | | | | {wid | | | | | th="0.25625in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.2222222 | | | | | 222222222in"}= | | | | | 12 degrees | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Combining | {wid | | | | antenna | th="2.28125in" | | | | pattern | he | | | | | ight="0.229861 | | | | | 1111111111in"} | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | BS antenna | 25 m | 10 m | | | Height | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UE antenna | 1,5 m | | | | Height | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Antenna gain | 17 dBi | 5 dBi | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Antenna gain | 0 dBi | | | | of UE | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Feeder loss | 0 dB | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Total number | 30 per macro | | | | of UEs | cell | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Placing of LPN | • 10 UEs are | • | | | and UE | randomly and | Configuration | | | | uniformly | #4b as in TR | | | | distributed in | 36.814 [3] | | | | the macro | | | | | geographical | • 4 LPNs per | | | | area | macro cell | | | | | | | | | • 20 % outdoor | • 5 UEs are | | | | and 80 % | randomly and | | | | indoor UEs | uniformly | | | | | distributed | | | | | within a 40 m | | | | | radius of each | | | | | LPN | | | | | | | | | | • 20 % outdoor | | | | | and 80 % | | | | | indoor UEs | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Minimum | Macro - UE: 35 | Same as CoMP | | | distance (2D | m | Scenario 3/4 | | | distance) | | in TR 36.819 | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | | | | • Macro - LPN: | | | | | 75 m | | | | | | | | | | • LPN - LPN: | | | | | 40 m | | | | | | | | | | • LPN - UE : | | | | | 10 m | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Traffic model | Full buffer | | | | | transmission | | | | | on PUSCH | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | eNB noise | 5 dB | | | | figure | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Thermal noise | -174 dBm/Hz | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Network | Synchronized | | | | s | | | | | ynchronization | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Backhaul | Assume that | | | | Modelling | there is no | | | | | exchange of | | | | | the | | | | | information | | | | | for the | | | | | assistance for | | | | | BS MMSE-IRC | | | | | receiver | | | | | between cells | | | | | located in | | | | | different | | | | | sites. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Uplink | Single port | | | | transmission | uplink | | | | schemes | transmission | | | | | on PUSCH; No | | | | | MU-MIMO is | | | | | used. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UL scheduling | > • Option | | | | | > 1(Baseline): | | | | | > Round-robin | | | | | > FDM | | | | | > scheduling | | | | | > from 36.814 | | | | | > [3] | | | | | > calibration, | | | | | > i.e., | | | | | > | | | | | > \- Share | | | | | > available | | | | | > bandwidth | | | | | > between | | | | | > users | | | | | > connected to | | | | | > the cell, | | | | | > all users | | | | | > get | | | | | > resources in | | | | | > every uplink | | | | | > subframe. | | | | | > With M users | | | | | > and Nrb PRBs | | | | | > available, | | | | | > | | | | | Mh=mod(Nrb,M) | | | | | > users get | | | | | > | | | | | floor(Nrb/M)+1 | | | | | > PRBs whereas | | | | | > Ml=M-Mh | | | | | > users get | | | | | > floor(Nrb/M) | | | | | > PRBs | | | | | > | | | | | > • Option 2 | | | | | > (Optional): | | | | | > PF | | | | | > scheduling | | | | | > | | | | | > \- Provide | | | | | > the DIPs per | | | | | > PRB | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UL power | Open loop | | | | control | power control, | | | | | K_s = 0. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | P0 = -82 dBm | P0 = -76 dBm | | | | and alpha = | and alpha = | | | | 0.8 for macro | 0.8 for LPN UE | | | | UE | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UE power class | 23 dBm | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Inter-cell | No CoMP and | | | | coordination | (f)(e)ICIC | | | | techniques | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cell selection | RSRP based (no | | | | criteria | CRE) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Hard handover | 3 dB | | | | hysteresis | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 5.2 Targeted and interference channels
On performance requirements of MMSE-IRC receiver for PUSCH, it was agreed
that:
\- The first priority for phase I work in the present document is SIMO PUSCH
to SIMO PUSCH collision under synchronous network.
\- BS MMSE-IRC demodulation requirements for both synchronous and asynchronous
network operations are specified in phase II work of the present document.
\- For both target PUSCH and interference PUSCH, 1Tx UE scenario is
prioritized and 2Tx UE scenario is not covered.
# 6 Interference modelling
## 6.1 General
In this clause, the interference models/profiles are developed in order to
assess the link level performance of BS MMSE-IRC receiver. Clause 6.2 defines
the statistical measure, referred to as Dominant Interferer Proportion (DIP)
ratio, and the methodologies to derive DIPs. System level simulators have been
calibrated to ensure that they produce comparable results, and the calibration
results are summarized in clause 6.3. In clause 6.4, system level simulations
are conducted to generate results for the interference profiles, which will be
used in the link performance characterization in clause 7 and BS demodulation
requirement definition in clause 8 and clause 9.
## 6.2 Statistical measure
### 6.2.1 Interference statistical measurement
Network interference statistics are computed using the following defined
measure. The Dominant Interferer Proportion (DIP) ratio is defined as the
ratio of the power of a given dominant interferer over the total power of all
interferers along with the white noise. The DIP is expressed as follows:
{width="0.8861111111111111in" height="0.6034722222222222in"},
{width="1.479861111111111in" height="0.56875in"}
where {width="0.3111111111111111in" height="0.2520833333333333in"} is the
average received power from the _i_ -th strongest interferer
({width="0.3215277777777778in" height="0.2520833333333333in"} implies the
average received power from the UE scheduled by the serving cell),
{width="0.2076388888888889in" height="0.2076388888888889in"} is the thermal
noise power over the considered bandwidth, and {width="0.30694444444444446in"
height="0.2222222222222222in"} is the total number of cells including the
serving cell. Note that {width="0.3215277777777778in"
height="0.2520833333333333in"} is never included in any DIP calculation.
Uplink wideband SINR {width="0.1486111111111111in"
height="0.1736111111111111in"} is defined as:
{width="0.6625in" height="0.5388888888888889in"}
### 6.2.2 Methodology for statistical measurements
This sub-clause presents two methodologies to derive DIPs based on the
following steps:
**\- Methodology 1**
> **Step 1** : Decide DIP1. First obtain the distribution of unconditional
> DIP1 values from all the simulated samples. The DIP1 value at 85 %-tile of
> the DIP1 distribution is taken.
>
> **Step 2** : Decide DIP2. For the DIP1 value at 85 %-tile, the median of the
> conditioned DIP2 are obtained, where the median DIP2 is obtained from all
> DIP2 whose corresponding DIP1 fall within ±5 %-tile of 85 %-tile (i.e.,
> 80\~90 %-tile).
**\- Methodology 2**
> **Step 1** : Identify the SINR value at 5 %-tile of UL wideband SINR
> distribution as the SINR of interest.
>
> **Step 2** : For each simulated sample, if the UL wideband SINR fall within
> +/- 0.2 dB of 5 %-tile UL wideband SINR, the DIP1/2 values are saved for
> this sample.
>
> **Step 3** : After saving all the conditional DIP1/2 values, the median
> values of DIP1/DIP2 distribution are taken.
## 6.3 System level simulator calibration
### 6.3.0 General
To ensure that different system level simulators produce comparable results,
UL wideband SINR and unconditional DIP distributions have been evaluated and
calibrated. The evaluation results from various interested companies are
summarized in this clause. Sub-clause 6.3.1 and 6.3.2 present the results for
homogeneous network and heterogeneous network respectively. The simulation
assumptions in clause 5 are used.
### 6.3.1 Homogeneous network
#### 6.3.1.1 UL wideband SINR distribution {#ul-wideband-sinr-distribution
.list-paragraph}
Company inputs are captured in Figure 6.3.1.1-1 based on raw data in Table
6.3.1.1-1.
{width="5.555555555555555in" height="2.80625in"}
Figure 6.3.1.1-1: UL wideband SINR calibration for homogeneous network
Table 6.3.1.1-1: Company inputs on UL wideband SINR calibration for
homogeneous network
* * *
Percentile China Telecom Huawei Ericsson ZTE Nokia Networks Alcatel-Lucent
R4-152823 R4-152596 R4-152958 R4-153161 R4-152236 R4-153481 0 -12,936373
-16,3074 -9,577345629 -11,66 -16,6532 -12,641 1 -5,601403 -10,7635
-4,304865784 -5,56 -8,2105 -4,814 2 -4,535233 -6,2742 -3,388254755 -4,49
-6,878 -3,776 3 -3,816456 -4,5613 -2,703500241 -3,77 -5,5119 -3,093 4
-3,250735 -3,2998 -2,20848104 -3,19 -4,6928 -2,574 5 -2,778367 -2,542
-1,765964205 -2,73 -4,1035 -2,145 6 -2,371933 -2,1406 -1,397130676 -2,32
-3,3622 -1,772 7 -2,008988 -1,8024 -1,077623294 -1,98 -2,9662 -1,441 8
-1,672961 -1,5047 -0,806813416 -1,68 -2,5249 -1,14 9 -1,362198 -1,2061
-0,554247818 -1,37 -2,1144 -0,862 10 -1,068674 -0,9226 -0,298551652 -1,08
-1,7157 -0,606 11 -0,796962 -0,6448 -0,060722323 -0,79 -1,2659 -0,366 12
-0,541513 -0,3965 0,143245829 -0,53 -0,9214 -0,139 13 -0,299013 -0,1639
0,344851752 -0,29 -0,7186 0,075 14 -0,062863 0,062 0,551626545 -0,06 -0,3549
0,28 15 0,168603 0,2864 0,752821084 0,17 0,0176 0,477 16 0,386072 0,4979
0,931529317 0,39 0,2368 0,665 17 0,593768 0,7019 1,112590852 0,60 0,5486 0,846
18 0,794501 0,9018 1,276844742 0,81 0,7766 1,02 19 0,993508 1,0996 1,466397448
1,01 1,0355 1,19 20 1,188856 1,2867 1,639025721 1,20 1,2523 1,354 21 1,377686
1,466 1,811400431 1,38 1,4127 1,515 22 1,558283 1,6446 1,983846817 1,56 1,6947
1,671 23 1,734897 1,8275 2,145054822 1,75 1,8532 1,824 24 1,911289 2,0029
2,304054346 1,93 2,003 1,973 25 2,08257 2,1701 2,459386245 2,10 2,211 2,118 26
2,249617 2,3228 2,614379505 2,25 2,3603 2,262 27 2,414853 2,4866 2,755811586
2,42 2,4965 2,402 28 2,575864 2,6421 2,892473181 2,58 2,7318 2,54 29 2,731665
2,7983 3,035545416 2,74 2,9497 2,676 30 2,888604 2,9478 3,179672933 2,89
3,1254 2,808 31 3,040907 3,1026 3,317342612 3,05 3,3307 2,939 32 3,194734
3,2494 3,449500273 3,20 3,4318 3,067 33 3,34268 3,3973 3,5902457 3,35 3,549
3,195 34 3,486951 3,5506 3,724553172 3,51 3,6591 3,321 35 3,632011 3,6913
3,865270309 3,65 3,8193 3,446 36 3,774955 3,8283 3,98901791 3,79 3,9376 3,568
37 3,913502 3,9659 4,117980507 3,93 4,1132 3,691 38 4,053657 4,0999
4,262661203 4,06 4,2855 3,811 39 4,189767 4,2292 4,386350557 4,19 4,5049 3,93
40 4,323283 4,3675 4,520784775 4,33 4,6901 4,049 41 4,456513 4,4993
4,658423196 4,46 4,8362 4,167 42 4,589614 4,6367 4,788599708 4,60 4,9921 4,284
43 4,719452 4,7591 4,915572096 4,72 5,146 4,399 44 4,851453 4,8968 5,048158843
4,86 5,2866 4,514 45 4,980374 5,0247 5,168144546 4,99 5,4547 4,629 46 5,109397
5,1544 5,297230249 5,12 5,5963 4,743 47 5,238401 5,2757 5,419280746 5,24
5,7702 4,857 48 5,367129 5,4037 5,540153001 5,37 5,8515 4,97 49 5,49401 5,5256
5,666222442 5,49 6,0059 5,083 50 5,621948 5,6477 5,792391826 5,61 6,1351 5,195
51 5,749523 5,7679 5,909759908 5,73 6,248 5,307 52 5,873645 5,8964 6,035236731
5,86 6,4412 5,419 53 5,997783 6,0168 6,15517245 5,98 6,5372 5,532 54 6,123333
6,1377 6,276829722 6,10 6,6765 5,644 55 6,248701 6,2651 6,396302847 6,23
6,7813 5,757 56 6,370418 6,3858 6,51860499 6,35 6,9572 5,87 57 6,492327 6,5047
6,632443944 6,47 7,1027 5,983 58 6,613628 6,6325 6,7556433 6,60 7,2851 6,096
59 6,736956 6,7527 6,874927011 6,72 7,4389 6,208 60 6,858927 6,8721
6,990844975 6,84 7,6145 6,321 61 6,982047 6,9909 7,103660891 6,96 7,7341 6,434
62 7,106308 7,1126 7,229644919 7,08 7,8754 6,548 63 7,228863 7,2391
7,345839626 7,21 7,9968 6,664 64 7,353887 7,3598 7,46722921 7,33 8,1275 6,78
65 7,478927 7,4801 7,586047506 7,45 8,2258 6,897 66 7,602516 7,6011 7,70920519
7,57 8,39 7,015 67 7,729129 7,7312 7,841305877 7,70 8,5129 7,134 68 7,856766
7,8516 7,959848696 7,82 8,6499 7,255 69 7,987248 7,9796 8,079434977 7,95
8,7819 7,375 70 8,119367 8,1021 8,205689782 8,07 8,8831 7,497 71 8,249523
8,231 8,330244686 8,20 9,0672 7,621 72 8,380768 8,3689 8,46425476 8,34 9,2358
7,748 73 8,515463 8,4975 8,58471955 8,47 9,3488 7,876 74 8,653723 8,6364
8,72014783 8,61 9,5184 8,007 75 8,789896 8,7748 8,854262901 8,75 9,673 8,14 76
8,931183 8,9132 8,985169716 8,89 9,7995 8,275 77 9,0736 9,0522 9,11927584 9,03
9,932 8,415 78 9,219728 9,2017 9,268391209 9,18 10,1289 8,556 79 9,372013
9,3493 9,405289109 9,33 10,2628 8,702 80 9,52989 9,5072 9,556010857 9,49
10,614 8,852 81 9,690913 9,6734 9,711507799 9,66 10,8619 9,007 82 9,855916
9,8342 9,872800931 9,82 11,0663 9,167 83 10,028894 9,9972 10,04133984 9,98
11,2292 9,33 84 10,204849 10,1657 10,2011486 10,15 11,432 9,502 85 10,390458
10,3502 10,36580667 10,34 11,6646 9,682 86 10,584242 10,5414 10,5596779 10,53
11,8376 9,871 87 10,787174 10,7429 10,76599424 10,73 12,0696 10,068 88
11,004609 10,9517 10,96630296 10,94 12,5387 10,274 89 11,233517 11,1812
11,19402427 11,17 12,8094 10,494 90 11,472607 11,4201 11,42926987 11,41
13,2626 10,73 91 11,728989 11,6739 11,66000538 11,67 13,5295 10,983 92
12,014296 11,9429 11,91734331 11,94 13,8562 11,258 93 12,317672 12,2445
12,18843085 12,25 14,1429 11,559 94 12,654963 12,5914 12,49454199 12,61
14,4829 11,895 95 13,037834 12,9602 12,81709771 12,99 14,8902 12,274 96
13,480988 13,3892 13,20028727 13,43 15,4877 12,709 97 14,008933 13,8927
13,63394675 13,95 16,0533 13,233 98 14,676667 14,5209 14,20130382 14,59
17,1152 13,905 99 15,632654 15,443 15,07875133 15,52 18,3226 14,904 100
21,477752 20,2618 19,38030789 20,34 24,5444 21,426
* * *
#### 6.3.1.2 Unconditional DIP distribution {#unconditional-dip-distribution
.list-paragraph}
**Unconditional DIP1 distribution:**
Company inputs are captured in Figure 6.3.1.2-1 based on raw data in Table
6.3.1.2-1.
{width="5.531944444444444in" height="2.7944444444444443in"}
Figure 6.3.1.2-1: Unconditional DIP1 calibration for homogeneous network
Table 6.3.1.2-1: Company inputs on unconditional DIP1 calibration for
homogeneous network
* * *
Percentile China Telecom Huawei Ericsson ZTE Nokia Networks Alcatel-Lucent
R4-152823 R4-152596 R4-152958 R4-153161 R4-152236 R4-153481 0 -11,607758
-20,6352 -11,7426967 -11,84 -9,91 -10,14 1 -8,32198 -8,0873 -8,531353067 -8,28
-8,68 -7,30 2 -7,792122 -7,2666 -7,977248613 -7,79 -8,10 -6,87 3 -7,433822
-6,8905 -7,62035199 -7,42 -7,73 -6,56 4 -7,151077 -6,6354 -7,334383407 -7,14
-7,41 -6,33 5 -6,919383 -6,4144 -7,089211275 -6,91 -7,18 -6,13 6 -6,723163
-6,2463 -6,886238868 -6,71 -7,03 -5,96 7 -6,544646 -6,0911 -6,702625767 -6,52
-6,86 -5,81 8 -6,384459 -5,9602 -6,527534707 -6,36 -6,71 -5,67 9 -6,241269
-5,8383 -6,375950782 -6,22 -6,57 -5,54 10 -6,109353 -5,73 -6,236340718 -6,08
-6,43 -5,43 11 -5,985336 -5,626 -6,104303213 -5,95 -6,32 -5,32 12 -5,868997
-5,5246 -5,981569688 -5,84 -6,14 -5,21 13 -5,758806 -5,4293 -5,871057488 -5,73
-6,02 -5,11 14 -5,652633 -5,3401 -5,759610501 -5,62 -5,92 -5,02 15 -5,551719
-5,2527 -5,654553505 -5,52 -5,81 -4,93 16 -5,456465 -5,1716 -5,548050966 -5,42
-5,71 -4,85 17 -5,364572 -5,0949 -5,457362452 -5,33 -5,62 -4,76 18 -5,276664
-5,0172 -5,36606239 -5,24 -5,54 -4,69 19 -5,189142 -4,9489 -5,274348027 -5,15
-5,47 -4,61 20 -5,104681 -4,8769 -5,183417684 -5,07 -5,40 -4,53 21 -5,023483
-4,8098 -5,09204517 -4,99 -5,35 -4,46 22 -4,945204 -4,7408 -5,010185108 -4,91
-5,27 -4,39 23 -4,869322 -4,6737 -4,931797836 -4,83 -5,15 -4,32 24 -4,794657
-4,6095 -4,85329821 -4,76 -5,08 -4,26 25 -4,721955 -4,5447 -4,771603675 -4,68
-5,02 -4,19 26 -4,650108 -4,4804 -4,698526944 -4,61 -4,96 -4,13 27 -4,578765
-4,4183 -4,618959322 -4,55 -4,89 -4,06 28 -4,50909 -4,3586 -4,545197736 -4,48
-4,81 -4,00 29 -4,440237 -4,2975 -4,470782027 -4,41 -4,73 -3,94 30 -4,373159
-4,2413 -4,3987953 -4,35 -4,63 -3,88 31 -4,307332 -4,1814 -4,334229022 -4,28
-4,55 -3,82 32 -4,242738 -4,1212 -4,263037258 -4,22 -4,49 -3,76 33 -4,178946
-4,063 -4,196172297 -4,16 -4,44 -3,71 34 -4,115789 -4,009 -4,131171937 -4,09
-4,37 -3,65 35 -4,052369 -3,9541 -4,064935407 -4,03 -4,27 -3,60 36 -3,990135
-3,8987 -4,004226168 -3,97 -4,21 -3,54 37 -3,927733 -3,8465 -3,940138275 -3,90
-4,15 -3,49 38 -3,866867 -3,7951 -3,879475515 -3,84 -4,06 -3,43 39 -3,805513
-3,7404 -3,81489538 -3,78 -3,99 -3,38 40 -3,744533 -3,689 -3,752497712 -3,72
-3,94 -3,33 41 -3,685316 -3,6356 -3,69032111 -3,66 -3,86 -3,27 42 -3,626901
-3,5829 -3,629506504 -3,60 -3,80 -3,22 43 -3,568287 -3,5308 -3,568502344 -3,54
-3,74 -3,17 44 -3,509713 -3,4793 -3,511372044 -3,49 -3,65 -3,12 45 -3,453172
-3,4266 -3,450772983 -3,43 -3,59 -3,07 46 -3,395052 -3,3751 -3,395561916 -3,37
-3,51 -3,01 47 -3,337282 -3,3244 -3,33615283 -3,31 -3,47 -2,96 48 -3,280608
-3,2741 -3,282982301 -3,26 -3,41 -2,91 49 -3,223862 -3,2208 -3,230113192 -3,20
-3,34 -2,86 50 -3,166404 -3,1692 -3,176698367 -3,14 -3,27 -2,81 51 -3,10857
-3,1163 -3,12230297 -3,09 -3,19 -2,75 52 -3,052225 -3,0648 -3,068425249 -3,03
-3,14 -2,70 53 -2,99616 -3,011 -3,011242453 -2,97 -3,08 -2,65 54 -2,938637
-2,9592 -2,956639795 -2,91 -3,03 -2,60 55 -2,881454 -2,906 -2,896562904 -2,86
-2,96 -2,55 56 -2,822551 -2,8551 -2,838346998 -2,80 -2,91 -2,49 57 -2,764862
-2,8023 -2,779582371 -2,75 -2,86 -2,44 58 -2,707033 -2,7485 -2,726653699 -2,69
-2,80 -2,39 59 -2,649841 -2,6944 -2,673255085 -2,63 -2,73 -2,34 60 -2,592483
-2,6409 -2,615730239 -2,57 -2,64 -2,28 61 -2,534468 -2,5871 -2,557066651 -2,52
-2,57 -2,23 62 -2,47643 -2,5305 -2,50090151 -2,46 -2,50 -2,18 63 -2,417989
-2,4754 -2,443354881 -2,40 -2,44 -2,12 64 -2,359218 -2,4211 -2,387382659 -2,34
-2,39 -2,07 65 -2,300181 -2,3646 -2,323782464 -2,29 -2,32 -2,02 66 -2,240501
-2,3082 -2,269484822 -2,23 -2,25 -1,97 67 -2,180649 -2,2515 -2,216504769 -2,17
-2,17 -1,91 68 -2,120916 -2,1951 -2,164454885 -2,11 -2,11 -1,86 69 -2,061183
-2,1365 -2,109868589 -2,05 -2,06 -1,81 70 -1,999736 -2,0826 -2,05499015 -2,00
-2,01 -1,75 71 -1,939221 -2,025 -1,997478979 -1,94 -1,95 -1,70 72 -1,880227
-1,9652 -1,942664564 -1,88 -1,87 -1,65 73 -1,820653 -1,9066 -1,884635261 -1,82
-1,79 -1,59 74 -1,761093 -1,8532 -1,828639498 -1,76 -1,72 -1,54 75 -1,701938
-1,7959 -1,774130943 -1,70 -1,65 -1,49 76 -1,641262 -1,7378 -1,715482307 -1,64
-1,59 -1,44 77 -1,582232 -1,6774 -1,655757839 -1,58 -1,53 -1,38 78 -1,523325
-1,618 -1,599904398 -1,52 -1,44 -1,33 79 -1,464667 -1,5582 -1,546063052 -1,47
-1,38 -1,28 80 -1,404798 -1,4991 -1,490707118 -1,41 -1,35 -1,22 81 -1,345973
-1,4384 -1,433726773 -1,35 -1,29 -1,17 82 -1,285974 -1,3781 -1,379109303 -1,29
-1,21 -1,12 83 -1,228196 -1,3181 -1,324931616 -1,23 -1,16 -1,07 84 -1,168437
-1,2585 -1,271965616 -1,18 -1,12 -1,01 85 -1,107523 -1,199 -1,216622332 -1,12
-1,06 -0,96 86 -1,048222 -1,138 -1,159526179 -1,06 -0,98 -0,91 87 -0,988535
-1,0745 -1,104198299 -1,00 -0,92 -0,86 88 -0,929564 -1,0118 -1,046782411 -0,94
-0,85 -0,80 89 -0,870438 -0,9461 -0,990467754 -0,88 -0,76 -0,75 90 -0,811129
-0,8829 -0,928555933 -0,82 -0,68 -0,70 91 -0,751944 -0,8171 -0,872491745 -0,76
-0,60 -0,65 92 -0,693088 -0,7533 -0,815033285 -0,70 -0,52 -0,59 93 -0,633303
-0,6814 -0,755612898 -0,64 -0,48 -0,54 94 -0,573057 -0,6132 -0,692116681 -0,58
-0,40 -0,49 95 -0,511097 -0,5415 -0,632256832 -0,52 -0,34 -0,43 96 -0,446275
-0,4655 -0,567876386 -0,45 -0,29 -0,37 97 -0,377648 -0,3894 -0,490301369 -0,39
-0,26 -0,32 98 -0,305635 -0,3097 -0,403015026 -0,31 -0,19 -0,25 99 -0,220144
-0,2162 -0,297227592 -0,23 -0,12 -0,18 100 -0,0256 -0,0244 -0,098458692 -0,04
-0,01 -0,01
* * *
**Unconditional DIP2 distribution:**
Company inputs are captured in Figure 6.3.1.2-2 based on raw data in Table
6.3.1.2-2.
{width="5.632638888888889in" height="2.79375in"}
Figure 6.3.1.2-2: Unconditional DIP2 calibration for homogeneous network
Table 6.3.1.2-2: Company inputs on unconditional DIP2 calibration for
homogeneous network
* * *
Percentile China Telecom Huawei Ericsson ZTE Nokia Networks Alcatel-Lucent
R4-152823 R4-152596 R4-152958 R4-153161 R4-152236 R4-153481 0 -30,95211
-29,6831 -26,37816118 -29,65 -28,7559 -31,551 1 -19,370581 -19,7454
-18,39359609 -19,25 -21,6987 -19,239 2 -17,650628 -17,7208 -16,87033539 -17,54
-19,9294 -17,527 3 -16,52869 -16,425 -15,91149155 -16,49 -18,2966 -16,426 4
-15,707433 -15,5001 -15,20369529 -15,64 -17,1797 -15,6 5 -15,035429 -14,8074
-14,61067492 -14,97 -16,4299 -14,933 6 -14,485384 -14,2201 -14,13848831 -14,43
-15,97 -14,373 7 -13,998394 -13,6678 -13,67432579 -13,98 -15,1966 -13,89 8
-13,584652 -13,2182 -13,30862909 -13,55 -14,5581 -13,463 9 -13,219005 -12,8256
-12,97185103 -13,21 -14,0808 -13,082 10 -12,873325 -12,4709 -12,67752903
-12,86 -13,5857 -12,738 11 -12,572449 -12,1501 -12,40287848 -12,57 -13,1235
-12,424 12 -12,29328 -11,859 -12,16001857 -12,30 -12,9558 -12,137 13
-12,042537 -11,5855 -11,91285241 -12,03 -12,7374 -11,869 14 -11,813952 -11,331
-11,69210463 -11,78 -12,4106 -11,623 15 -11,598281 -11,1117 -11,49940281
-11,57 -12,088 -11,394 16 -11,40327 -10,9085 -11,32958397 -11,37 -11,8953
-11,18 17 -11,225138 -10,7269 -11,16250636 -11,19 -11,7025 -10,978 18
-11,054184 -10,5548 -11,00305099 -11,02 -11,5511 -10,789 19 -10,891196 -10,379
-10,86461781 -10,85 -11,3474 -10,61 20 -10,73815 -10,2142 -10,71699024 -10,70
-11,1607 -10,442 21 -10,591478 -10,0665 -10,58533541 -10,56 -10,9921 -10,282
22 -10,45609 -9,9221 -10,45942093 -10,42 -10,8484 -10,131 23 -10,329075
-9,7831 -10,33893023 -10,30 -10,6789 -9,988 24 -10,208017 -9,6613 -10,22032344
-10,18 -10,5333 -9,851 25 -10,092986 -9,5431 -10,11645588 -10,07 -10,4309
-9,721 26 -9,984326 -9,4221 -10,01661448 -9,96 -10,316 -9,597 27 -9,881658
-9,3064 -9,911300812 -9,86 -10,2051 -9,479 28 -9,781226 -9,2016 -9,812970386
-9,76 -10,0688 -9,366 29 -9,684551 -9,1055 -9,723075982 -9,66 -9,998 -9,258 30
-9,590871 -9,008 -9,633982305 -9,57 -9,9099 -9,155 31 -9,500057 -8,9146
-9,548377178 -9,49 -9,8414 -9,056 32 -9,411958 -8,8287 -9,465468469 -9,40
-9,7025 -8,961 33 -9,328085 -8,7385 -9,383934763 -9,32 -9,6058 -8,869 34
-9,245238 -8,655 -9,300343879 -9,24 -9,5151 -8,782 35 -9,165154 -8,5731
-9,222922095 -9,16 -9,4282 -8,697 36 -9,085415 -8,4966 -9,141649679 -9,08
-9,3248 -8,615 37 -9,007596 -8,4236 -9,060383993 -9,01 -9,2598 -8,535 38
-8,930607 -8,3506 -8,984444561 -8,93 -9,1974 -8,458 39 -8,857281 -8,2822
-8,911549372 -8,86 -9,1516 -8,382 40 -8,784769 -8,2154 -8,847083979 -8,78
-9,0836 -8,309 41 -8,712837 -8,1466 -8,776772376 -8,71 -9,0042 -8,237 42
-8,641511 -8,0842 -8,707921787 -8,64 -8,9449 -8,167 43 -8,573275 -8,0182
-8,641894657 -8,57 -8,8709 -8,099 44 -8,505493 -7,9553 -8,57685659 -8,50
-8,8152 -8,031 45 -8,43863 -7,8944 -8,509641622 -8,44 -8,7428 -7,966 46
-8,371716 -7,8342 -8,44160837 -8,37 -8,6793 -7,901 47 -8,306195 -7,7774
-8,371959977 -8,31 -8,5752 -7,837 48 -8,24091 -7,7204 -8,305611933 -8,25
-8,5261 -7,775 49 -8,176896 -7,663 -8,239291476 -8,18 -8,4493 -7,712 50
-8,114103 -7,6061 -8,176593303 -8,12 -8,3931 -7,651 51 -8,052583 -7,5507
-8,116420571 -8,05 -8,3083 -7,59 52 -7,9907 -7,495 -8,047201939 -7,99 -8,2511
-7,53 53 -7,926844 -7,4409 -7,988048556 -7,92 -8,201 -7,471 54 -7,864212
-7,3905 -7,927954487 -7,87 -8,1321 -7,412 55 -7,803707 -7,3383 -7,864454868
-7,81 -8,0756 -7,354 56 -7,742534 -7,2863 -7,801074355 -7,74 -8,0014 -7,295 57
-7,681956 -7,2335 -7,742161465 -7,69 -7,9446 -7,238 58 -7,622122 -7,18
-7,684424905 -7,63 -7,8996 -7,18 59 -7,563369 -7,1258 -7,621322378 -7,56
-7,8128 -7,123 60 -7,503029 -7,0761 -7,561323441 -7,50 -7,7603 -7,066 61
-7,442558 -7,026 -7,497353584 -7,44 -7,6985 -7,009 62 -7,381071 -6,9739
-7,435759743 -7,38 -7,6516 -6,951 63 -7,321543 -6,9212 -7,376487451 -7,32
-7,5744 -6,894 64 -7,261459 -6,8697 -7,314596482 -7,26 -7,526 -6,838 65
-7,200622 -6,8167 -7,253906468 -7,20 -7,4488 -6,781 66 -7,139075 -6,763
-7,189654534 -7,14 -7,3863 -6,724 67 -7,077904 -6,71 -7,125049819 -7,08
-7,3406 -6,667 68 -7,017733 -6,6589 -7,057109387 -7,02 -7,2733 -6,61 69
-6,957461 -6,6069 -6,994601875 -6,96 -7,2263 -6,552 70 -6,895641 -6,5544
-6,933748938 -6,90 -7,1906 -6,495 71 -6,833735 -6,5003 -6,870060668 -6,84
-7,1406 -6,436 72 -6,771301 -6,4459 -6,803271171 -6,77 -7,0848 -6,378 73
-6,709284 -6,393 -6,734753955 -6,71 -7,0216 -6,319 74 -6,646511 -6,3367
-6,66721743 -6,64 -6,9672 -6,26 75 -6,582153 -6,283 -6,603784415 -6,58 -6,887
-6,2 76 -6,517093 -6,2268 -6,536718426 -6,51 -6,827 -6,139 77 -6,451233 -6,169
-6,468283818 -6,45 -6,7866 -6,077 78 -6,383491 -6,1095 -6,39920204 -6,38
-6,7261 -6,015 79 -6,31642 -6,0508 -6,328714605 -6,31 -6,6573 -5,951 80
-6,248832 -5,988 -6,255760146 -6,24 -6,5785 -5,887 81 -6,17778 -5,9268
-6,179577318 -6,17 -6,4776 -5,821 82 -6,105317 -5,8648 -6,097717555 -6,10
-6,3877 -5,753 83 -6,031971 -5,8047 -6,022893928 -6,02 -6,2858 -5,685 84
-5,955517 -5,736 -5,945735726 -5,95 -6,2115 -5,615 85 -5,876971 -5,6703
-5,857275334 -5,87 -6,1528 -5,543 86 -5,794784 -5,5963 -5,772258564 -5,79
-6,0422 -5,468 87 -5,711563 -5,523 -5,687812659 -5,70 -5,9698 -5,391 88
-5,623125 -5,447 -5,599073251 -5,62 -5,8926 -5,311 89 -5,533195 -5,3622
-5,505310189 -5,52 -5,7963 -5,228 90 -5,436815 -5,2781 -5,405125259 -5,43
-5,6512 -5,141 91 -5,338206 -5,1904 -5,307497667 -5,33 -5,5384 -5,048 92
-5,23236 -5,0967 -5,193590403 -5,22 -5,4398 -4,95 93 -5,114995 -4,9944
-5,079266801 -5,11 -5,3233 -4,845 94 -4,987157 -4,8845 -4,946425167 -4,99
-5,1855 -4,731 95 -4,847697 -4,7626 -4,819820984 -4,85 -5,0852 -4,605 96
-4,689661 -4,6289 -4,667534074 -4,68 -4,976 -4,465 97 -4,504738 -4,4619
-4,484895559 -4,50 -4,7212 -4,303 98 -4,287422 -4,2689 -4,257490708 -4,28
-4,473 -4,106 99 -3,985876 -3,9819 -3,961577279 -3,99 -4,0399 -3,842 100
-3,072741 -3,155 -3,198123349 -3,15 -3,3686 -3,046
* * *
### 6.3.2 Heterogeneous network
#### 6.3.2.1 UL wideband SINR distribution {#ul-wideband-sinr-distribution-1
.list-paragraph}
Company inputs are captured in Figure 6.3.2.1-1 based on raw data in Table
6.3.2.1-1.
{width="5.606944444444444in" height="2.7944444444444443in"}
Figure 6.3.2.1-1: UL wideband SINR calibration for heterogeneous network
Table 6.3.2.1-1: Company inputs on UL wideband SINR calibration for
heterogeneous network
* * *
Percentile China Telecom Huawei Ericsson ZTE Nokia Networks R4-152823
R4-152596 R4-152958 R4-153162 R4-152236 0 -18,956592 -25,9732 -24,78146413
-20,89 -27,3065 1 -8,735173 -10,8639 -8,354464219 -8,64 -9,5327 2 -6,970898
-7,1398 -6,658699074 -6,94 -7,7521 3 -5,841924 -5,942 -5,358006957 -5,81
-6,6156 4 -4,989746 -5,108 -4,550215874 -4,96 -5,6594 5 -4,300944 -4,3993
-3,817360959 -4,26 -4,8589 6 -3,712617 -3,7903 -3,183209455 -3,66 -4,2495 7
-3,16765 -3,2241 -2,577502347 -3,13 -3,699 8 -2,716178 -2,7517 -2,088000324
-2,65 -3,1373 9 -2,299296 -2,3122 -1,621311257 -2,22 -2,6938 10 -1,910297
-1,9024 -1,185660545 -1,82 -2,2309 11 -1,550903 -1,5275 -0,787939777 -1,46
-1,8538 12 -1,21359 -1,1871 -0,43921874 -1,13 -1,4634 13 -0,893508 -0,854
-0,091584335 -0,80 -1,1337 14 -0,589744 -0,5436 0,23064384 -0,50 -0,7836 15
-0,293808 -0,2533 0,510577466 -0,20 -0,4374 16 -0,005691 0,0119 0,750394422
0,07 -0,1478 17 0,260926 0,2694 0,992545804 0,34 0,1333 18 0,525046 0,5182
1,220377672 0,60 0,4088 19 0,783903 0,7679 1,460925354 0,85 0,6366 20 1,025806
0,9932 1,657134309 1,10 0,8905 21 1,268284 1,2279 1,886563427 1,33 1,1472 22
1,503002 1,4559 2,106698356 1,56 1,415 23 1,731518 1,6811 2,326147025 1,79
1,6583 24 1,952506 1,8968 2,534608855 2,01 1,9003 25 2,176908 2,1182
2,753610064 2,23 2,1692 26 2,384158 2,3174 2,944382213 2,43 2,3981 27 2,591449
2,5333 3,171722785 2,64 2,5921 28 2,797618 2,7398 3,381825513 2,84 2,7909 29
2,997589 2,9325 3,563692715 3,04 3,0005 30 3,195345 3,1248 3,746685686 3,24
3,1983 31 3,394276 3,3182 3,936242642 3,43 3,398 32 3,589059 3,5137
4,130239452 3,63 3,5957 33 3,781831 3,7001 4,313324235 3,81 3,7835 34 3,970445
3,8886 4,501034783 4,00 3,9745 35 4,158521 4,067 4,66889823 4,18 4,1667 36
4,342236 4,2456 4,841767456 4,36 4,3851 37 4,521532 4,4201 5,008635555 4,54
4,5629 38 4,699396 4,5997 5,189812946 4,72 4,7343 39 4,877215 4,7714
5,351198375 4,90 4,9268 40 5,0529 4,9423 5,512818395 5,08 5,1255 41 5,227737
5,1185 5,688493298 5,26 5,3008 42 5,40674 5,2964 5,864163425 5,44 5,4769 43
5,580797 5,4666 6,030650084 5,61 5,6426 44 5,757649 5,6439 6,207207598 5,79
5,8272 45 5,93034 5,8215 6,393381098 5,96 5,9922 46 6,09948 5,9876 6,554509581
6,13 6,1638 47 6,272621 6,1639 6,732194378 6,31 6,3363 48 6,448094 6,336
6,901785675 6,48 6,5152 49 6,624554 6,5175 7,08907497 6,66 6,667 50 6,797393
6,6968 7,2796601 6,83 6,8256 51 6,97267 6,8683 7,448156896 7,00 6,9956 52
7,151922 7,0517 7,642410145 7,17 7,1753 53 7,326125 7,2253 7,817152259 7,34
7,3389 54 7,500377 7,4004 7,990639353 7,52 7,5323 55 7,680656 7,5692
8,147311498 7,69 7,7441 56 7,857192 7,7408 8,309723384 7,87 7,9054 57 8,035887
7,9166 8,480708469 8,05 8,0669 58 8,21755 8,1016 8,671463086 8,23 8,2412 59
8,403202 8,2794 8,8401771 8,41 8,4253 60 8,592442 8,4677 9,031779868 8,59
8,6072 61 8,777975 8,6592 9,229977402 8,78 8,7947 62 8,967586 8,8418
9,406864485 8,96 8,9525 63 9,155627 9,0284 9,590309119 9,15 9,152 64 9,351489
9,2237 9,782740986 9,35 9,3222 65 9,549952 9,4165 9,971370787 9,54 9,5023 66
9,745222 9,6066 10,15128048 9,74 9,7158 67 9,946062 9,808 10,35390393 9,94
9,9074 68 10,148004 10,0026 10,53851296 10,14 10,0722 69 10,353969 10,2108
10,74306086 10,36 10,2535 70 10,564923 10,4208 10,9519911 10,57 10,4781 71
10,77968 10,6284 11,14629478 10,79 10,6558 72 10,999277 10,8445 11,35702327
11,01 10,8686 73 11,225293 11,0672 11,572727 11,24 11,0814 74 11,456225 11,295
11,8013622 11,46 11,2642 75 11,689228 11,5298 12,03518789 11,70 11,4653 76
11,931496 11,7729 12,28076923 11,94 11,6709 77 12,176596 12,0219 12,53303605
12,19 11,9253 78 12,424979 12,2811 12,80286537 12,45 12,1718 79 12,687296
12,5425 13,06387703 12,71 12,4182 80 12,956263 12,8029 13,30598517 12,99
12,6361 81 13,229052 13,0788 13,58801154 13,26 12,9231 82 13,511215 13,3643
13,87942132 13,54 13,2594 83 13,803263 13,6645 14,18788833 13,84 13,565 84
14,101349 13,9675 14,49735304 14,14 13,8295 85 14,406624 14,2829 14,82065121
14,46 14,1091 86 14,730684 14,6047 15,14608676 14,77 14,4306 87 15,060284
14,9337 15,47399204 15,10 14,8384 88 15,404918 15,2919 15,85476338 15,44
15,2844 89 15,772456 15,6859 16,28736129 15,81 15,691 90 16,155986 16,088
16,71895665 16,19 16,1064 91 16,552278 16,4995 17,15146706 16,59 16,5689 92
16,970555 16,9394 17,62789134 17,00 17,0518 93 17,416284 17,4013 18,11196842
17,45 17,5837 94 17,911422 17,9199 18,67830482 17,92 18,1315 95 18,443112
18,4974 19,3203589 18,46 18,7087 96 19,035085 19,1369 20,02706684 19,06
19,3635 97 19,747514 19,9278 20,94210229 19,76 20,1355 98 20,646341 20,9246
22,09504382 20,64 21,0762 99 21,937776 22,3062 23,60778422 21,94 22,1964 100
28,763983 29,1162 30,53653735 28,48 26,3848
* * *
#### 6.3.2.2 Unconditional DIP distribution {#unconditional-dip-distribution-1
.list-paragraph}
**Unconditional DIP1 distribution:**
Company inputs are captured in Figure 6.3.2.2-1 based on raw data in Table
6.3.2.2-1.
{width="5.531944444444444in" height="2.7944444444444443in"}
Figure 6.3.2.2-1: Unconditional DIP1 calibration for heterogeneous network
Table 6.3.2.2-1: Company inputs on unconditional DIP1 calibration for
heterogeneous network
* * *
Percentile China Telecom Huawei Ericsson ZTE Nokia Networks R4-152823
R4-152596 R4-152958 R4-153162 R4-152236 0 -16,377394 -17,62 -13,25336438
-15,65 -14,51 1 -8,358684 -9,0828 -8,083709446 -8,35 -7,89 2 -7,588872 -8,2563
-7,36975798 -7,57 -7,29 3 -7,096188 -7,7461 -6,950106904 -7,09 -6,89 4
-6,732448 -7,3695 -6,64820908 -6,72 -6,55 5 -6,434056 -7,0642 -6,402939263
-6,43 -6,28 6 -6,182155 -6,7964 -6,178302348 -6,17 -6,07 7 -5,959251 -6,5654
-5,99434389 -5,94 -5,91 8 -5,760237 -6,3549 -5,812038819 -5,75 -5,73 9
-5,578386 -6,1548 -5,634128985 -5,56 -5,54 10 -5,412381 -5,9806 -5,486013146
-5,40 -5,37 11 -5,256299 -5,8166 -5,351009795 -5,24 -5,23 12 -5,111437 -5,6662
-5,226323832 -5,10 -5,07 13 -4,977332 -5,5257 -5,112595221 -4,96 -4,92 14
-4,847491 -5,3809 -4,977977191 -4,83 -4,79 15 -4,725124 -5,2563 -4,879271787
-4,71 -4,67 16 -4,608491 -5,136 -4,779448505 -4,60 -4,57 17 -4,496531 -5,0183
-4,685163943 -4,48 -4,46 18 -4,38831 -4,9037 -4,583962268 -4,38 -4,34 19
-4,286332 -4,789 -4,479547035 -4,27 -4,25 20 -4,187716 -4,685 -4,387861891
-4,18 -4,15 21 -4,090782 -4,581 -4,298972875 -4,08 -4,04 22 -3,997594 -4,4805
-4,209241614 -3,99 -3,95 23 -3,907734 -4,3865 -4,131483694 -3,90 -3,85 24
-3,820837 -4,2904 -4,044882679 -3,81 -3,78 25 -3,737291 -4,2012 -3,966472044
-3,73 -3,69 26 -3,65544 -4,1095 -3,8793781 -3,65 -3,62 27 -3,576494 -4,0245
-3,805629076 -3,57 -3,55 28 -3,499872 -3,939 -3,727703057 -3,49 -3,46 29
-3,42478 -3,8585 -3,655383874 -3,42 -3,38 30 -3,351595 -3,7732 -3,573600353
-3,34 -3,31 31 -3,280315 -3,6991 -3,507245303 -3,28 -3,25 32 -3,209977 -3,6208
-3,434472772 -3,21 -3,18 33 -3,142468 -3,5473 -3,370117363 -3,14 -3,12 34
-3,077279 -3,4756 -3,302287723 -3,08 -3,06 35 -3,011773 -3,398 -3,225270853
-3,01 -3,00 36 -2,948642 -3,3276 -3,158215574 -2,95 -2,94 37 -2,886148 -3,2592
-3,095251008 -2,89 -2,88 38 -2,822703 -3,1928 -3,038611055 -2,83 -2,83 39
-2,760234 -3,1266 -2,981232845 -2,77 -2,77 40 -2,697431 -3,0607 -2,925025806
-2,71 -2,70 41 -2,635883 -2,9916 -2,864256871 -2,64 -2,65 42 -2,57472 -2,9243
-2,802307268 -2,58 -2,59 43 -2,512858 -2,8584 -2,744981991 -2,52 -2,53 44
-2,451506 -2,7918 -2,685224185 -2,46 -2,48 45 -2,389556 -2,7244 -2,623945648
-2,40 -2,42 46 -2,328499 -2,6576 -2,563392902 -2,34 -2,35 47 -2,267583 -2,5922
-2,506092408 -2,28 -2,29 48 -2,205998 -2,5271 -2,450356045 -2,22 -2,23 49
-2,145391 -2,4609 -2,390479129 -2,16 -2,17 50 -2,084887 -2,3935 -2,32772203
-2,10 -2,10 51 -2,02619 -2,3294 -2,2708261 -2,04 -2,05 52 -1,96755 -2,2638
-2,210163758 -1,98 -1,98 53 -1,910133 -2,2003 -2,152997932 -1,92 -1,93 54
-1,852748 -2,1364 -2,089952778 -1,87 -1,87 55 -1,796183 -2,0757 -2,03909902
-1,81 -1,80 56 -1,740637 -2,0117 -1,978543687 -1,75 -1,74 57 -1,68425 -1,9489
-1,921853707 -1,69 -1,69 58 -1,62935 -1,8878 -1,862784599 -1,64 -1,64 59
-1,573758 -1,8254 -1,806408485 -1,58 -1,58 60 -1,518558 -1,7653 -1,750044106
-1,53 -1,53 61 -1,465354 -1,7037 -1,692463286 -1,47 -1,48 62 -1,411263 -1,6438
-1,635441938 -1,42 -1,42 63 -1,357732 -1,5863 -1,583647305 -1,37 -1,37 64
-1,305284 -1,5252 -1,526491527 -1,31 -1,32 65 -1,254247 -1,4686 -1,473762967
-1,26 -1,26 66 -1,203864 -1,4136 -1,42428393 -1,21 -1,21 67 -1,152369 -1,3552
-1,367535669 -1,16 -1,16 68 -1,102916 -1,2996 -1,315298512 -1,11 -1,11 69
-1,053454 -1,2419 -1,25786003 -1,06 -1,06 70 -1,006761 -1,1895 -1,205222278
-1,02 -1,02 71 -0,959943 -1,1341 -1,150426598 -0,97 -0,97 72 -0,912817 -1,0788
-1,095928932 -0,92 -0,93 73 -0,866787 -1,0251 -1,044386321 -0,87 -0,88 74
-0,822333 -0,9747 -0,993904115 -0,83 -0,83 75 -0,778763 -0,9264 -0,947451384
-0,79 -0,79 76 -0,735544 -0,8729 -0,892925389 -0,74 -0,75 77 -0,693447 -0,8213
-0,836359498 -0,70 -0,71 78 -0,652536 -0,7738 -0,788734382 -0,66 -0,67 79
-0,612764 -0,7272 -0,742075466 -0,62 -0,63 80 -0,57383 -0,682 -0,697705758
-0,58 -0,59 81 -0,536437 -0,6359 -0,64923994 -0,54 -0,55 82 -0,499471 -0,5945
-0,606971449 -0,51 -0,51 83 -0,463512 -0,5512 -0,563496134 -0,47 -0,48 84
-0,428492 -0,5086 -0,520979142 -0,43 -0,44 85 -0,394493 -0,469 -0,479423152
-0,40 -0,40 86 -0,361494 -0,4312 -0,441038598 -0,37 -0,37 87 -0,330284 -0,3935
-0,405964488 -0,33 -0,34 88 -0,299514 -0,3567 -0,367248293 -0,30 -0,31 89
-0,269615 -0,3216 -0,332030247 -0,27 -0,28 90 -0,24121 -0,2869 -0,295809586
-0,24 -0,25 91 -0,213638 -0,2557 -0,2622913 -0,22 -0,22 92 -0,185996 -0,2215
-0,226214728 -0,19 -0,19 93 -0,159922 -0,1892 -0,193066441 -0,16 -0,17 94
-0,135553 -0,1599 -0,160384187 -0,14 -0,14 95 -0,112679 -0,1315 -0,127870591
-0,12 -0,11 96 -0,090307 -0,1038 -0,101665857 -0,09 -0,09 97 -0,069067 -0,0795
-0,077472302 -0,07 -0,06 98 -0,048278 -0,0554 -0,053088935 -0,05 -0,05 99
-0,028428 -0,0317 -0,028756155 -0,03 -0,02 100 -0,00126 -0,0012 -0,001535668
0,00 0,00
* * *
**Unconditional DIP2 distribution:**
Company inputs are captured in Figure 6.3.2.2-2 based on raw data in Table
6.3.2.2-2.
{width="5.632638888888889in" height="2.79375in"}
Figure 6.3.2.2-2: Unconditional DIP2 calibration for heterogeneous network
Table 6.3.2.2-2: Company inputs on unconditional DIP2 calibration for
heterogeneous network
* * *
Percentile China Telecom Huawei Ericsson ZTE Nokia Networks R4-152823
R4-152596 R4-152958 R4-153162 R4-152236 0 -49,543467 -48,9462 -45,96707372
-47,25 -41,1755 1 -27,574739 -27,2256 -26,82023133 -27,52 -27,9357 2
-24,758577 -24,4041 -23,92057703 -24,76 -24,5032 3 -23,013773 -22,5632
-21,99215432 -22,97 -22,7165 4 -21,673548 -21,2525 -20,73797502 -21,62
-21,2752 5 -20,607936 -20,1579 -19,61771367 -20,54 -20,3665 6 -19,660836
-19,2143 -18,62047355 -19,64 -19,4736 7 -18,888721 -18,4001 -17,79039272
-18,83 -18,5401 8 -18,169256 -17,7094 -17,13114368 -18,12 -17,8965 9
-17,527723 -17,0681 -16,4759103 -17,49 -17,2164 10 -16,950668 -16,5038
-15,90940485 -16,93 -16,6262 11 -16,448888 -15,9965 -15,42896878 -16,40
-16,0936 12 -15,957612 -15,5185 -14,95680591 -15,92 -15,6238 13 -15,514013
-15,0816 -14,52541963 -15,48 -15,1917 14 -15,115315 -14,6701 -14,10899869
-15,07 -14,8068 15 -14,745529 -14,2954 -13,75212925 -14,68 -14,4543 16
-14,386742 -13,9465 -13,40700237 -14,33 -14,1058 17 -14,054434 -13,6237
-13,09567161 -14,00 -13,7179 18 -13,736001 -13,3164 -12,80703577 -13,68
-13,4154 19 -13,43708 -13,007 -12,48315968 -13,38 -13,1344 20 -13,150785
-12,7306 -12,21230002 -13,10 -12,8191 21 -12,884232 -12,4731 -11,96172794
-12,84 -12,5451 22 -12,632761 -12,2275 -11,7355695 -12,58 -12,3077 23
-12,399915 -12,0093 -11,54824622 -12,34 -12,0792 24 -12,167588 -11,8007
-11,35988625 -12,12 -11,8464 25 -11,945189 -11,5937 -11,17292357 -11,90
-11,5989 26 -11,737436 -11,4055 -11,0044922 -11,70 -11,4142 27 -11,54 -11,2201
-10,82764279 -11,51 -11,2307 28 -11,348042 -11,0426 -10,66955214 -11,32
-11,035 29 -11,165282 -10,8692 -10,50663207 -11,14 -10,8783 30 -10,994824
-10,709 -10,36134187 -10,97 -10,7188 31 -10,829004 -10,552 -10,22580471 -10,81
-10,5588 32 -10,670545 -10,4109 -10,09712636 -10,65 -10,4053 33 -10,518286
-10,2686 -9,966972635 -10,50 -10,2676 34 -10,374122 -10,1283 -9,839610563
-10,35 -10,1155 35 -10,232975 -9,9958 -9,718838888 -10,21 -9,9726 36
-10,095104 -9,868 -9,608602719 -10,07 -9,8556 37 -9,965729 -9,7439
-9,493419487 -9,94 -9,7233 38 -9,838978 -9,6297 -9,389586233 -9,82 -9,6104 39
-9,71653 -9,5142 -9,28125404 -9,70 -9,5022 40 -9,596249 -9,4009 -9,178244102
-9,58 -9,3821 41 -9,480811 -9,2863 -9,070557367 -9,46 -9,2722 42 -9,368287
-9,1852 -8,983313517 -9,35 -9,1673 43 -9,258204 -9,0831 -8,893259997 -9,24
-9,0661 44 -9,151467 -8,987 -8,804551179 -9,14 -8,9698 45 -9,048335 -8,8847
-8,71214705 -9,03 -8,8725 46 -8,945224 -8,7873 -8,619549967 -8,93 -8,7659 47
-8,84642 -8,692 -8,530772172 -8,83 -8,6665 48 -8,749766 -8,597 -8,442593509
-8,73 -8,5829 49 -8,654895 -8,5115 -8,365130684 -8,64 -8,4962 50 -8,560824
-8,4203 -8,285538736 -8,54 -8,4025 51 -8,469634 -8,334 -8,204996536 -8,45
-8,3062 52 -8,379354 -8,2495 -8,128802076 -8,36 -8,2107 53 -8,289745 -8,1649
-8,052274151 -8,27 -8,1303 54 -8,201854 -8,0785 -7,970749428 -8,18 -8,0444 55
-8,11436 -7,9965 -7,900084096 -8,09 -7,9722 56 -8,027905 -7,9194 -7,82914192
-8,01 -7,888 57 -7,941035 -7,8356 -7,753685593 -7,92 -7,8102 58 -7,856325
-7,7565 -7,677067463 -7,84 -7,7385 59 -7,773046 -7,6797 -7,605887439 -7,76
-7,6666 60 -7,690194 -7,6021 -7,532732773 -7,68 -7,5909 61 -7,608986 -7,52
-7,460265821 -7,59 -7,5179 62 -7,526705 -7,4434 -7,389216375 -7,51 -7,4405 63
-7,444492 -7,3669 -7,318530291 -7,43 -7,3537 64 -7,362233 -7,2925 -7,253091606
-7,35 -7,2781 65 -7,281532 -7,2194 -7,1905994 -7,27 -7,2064 66 -7,200598
-7,1428 -7,11942897 -7,19 -7,1209 67 -7,120811 -7,0659 -7,047166129 -7,11
-7,0521 68 -7,03996 -6,9874 -6,970923491 -7,03 -6,9812 69 -6,958005 -6,9091
-6,895789553 -6,95 -6,9113 70 -6,876916 -6,8298 -6,817894955 -6,87 -6,8253 71
-6,794676 -6,7532 -6,74692265 -6,79 -6,7539 72 -6,713426 -6,6767 -6,675783996
-6,71 -6,6788 73 -6,632305 -6,5976 -6,598541557 -6,63 -6,596 74 -6,550674
-6,5216 -6,528745671 -6,55 -6,5128 75 -6,469017 -6,4362 -6,448295553 -6,46
-6,4395 76 -6,386187 -6,3542 -6,363913368 -6,38 -6,3582 77 -6,302869 -6,2695
-6,285599749 -6,29 -6,2841 78 -6,217483 -6,1888 -6,20509318 -6,21 -6,1942 79
-6,132774 -6,1067 -6,133583566 -6,12 -6,1033 80 -6,048661 -6,0247 -6,049491873
-6,04 -6,0109 81 -5,960922 -5,94 -5,972318339 -5,95 -5,9077 82 -5,871119
-5,8553 -5,895489648 -5,86 -5,8337 83 -5,779327 -5,7696 -5,816639383 -5,77
-5,7419 84 -5,686294 -5,6735 -5,724764013 -5,67 -5,6555 85 -5,592282 -5,5853
-5,640196594 -5,58 -5,5493 86 -5,494292 -5,4953 -5,552104662 -5,49 -5,4388 87
-5,395035 -5,3976 -5,457677702 -5,39 -5,3486 88 -5,292209 -5,2997 -5,363767885
-5,29 -5,252 89 -5,18697 -5,1907 -5,25498573 -5,18 -5,1576 90 -5,079376
-5,0803 -5,143500402 -5,07 -5,0547 91 -4,966996 -4,9629 -5,027933178 -4,95
-4,9357 92 -4,846939 -4,8451 -4,913479658 -4,83 -4,8118 93 -4,718054 -4,7243
-4,793845092 -4,71 -4,672 94 -4,583233 -4,5899 -4,666485906 -4,57 -4,5375 95
-4,434075 -4,4497 -4,528243312 -4,43 -4,3968 96 -4,274513 -4,2916 -4,372749386
-4,27 -4,2271 97 -4,097934 -4,1078 -4,195063989 -4,08 -4,0537 98 -3,887045
-3,8926 -3,972232774 -3,87 -3,8506 99 -3,626277 -3,6176 -3,674925695 -3,61
-3,5934 100 -3,029778 -3,007 -3,035074566 -3,02 -3,0502
* * *
## 6.4 Interference profile
This clause presents the system level simulation results for the interference
profiles, based on the statistical measure and methodologies defined in clause
6.2. The independent results from different companies as well as the average
values are shown in Table 6.4-1 and Table 6.4-2.
Table 6.4-1: Interference profiles for homogeneous network
* * *
                  China Telecom (R4-152823)   Ericsson (R4-152958)   Huawei\       ZTE\          Nokia Networks (R4-153468)   Alcatel-Lucent (R4-153481)   Average   
                                                                     (R4-152597)   (R4-153161)
Methodology 1 DIP1 (dB) -1,11 -1,21 -1,20 -1,12 -1,06 -0,96 -1,11
                  DIP2 (dB)                   -10,94                 -10,77        -10,30        -10,82                       -11,65                       -10,95    -10,91
Methodology 2 DIP1 (dB) -1,14 -1,58 -1,43 -1,06 -1,26 -1,29
                  DIP2 (dB)                   -9,17                  -7,99         -8,16         -9,42                        -11,72                                 -9,29
* * *
Table 6.4-2: Interference profiles for heterogeneous network
* * *
                  China Telecom (R4-152823)   Ericsson (R4-152958)   Huawei\       ZTE\          Nokia Networks (R4-153468)   Average   
                                                                     (R4-152597)   (R4-153162)
Methodology 1 DIP1 (dB) -0,39 -0,48 -0,47 -0,40 -0,41 -0,43
                  DIP2 (dB)                   -14,10                 -13,1         -13,5         -14,07                       -14,15    -13,78
Methodology 2 DIP1 (dB) -0,42 -0,56 -0,58 -0,43 -1,20 -0,64
                  DIP2 (dB)                   -12,20                 -11,45        -11,63        -12,28                       -12,52    -12,02
* * *
# 7 Link performance characterization
## 7.1 Parameters for link level evaluation
The common parameters for link level evaluation are given in Table 7.1-1. The
evaluation cases with specific parameters are given in Table 7.1-2. And the
performance under both MMSE and MMSE-IRC receivers should be provided for
comparison of the performance.
For link level simulation in Phase I, the simulation results of throughput
versus SINR for both MMSE-IRC and MMSE receivers, and SINR gain of MMSE-IRC
over MMSE at the 70 % relative throughput will be provided. The ideal
simulation results will be provided without the impairments.
Table 7.1-1: Common parameters of link level evaluation assumptions
* * *
Parameters Unit Values  
Cyclic prefix Normal  
Interference modelling Number of explicitly modelled interferers 2 AWGN power
level for 10MHz channel bandwidth dBm / 9MHz -83,5 Interference modulation
16QAM Timing delay and frequency offset for synchronous case Well aligned: no
timing delay and frequency offset between the serving UE and interfering UEs
Frequency hopping, TTI bundling Disable
* * *
Table 7.1-2: Cases for link level evaluations
+----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Case Num | PRB | MCS | Pr | Antenna | (DIP1, | | | al | | opagation | conf | DIP2) dB | | | location/ | | condition | iguration | | | | | | (Serving, | for | | | | Band | | int | serving | | | | width | | erferers) | and | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferers | | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 1 | 50 | 6 | (EPA5, | 1x2 Low | (-1,11, | | | PRB/10MHz | | EPA5) | | -10,91) | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 2 | 50 | 6 | (EPA5, | 1x2 Low | (-0,43, | | | PRB/10MHz | | EPA5) | | -13,78) | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 3 | 50 | 15 | (EPA5, | 1x4 Low | (-1,11, | | | PRB/10MHz | | EPA5) | | -10,91) | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 4 | 50 | 15 | (EPA5, | 1x4 Low | (-0,43, | | | PRB/10MHz | | EPA5) | | -13,78) | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 5 | 50 | 20 | (EPA5, | 1x8 Low | (-1,11, | | | PRB/10MHz | | EPA5) | | -10,91) | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 6 | 50 | 20 | (EPA5, | 1x8 Low | (-0,43, | | | PRB/10MHz | | EPA5) | | -13,78) | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 7 | 50 | 6 | (EVA70, | 1x2 Low | (-1,11, | | | PRB/10MHz | | EVA70) | | -10,91) | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 8 | 50 | 6 | (EVA70, | 1x2 Low | (-0,43, | | | PRB/10MHz | | EVA70) | | -13,78) | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 9 | 50 | 15 | (EVA70, | 1x4 Low | (-1,11, | | | PRB/10MHz | | EVA70) | | -10,91) | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 10 | 50 | 15 | (EVA70, | 1x4 Low | (-0,43, | | | PRB/10MHz | | EVA70) | | -13,78) | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 11 | 50 | 20 | (EVA70, | 1x8 Low | (-1,11, | | | PRB/10MHz | | EVA70) | | -10,91) | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 12 | 50 | 20 | (EVA70, | 1x8 Low | (-0,43, | | | PRB/10MHz | | EVA70) | | -13,78) | +----------+-----------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+
## 7.2 Link level simulation results
The document R4-155444 [6] captures the link level simulation results from
companies.
Table 7.2-1 compares the simulation results between MMSE-IRC and MMSE
receivers. The big performance gain can be observed under the different
propagation conditions, MCS and interference levels. Table 7.2-2 provides the
averaged SINR gain of MMSE-IRC over MMSE observed at 70 % relative throughput.
Table 7.2-1: Summary of link level simulation results in Phase-I evaluation,
70 % TP
* * *
Case Num China Telecom Nokia Networks  
MMSE-IRC (dB) MMSE (dB) SINR gain (dB) MMSE-IRC (dB) MMSE (dB) SINR gain (dB)
1 -6,26 -2,37 3,89 -5,43 -2,81 2,62 2 -8,95 -2,27 6,69 -8,34 -3,03 5,31 3
-3,90 0,90 4,79 -3,75 0,48 4,23 4 -7,80 0,87 8,67 -7,38 0,18 7,56 5 -3,03 1,57
4,60 -3,66 1,34 5,00 6 -7,33 1,43 8,75 -7,34 0,98 8,32 7 -5,14 -1,25 3,90
-4,95 -2,03 2,92 8 -7,78 -0,89 6,89 -7,55 -2,07 5,48 9 -2,13 2,50 4,63 -2,82
1,74 4,56 10 -5,53 2,56 8,09 -6,11 1,66 7,77 11 -2,06 3,13 5,19 -2,85 2,67
5,52 12 -5,87 3,07 8,94 -6,22 2,64 8,85 Case Num ZTE Samsung  
MMSE-IRC (dB) MMSE (dB) SINR gain (dB) MMSE-IRC (dB) MMSE (dB) SINR gain (dB)
1 -5,67 -2,24 3,43 -6,01 -2,88 3,13 2 -8,50 -2,22 6,29 -9,05 -3,46 5,59 3
-4,22 1,38 5,60 -4,28 0,48 4,76 4 -8,07 1,30 9,37 -7,76 0,20 7,96 5 -3,77 2,20
5,97 -3,27 1,18 4,45 6 -8,13 2,08 10,21 -7,33 1,02 8,35 7 -5,59 -2,26 3,33
-4,91 -2,19 2,72 8 -8,04 -2,15 5,89 -6,98 -2,12 4,86 9 -2,78 1,92 4,70 -2,39
1,78 4,18 10 -5,80 1,85 7,65 -5,04 1,82 6,86 11 -2,53 2,60 5,13 -1,80 2,85
4,64 12 -6,22 2,59 8,81 -4,40 2,90 7,31 Case Num Huawei Ericsson  
MMSE-IRC (dB) MMSE (dB) SINR gain (dB) MMSE-IRC (dB) MMSE (dB) SINR gain (dB)
1 -4,70 -1,82 2,88 -6,04 -3,29 2,75 2 -7,75 -1,86 5,89 -9,14 -3,59 5,55 3
-3,65 1,52 5,17 -4,06 0,07 4,13 4 -7,70 1,44 9,14 -8,04 -0,34 7,70 5 -2,75
3,39 6,14 -3,67 0,37 4,05 6 -7,12 3,49 10,62 -7,88 -0,26 7,62 7 -5,06 -1,95
3,11 -4,77 -2,04 2,72 8 -7,55 -1,98 5,57 -7,13 -2,12 5,00 9 -2,70 2,42 5,11
-2,28 1,67 3,96 10 -5,98 2,51 8,49 -5,37 1,52 6,89 11 -1,78 3,93 5,71 -1,97
2,34 4,31 12 -5,52 4,13 9,65 -5,64 2,18 7,81 Case Num Alcatel-Lucent  
MMSE-IRC (dB) MMSE (dB) SINR gain (dB) MMSE-IRC (dB) MMSE (dB) SINR gain (dB)
1 -5,46 -2,56 2,90  
2 -9,01 -3,31 5,70  
3 -3,24 0,82 4,06  
4 -7,71 -0,20 7,51  
5 -2,23 2,20 4,43  
6 -6,99 1,27 8,26  
7 -3,97 -1,13 2,84  
8 -6,82 -1,70 5,13  
9 -1,50 2,48 3,99  
10 -5,24 1,67 6,91  
11 -1,13 3,24 4,37  
12 -5,35 2,37 7,72
* * *
Table 7.2-2: Averaged performance gain of MMSE-IRC over MMSE in Phase-I
evaluation, 70 % TP
* * *
Case Num Average SINR gain (dB) 1 3,1 2 5,9 3 4,7 4 8,3 5 4,9 6 8,9 7 3,1 8
5,5 9 4,4 10 7,5 11 5,0 12 8,4
* * *
## 7.3 Summary of link level evaluation
According to the above simulation campaign, the link performance gain of MMSE-
IRC over MMSE can be summarized as follows:
\- With respect to homogeneous network, for 1x2 cases the gain is about 3,1
dB; for 1x4 cases the gain is 4,4 dB \~4,7 dB; for 1x8 cases the gain is 4,9
dB \~5,0 dB.
\- With respect to heterogeneous network, for 1x2 cases the gain is 5,5
dB\~5,9 dB; for 1x4 cases the gain is 7,5 dB\~8,3 dB; for 1x8 cases the gain
is 8,4 dB\~8,9 dB.
Therefore, it is concluded that the MMSE-IRC receiver can bring in the
significant gain over MMSE receiver.
# 8 BS demodulation performance requirements with synchronous interference
## 8.0 General
For PUSCH, enhanced demodulation performance requirements will be defined for
verification of BS receiver\'s ability on inter-cell interference suppression.
This clause provides the phase-II link level evaluation parameters and results
in the scenario where the interferer(s) are time-synchronous with the wanted
signal.
## 8.1 Parameters for link level evaluation
For deriving the enhanced demodulation requirements (clause 8 in TS 36.104
[7]) in phase II, generally the phase-I link level evaluation parameters in
clause 7.1 can be re-used, with some exceptions / clarifications as follows:
\- For uplink 2Rx cases, when the explicit interferer number is increased from
1 to 2, the additional MMSE-IRC gain over MMSE is not significant, thus it was
decided to model only 1 explicit interferer for 2Rx cases. 2 explicit
interferers are modeled for 4Rx and 8Rx cases.
\- To check the per-PRB interference covariance estimation, it was decided to
use ETU channel with high delay spread for the interferers. For cases with
EPA5 and EVA70 as serving channel, ETU5 and ETU70 are respectively used as the
interfering channel.
\- In clause 7, 12 evaluation cases are introduced for synchronous network. To
limit the test efforts, the number of synchronous network test case is reduced
to 6 for each channel bandwidth.
\- Different DM-RS base sequences are configured for the serving UE and
interfering UEs, and both group hopping and sequence hopping are disabled.
The common parameters for phase-II link level evaluation are given in Table
8.1-1 and Table 8.1-2. The phase-II evaluation cases with specific parameters
are given in Table 8.1-3.
Table 8.1-1: Common parameters of link level evaluation assumptions
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameters | Unit | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cyclic prefix | | Normal | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Interference | Number of | | 1 or 2 | | modelling | explicitly | | depending on | | | modelled | | the cases | | | interferers | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Interference | | 16QAM | | | modulation | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Timing delay | | Well aligned: | | | and frequency | | no timing | | | offset for | | delay and | | | synchronous | | frequency | | | case | | offset between | | | | | the serving UE | | | | | and | | | | | interfering | | | | | UEs | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | | Disable | | | hopping, TTI | | | | | bundling | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | HARQ combining | | Incremental | | | | | redundancy | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Redundancy | | 0, 2, 3, 1, 0, | | | version | | 2, 3, 1 | | | sequence | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Maximal number | | 4 | | | of HARQ | | | | | transmissions | | | | | (including 1st | | | | | transmission | | | | | and | | | | | re- | | | | | transmissions) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Bandwidth | | 1,4MHz, 3MHz, | | | | | 5MHz, 10MHz, | | | | | 15MHz, 20MHz | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Resource | | Full PRB | | | allocation | | allocation | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DM-RS | | The serving | | | configuration | | UE, | | | | | interfering UE | | | | | 1 and | | | | | interfering UE | | | | | 2 are served | | | | | by cells with | | | | | cell id #0, | | | | | 1, 2 | | | | | respectively. | | | | | | | | | | For the wanted | | | | | PUSCH and | | | | | interfering | | | | | PUSCHs, | | | | | $\Delta_{ | | | | | \text{ss}}$=0, | | | | | $n_{\text{D | | | | | MRS}}^{(1)}$=0 | | | | | and | | | | | $n_{\text{DMRS | | | | | ,}0}^{(2)}$=0. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 8.1-2: AWGN power level
* * *
Channel bandwidth [MHz] AWGN power level 1,4 -92,7dBm / 1,08MHz 3 -88,7dBm /
2,7MHz 5 -86,5dBm / 4,5MHz 10 -83,5dBm / 9MHz 15 -81,7dBm / 13,5MHz 20
-80,4dBm / 18MHz
* * *
Table 8.1-3: Cases for link level evaluations
* * *
Case Num MCS Propagation condition (Serving, interferers) Antenna
configuration for serving and interferers (DIP1, DIP2) dB 1 6 (EPA5, ETU5) 1x2
Low (-0,43, N/A) 2 15 (EPA5, ETU5) 1x4 Low (-0,43, -13,78) 3 20 (EPA5, ETU5)
1x8 Low (-0,43, -13,78) 4 6 (EVA70, ETU70) 1x2 Low (-1,11, N/A) 5 15 (EVA70,
ETU70) 1x4 Low (-1,11, -10,91) 6 20 (EVA70, ETU70) 1x8 Low (-1,11, -10,91)
* * *
## 8.2 Link level simulation results
The document R4-161523 [8] captures the link level simulation results from
companies.
Table 8.2-1 to Table 8.2-6 summarize the ideal simulation results of MMSE-IRC
from different companies and the averaged SINR at 70 % relative throughput for
1,4 MHz, 3 MHz, 5 MHz, 10 MHz, 15 MHz and 20 MHz bandwidth respectively. Table
8.2-7 provides the averaged SINR for 1,4 MHz, 3 MHz, 5 MHz, 10 MHz, 15 MHz and
20 MHz bandwidth.
Table 8.2-1: Summary of ideal link level simulation results for MMSE-IRC
receiver of 1,4 MHz, 70 % TP
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Case | China | Nokia | ZTE | Sa | H | Eri | Nokia | Av | | | Te | Netw | | msung | uawei | csson | Netw | erage | | Num | lecom | orks, | | | | | orks, | | | | | Alca | | | | | Alca | SINR | | | | tel-L | | | | | tel-L | | | | | ucent | | | | | ucent | | | | | (1) | | | | | (2) | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | -7,31 | -5,4 | -7,07 | -6,26 | -6,02 | -6,39 | -6,34 | -6,40 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | -6,50 | -5 | -6,56 | -5,13 | -5,04 | -6,33 | -5,93 | -5,78 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | -7,18 | -5,2 | -7,43 | -5,63 | -5,54 | -6,73 | -7,00 | -6,39 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | -3,78 | -3,6 | -4,02 | -3,45 | -4,39 | -3,07 | -2,92 | -3,60 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | -1,68 | -1,8 | -1,87 | -1,48 | -1,69 | -1,30 | -1,45 | -1,61 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | -1,81 | -1,7 | -1,68 | -1,81 | -2,11 | -1,13 | -1,37 | -1,66 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.2-2: Summary of ideal link level simulation results for MMSE-IRC
receiver of 3 MHz, 70 % TP
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Case | China | Nokia | ZTE | Sa | H | Eri | Nokia | Av | | | Te | Netw | | msung | uawei | csson | Netw | erage | | Num | lecom | orks, | | | | | orks, | SINR | | | | Alca | | | | | Alca | | | | | tel-L | | | | | tel-L | | | | | ucent | | | | | ucent | | | | | (1) | | | | | (2) | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | -7,43 | -5,6 | -6,65 | -6,76 | -6,43 | -6,55 | -6,90 | -6,62 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | -6,61 | -5,2 | -7,00 | -5,37 | -5,22 | -6,39 | -6,55 | -6,05 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | -6,79 | -5,5 | -7,05 | -5,45 | -5,10 | -6,63 | -7,01 | -6,22 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | -4,38 | -3,8 | -4,09 | -4,03 | -4,39 | -3,61 | -3,48 | -3,97 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | -1,69 | -2,2 | -1,89 | -1,65 | -1,83 | -1,37 | -1,62 | -1,75 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | -1,65 | -2 | -1,84 | -1,6 | -2,47 | -1,03 | -1,33 | -1,70 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.2-3: Summary of ideal link level simulation results for MMSE-IRC
receiver of 5 MHz, 70 % TP
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Case | China | Nokia | ZTE | Sa | H | Eri | Nokia | Av | | | Te | Netw | | msung | uawei | csson | Netw | erage | | Num | lecom | orks, | | | | | orks, | | | | | Alca | | | | | Alca | SINR | | | | tel-L | | | | | tel-L | | | | | ucent | | | | | ucent | | | | | (1) | | | | | (2) | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | -7,53 | -6,1 | -7,14 | -7,15 | -5,56 | -6,78 | -6,79 | -6,72 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | -6,25 | -5 | -6,20 | -5,22 | -5,08 | -6,19 | -6,26 | -5,74 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | -6,92 | -5,4 | -7,17 | -5,42 | -5,65 | -6,81 | -6,97 | -6,33 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | -4,37 | -4,1 | -4,68 | -4,23 | -4,66 | -3,79 | -3,41 | -4,18 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | -1,37 | -2 | -2,19 | -1,43 | -1,65 | -1,17 | -1,25 | -1,58 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | -1,70 | -2,2 | -2,27 | -1,69 | -2,50 | -1,13 | -1,56 | -1,86 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.2-4: Summary of ideal link level simulation results for MMSE-IRC
receiver of 10 MHz, 70 % TP
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Case | China | Nokia | ZTE | Sa | H | Eri | Nokia | Av | | | Te | Netw | | msung | uawei | csson | Netw | erage | | Num | lecom | orks, | | | | | orks, | SINR | | | | Alca | | | | | Alca | | | | | tel-L | | | | | tel-L | | | | | ucent | | | | | ucent | | | | | (1) | | | | | (2) | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | -7,58 | -6,4 | -7,65 | -7,19 | -6,26 | -7,29 | -7,15 | -7,07 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | -6,26 | -5,2 | -6,19 | -5,42 | -5,72 | -6,32 | -6,09 | -5,88 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | -6,65 | -5,5 | -6,77 | -5,34 | -5,36 | -6,76 | -6,64 | -6,15 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | -4,49 | -4,3 | -4,91 | -4,35 | -4,51 | -3,94 | -3,74 | -4,32 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | -1,54 | -2,2 | -2,25 | -1,6 | -2,01 | -1,38 | -1,48 | -1,78 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | -1,57 | -2,2 | -2,12 | -1,53 | -1,21 | -1,14 | -1,47 | -1,61 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.2-5: Summary of ideal link level simulation results for MMSE-IRC
receiver of 15 MHz, 70 % TP
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Case | China | Nokia | ZTE | Sa | H | Eri | Nokia | Av | | | Te | Netw | | msung | uawei | csson | Netw | erage | | Num | lecom | orks, | | | | | orks, | SINR | | | | Alca | | | | | Alca | | | | | tel-L | | | | | tel-L | | | | | ucent | | | | | ucent | | | | | (1) | | | | | (2) | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | -7,62 | -6,5 | -7,44 | -6,85 | -6,68 | -7,36 | -7,56 | -7,14 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | -5,97 | -5,1 | -5,82 | -4,84 | -5,82 | -6,13 | -6,04 | -5,67 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | -6,34 | -5,3 | -6,44 | -5,15 | -6,72 | -6,42 | -6,32 | -6,10 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | -4,46 | -4,2 | -4,78 | -4,14 | -4,92 | -3,91 | -3,70 | -4,30 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | -1,36 | -2,1 | -2,04 | -1,48 | -1,82 | -1,31 | -1,36 | -1,64 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | -1,31 | -2 | -1,75 | -1,35 | -2,86 | -0,88 | -1,23 | -1,63 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.2-6: Summary of ideal link level simulation results for MMSE-IRC
receiver of 20 MHz, 70 % TP
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Case | China | Nokia | ZTE | Sa | H | Eri | Nokia | Av | | | Te | Netw | | msung | uawei | csson | Netw | erage | | Num | lecom | orks, | | | | | orks, | SINR | | | | Alca | | | | | Alca | | | | | tel-L | | | | | tel-L | | | | | ucent | | | | | ucent | | | | | (1) | | | | | (2) | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | -7,70 | -6,6 | -7,80 | -7,25 | -7,02 | -7,48 | -7,47 | -7,33 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | -5,96 | -5,2 | -6,12 | -5,27 | -5,96 | -6,12 | -6,09 | -5,82 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | -6,27 | -4,2 | -6,28 | -5,41 | -6,93 | -6,32 | -6,18 | -5,94 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | -4,48 | -4,3 | -4,82 | -4,43 | -5,01 | -3,97 | -3,71 | -4,39 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | -1,43 | -2,2 | -2,05 | -1,63 | -2,07 | -1,38 | -1,36 | -1,73 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | -1,28 | -2 | -1,77 | -1,34 | -1,79 | -0,90 | -1,20 | -1,47 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.2-7: Summary of ideal link level simulation results of the average
SINR for MMSE-IRC receiver, 70 % TP
* * *
Case Num 1,4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 1 -6,40 -6,62 -6,72 -7,07
-7,14 -7,33 2 -5,78 -6,05 -5,74 -5,88 -5,67 -5,82 3 -6,39 -6,22 -6,33 -6,15
-6,10 -5,94 4 -3,60 -3,97 -4,18 -4,32 -4,30 -4,39 5 -1,61 -1,75 -1,58 -1,78
-1,64 -1,73 6 -1,66 -1,70 -1,86 -1,61 -1,63 -1,47
* * *
## 8.3 Demodulation performance requirements
The BS enhanced performance requirements for MMSE-IRC receiver are derived by
taking into account the ideal simulation results in clause 8.2 and the
additional implementation margin. Based on interested companies\' inputs in
R4-161523 [8], the enhanced performance requirements are given in Table 8.3-1,
and these requirements are introduced into TS 36.104 [7].
Table 8.3-1: Enhanced performance requirement for MMSE-IRC receiver, SINR (dB)
at 70 % relative TP
* * *
Case Num 1,4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 1 -4,8 -5,0 -5,1 -5,4 -5,5
-5,7 2 -4,1 -4,4 -4,1 -4,2 -4,0 -4,5 3 -4,7 -4,6 -4,7 -4,5 -4,5 -4,6 4 -2,0
-2,3 -2,5 -2,7 -2,7 -3,0 5 -0,1 -0,1 0,1 -0,1 0,0 -0,4 6 0,0 -0,1 -0,5 -0,2
-0,3 -0,1
* * *
# 9 BS demodulation performance requirements with asynchronous interference
## 9.0 General
This clause provides the phase-II link level evaluation parameters and results
in the scenario where the interferer(s) are time-asynchronous with the wanted
signal.
## 9.1 Parameters for link level evaluation
For the link level evaluation parameters in asynchronous interference
scenario:
\- Two interfering UEs from the same interfering cell are explicitly modeled,
and the two interferers are configured to transmit respectively in the even
subframes and odd subframes. The propagation conditions of the two interferers
are statistically independent, so that the BS MMSE-IRC receiver needs to
suppress the interference from two different spatial directions.
\- To limit the test efforts, the number of asynchronous network test case is
reduced to 3 for each channel bandwidth.
The common parameters for phase-II link level evaluation with asynchronous
interference are given in Table 9.1-1 and Table 9.1-2. The configuration of
the asynchronous interferers is illustrated in Figure 9.1-1. The phase-II
evaluation cases with specific parameters are given in Table 9.1-3.
Table 9.1-1: Common parameters of link level evaluation assumptions
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameters | Unit | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cyclic prefix | | Normal | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Interference | Number of | | Two | | modelling | explicitly | | interferers, | | | modelled | | named | | | interferers | | interferer 1-1 | | | | | and interferer | | | | | 1-2, are | | | | | connected to | | | | | the same cell | | | | | and configured | | | | | to transmit | | | | | respectively | | | | | in the even | | | | | subframes and | | | | | odd subframes. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Interference | | 16 QAM | | | modulation | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Timing delay | | The | | | and frequency | | transmissions | | | offset for | | of both | | | asynchronous | | interferer 1-1 | | | case | | and interferer | | | | | 1-2 are | | | | | delayed with | | | | | respect to the | | | | | wanted signal | | | | | by 0,33 ms. | | | | | | | | | | No frequency | | | | | offset between | | | | | the wanted | | | | | signal and | | | | | interferers. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | | Disable | | | hopping, TTI | | | | | bundling | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | HARQ combining | | Incremental | | | | | redundancy | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Redundancy | | 0, 2, 3, 1, 0, | | | version | | 2, 3, 1 | | | sequence | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Maximal number | | 4 | | | of HARQ | | | | | transmissions | | | | | (including 1st | | | | | transmission | | | | | and | | | | | re- | | | | | transmissions) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Bandwidth | | 1,4 MHz, 3 | | | | | MHz, 5 MHz, 10 | | | | | MHz, 15 MHz, | | | | | 20 MHz | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Resource | | Full PRB | | | allocation | | allocation | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DM-RS | | The serving UE | | | configuration | | is served by | | | | | cell with cell | | | | | id #0, and | | | | | interferer 1-1 | | | | | and interferer | | | | | 1-2 are served | | | | | by cell with | | | | | cell id #1. | | | | | | | | | | **For the | | | | | wanted PUSCH | | | | | and | | | | | interfering | | | | | PUSCHs,** | | | | | $\Delta_{\tex | | | | | t{ss}}$**=0,** | | | | | $n_{\text{DMR | | | | | S}}^{(1)}$**=0 | | | | | and** | | | | | $n_{ | | | | | \text{DMRS,}0} | | | | | ^{(2)}$**=0.** | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Interference | | Interference | | | estimation | | covariance | | | | | matrix | | | | | estimation is | | | | | conducted per | | | | | PRB and per | | | | | TTI. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 9.1-2: AWGN power level
* * *
Channel bandwidth [MHz] AWGN power level 1,4 -92,7dBm / 1,08MHz 3 -88,7dBm /
2,7MHz 5 -86,5dBm / 4,5MHz 10 -83,5dBm / 9MHz 15 -81,7dBm / 13,5MHz 20
-80,4dBm / 18MHz
* * *
{width="5.3875in" height="1.3333333333333333in"}
Figure 9.1-1: Configuration of asynchronous interferers
Table 9.1-3: Cases for link level evaluations
* * *
Case Num MCS Propagation condition (Serving, interferers) Antenna
configuration for serving and interferers (DIP1-1, DIP1-2) dB 1 6 (EPA5, ETU5)
1x2 Low (-0,43, -0,43) 2 15 (EPA5, ETU5) 1x4 Low (-0,43, -0,43) 3 20 (EPA5,
ETU5) 1x8 Low (-0,43, -0,43) Note: The propagation conditions for the serving
UE, interferer 1-1 and interferer 1-2 are statistically independent.
* * *
## 9.2 Link level simulation results
The document R4-163888 [9] captures the link level simulation results of MMSE-
IRC receiver with asynchronous interference from companies.
Table 9.2-1 to Table 9.2-6 summarize the ideal simulation results of MMSE-IRC
receiver with asynchronous interference from different companies and the
averaged SINR at 70 % relative throughput for 1,4 MHz, 3 MHz, 5 MHz, 10 MHz,
15 MHz and 20 MHz bandwidth respectively. Table 9.2-7 provides the averaged
SINR for 1,4 MHz, 3 MHz, 5 MHz, 10 MHz, 15 MHz and 20 MHz bandwidth.
Table 9.2-1: Summary of ideal link level simulation results for MMSE-IRC
receiver of 1,4 MHz, 70 % TP
+------+--------+---------------+-------+----------+---------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Case | Huawei | China Telecom | ZTE | Ericsson | Samsung | Nokia (1) | Nokia (2) | Average | | | | | | | | | | | | Num | | | | | | | | SINR | +------+--------+---------------+-------+----------+---------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | 1 | -4,48 | -4,60 | -4,17 | -3,57 | -3,34 | -4,13 | -3,82 | -4,13 | +------+--------+---------------+-------+----------+---------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | 2 | -2,74 | -3,60 | -3,59 | -3,52 | -2,58 | -2,54 | -3,09 | -3,18 | +------+--------+---------------+-------+----------+---------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | 3 | -3,75 | -4,43 | -4,81 | -4,03 | -3,35 | -3,62 | -3,81 | -4,07 | +------+--------+---------------+-------+----------+---------+-----------+-----------+---------+
Table 9.2-2: Summary of ideal link level simulation results for MMSE-IRC
receiver of 3 MHz, 70 % TP
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Case | H | China | ZTE | Eri | Sa | Nokia | Nokia | Av | | | uawei | Te | | csson | msung | (1) | (2) | erage | | Num | | lecom | | | | | | SINR | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | -4,80 | -4,61 | -4,08 | -3,78 | -3,79 | -4,04 | -4,38 | -4,28 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | -2,98 | -3,69 | -3,85 | -3,64 | -2,73 | -2,81 | -3,57 | -3,42 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | -4,02 | -4,15 | -4,77 | -3,99 | -3,11 | -3,79 | -3,75 | -4,08 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 9.2-3: Summary of ideal link level simulation results for MMSE-IRC
receiver of 5 MHz, 70 % TP
+------+--------+---------------+-------+----------+---------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | Case | Huawei | China Telecom | ZTE | Ericsson | Samsung | Nokia (1) | Nokia (2) | Average | | | | | | | | | | | | Num | | | | | | | | SINR | +------+--------+---------------+-------+----------+---------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | 1 | -4,53 | -4,80 | -4,37 | -4,02 | -4,00 | -4,08 | -4,13 | -4,32 | +------+--------+---------------+-------+----------+---------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | 2 | -3,05 | -3,57 | -3,20 | -3,37 | -2,40 | -2,47 | -3,16 | -3,14 | +------+--------+---------------+-------+----------+---------+-----------+-----------+---------+ | 3 | -3,62 | -4,03 | -4,24 | -4,10 | -3,03 | -3,83 | -3,87 | -3,95 | +------+--------+---------------+-------+----------+---------+-----------+-----------+---------+
Table 9.2-4: Summary of ideal link level simulation results for MMSE-IRC
receiver of 10 MHz, 70 % TP
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Case | H | China | ZTE | Eri | Sa | Nokia | Nokia | Av | | | uawei | Te | | csson | msung | (1) | (2) | erage | | Num | | lecom | | | | | | SINR | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | -4,57 | -4,96 | -4,77 | -4,48 | -4,08 | -4,19 | -4,47 | -4,57 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | -3,28 | -3,29 | -3,29 | -3,36 | -2,53 | -2,52 | -3,11 | -3,14 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | -3,61 | -3,72 | -4,00 | -3,85 | -2,93 | -3,69 | -3,64 | -3,75 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 9.2-5: Summary of ideal link level simulation results for MMSE-IRC
receiver of 15 MHz, 70 % TP
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Case | H | China | ZTE | Eri | Sa | Nokia | Nokia | Av | | | uawei | Te | | csson | msung | (1) | (2) | erage | | Num | | lecom | | | | | | SINR | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | -4,09 | -4,83 | -4,82 | -4,58 | -4,03 | -4,10 | -4,68 | -4,52 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | -3,36 | -3,00 | -2,98 | -3,12 | -2,19 | -2,19 | -2,78 | -2,90 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | -3,01 | -3,35 | -3,52 | -3,37 | -2,38 | -3,34 | -2,93 | -3,25 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 9.2-6: Summary of ideal link level simulation results for MMSE-IRC
receiver of 20 MHz, 70 % TP
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Case | H | China | ZTE | Eri | Sa | Nokia | Nokia | Av | | | uawei | Te | | csson | msung | (1) | (2) | erage | | Num | | lecom | | | | | | SINR | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | -4,71 | -4,96 | -4,63 | -4,71 | -4,34 | -4,22 | -4,46 | -4,61 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | -3,22 | -2,95 | -3,04 | -3,07 | -2,34 | -2,30 | -2,88 | -2,91 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | -3,58 | -3,07 | -3,41 | -3,11 | -2,29 | -3,20 | -2,72 | -3,18 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 9.2-7: Summary of ideal link level simulation results of the average
SINR for MMSE-IRC receiver, 70 % TP
* * *
Case Num 1,4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 1 -4,13 -4,28 -4,32 -4,57
-4,52 -4,61 2 -3,18 -3,42 -3,14 -3,14 -2,90 -2,91 3 -4,07 -4,08 -3,95 -3,75
-3,25 -3,18
* * *
## 9.3 Demodulation performance requirements
The BS enhanced performance requirements for MMSE-IRC receiver with
asynchronous interference are derived by taking into account the ideal
simulation results in clause 9.2 and the additional implementation margin.
Based on interested companies\' inputs in R4-163888 [9], the enhanced
performance requirements are given in Table 9.3-1, and these requirements are
introduced into TS 36.104 [7].
Table 9.3-1: Enhanced performance requirement for MMSE-IRC receiver, SINR (dB)
at 70 % relative TP
* * *
Case Num 1,4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 1 -2,3 -2,5 -2,6 -2,8 -2,7
-2,9 2 -1,4 -1,6 -1,3 -1,3 -1,1 -1,1 3 -2,2 -2,2 -2,1 -1,9 -1,4 -1,3
* * *
# 10 Conclusions
This technical report has documented the RAN4 work on performance requirements
of MMSE-IRC receiver for LTE BS. The major work includes the definition of
reference receiver structures, determination of typical network scenarios and
targeted/interfering channels, investigation of interference models and
interference profiles, link-level performance evaluations, and introduction of
BS demodulation performance requirements with synchronous and asynchronous
interferences.
The DM-RS based MMSE-IRC receiver is defined as the reference receiver in this
work item, and the estimation of interference covariance matrix is performed
at per PRB and per TTI basis.
Homogeneous and heterogeneous network scenarios are introduced with
considerations of interference among data channels (PUSCH). Both synchronous
and asynchronous network operations are covered.
Dominant interferer proportion (DIP) is used as the interference statistical
measure for MMSE-IRC. System level simulations are conducted to derive DIP
profiles for the first two dominant interferers. DIP profiles are picked at
the 85 %-tile of the DIP1 distribution and the median of the conditioned DIP2
whose corresponding DIP1 fall within ±5 %-tile of 85 %-tile.
Using the DIP profiles from system-level study, link-level simulations with
explicit interference modelling are evaluated. Under the picked DIP profiles,
it shows that MMSE-IRC receiver have significant gain over MMSE receiver. It
has been observed that:
\- with respect to homogeneous network, for 1x2 cases the gain is about 3,1
dB; for 1x4 cases the gain is 4,4 dB \~4,7 dB; for 1x8 cases the gain is 4,9
dB \~5,0 dB;
\- with respect to heterogeneous network, for 1x2 cases the gain is 5,5
dB\~5,9 dB; for 1x4 cases the gain is 7,5 dB\~8,3 dB; for 1x8 cases the gain
is 8,4 dB\~8,9 dB.
Based on the extensive evaluations from interested companies, BS demodulation
performance requirements for MMSE-IRC receiver with synchronous and
asynchronous interferences are provided in clause 8.3 and 9.3 respectively.
#