# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the European 700 Supplemental
Downlink (SDL) for 738-758 MHz. It is intended to be specified for E-UTRA for
operations in Region 1. The band is to be used in CA for E-UTRA. The LTE CA
combination of Band 20 + European 700SDL is selected.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 30.007: \"Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands\".
[4] ECC Decision (15)01: \"Harmonised technical conditions for mobile/fixed
communications networks (MFCN) in the band 694-790 MHz including a paired
frequency arrangement (Frequency Division Duplex 2x30 MHz) and an optional
unpaired frequency arrangement (Supplemental Downlink)\", March 2015.
[5] CEPT Draft Report 239: \"Compatibility and sharing studies for BB PPDR
systems operating in the 700 MHz range\".
[6] 3GPP TR 36.852-13: \"LTE Advanced inter-band Carrier Aggregation
(2DL/1UL); Release 13\".
[7] Preliminary Technical Analysis of 700 Mhz Band Plan with Sdl Option,
Document 5D/519-E, www.itu.int/md/R12-WP5D.AR-C-0357/en
[8] CEPT Report 53: Report A from CEPT to the European Commission in response
to the Mandate \"To develop harmonised technical conditions for the 694 -790
MHz (\'700 MHz\') frequency band in the EU for the provision of wireless
broadband and other uses in support of EU spectrum policy objectives\".
[9] Draft ECC Report 239: \"Compatibility and sharing studies for BB PPDR
systems operating in the 700 MHz range\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[11] 3GPP TR 37.808: \"Passive Intermodulation (PIM) handling for Base
Stations (BS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[14] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[15] 3GPP TS 37.141: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[16] R4-146833, Additional framework for Interband CA relaxations, Nokia
Corporation
[17] R4-104130, UE Reference Sensitivity Requirement for Multiple Antenna
Mode, Qualcomm Incorporated
[18] R4-156891, Introduction of Band 67 to 37.104, Nokia Networks
[19] R4-156893, Introduction of Band 67 to 37.141, Nokia Networks
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BEM Bloc Edge Mask
BW Bandwidth
CA Carrier Aggregation
DTT Digital Terrestrial Television
ETC Extreme Temperature Condition
LRTC Least Restrictive Technical Conditions
MFCN Mobile Fixed Communication Networks
PPDR Public Protection and Disaster Relief
SDL Supplemental Downlink
# 4 Background
ECC CEPT finalized the harmonised technical conditions in the band 694-790 MHz
including a SDL option from 738-758 MHz in blocks of 5 MHz which can be used
for mobile communication. The details can be found in the ECC Decision (15)01,
[4].
The objective of the WI is to:
1) Specify the band numbering and the UE/BS RF characteristics of the 700SDL-
band for E-UTRA.
\- E-UTRA channel bandwidths 5, 10, 15 and 20 MHz
\- The European 700SDL-band is restricted to be used with CA
2) Specify the RAN4 core requirements for the support of E-UTRA Carrier
Aggregation between: LTE Advanced 2 Band Carrier Aggregation (2DL/1UL) of Band
20 and Band 67 (new European 700SDL band).
3) Evaluate co-existence between SDL and other 3GPP bands, as well as between
SDL and PPDR UL within 733-736 MHz.
4) Update the related technical specifications to include the 700SDL-band and
CA combinations.
5) Add conformance testing in RAN5 specifications (to follow at a later
stage).
The following table represents the BW that should be specified and supported.
Table 4-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets defined for
inter-band CA (two bands)
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | Uplink CA configurations | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4  
MHz | 3  
MHz | 5  
MHz | 10  
MHz | 15  
MHz | 20  
MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_20A-67A | - | 20 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 40 | 0  
|  | 67 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
Note: UL carrier should be supported in B20. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
The requirements should be based on the functionality currently defined for
DL-only carrier Aggregation.
# 5 Frequency band arrangements and regulatory background
CEPT ECC decided during its 39^th^ ECC Meeting in March 3 -6, 2015 to
harmonised the frequency band 694 -- 790 MHz. Following the resolution of CEPT
Report 53 [8] to the European Commission in response to a mandate on the 700
MHz range (694-790 MHz), the ECC has agreed, an equivalent CEPT-wide
harmonising decision on the use of 700 MHz for Mobile Fixed Communication
Networks (MFCN).
ITU WRC-12 decided to allocate the frequency range 694-790 MHz in Region 1 to
the mobile, except aeronautical mobile, service on a co-primary basis and
identified this band for IMT. The allocation will be effective immediately
after WRC-15 to be held in November 2015.
For frequency range 694 -- 790 MHz CEPT has identified a channel arrangement
for MFCN including FDD with 703 -- 733 MHz for uplink, and 758 -- 788 MHz for
downlink (2 x 30 MHz). These frequency ranges are on the lower duplexer of APT
700 MHz band plan (Band 28), which will provide economies of scale and maximum
inter-regional harmonisation.
ECC decision includes also the allocation of the range 738 - 758 MHz for
optional unpaired frequency SDL while not preventing the use of the band for
other services depending on national circumstances [8]. An unpaired frequency
arrangement (SDL) on optional basis may use up to four of the following 5 MHz
frequency blocks: 738 -- 743 MHz, 743 -- 748 MHz, 748 -- 753 MHz and 753 --
758 MHz.
Table 5-1: Frequency range 694 -- 791 MHz channel arrangement\ for European
lower duplexer Band 28 and 700SDL
{width="6.677083333333333in" height="1.3333333333333333in"}
The MFCN Base Station (BS) block edge mask (BEM) for the range 738 - 758 MHz
for optional unpaired frequency SDL consists of several elements of in-block
power limits and the out-of-block limits. An out-of-block element consists of
a baseline level and transitional levels enabling filter roll-off from in-
block to baseline levels.
**Based on [4] to obtain a BS BEM for a specific block in the paired DL or SDL
spectrum, the BEM elements that are defined in Table 5-2 are used as
follows:**
\- **In-block power limit is used for the block assigned to the operator.**
**\- Transitional regions are determined, and corresponding power limits are
used. The transitional regions may overlap with guard bands and adjacent
bands, in which case transitional power limits are used. Transitional
requirements do not apply in MFCN UL spectrum.**
**\- For remaining spectrum assigned to MFCN UL and DL (including SDL
spectrum, if applicable), for DTT spectrum below 694 MHz and for spectrum
allocated to MFCN above 790 MHz, baseline power limits are used.**
**\- For remaining guard band spectrum (i.e. not covered by transitional
regions) guard band power limits are used.**
**\- For spectrum between 733 and 758 MHz not used by MFCN (including SDL),
duplex gap requirements apply.**
**\- Less stringent technical parameters may be agreed on a bilateral or
multilateral basis for the operation of MFCN in the 694-790 MHz band,
providing that they comply with the technical conditions applicable for the
protection of other services, applications or networks and with cross-border
obligations.**
Table 5-2: BS BEM elements
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | In-block | Block for which the BEM is derived. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Baseline | Spectrum used for MFCN UL and DL (including | | | SDL, if applicable), for DTT and for MFCN | | | above 790 MHz (UL and DL). | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Transitional region | The transitional region applies from 0 to 10 | | | MHz below and above the block assigned to the | | | operator, except from in the uplink region of | | | MFCN (703-733 MHz). | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Guard bands | Spectrum between the DTT allocation below | | | 694 MHz and the lower edge of the MFCN uplink | | | (694-703 MHz), | | | | | | Spectrum between the upper edge of MFCN | | | downlink and the lower edge of MFCN downlink | | | above 790 MHz (if applicable) (788-791 MHz). | | | | | | In case of overlap between transitional | | | regions and guard bands, transitional power | | | limits are used. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Duplex Gap | Spectrum in the duplex gap which is not used | | | by SDL. | | | | | | In case of overlap between transitional | | | regions and the part of the duplex gap not | | | used by SDL, transitional power limits are | | | used. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
Table 5-3: BS in-block power limit
+--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range | Maximum mean | Measurement | | | | | | | e.i.r.p. | Bandwidth | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Block assigned to the | Not mandatory.\ | 5 MHz | | operator | In case an upper bound | | | | is desired by an | | | | administration, a value | | | | of 64 dBm/5 MHz per | | | | antenna may be applied. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+
Table 5-4: BS baseline requirements
+--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range | Maximum mean e.i.r.p. | Measurement | | | | | | | | bandwidth | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | MFCN uplink frequencies | -50 dBm per cell (see | 5 MHz | | (703-733 MHz) | note) | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Uplink frequencies of | -49 dBm per cell (see | 5 MHz | | 800 MHz band (832-862 | note) | | | MHz) | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | MFCN downlink | 16 dBm per antenna | 5 MHz | | frequencies (758-788 | | | | MHz), SDL blocks in the | | | | duplex gap, and downlink | | | | frequencies of 800 MHz | | | | band (791-821 MHz) | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | NOTE: In a multi sector | | | | site \"cell\" refers to | | | | one of the sectors. | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+
Table 5-5: BS transition requirements in the range 733-788 MHz
+---------------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range | Maximum mean\ | Measurement | | | e.i.r.p. | | | | | bandwidth | +---------------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | --10 to --5 MHz from lower block edge | 18 dBm per antenna | 5 MHz | +---------------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | --5 to 0 MHz from lower block edge | 22 dBm per antenna | 5 MHz | +---------------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | 0 to +5 MHz from upper block edge | 22 dBm per antenna | 5 MHz | +---------------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | +5 to +10 MHz from upper block edge | 18 dBm per antenna | 5 MHz | +---------------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+
Table 5-6: BS transition requirements above 788 MHz
+---------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range | Maximum mean\ | Measurement | | | e.i.r.p. | | | | | bandwidth | +---------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | 788-791 MHz for block with | 21 dBm per antenna | 3 MHz | | upper edge at 788 MHz | | | +---------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | 788-791 MHz for block with | 16 dBm per antenna | 3 MHz | | upper edge at 783 MHz | | | +---------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | 791-796 MHz for block with | 19 dBm per antenna | 5 MHz | | upper edge at 788 MHz | | | +---------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | 791-796 MHz for block with | 17 dBm per antenna | 5 MHz | | upper edge at 783 MHz | | | +---------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | 796-801 MHz for block with | 17 dBm per antenna | 5 MHz | | upper edge at 788 MHz | | | +---------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+
Table 5-7: BS Requirements for part of duplex gap not used by SDL
+---------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range | Maximum mean | Measurement | | | | | | | e.i.r.p. | bandwidth | +---------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | -10 to 0 MHz offset from DL | 16 dBm per antenna | 5 MHz | | lower band edge or lower edge | | | | of the lowest SDL block, but | | | | above uplink upper band edge | | | +---------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+ | More than 10 MHz offset from DL | -4 dBm per antenna | 5 MHz | | lower band edge or lower edge | | | | of the lowest SDL block, but | | | | above uplink upper band edge | | | +---------------------------------+--------------------+-------------+
Table 5-8: BS Requirements for guard bands
+--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range | Maximum mean | Measurement | | | | | | | out-of-block e.i.r.p. | bandwidth | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Spectrum between | -32 dBm per cell (see | 1 MHz | | broadcasting band edge | note) | | | and FDD uplink lower | | | | band edge (694-703 MHz) | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Spectrum between | 14 dBm per antenna | 3 MHz | | downlink upper band edge | | | | and downlink of 800 MHz | | | | MFCN (788-791 MHz) | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | NOTE: In a multi sector | | | | site \"cell\" refers to | | | | one of the sectors. | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+
Table 5-9: BS Baseline requirements for DTT spectrum
* * *
Frequency range Maximum mean\ Measurement\ e.i.r.p. bandwidth
For DTT frequencies below 694 MHz where broadcasting is protected -23 dBm per
cell (see note) 8 MHz
NOTE: In a multi sector site \"cell\" refers to one of the sectors.
* * *
The ECC decision mentions other optional elements for the use of the duplex
gap of the MFCN FDD 2x 30 MHz In particular; compatibility between PPDR within
733-736/788-791MHz and SDL has been studied in CEPT Draft Report 239,
currently under public consultation [5].
Figure 5-1 shows spectrum overview for new European 700SDL band (738 -- 758
MHz) and existing Band 28, Band 20, and lower duplexer of Band 28.
{width="6.072916666666667in" height="3.1875in"}
Figure 5-1: Spectrum overview on low bands including 2DL CA with Band 20, and
Band 67 (European 700SDL new band)
Actual implementation and coexistence with B28 (lower duplex) in the same
terminal and in the network has to be further studied. In [7] a preliminary
technical analysis of the 700MHz band plan (B28 lower duplex) with the 700SDL
option was done for the ITU-R Working Party 5D and the findings can be used
for this work.
# 6 List of band specific issues for the European 700 Supplemental Downlink
band (738-758 MHz)
\- General
\- Co-existence with other systems around/within the band
\- Co-existence with other 3GPP operating bands in Region 1
\- BS unwanted emission
\- Specific E-UTRA: Band 20 + EU700SDL band
\- UE REFSENS
\- UE MOP
# 7 General issues
## 7.1 Co-existence with PPDR UL 733-736MHz
### 7.1.1 BS co-existence
PPDR UL and SDL are separated by 2MHz. The Draft ECC Report 239 contains an
analysis on BS-BS co-existence and co-location between PPDR UL and SDL. Below,
the findings are summarised
Three scenarios are being analysed in this Draft Report:
**\- Scenario 1** : Fulfilment of the LRTC in ECC/DEC/(15)01
**\- Scenario 2:** Fulfilment of 3GPP requirements for coexistence or
colocation between PPDR and SDL
Scenario 1 only considers the feasibility of a SDL filter to fulfil the
regulatory requirements in ECC Decision (15)01 for protection of PPDR UL, i.e.
-52 dBm/3 MHz EIRP. The analysis assumes 15 dBi antenna gain and concludes
that it is possible to create such filters in the BS without the need of
external filter. The ECC Decision does not include any RX requirements and
thus the feasibility of PPDR UL was not done. However, it is recognized in the
report that such filter is needed for proper performance of PPDR.
Scenario 2 looks into BS-BS co-existence and BS-BS co-location from both PPDR
UL (blocking rejection) and SDL perspective (unwanted emissions). Figure
7.1.11 and- Figure 7.1.1-2 include filter simulations at room temperature for
BS-BS co-location from Draft ECC Report 239. The required filter rejection
characteristics also consider attenuation from the receiver chain to reflect a
realistic design. Figure 1 shows that the IL at the lowest frequencies of SDL
is close to 4dB, which will imply high performance degradation of the lowest
SDL frequencies. The IL across the PPDR UL filter is also high to be able to
reject a blocker from SDL with 1dB degradation.
{width="5.0in" height="2.4583333333333335in"}
Figure 7.1.1-1: SDL filter simulations for colocation with PPDR UL [9]
{width="4.916666666666667in" height="2.3958333333333335in"}
Figure 7.1.1-2: PPDR UL filter simulations for colocation with SDL [9]
Figure 7.1.1-3 includes the PPDR UL filter performance, included in Draft ECC
Report 239. It shows that co-existence is easier while still implying high IL
in the PPDR UL.
{width="4.947916666666667in" height="2.4375in"}
Figure 7.1.1-3: PPDR UL filter simulations for coexistence with SDL
The Draft ECC Report 239concludes that coexistence is possible between SDL and
PPDR with 2 MHz offset and higher than standard insertion loss for PPDR Rx
filter more than 2 MHz separation between PPDR UL and SDL are needed to allow
for colocation. Further simulations show that 5 MHz or larger offset is
recommended.
Site solutions are also mentioned as a way to manage co-location.
### 7.1.2 UE **co-existence between** PPDR UL 733-736 MHz and SDL 738-758 MHz
A UE supporting PPDR within 733-736/788-791 MHz will most likely reuse the
Band 28 radios. Band 28 UL and SDL have some overlap and thus the emissions
from such a UE towards SDL are the spectrum emission mask requirements
specified in TS 36.101.
# 8 Study of E-UTRA specific issues
## 8.1 Co-existence studies
Table 8.1-1 shows the second and third order DL harmonics and intermodulation
products when two simultaneous DLs are active in Band 20 and 700MHz SDL.
Table 8.1-1: Band 20 and Band 700MHz SDL DL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
BS DL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high DL frequency (MHz) 738 758 791
821 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 1476 1516 1582 1642 3^rd^
order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 2214 2274 2373 2463 2^nd^ order IMD
products \|f2_low -- f1_high\| \|f2_high -- f1_low\| (f2_low + f1_low)
(f2_high + f1_high) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 33 83 1529 1579 3^rd^ order IMD
products (2*f1_low -- f2_high) (2*f1_high -- f2_low) (2*f2_low -- f1_high)
(2*f2_high -- f1_low) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 655 725 824 904 3^rd^ order
IMD products (2*f1_low + f2_low) (2*f1_high + f2_high) (2*f2_low + f1_low)
(2*f2_high + f1_high) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2267 2337 2320 2400 3^rd^
order IMD products (f1_low -- f2_high + f2_low) (f1_high + f2_high -- f2_low)
(f2_low -- f1_high + f1_low) (f2_high + f1_high -- f1_low) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 708 788 771 841 3^rd^ order IMD products (with maximum channel
bandwidth) (f1_low -- f2_BWmax) (f1_high + f2_BWmax) (f2_low -- f1_BWmax)
(f2_high + f1_BWmax) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 718 778 771 841
* * *
It can be seen from Table 8.1-1 that 2^nd^ harmonics caused by BS supporting
carrier aggregation of Band 20 and Band 700MHz SDL may fall into the BS
receive band of Band 24, while 3^rd^ harmonic will fall into the BS receive
band of Band 40.
It can be seen from Table 8.1-1 that none 2^nd^ IMD products caused by BS
supporting carrier aggregation of Band 20 and 700MHz SDL will fall into the BS
receive band of currently defined 3GPP bands, while 3^rd^ IMD products may
fall into the BS receive band of Bands 5, 6, 8, 12-14, 17-20, 26-28, 30, 40
and 44. Bands 5, 6, 12-14, 17-19, 26-27, 30, 40 and 44 are not intended for
use in the same geographical area as Bands 20 and 700MHz SDL.
The analysis below gives further information on the actual channel bandwidths
and carrier positions for that CA combinations which can cause DESENSE to the
BS own receive blocks.
Assume that the 2 CC transmitted by the Band (20 + 700SDL) BS are _a_ and _b_
MHz channel bandwidth and _c_ and _d_ MHz from the edges of Bands 20 and
700SDL DL frequency bands as shown in Figure 8.1-1 below:
{width="6.500694444444444in" height="1.104861111111111in"}
Figure 8.1-1: CC transmitted by the Band (20 + 700SDL) BS
And the corresponding BS receive block are as shown in Figure 8.1-2 below:
{width="6.500694444444444in" height="1.0833333333333333in"}
Figure 8.1-2: CC received by the Band 20 BS
Then the 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in the BS by transmitting of the 2 CC
can be calculated as shown in Table 8.1-2 below:
Table 8.1-2: Band (20 + 700SDL) BS DL 3^rd^ order IMD products
* * *
3^rd^ order IMD products IMD frequency limits (MHz) (2*f1-low -- f2-high) 655
+ 2*_c_ \+ _d_ (2*f1-high -- f2-low) 655 + 2*_c_ \+ _d_ \+ 2*_a_ \+ _b_
(2*f2-low -- f1-high) 904 -- 2*_d_ \-- _c_ \-- 2*_b_ \-- _a_ (2*f2-high --
f1-low) 904 -- 2*_d_ \-- _c_ (f1-low -- f2-high + f2-low) 738 + _c_ \-- _b_
(f1-high + f2-high -- f2-low) 738 + _c_ \+ _b_ \+ _a_ (f2-low -- f1-high +
f1-low) 821 -- _d_ \-- _a_ \-- _b_ (f2-high + f1-high -- f1-low) 821 -- _d_ \+
_a_
* * *
Comparing the IMD frequency limits in Table 8.1-2 with the BS receive blocks
in Figure 8.1-2, it can be deduced that the 3^rd^ order IMD products caused in
the BS by transmitting of the 2 CC will only fall into the BS own receive
block of Band 20 under one of the transmit configurations shown in Table 8.1-3
below:
Table 8.1-3: Band (20 + 700SDL) BS transmit configurations with 3^rd^ IMD
falling within Band 20 BS own receive blocks
* * *
1^st^ CC channel bandwidth (_a_ MHz) 2nd CC channel bandwidth (_b_ MHz) 1^st^
and 2^nd^ CC position (_c_ and _d_ MHz) 5 5 27 \ F~OOB~.
This clause specifies the requirements for the specified E-UTRA band, for
coexistence with protected bands.
NOTE: For measurement conditions at the edge of each frequency range, the
lowest frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be
set at the lowest boundary of the frequency range plus MBW/2. The highest
frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be set at
the highest boundary of the frequency range minus MBW/2. MBW denotes the
measurement bandwidth defined for the protected band.
Table 8.4-1: Requirements (Table format from TS 36.101)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Spu | | | | | | | | -UTRA | rious | | | | | | | | Band | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | NOTE | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1880 | | 1895 | -40 | 1 | 15,27 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1895 | | 1915 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26, | | | range | | | | | | 27 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1915 | | 1920 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26, | | | range | | | | | | 27 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 13 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 13 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | 859 | - | 869 | -27 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 26 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 875 | -37 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 875 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 7 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | 8 | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2570 | - | 2575 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2575 | - | 2595 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2620 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | band | | | high~ | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 23 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 23 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 23 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 10 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 11 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 10 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 13 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 15 | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 12, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 12, | | | range | | | | | | 15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 10 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 18 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 19 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 788 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 21 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 22 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 3510 | - | 3525 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 3525 | - | 3590 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 23 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 24 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 25 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 0,12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 26 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 703 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 27 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 28 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | F~DL\ | - | 790 | -50 | 1 | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 28 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 4, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 19, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 24 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 19, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 25 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 470 | - | 694 | -42 | 8 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 35 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 470 | - | 710 | -26.2 | 6 | 34 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 773 | -32 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 773 | - | 803 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 662 | - | 694 | -26.2 | 6 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 19 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 30 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 33 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 34 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8,39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 35 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37 | | | - | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2620 | - | 2645 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2645 | - | 2690 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1805 | | 1855 | -40 | 1 | 32 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1855 | | 1875 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26,32 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1875 | | 1880 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26,33 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 40 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 41 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 30 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | | 1 | -50 | 1 | 30 | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 30 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 42 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 43 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 1,32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | [ | [1] | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | -50] | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 44 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 5, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | refer | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 5.5-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | Due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | spre | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mmedi | | | | | | | | | ately | | | | | | | | | ou | | | | | | | | | tside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | ntred | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | (2MHz | | | | | | | | | + N x | | | | | | | | | L | | | | | | | | | ~CRB~ | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 180 | | | | | | | | | kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 4, | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | pecti | | | | | | | | | vely. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | rval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: To | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | on-sy | | | | | | | | | nchro | | | | | | | | | nized | | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 7: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1919. | | | | | | | | | 6MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 8: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1915. | | | | | | | | | 7MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 9: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 10: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 11: | | | | | | | | | Wh | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | 793-8 | | | | | | | | | 05MHz | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | stead | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 799-8 | | | | | | | | | 05MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | TBD | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 12: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | ffici | | | | | | | | | ently | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | ave | | | | | | | | | raged | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nsure | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | ndard | | | | | | | | | devi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | \ 3\. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 24: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -38 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 25: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -36 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 26: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 27: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1920 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1980 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 927.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 929.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1930 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1938 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 28: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 29: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 30: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 254 | | | | | | | | | 5-257 | | | | | | | | | 5 MHz | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 2595 | | | | | | | | | -2645 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | is 10 | | | | | | | | | or 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 31: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 32: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | [54 | | | | | | | | | RB] | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 887.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 889.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1890 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1898 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 33: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 1885 | | | | | | | | | -1920 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | (r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | 1RB | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 1880 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1885 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pecif | | | | | | | | | ied). | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | [54 | | | | | | | | | RB] | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 892.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 894.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1895 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1903 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 34: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for 5 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | allo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | 18-72 | | | | | | | | | 8MHz. | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 10 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth, | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 30 | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | > 1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | \ a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > -BW/2 - | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > +BW/2 + | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | | | range values | | | | | | for unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | center | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
# 9 Study of MSR specific issues
MSR specifications are upated in reference [18] and [19].
# 10 Channel numbering for E-UTRA, MSR
Operating band number and the EARFCN allocated for the European 700
Supplemental Downlink are as outlined in Table 10-1 and 10-2 respectively.
Table 10-1: Operating band definition for SDL 700MHz
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
67 N/A 738 MHz -- 758 MHz FDD^(see\ note)^
NOTE: Restricted to E-UTRA operation when carrier aggregation is configured.
The downlink operating band is paired with the uplink operating band
(external) of the carrier aggregation configuration that is supporting the
configured Pcell.
* * *
Table 10-2: E-UTRA channel numbers
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Downlink Uplink  
F~DL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-DL~ Range of N~DL~ F~UL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-UL~ Range of
N~UL~ 67^(see\ note)^ 738 67336 67336 - 67535 N/A  
NOTE: Restricted to E-UTRA operation when carrier aggregation is configured.
* * *
# 11 Required changes to E-UTRA, UTRA and MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the new band are
summarized in a Table 11-1.
Table 11-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Affected | | | | | existing | | | | | specifications | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Spec No. | Subject of the | Comments | CR/TP (Tdoc) | | | CR | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 36.852-13 | LTE Advanced | Core part | R4-155 | | | inter-band | | 334 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 36.101 | E-UTRA; UE | Core part | R4-156796 | | | Radio | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 36.104 | E-UTRA; Base | Core part | R4-156890 | | | Station (BS) | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 36.113 | E-UTRA; BS and | Core part | R4-156099 | | | repeater EMC | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 36.124 | E-UTRA; EMC | Core part | R4-156100 | | | requirements | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 36.133 | E-UTRA; | Core part | R4-156101 | | | Requirements | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 36.307 | E-UTRA; | Core part | R4-156848 | | | Requirements on | | | | | ase-independent | | (Rel-10) | | | frequency band | | | | | | | R4-155894 | | | | | | | | | | (Rel-11) | | | | | | | | | | R4-155895 | | | | | | | | | | (Rel-12) | | | | | | | | | | R4-155896 | | | | | | | | | | (Rel-13) | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 37.104 | E-UTRA, UTRA | Core part | R4-156891 | | | and GSM/EDGE; | | | | | (BS) radio | | | | | transmission | | | | | and reception | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 37.113 | E-UTRA, UTRA | Core part | R4-156102 | | | and GSM/EDGE; | | | | | (BS) | | | | | Electromagnetic | | | | | Compatibility | | | | | (EMC) | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 25.101 | User Equipment | Core part | R4-156490 | | | (UE) radio | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 25.104 | Base Station | Core part | R4-156561 | | | (BS) radio | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 25.461 | UTRAN Iuant | Core part | R3-152436 | | | interface: | | ([R4-156491] | | | Layer 1 | | (http://www.3gp | | | | | p.org/ftp/tsg_r | | | | | an/WG4_Radio/TS | | | | | GR4_76bis/Docs/ | | | | | R4-156491.zip)) | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 25.466 | UTRAN Iuant | Core part | R3-152682 | | | interface: | | | | | Application | | | | | part | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 36.133 | E-UTRA; | Perf part | R4-156101 | | | Requirements | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 37.141 | E-UTRA, UTRA | Perf part | R4-156893 | | | and GSM/EDGE; | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 36.307 | E-UTRA; | Perf part | R4-156848 | | | Requirements on | | | | | ase-independent | | (Rel-10) | | | frequency band | | | | | | | R4-155894 | | | | | | | | | | (Rel-11) | | | | | | | | | | R4-155895 | | | | | | | | | | (Rel-12) | | | | | | | | | | R4-155896 | | | | | | | | | | (Rel-13) | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 36.141 | E-UTRA; Base | Perf part | R4-156892 | | | Station (BS) | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | 25.141 | Base Station | Perf part | R4-156562 | | | (BS) | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
#