# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
  1. Version x.y.z
  2. where:
  3. x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
  1. y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. > technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
  2. z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have > been incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report for the Study Item on measurement
gap enhancement in LTE.
The current measurement gap configuration and the corresponding RRC signalling
were first introduced in Rel.8 back in 2008. Since then, some fundamental
evolutions in LTE have been realized. These include numerous new technologies
(e.g. carrier aggregation, FeICIC, CoMP, dual-connectivity, etc.), new network
topologies (e.g. Heterogeneous Network with small cells) and increased number
of deployed bands and frequencies.
The main challenges of the existing measurement gap and the motivations for
the further enhancement can be summarized in the following four aspects:
\- Network impact and UE scheduling opportunity
\- Up to 15% of DL/UL resources are restricted from reception and transmission
due to the existing measurement gap configuration
\- Multiple Rx chains equipped in CA capable UE can potentially provide extra
degrees of freedom to do the measurement more efficiently, but they are not
fully utilized at the moment.
\- Challenges with multiple Rx chains and single chip RF-IC implementation
\- UE can only be configured with single measurement gap pattern even equipped
with multiple Rx chains
\- This significantly limits network and UE\'s flexibility to balance the
measurement delay, power consumption and spectrum efficiency, which can
benefit from multiple RF chains.
\- Harmonic interference and/or synthesizer operations due to one Rx chain can
result in the interruption on the other Rx chains
\- The scenarios where involving synthesizer operating include, but not
limited to, radio turned on/off, inter-frequency measurement, SCell
activation/deactivation and/or SCell measurements.
\- The existing measurement gap pattern is inefficient to handle the Inter-RF
chain interference issue. This unnecessarily imposes significant
implementation restriction.
\- UE power consumption and mobility
\- The potential benefit has been recognized to save UE power consumption by
differentiating the measurement requirements for the different frequency
layers, e.g. coverage, offloading, etc. However, it is not easy to be realized
based on the existing measurement gap configuration.
\- The mobility performance can be considerably improved with measurement gap
enhancement by reducing the measurement delay of coverage layers.
\- With the ever-increasing number of deployed bands and frequencies, the
existing inter-frequency/inter-RAT measurement mechanism faces even more
challenges to meet the performance requirements.
\- Limitations of the existing measurement gap pattern are identified in
various technical areas
\- No enhancement has been made even though the importance of measurement gap
enhancement has been well recognized.
\- The measurement gap related discussions are diverse and spread over quite a
few topics.
\- It is desirable to address different measurement gap related issue in a
single SI and the eventual enhancement and design should be versatile enough
to serve different purposes.
All in all, the effectiveness of new technologies and new network topologies
evolved since Rel.8 not only greatly relies on the measurement accuracy and
reporting delay, but also on the measurement efficiency and the associated
power consumption at UE. All these issues motivate some effort to further
investigate the measurement gap enhancement. It is desirable to design an all-
weathered and future-proofed inter-frequency/inter-RAT measurement solution by
jointly considering all aspects, including but not limited to delay, power
consumption, flexibility and network performance.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] RP-150515: \"Measurement gap enhancement\", Intel Corporation.
[2] R4-151980: \"General considerations on measurement gap enhancement\",
Nokia Networks.
[3] R4-147386: \"Discussion on small gap concept\", Nokia Networks, Nokia
Corporation.
[4] R4-145598: \"Gaps for inter-frequency measurements\", Qualcomm
Incorporated.
[5] R4-145958: \"Small GAP measurement in Rel-12\", NTT DOCOMO, INC.
[6] R4-152380: \"Way forward for measurement gap enhancement\"; Intel, Verizon
Wireless, NTT Docomo, CMCC, Teliasonera, TIM.
[7] R4-151369: \"Overview and considerations on measurement gaps study\",
Ericsson.
[8] R4-153531: \"Discussion on measurement gap enhancement\", CATT.
[9] R4-151561: \"Enhancement of measurement gap pattern\", Alcatel-Lucent.
[10] R4-151575, On the Gap Enhancement Measurement SI\", Qualcomm.
[11] R4-153865: \"WF on measurement gap enhancements\", Intel, Alcatel-Lucent
, Nokia Networks, ZTE, LGE, Ericsson, CATT.
[12] R4-153583: \"On measurement gap enhancement for Hetnet mobility
scenarios\", Intel Corporation.
[13] R4-153584: \"On measurement gap enhancement for single RF-IC
implementation\", Intel Corporation.
[14] R4-153585: \"TP for TR skeleton (v0.0.1) for study on measurement gap
enhancement\", Intel Corporation.
[15] R4-152848: \"Further analysis on measurement gap enhancement\", Ericsson.
[16] R4-152939: \"Discussion on measurement gap enhancement\",
Huawei,HiSilicon.
[17] R4-152940: \"Wayfoward on measurement gap enhancement\",
Huawei,HiSilicon.
[18] R4-153001: \"Further discussion of measurement gap enhancement\",
Alcatel-Lucent.
[19] R4-153058: \"Inclusion of use cases and solution candidates into TR\",
Nokia Networks.
[20] R4-153066: \"Enhanced Gaps for Inter-frequency Measurements\", Qualcomm
Incorporated.
[21] R4-153302: \"Discussion on measurement gap and measurement delay\", NTT
DOCOMO, INC.
[22] R4-153059: \"Diminishing gap impact on UL scheduling\", Nokia Networks.
[23] R4-153067: \"Gaps for Inter-frequency Measurements per Component
Carrier\", Qualcomm Incorporated.
[24] R4-153186: \"Discussion on measurement gap enhancement in aspect of UE
architecture\", LG Electronics.
[25] R4-154160: \"Further discussion on measurement gap enhancement for Hetnet
mobility scenarios\", Intel Corporation.
[26] R4-154161: \"Further discussion on measurement gap enhancement for CA
capable UE with single RF-IC implementation\", Intel Corporation.
[27] R4-154162: \"TP for TR skeleton (v0.0.1) for study on measurement gap
enhancement\", Intel Corporation.
[28] R4-154163: \"Way forward on measurement gap enhancement\", Intel
Corporation.
[29] R4-154287: \"Further discussion on measurement gap length reduction\",
NTT DOCOMO, INC.
[30] R4-154290: \"Discussion on inter-freq measurement for UE with multiple Rx
chains\", NTT DOCOMO, INC.
[31] R4-154365: \"Further more discussion of measurement gap enhancement\",
Alcatel-Lucent.
[32] R4-154493: \"Further discussion on reducing UL scheduling impact from
MG\", Nokia Networks.
[33] R4-154565: \"Considerations on using multiple RF chains for
measurement\", Ericsson.
[34] R4-154566: \"Gap patterns for increasing UE scheduling
opportunity/reducing UE power consumption\", Ericsson.
[35] R4-154567: \"Consideration on controlling interruptions using measurement
gap\", Ericsson.
[36] R4-154742: \"Discussion on inter-frequency measurement for CA capable
UE\", ZTE.
[37] R4-154754: \"Discussion on measurement gap enhancement configurations\",
Huawei, HiSilicon.
[38] R4-154755: \"Discussion on the benefit and feasibility of per Rx chain
based measurement gap configuration\", Huawei, HiSilicon.
[39] R4-155133: \"TP for TR skeleton (v0.0.1) for study on measurement gap
enhancement\", Intel Corporation.
[40] R4-155464: \"Discussion on enhanced measurement gap\", CATT.
[41] R4-155627: \"TP for TR for study on measurement gap enhancement\", Intel
Corporation.
[42] R4-155628: \"Way forward on measurement gap enhancement\", Intel
Corporation.
[43] R4-155629: \"Further discussion on measurement gap enhancement for Hetnet
mobility scenarios\", Intel Corporation.
[44] R4-155630: \"Further discussion on measurement gap enhancement for CA
capable UE with single RF-IC implementation Intel Corporation.
[45] R4-155755: \"Considerations on using multiple RF chains for measurements
Ericsson GmbH, Eurolab.
[46] R4-155756: \"Gap patterns for increasing UE scheduling
opportunities/saving power Ericsson GmbH, Eurolab.
[47] R4-155757: \"Considerations on controlling interruptions using
measurement gaps\", Ericsson GmbH, Eurolab.
[48] R4-155758: \"Priority of controlling interruptions\", Ericsson GmbH,
Eurolab.
[49] R4-155936: \"Further Discussion of Short Measurement Gap for Asynch
Network\", Alcatel-Lucent.
[50] R4-156053: \"Gaps for Inter-frequency Measurements in CA\", Qualcomm
Incorporated.
[51] R4-156204: \"Discussion on measurement gap length reduction\", NTT
DOCOMO, INC.
[52] R4-156259: \"Impact analysis for measurement gap enhancements\", Nokia
Networks.
[53] R4-157001: \"TP for TR for study on measurement gap enhancement\", Intel
Corporation.
[54] R4-157091: \"Discuss on measurement gap configuration and signalling\",
Huawei,HiSilicon.
[55] R4-157092: \"Text proposal on measurement gap enhancements configuration
and signalling\", Huawei,HiSilicon.
[56] R4-157277: \"Measurement Gaps with CA\", Qualcomm Incorporated.
[57] R4-157278: \"Measurement efficiency of shorter gaps\", Qualcomm
Incorporated.
[58] R4-157472: \"Impact analysis for measurement gap enhancements\", Nokia
Networks.
[59] R4-157833: \"Gap patterns for increasing UE scheduling
opportunity/reducing UE power consumption\", Ericsson.
[60] R4-157834: \"TP Consideration on controlling interruptions using
measurement gaps\", Ericsson.
[61] R4-158090: \"Gap patterns for increasing UE scheduling
opportunity/reducing UE power consumption\", Ericsson.
[62] R4-158091: \"TP Consideration on controlling interruptions using
measurement gaps\", Ericsson.
[63] R4-158106: \"Impact analysis for measurement gap enhancements\", Nokia
Networks.
[64] R4-158176: \"TP for TR for study on measurement gap enhancement\", Intel
Corporation.
[65] R4-158177: \"Text proposal on measurement gap enhancements configuration
and signalling\", Huawei, HiSilicon.
[66] R4-158391: \"Text proposal on measurement gap enhancements configuration
and signalling\", Huawei, HiSilicon.
[67] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[68] RP-150515: \"New SI proposal: Measurement gap enhancement for LTE\"\",
Intel Corporation, etc., TSG RAN#67, Feb. 2015.
[69] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[70] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905.
**Carrier aggregation:** aggregation of two or more component carriers in
order to support wider transmission bandwidths TS 36.104.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905.
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BW Bandwidth
> CA Carrier Aggregation
>
> CC Component Carrier
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
DC Dual connectivity
DL Downlink
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
MGL Measurement gap length
MGRP Measurement gap repetition period
NCSG Network controlled small gap
PSS Primary synchronization signal
RAN Radio Access Network
RE Resource Element
RF Radio Frequency
RRM Radio Resource Management
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
SCell Secondary Cell
SINR Signal to Interference plus Noise Ratio
SSS Secondary synchronization signal
TDD Time Division Duplex
TP Transmission Point
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
# 4 Introduction
## 4.1 Study item objective
The objectives of RAN4 WG are to study the feasibility of measurement gap
enhancements for the inter-frequency and inter-RAT cell identification and
measurement and the possible network controlled PCell/SCell interruption due
to single chip RF-IC implementation [1], based on the views
[2,4,6,7,8,10,24,36,40] from various interested companies. Specifically,
enhancement in following aspects can be pursued:
\- Evaluate the design options and corresponding feasibility of measurement
gap length, measurement gap repetition period and variable gap pattern
\- Evaluate the design options and corresponding feasibility of multiple
measurement gap patterns assignment when UE is configured with PCell and one
or more SCells, e.g. multiple measurement gap pattern assignment per component
carrier, measurement gap pattern for multiple RF chains. Inter-frequency and
inter-RAT measurements of layers other than the PCC and SCC(s) should be
considered in the evaluation.
\- Evaluate the design options and corresponding feasibility of network
controlled PCell/SCell interruption
The above objectives should be evaluated based on:
\- UE performance aspects such as measurement accuracy, delay, UE power
consumption, UE implementation complexity etc.
\- System performance aspects such as impact on scheduling, system throughput,
signaling complexity etc.
\- UE architectural aspects such as single RF-IC implementation (wherever
applicable).
The following design and performance aspects are to be prioritized in the
measurement gap enhancement SI:
\- enhance inter-frequency/inter-RAT identification and measurement efficiency
for both IncMon and non-IncMon UE
\- increase UE scheduling opportunity and/or reduce UE power consumption
\- reduce the Ack/Nack missing rate due to PCell/SCell interruption
\- exploit the feature of multiple Rx chains equipped in CA capable UE
Other aspects are not precluded.
# 5 Design options and feasibility and on new measurement gap configurations
with single Rx chain
## 5.1 General
The measurement gap configuration enhancements with single Rx chain mainly
target on increasing UE scheduling opportunity and/or reduce UE power
consumption. In addition, the enhancement of inter-frequency/inter-RAT
identification and measurement efficiency for both IncMon and non-IncMon UE
should be also studied.
## 5.2 Scenarios
This clause presents the considered scenarios. From network synchronization
perspective, both synchronous and asynchronous operations are considered. In
synchronous operation, the maximum reception timing difference between
inter-/intra-frequency carriers frame boundaries is up to 33µs. In
asynchronous operation, the maximum reception timing difference between
inter-/intra-frequency carriers frame boundaries is up to 5ms.In addition to
the general operating scenarios, the following specific scenarios are also
considered. It is noted that the application of eventual measurement gap
enhancements does not have to be limited to the listed scenarios.
##### Background search gap pattern {#background-search-gap-pattern .H6}
In HetNet enhancement WI, RAN4 also discussed the option of introducing so-
called \"background search\" for small cells. With such mechanism, the UE
would search certain carriers in a more infrequent manner than what is
otherwise required by the performance requirements. A background search
pattern would allow search for cell on certain carriers with more relaxed
requirements and could for example be used for searching for small cells
deployed on another carrier serving carrier. A gap pattern designed for
background search should be investigated.
##### Gap pattern for small cell enhancements on/off {#gap-pattern-for-small-
cell-enhancements-onoff .H6}
The work on small cell enhancements in Rel-12 resulted in DRS measurements
being agreed for the purpose of facilitating faster cell on/off e.g. for
network power saving purposes. The basic design includes defining DRS which is
repeated with different periodicities in the range of 40ms, 80ms and 160ms
(DMTC). In case UE is only configured with SCE with on/off DRS periodicity of
160ms periodicity current GPs leaves unused measurement gaps (no other inter-
frequency/RAT measurement is configured). For the case when UE is only
configured with SCE on/off inter-frequency carrier with DMTC of 160ms a new
gap pattern should be investigated.
## 5.3 New gap pattern configurations
This clause presents the new gap pattern and configurations proposals provided
by various interested companies [9,12,15-22,25,26,29,31,30,32,
33,37,38,43-49,51,52,58,63].
### 5.3.1 New gap pattern 1 [12], Intel: Measurement gap with reduced MGL and
shifted offset
This gap pattern can be used in both synchronous and asynchronous operations.
[ ]{.underline}
The enhanced measurement gap configuration can be illustrated in Figure
5.3.1-1\~3 with different MGL (e.g. 4ms, 3ms and 2ms) assumed.
{width="6.4944444444444445in" height="0.6694444444444444in"}
Figure 5.3.1-1: Illustration of proposed measurement gap configuration with
MGL=4ms
{width="6.501388888888889in" height="0.6777777777777778in"}
Figure 5.3.1-2: Illustration of proposed measurement gap configuration with
MGL=3ms
{width="6.501388888888889in" height="0.6861111111111111in"}
Figure 5.3.1-3: Illustration of proposed measurement gap configuration with
MGL=2ms
Depending on MGL, the offset of measurement gap is shifted from the previous
one. In other words, the distance between adjacent measurement gap boundaries
is not exact MGRP. By doing so, PSS/SSS detection can be guaranteed within
PSS/SSS searching window as shown in Figure 5.3-1 and Table 5.3-1.
Table 5.3.1-1: Comparison of proposed schemes with different MGL
* * *
MGL (ms) PSS/SSS searching window Measurement gap overhead (MGL/MGRP) 6 6ms
15% 4 MGRP+6ms 10% 3 2*MGRP+6ms 7.5% 2 4*MGRP+6ms 5%
* * *
Compared to the legacy measurement gap configurations, the proposed one can
reuse the MGRP to ease the AGC concern. Due to reduced MGL, the PSS/SSS
searching window is increases. This potentially increases the inter-frequency
identification delay for background searchs for offloading cells. However,
once that frequency layer is identified, the corresponding measurement delay
should be comparable to the legacy system. This is because the measurement
delay and accuracy can be maintained even with shorter MGL (e.g. as short as 1
subframe). This feature is especially important when the measured frequencies
are mixed of coverage and offloading layers.
More importantly, the proposed measurement gap configuration can save DL
resources used for inter-frequency measurement by up to 70%, when MGL is
reduced from 6ms to 2ms. The corresponding power saving and/or UE scheduling
opportunity improvement are significant.
Depending on MGL, the measurement gap overhead can be significantly reduced.
The inter-frequency cell identification and measurement performances are
investigated with the reduced MGL proposals.
Table 5.3.1-2: Cell identification delay in terms of number of gaps required\
to identify an inter-frequency cell
* * *
                                                Existing measurement gap   Proposed measurement gap with 2ms MGL   Proposed measurement gap with 3ms MGL   Proposed measurement gap with 4ms MGL
                                                90%                        90%                                     90%                                     90%
AWGN 10 28 18 14 EPA5 31 91 59 43 ETU80 20 58 41 28 Relative cell
identification delay increase 1 185% 93% 39%
* * *
Due to reduced MGL, the maximum PSS/SSS detection window is increases by 200%,
300% and 500%, when MGL is 2 ms, 3 ms and 4 ms, respectively. This potentially
increases the inter-frequency identification delay. As shown in Table 5.3-3
[43], when MGL is reduced to 2, 3 and 4ms from 6ms and N~freq~=2, the
corresponding cell identification delay is increased by 185%, 93% and 39% in
average. The corresponding simulation assumption in given in [43]. The reason
why the cell identification delay is not proportional to PSS/SSS detection
window can be explained as follow. When the to-be-identified inter-frequencies
are asynchronous, there is a good chance that their PSS/SSS pairs are shifted.
That means multiple inter-frequencies can be identified within the same
PSS/SSS detection window (but not the same gap). When N~freq~ is increased,
the difference between the existing and the proposed configurations are
expected to be further reduced.
Since the background searching in HetNet mobility scenarios is the main
concern of this study, increased inter-frequency identification delay is
expected and tolerable. More importantly, the corresponding UE scheduling
opportunity/power consumption should matter more. Regarding the scheduling
opportunity, it can be quantified by the number of subframes occupied by the
measurement gaps with in the maximum inter-frequency identification delay
Table 5.3.1-3: Comparison of inter-frequency identification delay and required
subframes for measurement gap
* * *
                                                             Existing measurement gap   Proposed measurement gap with 2ms MGL   Proposed measurement gap with 3ms MGL   Proposed measurement gap with 4ms MGL
                                                             90%                        90%                                     90%                                     90%
Relative cell identification delay increase 1 185% 93% 39% Normalized # of SF
used for inter-frequency measurement 1 0.95 0.95 0.93
* * *
Regarding the power consumption, it can be quantified by the effective number
of subframes UE need to buffer and search. Figure 5.3-4 depicts the case with
MGL of 4ms and the adjacent measurement gap has a fixed offset of 2 subframes.
There are three difference possible scenarios to be considered:
1) UE has identified no PSS/SSS pair in the \"searching zone 1\" in the
measurement gap A. In the measurement gap B, \"search zone 3\" can be skipped.
2) UE has identified PSS/SSS pair in the \"searching zone 1\". In the next
measurement gap, \"search zone 4\" can be skipped.
3) UE has identified PSS/SSS pair in the \"searching zone 2\". In the next
measurement gap, both \"search zone 3\" and \"search zone 4\" can be skipped.
In other words, UE can save the measurement gap B for other inter-frequency
identification.
{width="6.376388888888889in" height="1.9895833333333333in"}
Figure 5.3.1-4: Illustration of cell identification with the proposed reduced
MGL (4ms) configuration
As a result, the number of subframe UE has to search during cell
identification with MGL of 2, 3 and 4ms can be reduced by about 20%, 40% and
40%, compared to the existing system.
Once that frequency layer is identified, the corresponding measurement delay
is investigated. In Table 5.3-4 [43], the simulations of inter-frequency
measurements are summarized.
Table 5.3.1-4: Inter-frequency cell measurement accuracy
* * *
          Existing measurement gap   Proposed measurement gap with 2ms MGL   Proposed measurement gap with 3ms MGL   Proposed measurement gap with 4ms MGL
          5%\~95%                    5%\~95%                                 5%\~95%                                 5%\~95%
AWGN -0.8dB\~0.7dB -0.8dB\~0.7dB -0.8dB\~0.7dB -0.7dB\~0.7dB EPA5
-1.2dB\~0.9dB -1.2dB\~0.9dB -1.2dB\~0.9dB -1.2dB\~0.9dB ETU80 -1.2dB\~1dB
-1.3dB\~1dB -1.1dB\~1dB -1.3dB\~1dB
* * *
As shown in Table 5.3-4, no performance degradation due to reduced MGL is
observed within the existing measurement period.
With the same cell measurement performance, the proposed measurement gap
configuration can save DL resources used for inter-frequency measurement by
67%, 50% and 33% with MGL of 2ms, 3ms and 4ms. Compared to existing
measurement gap configuration, the proposed reduced MGL configurations can
significantly reduce the number of subframes occupied by the measurement gap.
As a result, both UE scheduling opportunity and/or power consumption can be
greatly improved.
### 5.3.2 New gap pattern 2 [15], Ericsson,[16]F, Huawei,HiSilicon: Burst gap
pattern
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="0.7361111111111112in"}
Figure 5.3.2-1 : Burst gap pattern
This gap pattern can be used in both synchronous and asynchronous operations.
[ ]{.underline}
In this pattern, bursts of gaps occur every T~burst~. Within each burst,
N~gap~ gaps occur, and each gap has duration T~gap~ and the spacing between
gaps is MGRP.
The intention of the gap pattern is to enable the UE to perform background
searches for offload cells every T~burst~**.** Since MGRP may be selected
independently (e.g. 40ms may be used), the pattern allows UE to reuse RF
settings such as gain setting between the gaps within a burst in a similar way
to that which may be done in release 8 gap patterns. This avoids the scenario
where the UE would need to reacquire suitable RF settings at the beginning of
every gap. The other advantage of this approach is that can allow the UE to
perform multiple PSS/SSS detection attempts relatively closely spaced in time.
This means that if fast fading causes the first attempt at PSS/SSS detection
to fail, even though the UE is in good coverage of a suitable offload cell,
there is a possibility to detect the PSS and SSS of the cell in subsequent
gaps, for example 40ms later. Therefore it is expected that especially in
fading conditions the burst pattern could offer benefits compared to a
continuous pattern with long periodicity.
To determine appropriate parameters, some considerations are:
T~burst~ : Effectively, this should determine the typical delay when the UE
enters coverage of an offload cell, before it is detected and starts to be
monitored by the UE. As such, the appropriate parameter setting may be more
for RAN2 to consider. A long T~burst~ would lead to additional offloading
delay, and correspondingly offload opportunities may be lost in the network.
On the other hand, a short T~burst~ leads to limited possibility to relax the
UE performance and save power. Since the LTE system frame number has 10.24s
periodicity, it implies that the longest Tburst is also 10.24s.
T~gap~ : Since existing gap patterns are designed to ensure that the UE can
receive both PSS and SSS during a single gap occurrence, it is proposed that
in the burst gap pattern similar principles are applied and T~gap~ = 6ms.
MGRP : To maximize reuse of existing measurement implementations, it would
seem desirable to use the existing MGRP configurations, i.e. 40ms and/or 80ms.
N~gap~ : further evaluation in RAN4 would be beneficial to study further the
number of gaps per burst. Some initial consideration is that it would seem
desirable to be able to detect a cell and also make RSRP/RSRQ measurements
within one burst, at least in good SNR, e.g. Es/Iot>-3dB. For example, to
allow for 2 PSS/SSS detection attempts and 5 measurement sampling
opportunities for detected cells would give N~gap~ ≈ 7 gaps.
For the further work on the relaxed performance requirement, detailed study
may be performed to conclude on the appropriate parameterization of burst gaps
to give the needed performance for offload measurements while also ensuring
good U E power consumption. In this contribution, we give a high level
overview of the likely effects of changing different parameters, and we make
the following proposal.
### 5.3.3 New gap pattern 3 [18], ALU: Reduced MGL for synchronous operation
only
This gap pattern can be used in synchronous operation only. [ ]{.underline}
For time synchronized LTE networks, such as TDD and synchronized FDD systems,
the timing of the cells is synchronized to a micro-seconds level. When a UE is
in a connected state, in which the measurement gap is used, UE timing is
synchronized to the network time. In addition, the subframes and even OFDM
symbols in which the PSS/SSS are transmitted are fixed. Therefore, for a
synchronized LTE network, the both UE and eNB have the knowledge on exact time
when PSS/SSS of neighboring inter-frequency cells are sent. Under these
conditions, the network should be able to configure the UE with a much shorter
measurement gap (or search window) for the UE to search for the PSS/SSS
signals are sent from the inter-frequency cells.
For FDD system, the PSS/SSS are included in last two OFDM symbols of the first
slot of subframes #0 and #5. The location of PSS is always in the last OFDM
symbol of the 1^st^ and 11^th^ slots of each radio frame, enabling the UE to
acquire the slot boundary timing independently of CP length. The SSS is
located in the symbol immediately preceding the PSS, enabling coherent
detection of the SSS relative to the PSS. Thus, if the UE can complete search
preparation (including RF tuning) less than 0.5ms or within first 5 OFDM
symbols (normal CP) or first 4 OFDM symbols (extended CP) in the PSS/SSS
subframe, a search window or measurement gap as short as 1ms may be feasible
(Figure 5.3.2-1).
{width="6.502777777777778in" height="2.4451388888888888in"}
Figure 5.3.3-1: Illustration of FDD PSS/SSS Subframe with 1ms measurement gap
For TDD system, the PSS is included in the 2^nd^ OFDM symbols of the 2^nd^
slot of subframes #0 and #5, and SSS is included in the last symbol of the
1^st^ slot of subframes #0 and #5. Again, the measurement gap can be
configured as short as 1ms, if the UE can complete cell detection preparation
(including RF tuning) within the time interval from the start of the PSS/SSS
subframe to the start of the SSS symbols in the PSS/SSS subframe. For TDD,
there is one more OFDM symbol time for the UE to complete cell detection
preparation than FDD.
{width="252.69583333333333in" height="2.4451388888888888in"}
Figure 5.3.3-2: Illustration of TDD PSS/SSS Subframe with 1ms measurement gap
It is worthy to point out that 0.5ms was assumed for the preparation of cell
detection (including RF tuning) when defining the legacy measurement gap. So,
it is possible for some UEs being not be able to complete the search
preparation before the start of the SSS OFDM symbol for supporting 1ms
measurement gap. In this case, 2ms measurement gap may be needed. Still, 2ms
measurement gap is also much shorter than the current 6ms measurement gap.
### 5.3.4 A method to reduce Gap impact on UL scheduling [22] Nokia Networks
As can be understood from the current gap definitions the impact on the UE UL
scheduling is in fact 10 TTIs. Reason for this is that the network cannot
schedule the in UL in the 4 TTIs immediately following each measurement gap,
due to PDCCH falling within the gap where the UE is not receiving the PDCCH.
With the gap patterns this means that when the UE is configured with either
GP0 or GP1 the loss of UL scheduling opportunities will be 10 TTIs which means
that the impact on UL scheduling is either 12.5% or 25% depending of used GP.
One way to reduce the UL scheduling impact is to enable usage of the UL
allocations received in the last 4 TTIs prior to the gap in the 4 TTIs
immediately following the measurement gap.
{width="4.2868055555555555in" height="1.8465277777777778in"}
Figure 5.3.4-1: PDCCH UL allocations prior to MG are valid for TTIs after the
MG.
Enabling usage of 4 additional UL TTIs for each measurement gap has the
opportunity to decrease the effective UL scheduling impact with up to 40% per
gap. In addition it increases the overall UL scheduling opportunities with 10%
for GP0 and 5% for GP1.
Besides the gain in enabling more UL scheduling opportunities for UEs assigned
with gaps there might also be a positive effect on the UE power savings.
Reason being that the UL scheduling can be done in a denser manner potentially
reducing the overall on time for the UE. Additionally \-- even though the UE
cannot have UL scheduling allocations for the 4 TTIs after the gap, the UE
will anyway have to monitor the PDCCH for possible allocations.
In principle this approach can be used together with any type of measurement
gap pattern. I.e. as explained it work with existing gap patterns but it would
likely also be possible to apply to new GPs potentially defined by RAN4.
### 5.3.5 New gap pattern 4 [51], NTT DCM: two-step approach
It is well known that 6ms MGL is based on the periodicity of primary
synchronization signal (PSS) /secondary synchronization signal (SSS) and RF
switching. Basically, UEs set a searching window to acquire PSS/SSS which is
sent from eNB every 5ms and in order to do inter-freq/RAT measurement, RF
switch is turned on/off at the start and end of the measurement for 1ms.
Therefore, MGL is 6ms for both of synchronous and asynchronous network. From
Rel-8 onward, this concept has not been changed. However, in synchronous
network, UE and network should have information about timing at which
subframes including PSS/SSS are sent from neighbour cells. That\'s why, MGL
reduction can be realized in synchronous network in clause 5.3.3. In addition,
in asynchronous network, it can be possible that MGL is drastically reduced
once PSS/SSS from neighbour cells are acquired because after that UE no longer
need to search PSS/SSS. That is, UE need 2 steps to reduce MGL.
Step 1: Acquire PSS/SSS from neighbour cells (UE may do measurement at the
same time)
Step 2: Measure carriers with shorter MGL than 6ms
Similar procedure was provided in clause 5.3.1, which proposed a new
measurement configuration with different MGL. In this proposal, since the
PSS/SSS searching window could increases, UE might need more time to identify
cells. If UE fails to acquire PSS/SSS at first attempt the UE has to wait for
relatively long cycle. Especially in high mobility or low SINR, it is
considered the cycle of PSS/SSS searching window could be longer compared to
stationary condition or high SINR. Since longer searching window could result
in longer identification delay, the alternative method should also be
discussed to deal with such conditions.
The current measurement gap configuration can be reused for PSS/SSS searching
window. The current measurement gap has 6ms MGL where every PSS/SSS from
neighbour cells fall. It would be easier to acquire every PSS/SSS at one time.
Further, even if UE fails to acquire PSS/SSS at first attempt there is second
chance after 40ms (e.g. gp0). That\'s why, the current gap configuration deal
with high mobility and low SINR condition. Therefore, these result in reducing
identification delay.
So far, the study focused on Step 1. After UE has done Step 1, UE need to move
to Step 2 in order to identify cells with short MGL. In Step 2, eNB need to
configure UE to set short MGL. If UE sets short MGL autonomously, eNB cannot
know when MGL will be changed, which result in improper scheduling. This is
because if eNB does not have knowledge about when MGL is changed, eNB would
not be able to assign resources on unused duration which is no longer for MGL.
Consequently, before switching MGL, UE need to send message to eNB that
acquisition of PSS/SSS has finished. Accordingly, eNB need to configure UE to
set the short MGL.
## 5.3 Conclusions
Based on the analysis and candidate proposals in clause 5.3. it is beneficial
and feasible to introduce measurement gap enhancement with single Rx chain.
This includes but not limited to increase UE scheduling opportunity and/or
reduce UE power consumption. The following agreements [11,28,42] have been
reached:
\- For synchronous only operation, the measurement gap configurations with
reduced MGL are feasible and beneficial. The reduced MGL configuration details
can be decided in the potential WI.
# 6 Design options and feasibility and on new measurement gap configurations
with multiple Rx chains
## 6.1 General
Separated Rx chains are assumed in the reference architecture of CA (e.g.
inter-band and intra-band NC). From inter-band/inter-RAT measurement
perspective, CA reference architecture potentially provides UE more
flexibility to balance the measurement load among all RX
chains[20,21,23,26,30,33,37,38,44,45,47,48]
## 6.2 Scenarios
This clause presents the considered scenarios, which include synchronous and
asynchronous operations. In synchronous operation, the maximum reception
timing difference between inter-/intra-frequency carriers frame boundaries is
up to 33µs. In asynchronous operation, the maximum reception timing difference
between inter-/intra-frequency carriers frame boundaries is up to 5ms.
## 6.3 New gap pattern configurations
### 6.3.1 Per Rx chain based measurement gap configuration [13], Intel
Measurement gap can be independently configured per Rx chain.
\- Scenario 1: CA and synchronous DC
In this scenario, the density of measurement gap, or equivalent MGRP, can be
different for different CC. The CC with sparse measurement gap can enjoy
better UE scheduling opportunities and offload heavier traffic load on that
carrier. The CC with high measurement gap density can be used to guarantee the
target measurement delay. For the occasions where the measurement gap is
configured for one CC but not the other, short gap can be introduced to
accommodate the interruption. The length of short gap is FFS. During the short
gap, UE is not expected to receive and transmit the data. As an example,
Figure 6.3.1-1 depicts the case where different MGRP is configured for PCell
and SCell. In this case, SCell\'s MGRP is much larger than PCell\'s.
Therefore, the corresponding UE scheduling opportunities and overall
throughput performance on SCell can be significantly improved. Meanwhile,
since MGRP on PCell remains relatively short, the overall measurement delay
should be maintained as similar level as the legacy scheme. Short gaps
highlighted in green in Figure 6.3.1-1 are introduced. With this, the
ambiguity due to interruption can be clarified.
{width="6.5in" height="1.082638888888889in"}
Figure 6.3.1-1: Illustration of multi-measurement gap configuration in CA and
sync DC scenarios
\- Scenario 2: asynchronous DC
In asynchronous DC, the major difference from CA is the length of
interruption. The length of interruption between PCell and PSCell can be up to
2ms due the subframe boundary misalignment. The exact length of short gap
design can depend on the arrival timing misalignment (or subframe boundary
misalignment) between MCG and SCG. Figures 6.3.1-2 and 6.3.1-3 illustrate how
short gap should be configured in case MCG and SCG have different MGRP.
{width="6.498611111111111in" height="1.9in"}
Figure 6.3.1-2: Multi-measurement gap configuration for async DC with subframe
boundary difference\0.5ms
### 6.3.2 Measurement gap configuration with unused Rx chain [20], Qualcomm
The proposal was to optimize the gap pattern used for inter-frequency
measurements by reducing the serving cell interruption to 1 subframe around
the actual measurement time. This kind of gap pattern is targeting UEs that
have multiple RF chains and one or more are not in use, hence, it could be
used to perform measurements. It should be noted that such UEs do not have the
ability to perform gapless measurements as they cause interruptions on the
active carriers when activating the idle RF chain for measurements or when
changing frequencies. The details of this proposal are available in clause
7.3.1.
### 6.3.3 Signalling for measurement gaps configured on component carrier
[50], Qualcomm
Since Rel.10 the measurement gap pattern was defined as common on all CCs.
While the scheduling loss opportunity is not that big for a 2xCA UE, the
losses become much higher(in absolute terms) when the UE is configured with 4
or 5 CCs. For the current gap pattern with GL=6ms and MGRP=40ms, if the gaps
are common on all CCs, the throughput loss is 15% (likely to be \~20% if the
gap impact to the subframes adjacent to the gap is taken into account). If the
gaps are scheduled only 1 CC then the corresponding loss is only 3% (4% with
20% loss per CC). Here only the legacy gaps are considered(MGL=6ms, MGRP =40ms
or 80ms).
In order for the network to be able to configure measurement gaps on a single
CC or subset of CCs, it needs some detailed knowledge of the UE RF
architecture and dependencies between the bands supported by the UE receivers.
In order to have full flexibility, the network would have to know which
receiver chain can be used to perform measurements on which bands for each CA
combination supported by the UE. Below some possible solutions to this problem
are presented. This list is not exhaustive, other solutions might also be
feasible.
Possible solutions:
1) One way to address this problem could be by having the UE send a bitmap
with all the bands where it needs or does not need gaps for each CC in a
combo. An example is shown below in Table 6.3-1. The UE supports CA
combination B1+B2+B3 and also other bands up to B10. In Table 6.3-1, \'1\'
shows that gaps are not needed while 0 shows that gaps are needed.
Table 6.3-1: Bitmap signaling for measurements without gaps per CC
* * *
CC B1 B2 B3 B4 B5 B6 B7 B8 B9 B10 B1 - - - 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 B2 - - - 1 0 1 1 0 0
0 B3 - - - 1 1 1 1 1 0 0
* * *
The network could use this table as follows: if the network wants to configure
measurements on B4 when UE is configured with CA B1+B2+B3 it would have to
schedule gaps on B1 but not on B2 or B3. If the network wants to configure
measurements on B5 it would have to scheduled gaps on B2 but not on B1 or B3.
The decision on which CC is chose for gaps(or not) is up to eNB. This solution
might have a large overhead if the UE has to report such tables for each CA
combination supported by the UE. Possible optimizations to limit the overhead
are presented below.
\- The overhead can be reduced if the network signals the UE which CA
combinations it supports and the UE would signal the network the capabilities
only for these combinations.
\- UE could signal the gap dependencies for a certain combination after it is
configured with that combination. For example, the network configures the UE
in CA combo B1+B2+B3, when the UE sends the RRC configuration complete message
it also includes the gap dependencies for this combination (e.g. Table 6.3-1).
1) In this approach, the network first configures the inter-frequencies where
the UE is to perform measurements, the UE would reply by sending the gap
dependencies and the network would configure the gaps based on these. With the
above example(based on dependencies in Table 1), network configures the UE to
perform measurements on B6 and B7, UE sends back to the network the columns in
Table 1 corresponding to B6 and B7 and the network configures measurement gaps
on the CC corresponding to either B2 or B3.
2) Yet another approach would be for the network to configure measurement gaps
on all carriers and UE responding back with the CCs where it needs/does not
need gaps. The UE could inform the network on which carriers it needs gaps and
the network could de-configure the gaps on the carriers on which they are not
needed. For the example above, the network could configure measurements on B6
and B7, the UE would respond that it needs gaps only on B2 or B3 and the
network would de-configure the gaps on the CCs corresponding to B1 and B2. The
overhead could be further reduced if the UE would autonomously pick the
carriers on which it uses gaps based on some priority mechanism and just
informs the networks which CCs will need gaps and de-configuring of the gaps
becomes implicit.
Table 6.3-1 could be extended to different gap patterns by increasing the
number of values in each entry. For example, besides \'0\' and \'1\', \'2\'
could be added to show that a different kind of gaps (e.g. small gaps) are
needed.
Another aspect that has to be taken into account is the feasibility of
performing measurements without interrupting other CCs from an RF and baseband
point of view. It should be noted that this kind of capability will depend on
the UE RF architecture. As such, UEs not able to support it can always fall
back to the Rel.10 method of having common gaps for all carriers. From an RF
point of view, there could be some issues with inter-modulation products
causing desensitization and inaccurate measurements. The amount of parallel
measurement may be standardized (e.g. as part of a CA combination) or not,
however, whether the UE supports concurrent measurements in these cases could
be left to UE implementation if the UE can meet the accuracy requirements.
## 6.4 Conclusion
Based on extensive study and discussion, it is beneficial and feasible to
introduce per component carrier configuration of measurement gaps in the
potential WI. The following agreements [11,28,42] have been reached:
\- In the per CC based measurement gap configuration, MGRP can be configured
independently per CC. This includes the case where the measurement gaps are
configured for some of CC but not configured for the other CC.
\- Network controlled small gap (NCSG) can be introduced when per CC
measurement gap configurations are configured to reduce the Ack/Nack missing
rate due to PCell/SCell/PSCell interruption.
\- Whether UE should report capabilities on per CC based measurement gaps is
under network control.
The detailed configurations can be discussed and decided in the related WI.
# 7 Design options and feasibility on network controlled PCell/SCell/PSCell
interruption
# 7.1 General
Single RF-IC is generally implemented as a multi-com and CA capable solution
on the same die. This highly integrated RFIC features an integrated
fractional-N synthesizer, integrated LNA and PA drivers. And, the
corresponding cost, power consumption and area can be significantly reduced in
comparison to discrete solutions. Due to the non-ideal isolation between the
Rx chains of different component carriers in CA and DC, interruption is
observed. In Rel-12, PCell interruption has been well discussed. It has been
agreed that 1ms and 5ms of interruption in case of inter-band and intra-band
CA are allowed in case of necessity. The benefit to allow interruption for
certain scenarios (e.g. deactivated SCell measurement) has been also realized.
However, since interruption is typically unknown to the network, the
corresponding ACK/NACK missing rate also has non-trivial impact on the network
performance. This issue has been investigated in some studies, aiming to make
interruption visible to the network . Nevertheless, it is still subject to
further investigation from implementation flexibility and compatibility
perspectives.
Autonomous UE interruptions for reconfiguration of RF circuitry for
measurements on deactivated SCells have a negative impact on the system
performance in that the interruptions are unpredictable by the eNodeB which
hence might spend system resources on UEs at a point in time when they do not
monitor PDCCH. Those resources would have been better spent on UEs that do
monitor PDCCH but who might not get scheduled due to resource constraints.
Autonomous UE interruptions may also have a negative impact on e.g. data rate
for TCP connections experienced by the end user in case the data missed during
the interruption is the last retransmission of a HARQ process. When the eNodeB
has reached the maximum number of HARQ retransmissions it stops retransmitting
and instead, at a later point in time, triggers a RLC retransmission. The
latency caused by this means that the TCP ACK becomes delayed, which the
server to which the UE is communicating may interpret as network congestions.
Network congestion schemes such as e.g. Slow Start will then adapt the
transfer speed between the server and the UE, causing the data rate that the
end user experiences to drop.
Both of the problems described above can be avoided if the eNodeB is aware of
when the UE is interrupting the communication.
As described in [45] there may be several reasons for the interruption when
reconfiguring the RF circuitry. The UE may for instance have to:
\- move an active carrier from one RFIC/RFM to another (in companion chip
solution) to accommodate a new carrier that is supported only by one of the
RFICs
\- reroute an active carrier from one RF chain to another due to bottlenecks
(single-chip solution) to accommodate a new carrier
\- reconfigure the ADC sampling frequencies for active carriers to prevent
that harmonics are polluting a new carrier
\- avoid disturbances caused by a pull effect when reconfiguring one or more
PLLs
\- avoid disturbances by transients of the voltage supply arising when
activating another RF chain
The exact reason for an interruption depends on UE RF architecture -- of which
there are many kinds -- and the particular scenario, e.g. in which order
different carriers are configured and removed, whether inter-frequency/inter-
RAT measurements using measurement gaps are configured, et cetera.
One way to improve the system capacity and the user experience is to have the
interruptions under network control. Concretely, the eNodeB should provide
measurement gaps (legacy gaps or NCSGs) for the UE to use for radio switching.
In case of legacy gaps, those gaps can also be used for inter-frequency and
inter-RAT measurements since additional radio configuration can be carried out
at the beginning or at the end of the gap.
Two solutions have been discussed:
\- gaps configured per component carrier, and
\- gaps configured for all component carriers simultaneously.
The former requires extended reporting of UE capabilities with respect to
which carriers can be configured without the need for interruptions. The
latter does not require any further capability reporting, but may the cause
interruptions on carriers that otherwise could have been scheduled.
Further investigations are needed regarding gaps that are configured per
component carrier, for instance details on how the capability reporting is to
be carried out. It has been agreed that extended capability reporting should
only be carried out if requested or indicated by the network (MME) in order to
prevent overhead from such reporting in networks that do not support
configuration of gaps per component carrier.
An early introduction of network-controlled interruptions may be based on
legacy measurement gaps or NCSGs that are common to all component carriers,
and in a later phase one may introduce gaps that are specified per component
carrier. The views from interested companies can be found in
[3,5,13,20,35,56,57].
Since network-controlled interruptions may have a negative impact on certain
UE implementations, a balanced analysis where costs and benefits on both NW
and UE sides are considered, should be conducted in the WI.
## 7.2 Network controlled PCell/SCell interruption
### 7.2.1 Small gap pattern [20], Qualcomm
{width="4.31875in" height="1.3701388888888888in"}
Figure 7.2-1 : Generic small measurement gap
**ML :** This should be sufficiently long to ensure that one adjacent PSS and
SSS instance occurs during every measurement opportunity for arbitrary timing
of neighbour cell. In this respect, 5ms is slightly too short and in principle
the gap length should be 5ms+2 OFDM symbol = 5.13ms approx. Since it is
expected that ML should be an integer number of subframes, RAN4 could discuss
whether to use 5 or 6 subframe ML; since there is no interruption during ML
our preference would be to extend ML slightly to get better measurement
performance. This comes at a cost of very slightly increased UE power
consumption, eg 6/160ms is 3.75% whereas 5/160ms is 3.125%, however it seems
reasonable to design the gap pattern for improved cell detection performance.
**VIL:** Considering asynchronous dual connectivity scenarios, 2ms VIL may be
necessary to account for arbitrary time difference between PCell and PScell.
However, 1ms VIL could be used for CA. For intraband CA, 5ms interruption is
currently specified, however this would result in a worse solution than legacy
6ms measurement gap. RAN4 needs to clarify this aspect, but 2x5ms VIL seems to
be infeasible for further work.
**VIRP :** Our preference is not to define too many different VIRP settings,
i.e. gaps should be somewhat generic and independent of the configured
deactivated SCell measurement cycle. Two values could be considered, eg 128ms
and 160ms since other deactivated SCell measurement cycles are multiples of
these values. While this approach would lead to some unused small measurement
gaps for longer deactivated Scell measurement cycles, the advantage is that
fewer combinations need to be implemented and IOT tested. Indeed, considering
that 128ms and 160ms are fairly close, it may be sufficient to use 128ms VIRP
for all deactivated SCell measurements.
The proposed patterns in terms of DL and UL VIL and ML are listed in Table
7.2-1.
Table 7.2-1. Small gap pattern
* * *
DL UL VIL -- MIL -- VIL VIL -- MIL -- VIL 1-4-1 1-4-2
* * *
In order for the eNB to be able to configure this gap pattern, information
about the UE capabilities is needed. As there are some similarities between
this enhanced gap pattern and the gapless measurements in terms of using idle
RF chains, it is believed that some capability signaling similar to the one
used for gapless measurements could be defined.
This gap pattern minimizes the interruptions on the serving cells (the number
of subframes that UE does not monitor DL signals or sends UL signals) compared
to the legacy gap patterns and can be used for inter-frequency measurements.
### 7.2.2 Configuration and signalling of small cap [54], Huawei,HiSilicon
A possible solution is to add new field _NeedForSmallGaps_ in legacy need for
gap signalling in TS 36.331 to indicate the UE capability of small gap as
shown in table 7.2-2. If the signalling indicates that UE working at band
combination A+B needs small gap to measure band C, it means that UE is capable
to use another Rx chain to measure the band C, and needs small gap to control
the interruption caused by the RF tuning at the other Rx chain.
Table7.2-2: Example of signalling of small gaps
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | _Needf | | | | | | | ForGaps_ | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | _N | | | | | | | eedForSm | | | | | | | allGaps_ | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | sponding | | | | | | | to each | | | | | | | band | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | A | B | C | D | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Band | A+B | Need | Need | Need | Need | | combina | | ForGaps: | ForGaps: | ForGaps: | ForGaps: | | tions** \ | | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | | (corre | | | | | | | sponding | | N | N | N | N | | to\ | | eedForSm | eedForSm | eedForSm | eedForSm | | TS | | allGaps: | allGaps: | allGaps: | allGaps: | | 36.331) | | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | A+C | Need | Need | Need | Need | | | | ForGaps: | ForGaps: | ForGaps: | ForGaps: | | | | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | | | | | | | | | | | N | N | N | N | | | | eedForSm | eedForSm | eedForSm | eedForSm | | | | allGaps: | allGaps: | allGaps: | allGaps: | | | | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | A+D | Need | Need | Need | Need | | | | ForGaps: | ForGaps: | ForGaps: | ForGaps: | | | | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | | | | | | | | | | | N | N | N | N | | | | eedForSm | eedForSm | eedForSm | eedForSm | | | | allGaps: | allGaps: | allGaps: | allGaps: | | | | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | ... | Need | Need | Need | Need | | | | ForGaps: | ForGaps: | ForGaps: | ForGaps: | | | | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | | | | | | | | | | | N | N | N | N | | | | eedForSm | eedForSm | eedForSm | eedForSm | | | | allGaps: | allGaps: | allGaps: | allGaps: | | | | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | Yes/No | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 7.3 Conclusion
To minimize the interruption on the serving cells (the number of subframes
that UE does not monitor DL signals or sends UL signals), network controlled
small gap (NCSG) and/or measurement gap (e.g. legacy 6ms gap) are
beneficial/feasible and can be configured. The detailed configurations can be
decided in the potential WI [11,28,42].
# 8 Conclusions
_All the conclusions are captured in the summary of each section._
#