# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the results of the study item on Network
Assistance for Network Synchronization in LTE in RP-151084 [2]. It identifies
the existing LTE functions that may need network based synchronization and
their synchronization-related requirements, and reviews and compares
techniques for enhancement of RAN functionality.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-151084, \"Study on Network Assistance for Network Synchronization in
LTE\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 General
The aim of the study is as captured in the SI description document [2]:
\- Study the possible radio network based methods to provide a low cost way
for the operators to synchronize their LTE networks where the current
synchronization mechanism(s) does not work.
\- Avoid duplication of functionalities with respect to specified functions,
in order to maintain costs and complexity to the minimum.
The solutions without UE impacts should be taken into account to provide a
synchronisation accuracy comparable with existing solutions and meet current
requirements.
## 4.1 Objective
It is expected that the candidate network based synchronization solutions
should be able to meet the following conditions:
\- implement with low complexity to help reduce the cost;
\- meet the current synchronization requirement for features;
\- provide added value with respect to existing solutions;
\- without UE impact.
# 5 Requirements and Solutions
## 5.1 Existing requirements
According to TS 36.133 [3], the basic requirement for synchronisation between
any pair of cells on the same frequency that have overlapping coverage areas
in LTE TDD network is 3 μs (phase deviation between two neighbour cells). The
synchronization accuracy is measured at the BS antenna connector. For macro
eNBs (\"wide area BS\"), the requirement of 3 µs applies only if the cell
radius \ >Stratum | M | | INTEGER | | | > Level | | | (0..3, ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Sync | M | | E | | | hronization | | | NUMERATED(S | | | > status | | | ynchronous, | | | | | | As | | | | | | ynchronous, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Muting | O | | ENUMERATED | Indicates | | > A | | | (Available, | a | | vailability | | | U | vailability | | > | | | navailable, | of muting | | Indication | | | ...) | activation. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | __T | O | * | | Indicates a | | ransmission | | 1..\ * | | ransmission | | In | | | | points | | formation** | | | | locations | | | | | | and the | | | | | | cells | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to each | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | point | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | M | | BIT STRING | | | >Latitude | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | M | | BIT STRING | | | >Longitude | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | M | | BIT STRING | | | >Altitude | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >E-CGI | O | _1..\ List | | oofECGIs>_ | | cells | | | | | | served by | | | | | | the | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | point | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>E-CGI | M | | ECGI | E-CGI of | | | | | | cell | | | | | 9.2.14 | included in | | | | | | the list | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Location information can be provided in a way already used in TS36.331 for the
_LocationInfo_ IE expressing UE location information. Namely, the location
information for the transmission point could be expressed as the _Ellipsoid
Point With Altitude_ specified in TS36.355 as follows
_\-------------------------------------------------------_
_EllipsoidPointWithAltitude_
The IE _EllipsoidPointWithAltitude_ is used to describe a geographic shape as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [15].
\-- ASN1START
EllipsoidPointWithAltitude ::= SEQUENCE {
latitudeSign ENUMERATED {north, south},
degreesLatitude INTEGER (0..8388607), -- 23 bit field
degreesLongitude INTEGER (-8388608..8388607), -- 24 bit field
altitudeDirection ENUMERATED {height, depth},
altitude INTEGER (0..32767) -- 15 bit field
}
\-- ASN1STOP
_\-------------------------------------------------------_
The descriptions of how latitude, longitude and altitude are encoded in the
_Ellipsoid Point With Altitude_ can be found in TS23.032 section 6.1 and 6.3.
The main advantage of this mechanism to transfer location information to the
synchronisation target eNB is to keep the transmission point location
information part of the RIBS signalling. The receiving eNB can therefore
exchange all the signalling needed to enable RIBS via a single procedure and
over a single interface. The signalling procedures are shown in Figure 5.
Figure 5: Procedure description for propagation delay compensation in RIBS
The solution allows for compensation of propagation delay over single hops and
over multiple synchronisation hops for RIBS.
## 5.4 Comparison of solutions
# 6 Conclusions
###### ### Annex A: Existing solutions
Table X.1 lists solutions that have been used so far to enable synchronisation
in the E-UTRAN network.
Table A.1: Existing solutions
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sync Method | Freq Sync | Phase Sync | Comment | | | | | | | | (Achievable on | (Achievable on | | | | the radio | the radio | | | | interface) | interface) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Synchronous | ±0.05 ppm or | --- | SyncE must be | | PDH / SDH / | better | | supported on | | Synchronous | | | all nodes in | | Ethernet | | | the sync | | (SyncE) | | | chain. See | | | | | applicable | | | | | ITU-T recc. | | | | | (G.803, G.813, | | | | | G.8261, | | | | | G.8262, etc.) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IEEE1588 PTP | ±0.05 ppm | --- | It does not | | for freq only | | | require | | sync | | | on-path | | | | | support | | | | | between Master | | | | | and Slave. | | | | | Performance | | | | | depends on | | | | | load of | | | | | network. See | | | | | applicable | | | | | ITU-T | | | | | recc.(e.g. | | | | | G.8261.1) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IEEE1588 PTP | ±0.05 ppm | 250ns -- 1.5μs | See applicable | | for freq/phase | | | ITU-T | | sync (partial | | | recc.(e.g. | | timing support | | | G.8271.1) | | under study) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sattelite time | \< ±0.01 ppm | \< 100ns | Receiver | | reference | | | antenna and | | (e.g. GPS) | | | cabling | | | | | installation | | | | | can be | | | | | expensive in | | | | | indoor | | | | | installations. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NTP (Network | ±0.05 ppm | FFS | Depends on | | Timing | | | network | | Protocol) | | | c | | | | | haracteristics | | | | | (similar rules | | | | | as for PTP | | | | | apply in case | | | | | of frequency | | | | | sync; also in | | | | | this case a | | | | | specific clock | | | | | recovery | | | | | algorithm is | | | | | required) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RIBS Radio | ±0.1 ppm | 2.5μs | LTE-FDD: | | Interface | | | Requires | | Based | | | capability to | | S | | | listen to sync | | ynchronization | | | source | | (3GPP R12) | | | downlink | | | | | frequency band | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#