# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document constitutes the output of the study item \"Support of
Single-cell PTM transmission in LTE\" [2]. This document is intended to
capture the possible solutions identified during the study and the conclusions
and recommendations for further work.
# 1 Scope
The present document constitutes the output of the study item \"Support of
Single-cell PTM transmission in LTE\" [2]. This document is intended to
capture the possible solutions identified during the study and the conclusions
and recommendations for further work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TSG-RAN RP-142205: \"New Study Item proposal: Support of Single-cell
PTM transmission in LTE\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE;
(GCSE_LTE)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over LTE\"
[5] 3GPP TR 36.868: \"Study on group communication for E-UTRA\"
[6] R2-151516, Comparison of SC-PTM and MBSFN use for Public Safety
[7] R2-151684, Initial Radio resource efficiency evaluation of Single-Cell PTM
[8] R2-151592 Performance evaluation of UL feedback schemes for SC-PTM
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**SC-PTM:** Single cell point to multipoint transmission mode over the radio
interface to transfer MBMS session data over a single cell using the PDSCH.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
SC Single-cell
PTM point-to-multipoint
PTP point-to-point
# 4 Design goals
This study aims at supporting the usage of SC-PTM transmission for group
communications as defined in 3GPP TS 22.468 [3]. Usage of SC-PTM for mission
critical push to talk as defined in 3GPP TS 22.179 [4] should also be
considered, if requirements are available. Other usages are not precluded.
## 4.1 Requirements
The following requirements from 3GPP TS 22.468 [3] and 3GPP TS 22.179 [4] are
considered applicable to the study and evaluation of SC-PTM:
\- from 3GPP TS 22.468 [3]
\- subclause 5.1.1, high level requirements
The system shall provide a mechanism to send a Group Communication to all
Receiver Group Members.
Only Receiver Group Members of the GCSE Group shall be able to receive from
that GCSE Group via Group Communication.
\- subclause 5.1.2, performance
\- The system shall be optimized to minimize the time intervals related to the
use of Group Communication.
\- The system should provide a mechanism to support a Group Communication end-
to-end setup time less than or equal to 300ms. It is assumed that this value
is for an uncontended network, where there is no presence checking and no
acknowledgements requested from Receiver Group Member(s). The end-to-end setup
time is defined as the time between when a Group Member initiates a Group
Communication request on a UE and the point when this Group Member can start
sending a voice or data communication.
\- This requirement may not be met in some cases where the data is delay
insensitive e.g., a large document and/or where the type of Group
Communication requires acknowledgement(s) from Receiver Group Members before
it is allowed to proceed. See [3] for details.
\- The time from when a UE requests to join an ongoing Group Communication to
the time that it receives the Group Communication should be less than or equal
to 300ms.
\- This requirement may not be met in some cases where the data is delay
insensitive e.g., a large document and/or where the type of Group
Communication requires acknowledgement(s) from Receiver Group Members before
it is allowed to proceed. See [3] for details.
\- The end to end delay for media transport for Group Communications should be
less than or equal to 150 ms (see in [3] for references to other documents).
\- subclause 5.1.3, service continuity
When UEs are moving among cells during Group Communication, service continuity
shall be supported.
\- subclause 5.1.4, resource efficiency
The system shall provide a mechanism to efficiently distribute data for Group
Communication.
\- subclause 5.1.5, scalability
\- The number of Receiver Group Members in any area may be unlimited
\- subclause 5.2.2, geographical scope of GCSE Groups
GCSE Groups shall by definition be of system wide scope. Optionally, GCSE
Groups may be geographically restricted.
The system shall provide a mechanism to restrict all Group Communications for
a given GCSE Group to a defined geographic area. In this case Group Members
shall be able to receive and/or transmit only within this geographic area.
\- The system shall provide a mechanism to redefine the geographic area for a
GCSE Group that has a defined geographic area.
\- The system shall provide a mechanism to override geographic area
restrictions for a GCSE Group for a particular Group Communication
transmission.
\- The system shall provide a mechanism to restrict a particular Group
Communication transmission to a defined geographic area within the
geographical scope of that group. In this case only Receiver Group Members
within the geographic area shall receive the Group Communication.
\- 3GPP TS 22.179 [4]:
\- [R-6.4.1-001] Interruption to an MCPTT Group Call shall be minimized when
participants move from one area to another.
\- [R-6.5.1-002] The MCPTT Service shall support Broadcast Group Calls to a
dynamically defined geographic area.
\- [R-6.6.4.2-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means for combining a
multiplicity of MCPTT Users into a new, temporary group based on a parameter
or a combination of parameters (e.g., particular geographic area, Participant
type).
\- [R-6.15.3.2-012] The MCPTT Service shall provide an MCPTT Access time (KPI
1) less than 300 ms for 95% of all MCPTT Request.
\- [R-6.15.3.2-013] For MCPTT Emergency Group Calls and Imminent Peril Calls
the MCPTT Service shall provide an MCPTT Access time (KPI 1) less than 300 ms
for 99% of all MCPTT Requests.
\- [R-6.15.3.2-014] The MCPTT Service shall provide an End-to-end MCPTT Access
time (KPI 2) less than 1000 ms for users under coverage of the same network
when the MCPTT Group call has not been established prior to the initiation of
the MCPTT Request.
\- [R-6.15.3.2-015] The MCPTT Service shall provide a Mouth-to-ear latency
(KPI 3) that is less than 300 ms for 95% of all voice bursts.
\- [R-6.15.4.2-003] The maximum Late call entry time (KPI 4a) for calls
without application layer encryption within one MCPTT system shall be less
than 150 ms for 95% of all Late call entry requests.
\- [R-6.15.4.2-004] The maximum Late call entry time (KPI 4b) for application
layer encrypted calls within one MCPTT system should meet the requirements for
KPI 4 for unencrypted calls.
\- [R-6.15.4.2-005] The maximum Late call entry time (KPI 4b) for application
layer encrypted calls within one MCPTT system shall be less than 350 ms for
95% of all Late Call Entries into encrypted calls.
\- [R-6.15.6-001] Radio resource shall be able to be utilized in an efficient
manner for the MCPTT Service up to a certain threshold, the radio resource
allocation for MCPTT Service shall be on-demand basis and flexible, or in a
predefined manner.
Note: Certain requirements (high level requirements, geographical scope of
GCSE groups) may not directly affect the RAN but are listed in order to avoid
any unsuitable assumption in end-to-end analysis performed in the scope of
this study.
Some requirements from 3GPP TS 22.179 [4] are overlapping with requirements in
3GPP TS 22.468 [3]. Certain requirements were evaluated for unicast and for
MBSFN transmission in TR 36.868 [5].
Table 2-1: Mapping of MCPTT and GCSE requirements
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCPTT requirement | GCSE requirement | Remark | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | KPI 1 \100%
compared to SC-PTM without feedback) and decreases with increasing group size
(i.e. if the number of group users is 10, the spectrum efficiency gain is
about 50% compared to SC-PTM without feedback);
\- using HARQ feedback with up to 2 retransmissions spread in time to exploit
time diversity, in addition to CSI feedback, a further gain of about 0.1-0.2
b/s/Hz is achieved regardless of group size in the range of 1-10 group users.
This evaluation does not consider HARQ only feedback, which would allow for
implicit link adaptation.
The spectral efficiency comparison of SC-PTM (with and without feedback) vs.
unicast is shown in table 6.2.5-3.
Table 6.2.5-3: SC-PTM vs. unicast spectral efficiency (simulation 3)
* * *
                                \# users/cell above which SC-PTM is better than unicast   SC-PTM gain over unicast in bits/s/Hz (%)                   
                                                                                          6 users/cell                                10 users/cell   20 users/cell
**SC-PTM without feedback** 6 0 0.1 (55%) 0.2 (250%) **SC-PTM with feedback**
1 0.3 (100%) 0.32 (177%) 0.34 (325%)
* * *
NOTE 1: In simulation 2, the propagation scenario focused on dense urban
indoor at 2 GHz as opposed simulations 1 and 3 that focused on suburban
outdoor at 800 MHz.
NOTE 2: In simulation 3, unicast transmission is using the same transmission
mode like SC-PTM. For unicast, other transmission modes may be possible
depending on UE capability.
## 6.3 Support of broadcast group calls to a dynamically defined geographic
area
For public safety, the geographic area for a group call should be dynamically
decided based on e.g. incident's physical location. With SC-PTM, the broadcast
area could be dynamically adjusted cell by cell to fit the dynamically defined
geographic area, using the cell list provided by the Core Network.
## 6.4 Service continuity
When considering the provision of group communication over SC-PTM for public
safety, the receiving or transmitting users may move among cells while the
group communication is ongoing. The following service continuity scenarios are
identified with highest priority:
Scenario 1: Moving from SC-PTM to SC-PTM
For users receiving a group call over SC-PTM in the source cell, the target
cell provides the same group call over SC-PTM.
Scenario 2: Moving from SC-PTM to unicast
For users receiving a group call over SC-PTM in the source cell, the target
cell provides the same group call over unicast, because the service is not
provided in the target cell using SC-PTM.
Evaluation of the service interruption time for different service continuity
scenarios are provided in the following sections, without considering any
optimization to reduce the service interruption time. In the evaluation, it is
assumed that a "SC-PTM SIB" (scheduled every 80 ms) contains the configuration
for SC-MCCH reception (e.g. scheduling occasions for SC-MCCH (every 80 ms),
and PDCCH identified by a specific SC-RNTI), and the SC-MCCH contains the
configuration for different MBMS services (e.g. TMGI to Group-RNTI mapping).
### 6.4.1 Service continuity from SC-PTM to SC-PTM
For the mobility from SC-PTM to SC-PTM, the UE needs to first acquire the SC-
PTM configuration in the target cell, and then continue to receive the group
call over SC-PTM in the target cell. The estimated service interruption time
for the average and for the worst case is provided in Table 6.4.1-1.
Table 6.4.1-1: Average and worst case (in brackets) interruption time
estimation for mobility from SC-PTM to SC-PTM
* * *
**Component** **Time (ms)** **Comments** SC-PTM SIB reading delay 40 (80)
Assuming the scheduling periodicity of the SC-PTM SIB is 80ms. Acquisition of
the SC-MCCH configuration for SC-MCCH reception 10 Processing delay at the UE
Delay due to SC-MCCH repetition period 40 (80) For SC-MCCH repetition period
of 80ms. Acquisition of SC-MCCH info, e.g. TMGI to Group-RNTI mapping 10
Processing delay at the UE Total time 100 (180)
* * *
> Note 1: The UE may experience additional service interruption due to the
> acquisition of target cell MIB and SIB1 (i.e. 30ms).
>
> Note 2: The UE may experience additional service interruption due to the
> possible data loss (up to one scheduling period, e.g. 2 voice samples)
> caused by the unsynchronized SC-PTM scheduling between source cell and
> target cell.
If the SC-MCCH is transmitted using a reserved RNTI value, the UE could
monitor the SC-MCCH transmissions even before acquiring the SC-PTM SIB, i.e.
the service interruption time could be reduced to 50ms on average and 90ms in
the worst case.
6.4.2 Service continuity from SC-PTM to unicast
For the mobility from SC-PTM to unicast, the UE can know that the group call
is not being transmitted over SC-PTM in the target cell from the absence of
the SC-PTM SIB, or after the acquisition of the SC-MCCH info if the SC-PTM SIB
is present (e.g. if the desired TMGI is absent in the SC-MCCH), and then the
UE can request the group call over unicast bearer. The estimated service
interruption time for the average and for the worst case is provided in table
6.4.2-1. For UEs in RRC_CONNECTED, 50-80ms latency caused by the RRC
connection establishment could be saved compared to UEs in RRC_IDLE.
Table 6.4.2-1: Average and worst case (in brackets) interruption time
estimation for mobility from SC-PTM to unicast
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Component** | **Time (ms)** | **Comments** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SC-PTM SIB reading | 40 (80) | Assuming the | | delay | | scheduling | | | | periodicity of the | | | | SC-PTM SIB is 80ms. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Acquisition of the | 10 | Processing delay at | | SC-MCCH | | the UE | | configuration for | | | | SC-MCCH reception | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Delay due to SC-MCCH | 40 (80) | For SC-MCCH | | repetition period | | repetition period of | | | | 80ms. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Acquisition of | 10 | Processing delay at | | SC-MCCH info, e.g. | | the UE | | TMGI to Group-RNTI | | | | mapping | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RRC_Idle to | 50 -80 | Clause 16.2 of TR | | RRC_Connected (if | | 36.912 | | not already | | | | RRC_Connected) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Time for requesting | 55 | Out of RAN2 scope, | | the service over | | the figure is | | unicast bearer | | provided as a | | | | representative | | | | example | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Dedicated bearer for | 115 | Assume dedicated | | VoIP establishment | | bearer for VoIP is | | | | established using | | | | IMS. | | | | | | | | It is assumed 10ms | | | | for radio interface | | | | delay, 5ms for | | | | network interface | | | | delay and 5ms for | | | | processing delay in | | | | the calculation | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total time | In RRC_IDLE: | | | | 220-350 (220-430) | | | | | | | | In RRC_CONNEC-TED: | | | | 170 (350) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
> Note 1: The UE may experience additional service interruption due to the
> acquisition of target cell MIB and SIB1 (i.e. 30ms).
# 7 Solutions
## 7.1 Configuration and transmission
As a baseline, SC-PTM transmission for a group of users uses a common RNTI
(Group-RNTI) on PDCCH and on PDSCH in regular unicast subframes. There is one
Group-RNTI per TMGI and a SC-PTM specific MCCH (SC-MCCH) signals the TMGI to
Group-RNTI mapping. SC-MCCH transmissions are indicated on PDCCH. System
information contains SC-MCCH configuration.
In order to minimize power consumptions, SC-MCCH transmission may employ
similar mechanism like MCCH transmission (modification period/repetition
period) and SC-PTM transmission may use a scheduling period.
## 7.2 Service continuity
The following high level solutions are considered for service continuity when
moving from a SC-PTM cell to another SC-PTM cell providing the same service or
a unicast cell:
\- **Solution 1: UE implementation**
The UE can request to receive the group call over unicast when the SC-PTM
reception quality is degraded below a threshold (threshold based on e.g. RSRQ,
BLER). The threshold may be UE implementation specific, or be defined as part
of the GCSE/MCPTT application in the UE. Such a solution was agreed in Rel-12
GCSE for group call over MBSFN.
\- **Solution 2: eNB assisted unicast bearer request**
This solution is similar to the UE implementation specific solution, and the
difference is that eNB will provide trigger criteria (e.g. RSRQ or BLER
threshold) to the UE to assist the UE in requesting unicast bearer for the
group call at an appropriate point in time.
**\- Solution 3 (RRC_CONNECTED only): Provision of neighbouring cell SC-PTM
control info during handover**
The SC-PTM control info of the target cell, if present, could be provided to
the UE by handover command, thus service interruption caused by the
acquisition of target cell SC-PTM control info after handover could be
avoided.
**\- Solution 4: Broadcast of neighbouring cell SC-PTM control inf** o
One cell could broadcast the SC-PTM control info of the neighbour cells, so
that the service interruption caused by the acquisition of target cell SC-PTM
control info after cell reselection or handover could be eliminated.
\- **Solution 5 (RRC_IDLE only): eNB assisted RRC connection establishment**
The eNB will broadcast trigger criteria (e.g. RSRP or RSRQ) to assist the UE
to perform the RRC connection establishment when the UE is about to move out
of the SC-PTM cell coverage. Subsequently, solution 3 is applied.
For RRC_CONNECTED UEs, solution 3 is considered the most suitable solution.
For RRC_IDLE UEs, solution 4 or solution 5 may be considered but have not been
evaluated in terms of efficiency and feasibility.
NOTE 1: The overhead due to solution 4 was not evaluated.
NOTE 2: Some data loss may also occur due when the UE moves from a SC-PTM cell
to another SC-PTM cell if the network is not synchronized with subframe
granularity and the scheduling subframes are not the same. The amount of loss
depends on the scheduling period. If the network is synchronized, with
synchronized transmission and unified configuration packet loss during
mobility across SC-PTM cells can be reduced.
Service continuity in other scenarios (e.g. mobility between SC-PTM and MBSFN)
was not studied.
# 8 Protocol impact
According to subclause 7.1, the SC-MCCH is transmitted on DL-SCH with a
specific RNTI and each service is also transmitted on DL-SCH with a specific
RNTI.
It may be assumed that SC-PTM reuses the same protocol architecture like MBSFN
transmission but the details were not considered (e.g. whether SC-MCCH is
described as a new logical channel mapped to DL-SCH or as a cell-specific MCCH
mapped to DL-SCH, whether SC-PTM transmission of a service is described as a
new logical channel mapped to DL-SCH or as MTCH mapped to DL-SCH).
# 9 Conclusions
SC-PTM transmission using a Group-RNTI on PDSCH is feasible. In the existing
specification, a UE does not support more than one PDSCH on one carrier,
unless one of the PDSCHs carries system information or paging information. It
is feasible for certain UEs to support simultaneous reception of unicast and
one or more SC-PTM transmissions in one subframe on one carrier, with extra
standardization and implementation work, but it may not be feasible to expect
that all UEs can support the simultaneous reception.
Only baseline assumptions about SC-PTM configuration are available, i.e. one
Group-RNTI per TMGI and a SC-PTM specific MCCH (mapped to DL-SCH), of which
configuration is provided in system information. Further assuming the SC-PTM
configuration can be updated every 80 ms, these baseline assumptions are used
for SC-PTM latency analysis resulting in the following conclusions:
\- Using SC-PTM, the end-to-end setup time could be 220-250ms, like for
unicast and MBSFN, but without the need to pre-establish MBMS bearers for
receiving UEs.
\- Using SC-PTM, the time to join an ongoing group communication, without
application layer ciphering, could be 105ms-135ms in all cases. The time it
takes for application layer ciphering is not in the scope of this
specification.
\- Using SC-PTM, end to end access time with acknowledgement from first
receiving user (KPI 2 of MCPTT) could be 335-395 ms in the worst case without
the need to pre-establish MBMS bearers.
The power consumption of UEs receiving a service via SC-PTM is comparable to
the power consumption when receiving a service via MBSFN. The impact of 80 ms
SC-MCCH update period on power consumptions of UEs capable of SC-PTM reception
but not receiving MBMS service via SC-PTM have not been evaluated. No
improvements and enhancements to the baseline assumption of SC-PTM
configuration were evaluated.
SC-PTM performance in terms of spectral efficiency was evaluated by the
simulations. The performance analysis results in the following conclusions:
\- Link adaptation allowed by the availability of UL feedback provides
significant gains when the number of receiving UEs is rather small and
decreases with increasing group size. HARQ with retransmissions can further
improve the spectral efficiency in some scenarios but these improvements are
small. It has not been concluded whether the gains provided by HARQ and
retransmission are worth of the increased complexity of the system.
NOTE: Because of the small difference between link adaptation and link
adaptation with HARQ and retransmission is small, these two cases are both
referred to as SC-PTM with UL feedback.
\- SC-PTM with UL feedback provides better spectral efficiency than unicast if
the service needs to be delivered to two or more UEs per cell.
\- SC-PTM without UL feedback is not as efficient as SC-PTM with UL feedback.
Unicast provides better spectral efficiency if the service needs to be
delivered to a few UEs per cell only.
\- The spectral efficiency of SC-PTM with UL feedback decreases as the number
of receiving UEs per cell increase and its efficiency converges to the
efficiency of SC-PTM without UL feedback.
\- The effective spectral efficiency of MBSFN transmission depends on the size
of MBSFN area, which defines the nominal spectral efficiency of MBSFN
transmission, and the ratio of cells with receiving UEs to all cells
comprising the MBSFN area including also reserved cells.
\- SC-PTM transmission with UL feedback, which spectral efficiency depends on
the number of receiving UEs, tends to provide better spectral efficiency than
MBSFN transmission for small number of receiving UEs.
\- SC-PTM transmission without UL feedback performs significantly better than
MBSFN transmission in the following 3 cases: when the network is not
synchronized, when users receiving a service are all in1, 2 or 3 cells, when
the MBSFN area is pre-defined and contains a number of cells with no user
receiving the service. SC-PTM transmission without feedback is feasible for
UEs in RRC_IDLE and RRC_CONNECTED.
SC-PTM is assumed to provide more flexible resource scheduling in time and
frequency. The more flexible resource allocation could improve SC-PTM spectral
efficiency for certain services (e.g. bursty traffic) but these aspects have
not been studied.
This study has only considered the case where CSI and HARQ or HARQ only
feedback is provided by all UEs receiving SC-PTM and all UEs receiving SC-PTM
are in RRC_CONNECTED state. CSI and/or HARQ-ACK feedback can bring gain in the
considered case. If the group of UEs receiving SC-PTM consist of UEs in both
RRC_IDLE and RRC_CONNECTED states, the link adaptation and/or retransmissions
based on CSI and/or HARQ feedback may not be applicable. There is no
conclusion on the overhead and detailed scheme(s) on supporting CSI/HARQ-ACK
feedback for SC-PTM. There is no conclusion on how to determine the number of
UEs interested in a service (e.g. reuse existing counting or enhancements).
SC-PTM service continuity for MCPTT service was analysed under the baseline
assumptions about the SC-PTM configuration and transmission for two scenarios:
a scenario of moving between cells providing the service using SC-PTM
transmission and a scenario when the service is not provided in the target
cell using MBMS. SC-PTM transmission is considered to provide acceptable level
of service continuity or solutions are specified to reduce the interruption
time due to mobility between cells to a lower values (feasibility and radio
efficiency of certain solutions was not evaluated).
Improvements of SC-PTM transmission which may be possible in a synchronized
were not studied.
# Annex: Change history
* * *
**Change history**  
**Date** **TSG #** **TSG Doc.** **CR** **Rev** **Subject/Comment** **Old**
**New** 2015-02 RAN2#89 R2-150251 - - Initial draft 0.0.0 0.0.1 2015-02
RAN2#89 R2-150600 - - Update skeleton 0.0.1 0.0.2 2015-04 RAN2#89bis R2-151406
- - Update according to email discussion after RAN2# 89 0.0.1 0.0.2 2015-04
RAN2#89bis R2-151778 - - Endorsed version during RAN2#89bis 0.0.2 0.1.0
2015-04 RAN2#89bis R2-151787 - - Update as agreed by email discussion after
RAN2# 89bis 0.1.0 0.1.1 2015-04 RAN2#89bis R2-151788 - - Update as agreed by
email discussion after RAN2# 89bis 0.1.1 0.2.0 2015-05 RAN2#90 R2-152900 - -
Update according to agreements during RAN2#90 0.2.0 0.2.1 2015-06 RAN2#90
R2-152919 - - Update as agreed by email discussion after RAN2#90 0.2.0 0.2.2
2015-06 RAN2#90 R2-152920 - - Update as agreed by email discussion after
RAN2#90 0.2.2 0.3.0 2015-06 RAN#68 RP-150697 - - Submitted to RAN#68 for
approval 0.3.0 1.0.0 2015-06 RAN#68 RP-150697 - - Approved at TSG RAN#68 and
put under Change Control 1.0.0 13.0.0