# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the results of the study item on Network
Assistance for Network Synchronization in LTE in RP-151084 [2]. It identifies
the existing LTE functions that may need network based synchronization and
their synchronization-related requirements, and reviews and compares
techniques for enhancement of RAN functionality.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-151084, \"Study on Network Assistance for Network Synchronization in
LTE\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 General
The aim of the study is as captured in the SI description document [2]:
\- Study the possible radio network based methods to provide a low cost way
for the operators to synchronize their LTE networks where the current
synchronization mechanism(s) does not work.
\- Avoid duplication of functionalities with respect to specified functions,
in order to maintain costs and complexity to the minimum.
The solutions without UE impacts should be taken into account to provide a
synchronisation accuracy comparable with existing solutions and meet current
requirements.
## 4.1 Objective
It is expected that the candidate network based synchronization solutions
should be able to meet the following conditions:
\- implement with low complexity to help reduce the cost;
\- meet the current synchronization requirement for features;
\- provide added value with respect to existing solutions;
\- without UE impact.
# 5 Requirements and Solutions
## 5.1 Existing requirements
According to TS 36.133 [3], the basic requirement for synchronisation between
any pair of cells on the same frequency that have overlapping coverage areas
in LTE TDD network is 3 μs (phase deviation between two neighbour cells). The
synchronization accuracy is measured at the BS antenna connector. For macro
eNBs (\"wide area BS\"), the requirement of 3 µs applies only if the cell
radius \ Figure 1: Get time information without consideration of propagation delay
#### 5.3.1.2 Solution 1b: Get the time difference of the cells considering
propagation delay
The extra procedure is needed to get the propagation delay between UE and eNB
by Reference Signalling or by RACH. One possibility is that Uplink
Synchronization procedure is triggered so that the RACH can be sent. Here in
the example we use one extra RACH which is trigged by source eNB to get the TA
from UE to source eNB. The source eNB will calculate the TA when it receives
the RACH, and then the propagation delay could be calculated by using TA as
Tp2 in Figure2. The propagation delay between UE and target eNB can also be
achieved in the normal random access procedure for handover which is described
as Tp1 in Figure2 based on another TA received.
> Figure 2: Get time information with consideration of the propagation delay
From Figure2 the timing difference of the two eNBs can be achieved from the
following Equation2:
Where,
T~diff~ is the timing difference between target eNB and source eNB,
T~1~ is the timing when target eNB receives the preamble and Tp1 is the
propagation delay between UE and target eNB, while T~2~ is the timing when
source eNB detects the preamble and Tp2 is the propagation delay between UE
and source eNB.
The timing information of eNBs could be obtained by reusing the existing
procedure, e.g., handover, and then be transferred over S1/X2 interfaces, e.g.
UE CONTEXT RELEASE, by introducing some new IE.
#### 5.3.1.3 Exchange time information in the network
For the adjustment of the timing of the two cells to make them synchronized,
there are following solutions for it:
One set of solutions assumes a distributed approach, where the slave eNB
adjusts its synch to be aligned with the master eNB(s). Either the slave may
simply uses the timing information collected to adjust the synch in a
distributed manner, or as an extension, the eNBs can also exchange the
measurements between each other, and then the slave may have more information
when make decision.
Another option is that we assume a centralized approach, where is a master eNB
that makes the decision how the slaves should adjust the synch. One possible
way is that the master eNB collects the information and send a synch command
to the slave eNBs.
Yet another option is to go for a more MDT like approach, where the eNBs
report to OAM, and OAM may decide on any synch adjustments to the involved
eNBs. The benefit of this approach is that OAM has a global view on the
network. This would involve reporting of measurements to OAM and sending
corrections from OAM.
Totally there are several approaches, i.e., the distributed way, the
centralized way, or the statistical way like MDT, could be taken into account
when exchange the time information for adjustment of time.
#### 5.3.1.4 A statistical approach
There are some statistical approaches which can be introduced to increase the
accuracy of the synchronization.
When getting the timing difference during HO from one eNB to another, we will
collect the timing information of the source eNB and the target eNB at the
time point when they receive the preamble. We will collect the timing
information for a period which lasts e.g. one or two hours. During this time
period the HO between source eNB and the target eNB will happen for several
times. The timing information of all of the HOs in the period will be
recorded.
After getting all of the timing information, a sliding window is used to kick
out the data which is out of the threshold. The left data will be averaged to
get much higher accuracy of the timing difference of the two cells before the
timing adjustment.
### 5.3.2 Solution 2: OTA Synchronisation with Propagation Delay Compensation
The solution is based on achieving synchronisation of neighbouring base
stations by means of detecting reference signals transmitted over the air
(OTA) and detected via an UL receiver. The solution allows to calculate
propagation delays of such reference signals from synchronisation source to
synchronisation target. A general description of the solution is provided in
the figure below:
Figure 3: Description of synchronisation solution
From the figure above it can be seen that the solution introduces a first
phase where a node in need to synchronise will request a neighbour node to
start procedures for over the air signalling exchange.
In message 1 the node in need of synchronisation, eNB1, after detection of DL
signals from a cell of eNB2, sends a request to start synchronisation
procedures. In this request a specific cell identifier pointing at a cell of
eNB2 with which synchronisation wants to be achieved could be included.
In message 2, eNB2 responds with an acceptance message. In this message the
following information are contained:
Timing information specifying when the OTA signal from eNB1 will be
transmitted. Such timing information could specify the SFN number and SF
number with respect to eNB2's SFN structure at the beginning of which a
specific signal would be sent by eNB1. It has to be noted that such over the
air signal could be an already existing one.
Timing information specifying when the OTA signal from eNB2 will be
transmitted. Such timing information could specify the SFN number and SF
number with respect to eNB2 SFN structure for the system frame at the
beginning of which a specific signal would be sent by eNB2. It has to be noted
that such over the air signal could be an already existing one, for example
this could be existing reference signals. It has to be also noted that eNB1
and eNB2 can detect each other's signals, therefore they have knowledge of
when SFNs start.\ This information could also be included in Message 1
Identification of eNB1's cell from which the OTA signal will be expected
In message 3 eNB1 sends a signalling message over the air, at the signalling
time specified in message 2.At the time of sending such message a time stamp
is generated by eNB1, such timestamp is named T1. At the time of reception of
the message at eNB2 a new timestamp will be generated by eNB2, such timestamp
is named T2.
In message 4, eNB2 generates a new signalling message over the air towards
eNB1. This message is sent at the time specified in message 2. At the time
this new message is sent a new timestamp can be generated by eNB2, which will
be called T3. At the time the latter message is received by eNB1, a new time
stamp will be generated by eNB1, which will be called T4.
In message 5, eNB2 signals timestamps T2 and T3 to eNB1 via the X2 interface.
In step 6 eNB1 has the four time stamps available, T1, T2, T3 and T4. It
should be reminded that eNB1 can synchronise to the reference signal of eNB2,
but such synchronisation would be affected by propagation delays and multipath
transmission, leading to a poor accuracy. By means of knowing the four
timestamps, eNB1 can deduce the roundtrip delay between eNB1 and eNB2 by
calculating
Over the Air RTT = (T4-T1) -- (T3-T2)
The propagation delay between eNB1 and eNB2 can be estimated by calculating
Propagation Delay eNB1-eNB2 = (T4-T3)/2 + (T2-T1)/2.
Once the propagation delay between eNB1 and eNB2 is known, eNB1 can determine
the offset to apply to the reference signal detected from eNB2. By applying
such offset, eNB1 is able to perfectly synchronise to eNB2 and therefore
achieve local synchronisation within a cluster of neighbouring cells.
The solution description above touches upon the main aspects of the function.
The solution could be enhanced with other procedures such as exchanging
information between nodes about their synchronisation status and stratum
level.
### 5.3.3 Solution 3: OTA Synchronisation with Propagation Delay Compensation
Based on Timing Advance
The solution is based on achieving synchronisation of neighbouring base
stations by means of detecting reference signals transmitted over the air
(OTA) and detected via a DL receiver according to existing RIBS method
enhanced by compensation of the propagation delay. The synchronization target
may be e.g. an indoor eNB out of GPS coverage and with small intra-cell
propagation delay (e.g. 10 or 20 m cell radius).
The synchronisation source S monitors TA values for UEs requesting outgoing
mobility to neighbour eNBs, and/or TA values for UEs being handed over from
neighbour eNBs, and in this way obtains information about the propagation
delay towards its neighbour cells. The information is then provided to
synchronisation target eNBs (T) by network signaling, upon request from the
synchronisation target (T).
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.734722222222222in"}
Figure 4: Small (e.g. indoor) synchronisation target cell located within a
synchronisation source cell.
S: Synchronisation source eNB. T: Synchronisation target eNB. TA: timing
advance
### 5.3.3 Solution 4: Propagation Delay Compensation for RIBS Based on
Location Information Exchange
The solution is based on compensation of propagation delays for
synchronisation signals used in the Radio Interface Based Synchronisation
solution. The compensation envisaged is for the propagation delay
corresponding to the line of sight distance between the synchronisation source
transmitter and the synchronisation target receiver.
To allow for compensation of propagation delays the synchronization target is
informed of the position of potential synchronization source transmission
points. Indeed, an eNB can be configured with the position of its transmission
points, as specified in TS 28.632 with the configuration parameters below:
+----------------+------------------------------+--------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and Allowed | Properties | | | Values | | +----------------+------------------------------+--------------------+ | baseElevation | The elevation in meters | type: Integer | | | above sea level at the base | | | | of the antenna structure. | multiplicity: 1 | | | This value, when subtracted | | | | from height (see TS 28.662 | isOrdered: N/A | | | [5]), provides the height | | | | of the antenna above the | isUnique: N/A | | | ground. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | Note: The value of this | | | | attribute has no operational | isNullable: True | | | impact on the network, e.g. | | | | the NE behavior is not | | | | affected by the value | | | | setting of this attribute. | | | | Note as well that this | | | | attribute is not supported | | | | over the Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 [12]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: An integral | | | | value representing a number | | | | of meters in 0.1 meter | | | | increments. | | +----------------+------------------------------+--------------------+ | Latitude | The latitude of the antenna | type: Real | | | location based on World | | | | Geodetic System (1984 | multiplicity: 1 | | | version) global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). Positive | isOrdered: N/A | | | values correspond to the | | | | northern hemisphere. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | Note: The value of this | defaultValue: None | | | attribute has no operational | | | | impact on the network, e.g. | isNullable: True | | | the NE behavior is not | | | | affected by the value | | | | setting of this attribute. | | | | Note as well that this | | | | attribute is not supported | | | | over the Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 [12]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: Valid values | | | | described in 3GPP TS 23.032 | | | | [13]. | | +----------------+------------------------------+--------------------+ | Longitude | The longitude of the antenna | type: Real | | | location based on World | | | | Geodetic System (1984 | multiplicity: 1 | | | version) global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). Positive | isOrdered: N/A | | | values correspond to degrees | | | | east of 0 degrees longitude. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | Note: The value of this | defaultValue: None | | | attribute has no operational | | | | impact on the network, e.g. | isNullable: True | | | the NE behavior is not | | | | affected by the value | | | | setting of this attribute. | | | | Note as well that this | | | | attribute is not supported | | | | over the Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 [12]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: Valid values | | | | described in 3GPP TS 23.032 | | | | [13]. | | +----------------+------------------------------+--------------------+
The information above need to be configured in an eNB for a number of reasons,
one of them being to support UE positioning functions. For example, TS36.455
specifies that an eNB receiving an OTDOA INFORMATION REQUEST message
requesting "e-UTRANAccessPointPosition" shall reply with the geolocation
coordinates of its transmission points. Therefore it is very likely that the
eNB will have transmission point location information configured.
In order to allow for delay propagation to be compensated when synchronising
over the air, a synchronisation target would need to know the location of the
synchronisation source RS transmission point. Once this location is known the
relative distance between transmission and reception points can be calculated
and the propagation delay can be compensated.
Together with the transmission point location it would be beneficial to
indicate the cells that are served by that transmission point. This is because
an eNB that wants to perform Over the Air (OTA) synchronisation would send a
time synchronisation information request to the eNB serving the best
synchronisation source cell. However, the Time Synchronisation Information
received is per eNB and not per cell. Hence, the synchronisation target would
need to know what is the position of the transmission point serving the
selected source synchronisation cell.
In order to provide location information to the synchronisation target node
the solution consists of adding transmission point location information in the
_Time Synchronisation Information_ IE signalled over the S1 interface as part
of RIBS signalling procedures, in the form of location coordinates associated
to a list of cells served by the corresponding transmission point.
This option provides the transmission point location information as part of
the RIBS signalling, namely as part of the Time Synchronisation Information
IE. This implies that the information can be exchanged by means of S1
interface signalling and at the same time of acquisition of information needed
for RIBS.\ Moreover, the location information is received whenever
synchronisation is required, i.e. at the time of requesting the time
synchronisation information.\ An example of how this option could be
implemented is shown below:
Time Synchronisation Information IE
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | > Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Sync | | | | | | hronization | | | | | | Info** | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Stratum | M | | INTEGER | | | > Level | | | (0..3, ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Sync | M | | E | | | hronization | | | NUMERATED(S | | | > status | | | ynchronous, | | | | | | As | | | | | | ynchronous, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Muting | O | | ENUMERATED | Indicates | | > A | | | (Available, | a | | vailability | | | U | vailability | | > | | | navailable, | of muting | | Indication | | | ...) | activation. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | __T | O | * | | Indicates a | | ransmission | | 1..\ * | | ransmission | | In | | | | points | | formation** | | | | locations | | | | | | and the | | | | | | cells | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to each | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | point | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | M | | BIT STRING | | | >Latitude | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | M | | BIT STRING | | | >Longitude | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | M | | BIT STRING | | | >Altitude | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >E-CGI | O | _1..\ List | | oofECGIs>_ | | cells | | | | | | served by | | | | | | the | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | point | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >>E-CGI | M | | ECGI | E-CGI of | | | | | | cell | | | | | 9.2.14 | included in | | | | | | the list | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Location information can be provided in a way already used in TS36.331 for the
_LocationInfo_ IE expressing UE location information. Namely, the location
information for the transmission point could be expressed as the _Ellipsoid
Point With Altitude_ specified in TS36.355 as follows
_\-------------------------------------------------------_
_EllipsoidPointWithAltitude_
The IE _EllipsoidPointWithAltitude_ is used to describe a geographic shape as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [15].
\-- ASN1START
EllipsoidPointWithAltitude ::= SEQUENCE {
latitudeSign ENUMERATED {north, south},
degreesLatitude INTEGER (0..8388607), -- 23 bit field
degreesLongitude INTEGER (-8388608..8388607), -- 24 bit field
altitudeDirection ENUMERATED {height, depth},
altitude INTEGER (0..32767) -- 15 bit field
}
\-- ASN1STOP
_\-------------------------------------------------------_
The descriptions of how latitude, longitude and altitude are encoded in the
_Ellipsoid Point With Altitude_ can be found in TS23.032 section 6.1 and 6.3.
The main advantage of this mechanism to transfer location information to the
synchronisation target eNB is to keep the transmission point location
information part of the RIBS signalling. The receiving eNB can therefore
exchange all the signalling needed to enable RIBS via a single procedure and
over a single interface. The signalling procedures are shown in Figure 5.
Figure 5: Procedure description for propagation delay compensation in RIBS
The solution allows for compensation of propagation delay over single hops and
over multiple synchronisation hops for RIBS.
## 5.4 Comparison of solutions
# 6 Conclusions
###### ### Annex A: Existing solutions
Table X.1 lists solutions that have been used so far to enable synchronisation
in the E-UTRAN network.
Table A.1: Existing solutions
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sync Method | Freq Sync | Phase Sync | Comment | | | | | | | | (Achievable on | (Achievable on | | | | the radio | the radio | | | | interface) | interface) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Synchronous | ±0.05 ppm or | --- | SyncE must be | | PDH / SDH / | better | | supported on | | Synchronous | | | all nodes in | | Ethernet | | | the sync | | (SyncE) | | | chain. See | | | | | applicable | | | | | ITU-T recc. | | | | | (G.803, G.813, | | | | | G.8261, | | | | | G.8262, etc.) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IEEE1588 PTP | ±0.05 ppm | --- | It does not | | for freq only | | | require | | sync | | | on-path | | | | | support | | | | | between Master | | | | | and Slave. | | | | | Performance | | | | | depends on | | | | | load of | | | | | network. See | | | | | applicable | | | | | ITU-T | | | | | recc.(e.g. | | | | | G.8261.1) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IEEE1588 PTP | ±0.05 ppm | 250ns -- 1.5μs | See applicable | | for freq/phase | | | ITU-T | | sync (partial | | | recc.(e.g. | | timing support | | | G.8271.1) | | under study) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sattelite time | \< ±0.01 ppm | \< 100ns | Receiver | | reference | | | antenna and | | (e.g. GPS) | | | cabling | | | | | installation | | | | | can be | | | | | expensive in | | | | | indoor | | | | | installations. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NTP (Network | ±0.05 ppm | FFS | Depends on | | Timing | | | network | | Protocol) | | | c | | | | | haracteristics | | | | | (similar rules | | | | | as for PTP | | | | | apply in case | | | | | of frequency | | | | | sync; also in | | | | | this case a | | | | | specific clock | | | | | recovery | | | | | algorithm is | | | | | required) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RIBS Radio | ±0.1 ppm | 2.5μs | LTE-FDD: | | Interface | | | Requires | | Based | | | capability to | | S | | | listen to sync | | ynchronization | | | source | | (3GPP R12) | | | downlink | | | | | frequency band | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#