# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is related to the technical report of the study item
"Study on Elevation Beamforming/Full-Dimension (FD) MIMO for LTE" [2]. The
purpose of this TR is to help TSG RAN WG1 to understand the performance
benefit of standard enhancements targeting two-dimensional antenna array
operation with 8 or more transceiver units (TXRUs) per transmission point.
This study item is the follow-up to TR 36.873 and it will take into account
the findings on 3D channel model in TR36.873 [3]
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP systems.
This document is intended to gather all information and draw a conclusion on
way forward.
This document is a 'living' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-141644, \"New SID Proposal: Study on Elevation Beamforming/Full-
Dimension (FD) MIMO for LTE\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.873: \"Study on 3D channel model for LTE\".
[4] 3GPP TR 36.819: \"Coordinated multi-point operation for LTE physical layer
aspects\".
[5] _R1-145389, "Proposal on SRS estimation error modelling", RAN1#79_
_[6] R1-150867, "WF on SRS estimation error modelling",_ ZTE, CMCC, NTT
DOCOMO, CATT, CATR, Alcatel-Lucent, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, RAN1#80
[7] R1-152238, "Channel reciprocity modeling for FDD", Ericsson, RAN1#80bis
[8] R1-151909, "Summary of email discussion [80-05] baseline xls", Nokia
Networks, RAN1#80bis
[9] _R1-153097, "CSI feedback enhancements for TDD", Nokia Networks, RAN1#81_
[10] _R1-153446, Enhanced CSI Schemes for TDD EBF/FD-MIMO System, ZTE,
RAN1#81_
[11] _R1-153033, Updated evaluation of feedback based on hybrid RS, CMCC,
RAN1#81_
[12] _R1-153034, Updated evaluation of SRS enhancements, CMCC, RAN1#81_
[13] _R1-153157, Investigation on Reciprocity Based Elevation Beamforming and
FD-MIMO in TDD Systems, NTT DOCOMO, RAN1#81_
[14] _R1-152983, Discussion on SRS Enhancements, ZTE, RAN1#81_
[15] _R1-152486, SRS enhancements with 4Tx switching, Huawei, HiSilicon,
RAN1#81_
[16] _R1-152901,_ Summary of DMRS enhancements for EBF/FD-MIMO, Samsung,
RAN1#81
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
\ \
TXRU Tranceiver Unit
# 4 Introduction
_Editor's note: Capturing objective in SID [2]_
At the 3GPP TSG RAN #65 meeting, the Study Item Description on "Study on Study
on Elevation Beamforming/Full-Dimension (FD) MIMO for LTE" was agreed for
Release 13 [2]. The study aims to understand performance benefit of standard
enhancements targeting two-dimensional antenna array operation (including a
single column of cross-poles) with 8 or more transceiver units (TXRUs) per
transmission point, where a TXRU has its own independent amplitude and phase
control. The study item consists of two phases:
\- Phase 1: Identify antenna configurations and evaluation scenarios, and
evaluate the performance of Rel-12 downlink MIMO using 3D channel model with
realistic non-full buffer traffic model.
\- Phase 2: Study enhancements and assess the performance benefit of
enhancements to the standard. Develop design principles for the identified
techniques and identify potential specification impact.
**Phase 1 (Start at RAN1#78bis):**
\- Identify antenna configurations for 2D antenna arrays with {8, 16, 32, 64}
TXRUs and evaluation scenarios, including homogeneous and heterogeneous
scenarios, for feasibility study, taking into account the outcome of 3D
channel model SI.
\- Decide antenna element spacing, number of antenna elements per TXRU,
polarization, etc.
\- Decide how to model virtualization of antenna elements per single TXRU.
\- Identify target operating frequency range considering practical antenna
size limitations.
\- Evaluate the performance of Rel-12 downlink MIMO (including both SU- and
MU-MIMO) using 3D-UMa and 3D-UMi channel models.
\- Number of TXRUs for evaluation is 8, where each TXRU is connected to an
antenna port and the antenna ports constitute a horizontal array.
**Phase 2 (Start at RAN1#79):**
\- Evaluate performance benefits of standard enhancements targeting two-
dimensional antenna array operation (including a single column of cross-poles)
using 3D-UMa and 3D-UMi channel models, taking into account the discussion and
findings of the 3D channel model SI.
\- Performance evaluation for different numbers of TXRUs should be done with
the following work plan.
\- Performance evaluation for 8 TXRUs starts at RAN1#79.
\- Performance evaluation for {16, 32, 64} TXRUs starts at RAN1#80.
\- Identify/evaluate potential enhancements required for implementing the
SU/MU-MIMO transmission schemes that would provide the identified performance
benefits including
\- Evaluate the need for defining additional measurement antenna ports up to
64 at maximum.
\- Evaluate the need for reference signal design enhancements (including SRS,
CSI-RS, and DMRS).
\- Evaluate the need for enhancement of codebook and feedback mechanism for
SU/MU-MIMO (including CQI definition, layer mapping, and precoder/rank
indication).
\- Evaluate the need for enhancement of channel reciprocity based operation.
\- Evaluate the need for enhancement on diversity transmission scheme.
\- Evaluate the need for control signalling enhancement for SU/MU-MIMO
(including support of higher dimensional MU-MIMO).
\- Evaluate the need for support in the standards for eNB antenna calibration.
\- The maximum number of received layers per UE should be unchanged (up to
eight).
\- Investigate whether additional methods are needed to ensure common channel
coverage, cell/point selection and/or RRM measurement reliability.
\- Develop design principles for the identified techniques and identify
potential specification impact.
Performance gain from the studied techniques should be evaluated taking into
account the followings:
\- eNB antenna calibration errors (time, amplitude, and phase)
\- eNB antenna coupling and correlation specific to 2D active antenna array
\- Estimation errors
\- Downlink overhead
\- CSI feedback overhead
\- Implementation complexity
\- Impact on legacy UEs
# 5 Evaluation scenarios and antenna configurations
_Editor's note: This section will capture the evaluation scenarios and antenna
configurations_ _for 2D antenna arrays with {8, 16, 32, 64} TXRUs_
## 5.1 Evaluation scenarios
The scenarios for evaluation are identified in this subclause.
\- Homogeneous scenarios
\- Scenario 1: 3D-UMa with ISD 500m
\- Scenario 2: 3D-UMa with ISD 200m
\- Scenario 3: 3D-UMi with ISD 200m
\- Heterogeneous scenarios (prioritized in the following order)
\- Scenario 4: Non co-channel case with macro and small cell layer at
different carrier frequencies
\- Scenario 5: Co-channel case with macro and small cell layer with no
Elevation BF/FD-MIMO in small cells
\- Scenario 6: Co-channel case with macro and small cell layer with Elevation
BF/FD-MIMO in small cells
## 5.2 Antenna configurations
This section provides initial guidelines for antenna modelling in this study
item. The guidelines hold for both phase-1 and phase-2 evaluations unless
explicitly indicated otherwise.
### 5.2.1 Antenna array model
A 2D planar uniformly spaced antenna array model is used. The configuration of
a 2D planar uniformly spaced antenna array model is represented by (M, N, P)
where,
M is the number of antenna elements with the same polarization in each column
N is the number of columns and
P is the number of polarization dimensions
The antenna element spacing is given by _d~H~_ in the horizontal direction and
by _d~V~_ in the vertical direction. This model including indices for co-
polarized antenna elements is shown in the Figure 5.2.1-1. Antenna numbering
below assumes observation of the antenna array from the front (with x-axis
pointing towards broad-side and increasing y-coordinate for increasing column
number).
{width="2.192361111111111in" height="2.5993055555555555in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1: Antenna array model represented by (M, N, P)
Table 5.2.1-1: Antenna array model parameters
* * *
Parameter Values Remark Number of columns (N) 1, 2, 4^*^ 4 for phase 1 Antenna
Polarization (P) P = 2: cross-pol (eNB: +/- 45 deg, UE: 0/90 deg) Co-pol (P=1)
optional Horizontal antenna element spacing (_d~H~_) 0.5λ Same as [3] Antenna
element vertical radiation pattern (dB) {width="3.907638888888889in"
height="0.4215277777777778in"} Same as [3] Antenna element horizontal
radiation pattern (dB) {width="3.4854166666666666in"
height="0.4215277777777778in"} Same as [3] Combining method for 3D antenna
element pattern (dB) {width="2.9229166666666666in"
height="0.1951388888888889in"} Same as [3] Maximum directional gain of an
antenna element _G~E,max~_ 8 dBi Same as [3] Vertical antenna element spacing
and the number of antenna elements with the same polarization in each column
(_d~V~_ , M) ( 0.8λ, 8), (0.5λ, 4) (0.5λ, 4) for 3D UMa 200 m ISD, small cell,
and 3D UMi in 3.5 GHz only
* * *
^*^For the number of columns (N), the focus of the evaluation of the
specification enhancement proposals in this SI should follow the
prioritization noted below. For homogeneous scenarios in Phase 2
> \- N = {1, 2, 4} 1st priority
>
> \- N = {8, 16} 2nd priority
NOTE-0: Companies are encouraged to provide evaluation results including 8, 16
columns
NOTE-1: Note that lack of sufficient study/evaluations for the second priority
cases (as noted above) will not have impact to close SI
NOTE-2: Max(M*N) = 32
NOTE-3: When N = 16, M = 2
### 5.2.2 TXRU model-1
**[General:]{.underline}**
A TXRU model configuration corresponding to an antenna array model
configuration (M, N, P) is represented by (M~TXRU~, N, P) where M~TXRU~ is the
number of TXRUs per column per polarization dimension
\- M~TXRU~ = 1, 2, 4, 8 and M~TXRU~ ≤ M
A TXRU is only associated with antenna elements with the same polarization.
The total number of TXRUs is equal to M~TXRU~ ⨉ N ⨉ P.
Note that with respect to other TXRU models (FFS):
\- Remark 1: TXU and RXU can be separately modelled in other models
\- Remark 2: TXRU association with both polarizations can be considered
For the number of TXRUs, prioritization of antenna configurations for phase-2
enhancement proposal in Table 5.2.2-1 with the following
\- The enhancements to specifications should also allow other TXRU
configurations with total number of TXRU = 8, 16, 32, 64
\- Both 1D and 2D TXRU virtualization are allowed
Table 5.2.2-1: Number of TXRUs
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | N=1 | N=2 | N=4 | N=8 | N=16 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | M=8, | 8, | 8, | 8, 16, | | | | hom | 16TXRU | 16TXRU | 32, 64 | | | | ogeneous | | | TXRU | | | | | | | | | | | @ 2 GHz | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | M=4, | | | | 8, 16, | | | hom | | | | 32, 64 | | | ogeneous | | | | TXRU | | | | | | | | | | @ 2 GHz | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | M=2, | | | | | 8, 16, | | hom | | | | | 32 TXRU | | ogeneous | | | | | | | | | | | | | | @ 2 GHz | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | M=4, | | | 8, 16, | | | | small | | | 32 TXRU | | | | cells | | | | | | | | | | | | | | @ 3.5 | | | | | | | GHz | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
**[TXRU virtualization model]{.underline}** :
A TXRU virtualization model defines the relation between the signals at the
TXRUs and the signals at the antenna elements.
_Notation_ :
**\- q** is a Tx signal vector at the M co-polarized antenna elements within a
column
**\- w** and **W** respectively are wideband TXRU virtualization weight vector
and matrix
**\- x** is a TXRU signal vector at M~TXRU~ TXRUs
_TXRU virtualization model option-1A:Sub-array partition model with 1D
virtualization_
The sub-array partition model is illustrated in Figure 5.2.2-1.
{width="2.7069444444444444in" height="2.497916666666667in"}
Figure 5.2.2-1: TXRU virtualization model option-1: sub-array partition model
The 1D sub-array partition model is defined in the following:
**\- q** is given by **q** =**x** ⊗**w**
\- The same TXRU virtualization weight vector is applied for all the columns
\- The length of **w** is given by K = M/M~TXRU~
**\- w** is given by
\- Option A: $w_{k} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{K}}\text{exp}\left( -
j\frac{\text{2π}}{\lambda}(k - 1)d_{V}\text{cos}\ \theta_{\text{etilt}}
\right)\text{\ for\ k} = \text{1,}\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},K$
_TXRU virtualization model option-1B:Sub-array partition model with 2D
virtualization_
The 2D sub-array partition model is defined in the following:
**\- q** is given by **q** =**x** ⊗(**v** ~i~⊗**w~o~)**
\- The vertical TXRU virtualization weight vector can be different for
different TXRUs
\- The horizontal TXRU virtualization weight vector can be different for
different TXRUs
\- One TXRU is only connected to antenna elements with the same polarization
\- The length of **w~o~** is given by K = M/M~TXRU~
\- The length of **v** ~i~ is given by L = N/N~TXRU~
**\- w~o~** for $o = \text{1,}\text{.}\text{.}\text{.}\text{,M}_{\text{TXRU}}$
is given by
\- Option A: $w_{k,o} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{K}}\text{exp}\left( -
j\frac{\text{2π}}{\lambda}(k - 1)d_{V}\text{cos}\ \theta_{\text{etilt,o}}
\right)\text{\ for\ k} = \text{1,}\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},K$
\- Option B: Other length K vector with unit power
**\- v** ~i~ for $i =
\text{1,}\text{.}\text{.}\text{.}\text{,N}_{\text{TXRU}}$is given by
\- Option A: $v_{l,i} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{L}}\text{exp}\left( -
j\frac{\text{2π}}{\lambda}(l - 1)d_{H}\text{sin}\vartheta_{i} \right)\text{\
for\ l} = \text{1,}\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},L$
\- Option B: Other length L vector with unit power
_TXRU virtualization model option-2A: Full-connection model with 1D
virtualization_
The full-connection model is illustrated in Figure 5.2.2-2.
{width="2.626388888888889in" height="2.4895833333333335in"}
> Figure 5.2.2-2: TXRU virtualization model option-2: full-connection model
The 1D full-connection model is defined in the following:
**\- q** is given by **q** =**Wx**
**\- W** is given by
\- Option A: For _m_ = 1, ..., M and _m\'_ = 1,..., M~TXRU~: (_m_ , _m\'_)
element of **W** :
_TXRU virtualization model option-2B: Full-connection model with 2D
virtualization_
The 2D full-connection model is defined in the following:
**\- q** is given by q=Wx
\- W is given by
\- Option A: For _m_ = 1, ..., M, _n_ = 1, ..., N, _p_ =1...P', _m\'_ = 1,...,
M~TXRU,~ _n\'_ = 1,...,P'*N~TXRU~
where, $k = m + M(n - 1) + \text{MN}(p - 1)$ , $k' = m' + M_{\text{TXRU}}(n' -
1)$: (_k, k'_) element of **W** :
where P' =2 if polarizations are virtualized together, and P'=1 if only co-
polarized elements are virtualized together.
  * Option B: a unity norm vector of the same length as option A.
_Time adaptability of TXRU virtualization weights_ :
\- Option 1: static within the simulation duration
Non-static TXRU to antenna element mapping is FFS. In case a non-static TXRU
to antenna element mapping is used in evaluations, the time scale and method
has to be described by the proponent.
### 5.2.3 Port virtualization model
A port virtualization model defines the relation between the signals at the
antenna ports and the signals at the TXRUs.
## 5.3 Channel reciprocity modelling for FDD
For FDD evaluations utilizing channel reciprocity, a channel model including
both uplink and downlink channels is required. One example of such model is
given below (see [7]), where this model is based on [IST-4-027756 WINNER II
D1.1.2 V1.2 WINNER II Channel Models, Part 1, Channel models, Section 5.4.3].
The model contains the following assumptions and modifications and applies to
the fast fading channel generation steps in Section 7.3 in [3].
\- The duplex distance $f_{\text{DL}} - f_{\text{UL}}$ is larger than the
channel coherence bandwidth.
\- The small scale parameters are modeled as equal in uplink and downlink
channel:
\- Cluster (sub)-ray arrival and departure
directions$\theta_{\text{ZOA},}\theta_{\text{ZOD},}\theta_{\text{AOA},}\theta_{\text{AOD}}$.
\- The delays and relative powers of the clusters
\- The XPRs
\- The uplink carrier frequency wavelength $\lambda_{0}$ is changed with
respect to the downlink, as a result:
\- New path loss factors are calculated for uplink channel.
\- Phase changes between antenna elements, e.g. $2\text{πλ}_{0}^{- 1}\left(
{\hat{r}}_{\text{tx},n,m}^{T}\text{.}{\overline{d}}_{\text{tx},s} \right)$ and
Doppler shift $v_{n,m}$ are modified according to the uplink carrier frequency
wavelength
\- New and independent random initial
phases$\Phi^{\text{θθ}},\Phi^{\text{θφ}},\Phi^{\text{φθ}},\Phi^{\text{φφ}}$
are drawn for the uplink channel.
# 6 Potential enhancements for elevation beamforming/FD-MIMO
_Editor's note: This section will capture the potential enhancements_
## 6.1 Implementation based enhancement schemes
An implementation based enhancement scheme serves as a baseline for assessing
a specification based enhancement scheme. For FDD scenarios, category 2
(section 6.1.2) is used as a default baseline while category 3 (section 6.1.3)
is an optional baseline. For TDD scenarios, category 4 (section 6.1.4) is used
as a baseline. Further details of the baseline schemes are summarized in [8].
### 6.1.1 Category 1: Sectorization (in one or both of vertical and horizontal
domains) with different cell-ID for each sector
This category comprises of schemes where two or more sectors, each associated
with a different cell-ID, are associated with an antenna array. Up to eight
CSI-RS ports can be configured in each sector. The CSI-RS ports associated
with a sector can be used for enabling beamforming/precoding in the azimuth
dimension only, in the elevation dimension only or in both azimuth and
elevation dimensions. Note that in addition to the azimuth and elevation
dimensions, the polarization dimension may be available for
beamforming/precoding in all cases. The ports within each sector are compliant
with Rel-12 specifications.
Generally this category of schemes is applicable to 16 or more TXRUs, although
with more than 16 TXRUs colliding CRS will be used. In general each TXRU is
mapped to a set of co-polarized antenna elements. In case the sectors are
formed using only TXRU virtualization, each TXRU is exclusively dedicated to
serving a single sector and the CSI-RS to TXRU mapping can be simply 1-to-1
within the sector. Alternatively the sectors can be formed at baseband for
example when Q=M*N*P (the number of TXRUs is equal to the number of antenna
elements). In this case a single CSI-RS port is mapped to multiple TXRUs using
virtualization weights. In this category of schemes each UE is associated with
a single sector and is served using a single CSI-process.
### 6.1.2 Category 2: Virtual sectorization using one or more beamformed CSI-
RS resource(s) with a single cell-ID (single sector as a special case)
This category comprises of schemes where one or more CSI-RS resources, each
CSI-RS resource defining a different virtual sector, are configured and
associated with an antenna array. All the CSI-RS resources (associated with
the same antenna array) are assigned the same cell-ID. The CSI-RS ports
corresponding to a virtual sector can be used for enabling
beamforming/precoding in the azimuth dimension only, in the elevation
dimension only or in both azimuth and elevation dimensions. Note that in
addition to the azimuth and elevation dimensions, the polarization dimension
may be available for beamforming/precoding in all cases. The CSI-RS ports
defining each virtual sector are compliant with Rel-12 specifications.
Generally this category of schemes is applicable to 16 or more TXRUs. In
general, each TXRU is mapped to a set of co-polarized antenna elements. In
case the virtual sectors are formed using only TXRU virtualization, each TXRU
is exclusively dedicated to serving a single virtual sector and the CSI-RS to
TXRU mapping can be simply 1-to-1 within the virtual sector. Alternatively,
the virtual sectors can be formed at baseband, for example when Q=M*N*P (the
number of TXRUs is equal to the number of antenna elements). In this case a
single CSI-RS port is mapped to multiple TXRUs using virtualization weights.
In this category of schemes each UE is associated with a single virtual sector
and is served using a single CSI-process.
Single sector case: This special case is generally applicable to any number of
TXRUs. A 1D (azimuth or elevation) or 2D TXRU virtualization can be used. In
general each TXRU is mapped to a set of co-polarized antenna elements. In the
case of 8 TXRUs, an 8-port CSI-RS resource is mapped to the 8 TXRUs using 1-D
or 2-D virtualization weights. In the case of 6 TXRUs and 8 port CSI-RS can be
used with a 1-1 mapping for 6 TXRUs and no transmission on the remaining two
ports. In the case of 16TXRUs, 8 CSI-RS ports are mapped onto 16TXRUs, where
each CSI-RS port is mapped onto 1-D 2 TXRUs. In case the number of TXRUs is
more than 16, a CSI-RS port is mapped to multiple TXRUs using 1-D or 2-D
virtualization weights. A single CSI-process can be used per UE.
### 6.1.3 Category 3: Kronecker precoding with 2 CSI processes
This category comprises of schemes where two CSI-RS resources, one associated
with the azimuth dimension and another with the elevation dimension, are
configured and associated with an antenna array. The polarization dimension
can be included in either of the CSI-RS resources depending on implementation.
CSI-RS ports are transmitted on elements in the vertical and horizontal axes
of the array. A UE is configured with two CSI processes -- one associated with
the azimuth CSI-RS resource and another associated with the elevation CSI-RS
resource. The two CSI processes are used for obtaining precoder information
for the azimuth and the elevation dimensions separately from the UE. At the
eNB the azimuth and the elevation precoder information is used to form a 2D
precoder (with a Kronecker structure), and other link adaptation parameters
are determined for transmission. As an example, a 64 port precoder can be
formed at the eNB from CSI feedback comprising of a 8-port precoding feedback
in azimuth and 8-port rank-1 precoding feedback in elevation. The two CSI
processes are considered to be according to Rel-12 specifications.
Generally this category of schemes is applicable to 16 or more TXRUs.
### 6.1.4 Category 4: SRS based precoding scheme in TDD
This category comprises of schemes where one CSI-RS resource is configured and
associated with an antenna array and UEs are configured with no PMI/RI
reporting. The CSI-RS ports can be used for obtaining transmit diversity based
CSI information from the UEs. The beamforming/precoding that is applied is
determined at the eNB from the received SRS utilizing reciprocity principles.
The CSI-RS and CSI feedback are compliant with Rel-12 specifications.
Generally this category of schemes is applicable to any number of TXRUs. In
this category of schemes each UE is associated with a single CSI-process.
## 6.2 Specification based enhancement schemes
### 6.2.1 Potential CSI-RS and feedback enhancements
#### 6.2.1.1 Enhancements related to beamformed CSI-RS-based schemes
This category comprises schemes where (at least at a given time/frequency)
CSI-RS ports have narrow beam widths and hence not cell wide coverage, and (at
least from the eNB perspective) at least some CSI-RS port-resource
combinations have different beam directions. In this category, some potential
specification enhancements may include one or more of the following:
\- Measuring one or multiple beamformed CSI-RS resources. A resource can be a
NZP CSI-RS resource, CSI-RS port(s), a CSI process, or a DRS
\- Indicating selection of one or multiple resource(s)
\- CSI reporting, such as CQI and/or PMI(s)/RI(s), associated with the
selected resource(s)
\- Enhancements of the definition of CSI process, CSI-RS resource, CSI, and/or
DRS over Rel.12, possibly including where the enhanced definitions are used in
the other enhancements above
To implement such schemes, a serving eNB can determine at least a part of
beamforming weights from measuring UL signal(s) (applicable when DL-UL duplex
distance is sufficiently small to allow reciprocity) or beamformed DRS
measurements which are reported by one or more UEs. To assist beamforming
weight determination at the eNB, DRS measurement and CSI-RS enhancements may
be considered.
From the perspective of a serving eNB, beamformed CSI-RS resource can be
controlled and allocated either cell-specifically or UE-specifically.
Approaches for allocating beamformed CSI-RS resource(s) include and may not be
limited to the following:
**\- Approach 1** , UE-specific beamforming on configured CSI-RS resource: In
this approach, a serving eNB may dynamically change the beamforming weights
applied on a NZP CSI-RS resource configured to a UE. To ensure that the UE
resets the start time of a CSI measurement window when beamforming change
occurs, the UE may explicitly or implicitly receive an indication from the
eNB. Alternatively, the UE may be configured to always limit its NZP CSI-RS
measurement window (e.g. to 1 subframe). An interference measurement window
may also be used for CSI-IM measurements. Measurement resource restriction,
for either or both of CSI-IM and CSI-RS, may apply in the frequency domain as
well.
**\- Approach 2** , CSI-RS resource change for channel measurement: In this
approach, a UE is configured with M(>1) NZP CSI-RS resources. From those M
resources, the eNB selects N (>=1) resource(s) for a CSI process and signals
the selected resources to the UE. Alternatively, UE reports N selected CSI-RS
resource indices out of M configured CSI-RS resources.
**\- Approach 3** , Aperiodic beamformed CSI-RS: In this approach, a UE is
configured with a CSI process on which the actual NZP CSI-RS transmission and
CSI-IM measurement instances are controlled by eNB and signaled to the UE. The
measurement window can be configured by higher-layer signaling.
Approaches 1, 2, and 3 are not exclusive and may be combined. Some of these
approaches may be applicable to the existing schemes in this category and
those in section 6.2.1.2.
Several examples of schemes which fall under this category can be described as
follows.
**Scheme 1** : In this scheme, a UE is configured with a single CSI process
and a single NZP CSI-RS resource. CSI reporting is performed according to one
of the following alternatives:
\- Selection of one or more beams along with quantized co-phasing between two
polarization groups
\- Quantized co-phasing between two dual polarized ports without beam
selection. This alternative applies when a UE is configured with only one
beam.
\- Weighted linear combination of beams and quantized co-phasing between two
polarization groups
\- Selection of one or more beams per layer and/or per polarization in
conjunction with quantized co-phasing between two polarization groups
\- Reporting PMI(s) corresponding to the selected vertical beam(s) along with
the horizontal precoder within the selected beam(s)
\- Reporting PMI(s) corresponding to a codebook that may have non-constant
modulus elements
In an exemplary scheme, beams may be dynamic and UE-specific.
**Scheme 2** : In this scheme, similar to scheme 1, a UE is also configured
with a single CSI process and a single NZP CSI-RS resource. In addition, this
example is characterized by UE port selection. That is, a UE's CSI report is
associated with a port selection. For instance, an index representing
selection of port or a subset of ports, RI/CQI, or PMI/RI/CQI based on a
selected subset of ports can be reported. In this example, different ports
belonging to the NZP CSI-RS resource may be beamformed differently.
**Scheme 3** : In this scheme, a UE is configured with a single CSI process
and multiple NZP CSI-RS resources.
One alternative of this scheme performs selection of only one CSI-RS resource
along with its associated reporting. In this case, multiple beamformed NZP
CSI-RS resources are measured by a UE. Then the UE reports a beam index (BI)
of a single UE-preferred NZP CSI-RS resource along with a report of CSI, such
as PMI/RI/CQI, based on the preferred NZP CSI-RS resource.
Another alternative of this scheme performs selection of one or more CSI-RS
resources along with its associated reporting. This alternative is the same as
the first one except that the UE reports an indicator (for instance, BIs or a
bitmap) which select one or more beamformed NZP CSI-RS resources. The number
of selected resources can dynamically change. The UE also reports CSI, such as
PMI(s)/RI(s)/CQI, based on selected NZP CSI-RS resource(s) including either
separate RI/PMI per NZP CSI-RS resource or a single CSI report for all the
selected NZP CSI-RS resource(s).
**Scheme 4** : In this scheme, a UE is configured with multiple CSI processes
with a single NZP CSI-RS resource for each CSI process. The UE selects one or
more CSI processes and reports the associated CSI. Having been configured with
multiple CSI processes, the UE selects one or more CSI processes based on its
measurement on those CSI processes. CSI, such as CQI(s)/PMI(s)/RI(s),
associated with the selected CSI process(es) along with an index (or indices)
of the selected CSI process(es) is signaled.
**Scheme 5** : In this scheme, a two-step process which consists of DRS
selection and CSI-RS resource selection, along with their associated CSI
reporting, is utilized. A UE measures multiple beamformed DRSs and reports a
DRS index (DI) or, alternatively, a CSI-RSRP associated with the preferred
DRS(s). Then a beamformed CSI-RS resource is UE-specifically configured based
on the reported DI or CSI-RSRP. Based on this configured beamformed CSI-RS
resource, a report of CSI, such as RI/PMI/CQI, is signaled.
Reducing CSI feedback payload size and/or restricting the set of beam
directions in a UE-specific manner may be considered. Codebook subset
restriction (CSR) configured in a UE-specific manner may be used for this
purpose. In addition, CSI reporting without PMI and/or RI may be considered
for open-loop transmit diversity schemes.
#### 6.2.1.2 Enhancements related to non-precoded CSI-RS-based schemes
This category comprises schemes where different CSI-RS ports have the same
wide beam width and direction and hence generally cell wide coverage. In this
category, a CSI reporting scheme is associated with at least two components:
codebook(s) for the purpose of PMI reporting of 2-D antenna arrays and its
associated CSI reporting modes. Each precoding matrix or vector within a
codebook for CSI reporting can be described as **W** = **W** ~1~**W** ~2~
where **W** is used as a downlink transmission hypothesis for CSI calculation
at a UE. For this dual-stage precoding structure, a potential specification
enhancement on CSI reporting consists of the following CSI parameters:
\- PMI(s) corresponding to **W** ~1~ and/or **W** ~2~. Here one or multiple
PMIs, such as H-PMI (horizontal dimension) and V-PMI (vertical dimension), are
reported for **W** ~1~ and **W** ~2~, respectively. If multiple PMIs are
reported, different reporting rates and/or granularities for different PMIs
may or may not be used, and each of these PMIs can be reported either
periodically or aperiodically.
\- RI: a single RI or multiple RIs
\- CQI
Several examples of hypothesized precoding matrix structure of the above
scheme can be described as follows.
**Scheme 1** , Kronecker Product (KP) type codebook: In this example, the
precoding matrix **W** is extended from Rel.10/12 to support 2-D array where
**W** ~1~ can be described as follows:
Here ⊗ denotes the Kronecker product and the two sub-matrices represent two
polarization groups. The columns of $X_{V}^{l}$, $X_{V}^{l'}$, $X_{H}^{k}$, or
$X_{H}^{k'}$ are taken from a DFT matrix. A precoding codebook associated with
**W** ~2~ can follow one the following alternative designs:
\- The precoding matrix or vector **W** ~2~ corresponds to a quantized co-
phasing between two polarization groups in **W** ~1~ and may also include
column selection from **W** ~1~.
\- The precoding matrix or vector **W** ~2~ performs linear transformation to
**W** ~1~ per polarization, which may include beam selection, weighted linear
combination of beams.
\- The precoding matrix or vector **W** ~2~ performs distinct selection of
beams per layer and/or per polarization, and quantized co-phasing between two
polarization groups.
**Scheme 2** : This scheme follows scheme 1 yet with a further constraint of
$l = l'$and $k = k'$ to **W** ~1~. That is, the two sub-matrices of **W** ~1~
are identical.
**Scheme 3** : The codebook associated with **W** ~1~ contains only the
identity matrix. In this case, the associated PMI(s) correspond to
recommendation(s) of **W** ~2~ . In addition, RI, and CQI conditioned on
precoding matrix hypothesis **W** are reported.
**Scheme 4** : The precoding matrix or vector **W** ~1~ performs selection of
antenna ports.
**Scheme 5** : The precoding matrix or vector **W** ~1~ has the structure of
$W_{1} = \begin{bmatrix} \text{Col}\left\lbrack X_{H}^{k} \otimes X_{V}^{l}
\right\rbrack & 0 \ 0 & \text{Col}\left\lbrack X_{H}^{k'} \otimes X_{V}^{l'}
\right\rbrack \ \end{bmatrix}$, where $\text{Col}\left\lbrack
\right\rbrack$denotes a column selection operation which selects either all or
a subset of the columns in $X_{H}^{k} \otimes X_{V}^{l}$ (or $X_{H}^{k'}
\otimes X_{V}^{l'}$). The operator ⊗ denotes the Kronecker product and the two
sub-matrices represent two polarization groups. Each column of $X_{V}^{l}$,
$X_{V}^{l'}$, $X_{H}^{k}$, and $X_{H}^{k'}$ is taken from a DFT matrix. A
precoding codebook associated with **W** ~2~ can follow that in Scheme 1.
To support schemes in this category, enhancements on CSI-RS can be considered.
CSI-RS enhancements comprise schemes to support NZP CSI-RS resources whose
number of antenna ports is not supported in Rel-12, and/or schemes to support
multiple NZP CSI-RS resources for a CSI process with a total number of antenna
ports that may be different from those supported in Rel-12. Examples of a
number of antenna ports per CSI process or per CSI-RS resource that is not
supported in Rel-12 include 12, 16, 32, and 64.
In order to map CSI-RS ports onto REs and TXRUs, including the port numbering
mechanism, either full-port or partial-port mapping can be considered. For
full-port mapping, the full MIMO channel can be measured at the UE. All the
configured NZP CSI-RS may be mapped according to legacy CSI-RS RE mapping
patterns. For partial-port mapping, sub-sampling in time, frequency, and/or
spatial domain, as well as separate vertical and horizontal (V/H) CSI-RS
resources relative to a full-port mapping can be considered. These CSI-RS
mapping methods may require an additional procedure for CSI calculation.
For TDD, CSI-RS transmission in DwPTS may be considered.
Reducing CSI feedback payload size and/or restricting the set of beam
directions, i.e. PMIs, in a UE-specific manner may be considered. Codebook
subset restriction (CSR) configured in a UE-specific manner may be used for
this purpose. In addition, CSI reporting without CQI or short-term PMI, may be
considered for open-loop transmit diversity schemes.
An FD-MIMO CSI feedback framework that includes support for the cases when the
number of non-precoded CSI-RS ports is not constrained to a power of two is
beneficial for FD-MIMO. The benefits come in terms of antenna design
flexibility and easier fulfilment of antenna specific requirements such as
gain, beamwidth etc.
#### 6.2.1.3 Enhancements related to schemes based on hybrid beamformed CSI-RS
and non-precoded CSI-RS
This category comprises schemes where beamformed CSI-RS (cf. section 6.2.1.1)
is utilized in conjunction with non-precoded CSI-RS (cf. section 6.2.1.2)
which is transmitted at a lower rate than its companion beamformed CSI-RS. In
this case, precoding applied by a serving eNB to generate beamformed CSI-RS
can be derived based on CSI reporting from a UE. CSI reporting is performed in
two stages. In the first stage, the UE measures non-precoded CSI-RS and
reports CSI to the serving eNB. In the second stage, the UE measures
beamformed CSI-RS (configured by the serving eNB based on the first-stage
report) and reports CSI to the serving eNB.
Several examples of UE procedures for supporting this category can be
described as follows.
**Scheme 1** : A UE reports CSI measured on non-precoded CSI-RS. In response
to this first-stage CSI reporting, a UE is configured with a beamformed CSI-RS
resource. Then CSI reporting procedures associated with beamformed CSI-RS
follow.
**Scheme 2** : A UE reports RI measured on non-precoded CSI-RS. In response to
the reported RI, a UE is configured with a beamformed CSI-RS resource. For
this operation, an additional CSI measurement which is conditioned on the
availability of DL-UL channel reciprocity is needed at the serving eNB. Then
CSI reporting procedures associated with beamformed CSI-RS follow.
#### 6.2.1.4 Enhancements related to non codebook based CSI reporting for TDD
This category comprises schemes for extending Rel.12 non-codebook-based CSI
reporting modes particularly for TDD systems. Generally this category of
schemes is applicable for TDD systems where a serving eNB configures a UE for
non-codebook-based CSI reporting (including RI and/or CQI, but without PMI).
In this category, the following schemes may be considered:
\- Beamformed CSI-RS based CQI/RI: Reporting CQI and/or RI derived from
measuring beamformed CSI-RS. Beamformed CSI-RS can be cell-specific or UE-
specific.
\- Hybrid CSI-RS based CQI and RI: Reporting RI derived from measuring non-
precoded CSI-RS and CQI derived from measuring beamformed CSI-RS where non-
precoded CSI-RS is transmitted at a lower rate than beamformed CSI-RS.
#### 6.2.1.5 Enhancements related to SRS
This category comprises schemes where extended SRS over the SRS features
supported in Rel.12 are utilized to enable CSI reporting. These schemes are
targeted to enhance SRS capacity and UL channel estimation accuracy at a
serving eNB. Generally this category of schemes is applicable for systems
where a serving eNB may use UL measurements to determine DL CSI from SRS by
DL-UL channel reciprocity.
In this category, the following schemes can be considered:
\- Transmitting SRS on unused PUSCH DMRS resources
\- Transmitting SRS on PUSCH resources
\- Increasing the number of SRS combs
\- 4Tx antenna switching for SRS transmission
\- Precoded SRS
\- Increasing the number of UpPTs SC-FDMA symbols utilized for SRS
transmission
### 6.2.2 Potential DMRS enhancements
This category comprises schemes where extended downlink DMRS (UE-RS) over the
DMRS features supported in Rel.12 are utilized to reduce mutual interference
among DMRS ports. Generally this category of schemes is applicable when a
serving eNB intends to increase the number of orthogonal DMRS ports for MU-
MIMO and/or the amount of PRB bundling.
In this category, the following alternatives may be applicable:
\- Alternative 1: 12 DM-RS REs with OCC = 4 for up to total 4 layers per
scrambling sequence, This alternative allows up to total 4 layers per
scrambling sequence
\- Alternative 2: 24 DM-RS REs with OCC = 2 for up to total 4 layers per
scrambling sequence, This alternative allows up to total 4 layers per
scrambling sequence
\- Alternative 3: 24 DM-RS REs with OCC = 4 for up to total 8 layers per
scrambling sequence, This alternative allows up to total 8 layers per
scrambling sequence
\- Alternative 4: DM-RS estimation accuracy improvement by advanced receiver
assuming interference channel estimation
\- Alternative 5: Larger PRG size
### 6.2.3 Potential enhancements for RRM measurements
This category comprises schemes where extended RRM measurements are enabled
for the purpose of cell association when cells equipped with 2-D antenna
arrays are operated.
For this category, Rel-12 DRS-based RRM measurement can be reused for EBF/FD-
MIMO.
# 7 Evaluation results
## 7.1 Phase 1 results
### 7.1.1 Scenario 1 (3D-UMa with ISD 500m)
Table 7.1.1-1: FTP results (ISD-500m, CF= 2GHz, Geographical wrapping, FDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** | **Source 2** | **Source 3** | **Source 4** | **Source 5** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8** | **Source 9** | **Source 10** | **Source 11** | **Source** **14** | **SOURCE 16** | **Source 17** | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-151935 | R1-145008 | R1-151980 | R1-150218 | R1-152153 | R1-151409 | R1-144669 | R1-144593 | R1-151551 | R1-145014 | R1-151629 | R1-151362 | R1-152143 | R1-150683 |  |   
20 | λ | 1.7 | 1.5 | 1.5 | 1.6 | 2.5 | 1.2 | 1.5 | 1.4 | 2.0 | 1.5 | 1.7 | 2 | 1 | 1 |  |   
| RU | 20% | 22% | 19.4% | 18% | 22% | 20% | 19.7 | 21% | 21.2% | 18.0% | 21.7% | 20% | 18% | 20% |  |   
| Mean | 33.79 | 35.90 | 34.8 | 37.20 | 35.22 | 30.37 | 32.09 | 31.40 | 33.92 | 31.88 | 33.31 | 36.10 | 21.18 | 31.68 | 32.77 | 33.55  
| 50% |  | 31.30 | 34.10 | 39.60 | 34.78 | 24.86 | 27.21 | 29.20 | 31.75 | 33.33 | 29.20 | 30.34 | 20.61 | 28.13 | 30.34 | 30.34  
| 5% | 12.03 | 7.71 | 11.70 | 12.00 | 11.27 | 7.4 | 11.24 | 9.60 | 12.01 | 11.70 | 10.23 | 11.43 | 5.19 | 9.36 | 10.21 | 11.26  
50 | λ | 3.4 | 3.0 | 3.0 | 3.4 | 4 | 2.1 | 3 | 3.0 | 3.5 | 3.25 | 3.0 | 4 | 2 | 1.8 |  |   
| RU | 50% | 58% | 50.5% | 49% | 59% | 50% | 50.6 | 51% | 48.0% | 48.8% | 50.6% | 48% | 57% | 50% |  |   
| Mean | 23.26 | 19.10 | 21.60 | 25.70 | 21.84 | 20.36  | 20.19 | 22.40 | 21.77 | 22.36 | 22.01 | 25.46 | 17.31 | 18.16 | 21.63 | 21.84  
| 50% |  | 12.90 | 17.30 | 22.10 | 18.26 | 15.16 | 16.26 | 19.50 | 17.93 | 20.15 | 18.77 | 21.43 | 14.17 | 15.38 | 17.64 | 17.93  
| 5% | 5.27 | 3.07 | 5.20 | 4.86 | 3.75 | 3.33 | 5.27 | 5.50 | 5.18 | 5.15 | 4.98 | 5.85 | 4.29 | 3.58 | 4.66 | 5.07  
70 | λ | 4.1 | 3.5 | 3.6 | 4.3 | 5 | 2.6 | 4 | 4.0 | 4.2 | 4.25 | 4.0 | 5 | 3.5 | 2.7 |  |   
| RU | 70% | 72% | 70.2% | 69% | 77% | 70% | 73.6 | 71% | 66.0% | 68.2% | 70.9% | 67% | 71% | 70% |  |   
| Mean | 16.24 | 15.00 | 15.20 | 20.30 | 16.73 | 14.97 | 13.36 | 18.20 | 15.65 | 17.05 | 14.63 | 19.20 | 11.79 | 13.94 | 15.88 | 15.43  
| 50% |  | 9.50 | 11.40 | 15.20 | 11.70 | 9.84 | 10.81 | 14.40 | 11.80 | 13.65 | 11.14 | 14.77 | 8.81 | 12.75 | 11.98 | 11.70  
| 5% | 2.68 | 2.37 | 2.80 | 2.46 | 1.72 | 1.97 | 2.84 | 3.50 | 2.83 | 2.58 | 2.27 | 3.46 | 3.23 | 2.34 | 2.65 | 2.63  
Table 7.1.1-2: FTP results (ISD-500m, CF= 2GHz, Geographical wrapping, TDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 2** | **Source 5** | **Source 8** | **Source 13** | **SOURCE 16** | **Source 18** |  |  |  |  |  | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-145009 | R1-152153 | R1-144593 | R1-144945 | R1-152143 | R1-152184 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ |  | 1.8 | 1.5 |  | 1.5 | 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU |  | 22% | 21% |  | 27% | 23.4% |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean |  | 35.57 | 33.00 |  | 32.48 | 33.95 |  |  |  |  |  | 33.75 | 33.48  
| 50% |  | 36.36 | 32.30 |  | 29.73 | 30.34 |  |  |  |  |  | 32.18 | 31.32  
| 5% |  | 9.73 | 9.7 |  | 8.33 | 8.33 |  |  |  |  |  | 9.02 | 9.02  
| λ | 3.0 | 3.5 | 3.2 |  | 2.5 | 4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU | 43% | 52% | 52% |  | 61% | 62.7% |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean | 27.50 | 27.15 | 23.70 | 22.90 | 18.43 | 20.26 |  |  |  |  |  | 23.32 | 23.30  
| 50% | 21.80 | 23.67 | 20.50 | 17.10 | 20.73 | 16.33 |  |  |  |  |  | 20.02 | 20.62  
| 5% | 5.60 | 5.52 | 6.3 | 3.70 | 5.41 | 2.59 |  |  |  |  |  | 4.85 | 5.47  
| λ |  | 4.5 | 4.6 |  | 4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU |  | 70% | 71% |  | 82% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean |  | 24.00 | 19.10 |  | 13.27 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 18.79 | 19.10  
| 50% |  | 19.90 | 15.90 |  | 12.38 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 16.06 | 15.90  
| 5% |  | 3.35 | 3.90 |  | 2.9 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 3.38 | 3.35  
Table 7.1.1-3: FTP results (ISD-500m, CF=2GHz Radio-distance wrapping, FDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-151935 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ | 1.7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean | 33.27 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 33.27 | 33.27  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% | 11.72 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 11.72 | 11.72  
| λ | 3.2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean | 22.60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 22.60 | 22.60  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% | 5.03 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 5.03 | 5.03  
| λ | 3.9 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean | 17.22 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 17.22 | 17.22  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% | 2.81 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 2.81 | 2.81  
Table 7.1.1-4: Full-queue results (ISD-500m, CF=2GHz Geographical wrapping,
FDD)
* * *
              **Source 2**   **Source 4**   **Source 5**   **Source 11**   **Source 14**   **Source 9**   **Source 15**   **SOURCE 16**                  **Avg.**   **Med.**
              R1-145008      R1-150218      R1-152153      R1-151629       R1-151362       R1-151551      R1-151690       R1-152143
Cell avg. 2.50 3.32 3.00 2.85 3.39 3.13 2.63 2.45 2.91 2.93 Cell edge 0.09
0.07 0.06 0.06 0.0642 0.070 0.081 0.06 0.07 0.07
* * *
Table 7.1.1-5: Full-queue results (ISD-500m, CF=2GHz Geographical wrapping,
TDD)
* * *
              **Source 5**   **SOURCE 16**   **Source18**                              **Avg.**   **Med.**
              R1-152153      R1-152143       R1-152184
Cell avg. 3.41 3.04 4.25 3.57 3.41 Cell edge 0.11 0.08 0.053 0.08 0.08
* * *
### 7.1.2 Scenario 2 (3D-UMa with ISD 200m)
Table 7.1.2-1: FTP results (ISD-200m, CF=2GHz Geographical wrapping, FDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** | **Source 2** | **Source 3** | **Source 4** | **Source 5** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8** | **Source 9** | **Source 10** | **Source 11** | **Source 14** | **Source 17** | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-151935 | R1-145008 | R1-151980 | R1-150218 | R1-152153 | R1-151409 | R1-144669 | R1-144593 | R1-151551 | R1-145014 | R1-151629 | R1- 151362 | R1-150683 |  |   
| λ | 1.8 | 1.5 | 1.6 | 1.6 | 2.5 | 1.5 | 1.5 | 1.6 | 2.0 | 1.5 | 1.4 | 2 | 0.9 |  |   
| RU | 20% | 17% | 20.7% | 16% | 23% | 20% | 20.2 | 19% | 22.6% | 16.7% | 20.0% | 18% | 20% |  |   
20 | Mean | 34.48 | 42.50 | 34.30 | 38.70 | 35.28 | 36.31 | 31.94 | 37.60 | 32.36 | 33.95 | 32.11 | 38.48 | 32.1 | 35.39 | 34.48  
| 50% |  | 40.50 | 33.30 | 42.60 | 35.09 | 32 | 28.57 | 39.60 | 29.85 | 36.70 | 28.04 | 37.27 | 29.25 | 34.40 | 34.20  
| 5% | 13.46 | 10.32 | 11.20 | 13.70 | 10.72 | 9.93 | 11.66 | 14.80 | 11.37 | 13.99 | 9.11 | 14.46 | 10.70 | 11.96 | 11.37  
| λ | 3.2 | 3 | 2.9 | 3.4 | 4 | 2.4 | 3 | 3.0 | 3.5 | 3.25 | 2.6 | 4 | 1.9 |  |   
| RU | 50% | 55% | 52.1% | 52% | 59% | 50% | 50.1 | 49% | 53.8% | 46.0% | 49.5% | 52% | 50% |  |   
50 | Mean | 22.28 | 21.50 | 20.20 | 24.20 | 21.23 | 21.21 | 20.95 | 24.40 | 18.63 | 22.95 | 20.96 | 22.63 | 18.01 | 21.47 | 21.23  
| 50% |  | 15.40 | 16.30 | 20.60 | 17.02 | 15.64 | 17.17 | 21.50 | 15.09 | 20.73 | 17.78 | 18.87 | 15.00 | 17.59 | 17.10  
| 5% | 4.99 | 4.18 | 4.90 | 4.27 | 3.80 | 3.32 | 6.75 | 6.10 | 4.28 | 5.76 | 3.67 | 4.98 | 3.58 | 4.66 | 4.28  
| λ | 3.9 | 3.5 | 3.6 | 4.3 | 5 | 3.2 | 4 | 4.0 | 4.2 | 4.25 | 3.3 | 5 | 2.6 |  |   
| RU | 70% | 68% | 71.7% | 73% | 77% | 70% | 72.7 | 73% | 73.2% | 69.2% | 70.1% | 71% | 70% |  |   
70 | Mean | 15.60 | 16.00 | 14.10 | 18.40 | 17.18 | 14.4 | 13.16 | 16.90 | 12.26 | 16.84 | 15.72 | 16.85 | 14.0 | 15.49 | 15.72  
| 50% |  | 10.50 | 10.50 | 13.10 | 12.16 | 9.26 | 10.50 | 13.60 | 8.77 | 13.42 | 12.31 | 12.61 | 9.7 | 11.37 | 11.33  
| 5% | 2.57 | 2.79 | 2.80 | 2.02 | 1.77 | 1.71 | 3.35 | 3.30 | 1.91 | 2.71 | 1.73 | 2.69 | 2.56 | 2.45 | 2.57  
Table 7.1.2-2: FTP results (ISD-200m, CF= 2GHz, Geographical wrapping, TDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 2** | **Source 5** | **Source 8** | **Source 13** | **SOURCE 16** | **Source 18** |  |  |  |  |  | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-145009 | R1-152153 | R1-144593 | R1-144945 | R1-152143 | R1-152184 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ |  | 1.8 | 1.6 |  | 1.5 | 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU |  | 21% | 18 |  | 26% | 18.1% |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean |  | 40.16 | 40.00 |  | 34.38 | 37.89 |  |  |  |  |  | 38.11 | 38.95  
| 50% |  | 43.96 | 42.60 |  | 31.86 | 37.68 |  |  |  |  |  | 39.03 | 40.14  
| 5% |  | 15.50 | 16.30 |  | 8.83 | 12.71 |  |  |  |  |  | 13.34 | 14.11  
| λ | 3.0 | 3.5 | 3.2 |  | 2.5 | 4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU | 42% | 49% | 53% |  | 59% | 51.9% |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean | 31.50 | 28.19 | 22.90 | 24.10 | 21.98 | 23.02 |  |  |  |  |  | 25.28 | 23.56  
| 50% | 26.70 | 25.64 | 20.10 | 18.20 | 19.14 | 19.7 |  |  |  |  |  | 21.58 | 19.90  
| 5% | 7.70 | 6.19 | 5.80 | 4.10 | 6.97 | 4.8 |  |  |  |  |  | 5.93 | 6.00  
| λ |  | 4.5 | 4.0 |  | 4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU |  | 71% | 72% |  | 83% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean |  | 23.89 | 17.50 |  | 14.42 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 18.60 | 17.50  
| 50% |  | 20.41 | 14.40 |  | 13.07 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 15.96 | 14.40  
| 5% |  | 3.26 | 3.90 |  | 3.39 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 3.52 | 3.39  
Table 7.1.2-3: FTP results (ISD-200m, CF=2GHz Radio-distance wrapping, FDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-151935 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ | 1.7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean | 33.24 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 33.24 | 33.24  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% | 12.50 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 12.50 | 12.50  
| λ | 3.0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean | 21.59 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 21.59 | 21.59  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% | 4.74 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 4.74 | 4.74  
| λ | 3.6 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean | 15.24 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 15.24 | 15.24  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% | 2.45 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 2.45 | 2.45  
Table 7.1.2-4: Full-queue results (ISD-200m, CF=2GHz Geographical wrapping,
FDD)
* * *
              **Source 2**   **Source 4**   **Source 5**   **Source 11**   **Source 14**   **Source 9**   **Source 15**               **Avg.**   **Med.**
              R1-145008      R1-150218      R1-152153      R1-151629       R1-151362       R1-151551      R1-151690
Cell avg. 2.58 3.11 2.93 2.68 3.30 2.97 2.76 2.90 2.93 Cell edge 0.09 0.07
0.059 0.052 0.0601 0.065 0.082 0.07 0.07
* * *
Table 7.1.2-5: Full-queue results (ISD-200m, CF=2GHz Geographical wrapping,
TDD)
* * *
              **Source 5**   **SOURCE 16**   **Source18**                                 **Avg.**   **Med.**
              R1-152153      R1-152143       R1-152184
Cell avg. 3.27 3.07 3.86 3.40 3.27 Cell edge 0.081 0.09 0.058 0.08 0.08
* * *
Table 7.1.2-6: FTP results (ISD-200m, CF=3.5GHz Geographical wrapping, FDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 7** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-144669 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ | 1.5 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU | 18.4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean | 32.71 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 32.71 | 32.71  
| 50% | 31.25 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 31.25 | 31.25  
| 5% | 12.42 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 12.42 | 12.42  
| λ | 3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean | 17.79 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 17.79 | 17.79  
| 50% | 14.29 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 14.29 | 14.29  
| 5% | 5.41 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 5.41 | 5.41  
| λ | 4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU | 70.3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean | 13.78 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 13.78 | 13.78  
| 50% | 10.87 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 10.87 | 10.87  
| 5% | 2.69 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 2.69 | 2.69  
### 7.1.3 Scenario 3 (3D-UMi with ISD 200m)
Table 7.1.3-1: FTP results (ISD-200m, CF=2GHz Geographical wrapping, FDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** | **Source 2** | **Source 3** | **Source 4** | **Source 5** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8** | **Source 9** | **Source 10** | **Source 11** | **Source 14** | **SOURCE 16** | **Source 17** | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-151935 | R1-145008 | R1-151980 | R1-150218 | R1-152153 | R1-151409 | R1-151828 | R1-144593 | R1-151551 | R1-145014 | R1-151629 | R1- 151362 | R1-152143 | R1-150683 |  |   
| λ | 1.7 | 1.5 | 1.6 | 1.6 | 2.5 | 1.4 | 1.4 | 1.4 | 2.0 | 1.5 | 1.4 | 2 | 1 | 0.9 |  |   
| RU | 20% | 19% | 21.4% | 17% | 22% | 20% | 18.1 | 20% | 22.1% | 17.5% | 20.3% | 17% | 19% | 20% |  |   
20 | Mean | 34.09 | 38.90 | 33.90 | 37.50 | 35.40 | 34.22 | 29.6 | 32.40 | 33.00 | 32.87 | 32.35 | 39.19 | 21.54 | 30.03 | 33.21 | 33.45  
| 50% |  | 36.40 | 32.50 | 40.00 | 35.40 | 29.48 | 25.83 | 30.30 | 30.30 | 34.78 | 28.37 | 38.96 | 19.38 | 26.77 | 31.42 | 30.30  
| 5% | 12.31 | 9.20 | 10.80 | 12.70 | 12.12 | 8.24 | 11.8 | 9.90 | 11.80 | 12.66 | 10.44 | 14.53 | 5.28 | 8.37 | 10.73 | 11.30  
| λ | 3.1 | 3.0 | 2.8 | 3.4 | 4 | 2.3 | 2.8 | 2.9 | 3.5 | 3.25 | 2.6 | 4 | 2 | 2.2 |  |   
| RU | 50% | 57% | 51.9% | 53% | 59% | 50% | 48.9 | 51% | 49.0% | 48.0% | 48.4% | 50% | 57% | 50% |  |   
50 | Mean | 22.25 | 20.30 | 20.60 | 24.50 | 22.23 | 20.49 | 20.1 | 22.80 | 21.02 | 23.06 | 20.92 | 24.93 | 16.82 | 18.50 | 21.32 | 20.97  
| 50% |  | 13.80 | 16.20 | 20.40 | 17.47 | 15.14 | 14.35 | 19.60 | 17.24 | 20.73 | 17.20 | 21.03 | 12.37 | 15.60 | 17.01 | 17.20  
| 5% | 4.70 | 3.57 | 4.90 | 4.18 | 3.60 | 3.13 | 4.23 | 5.10 | 4.99 | 5.35 | 4.19 | 5.67 | 4.18 | 3.60 | 4.39 | 4.21  
| λ | 3.8 | 3.5 | 3.4 | 4.3 | 5 | 2.8 | 3.3 | 3.8 | 4.2 | 4.25 | 3.3 | 5 | 3.5 | 2.7 |  |   
| RU | 70% | 73% | 70.3% | 74% | 77% | 70% | 71.1 | 71% | 68.3% | 68.9% | 70.4% | 70% | 75% | 70% |  |   
70 | Mean | 16.05 | 14.60 | 14.50 | 19.20 | 17.85 | 13.67 | 15,98 | 18.00 | 14.43 | 17.33 | 14.06 | 18.22 | 12.17 | 15.2 | 15.79 | 15.20  
| 50% |  | 8.70 | 10.70 | 13.60 | 12.31 | 8.97 | 12.87 | 14.10 | 10.61 | 13.70 | 10.42 | 13.45 | 9.83 | 10.87 | 11.55 | 10.87  
| 5% | 2.25 | 2.41 | 2.80 | 1.94 | 1.75 | 1.81 | 2,36 | 3.70 | 2.44 | 2.43 | 1.89 | 3.01 | 2.48 | 2.44 | 2.41 | 2.43  
Table 7.1.3-2: FTP results (ISD-200m, CF= 2GHz, Geographical wrapping, TDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 2** | **Source 5** | **Source 8** | **Source 13** | **SOURCE 16** | **Source18** |  |  |  |  |  | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-145009 | R1-152153 | R1-144593 | R1-144945 | R1-152143 | R1-152184 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ |  | 1.9 | 1.5 |  | 1.5 | 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU |  | 20% | 20% |  | 24% | 19.8% |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean |  | 38.23 | 34.60 |  | 32.15 | 36.93 |  |  |  |  |  | 35.48 | 35.77  
| 50% |  | 40.82 | 33.90 |  | 29.51 | 36.09 |  |  |  |  |  | 35.08 | 35.00  
| 5% |  | 13.47 | 11.20 |  | 9.44 | 10.92 |  |  |  |  |  | 11.26 | 11.06  
| λ | 3.0 | 3.5 | 3.0 |  | 2.5 | 4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU | 44% | 47% | 48% |  | 56% | 53.6% |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean | 26.50 | 29.80 | 24.90 | 23.50 | 22.41 | 23.72 |  |  |  |  |  | 25.14 | 24.31  
| 50% | 18.80 | 27.59 | 21.70 | 18.20 | 21.74 | 19.93 |  |  |  |  |  | 21.33 | 20.82  
| 5% | 4.70 | 6.01 | 6.10 | 3.90 | 6.13 | 4.29 |  |  |  |  |  | 5.19 | 5.36  
| λ |  | 4.5 | 4.2 |  | 4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU |  | 70% | 68% |  | 78% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean |  | 23.72 | 24.90 |  | 12.07 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 20.23 | 23.72  
| 50% |  | 19.80 | 21.70 |  | 11.65 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 17.72 | 19.80  
| 5% |  | 3.46 | 6.10 |  | 3.1 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 4.22 | 3.46  
Table 7.1.3-3: FTP results (ISD-200m, CF=2GHz Radio-distance wrapping, FDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-151935 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ | 1.7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean | 32.99 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 32.99 | 32.99  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% | 11.54 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 11.54 | 11.54  
| λ | 3.0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean | 21.62 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 21.62 | 21.62  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% | 4.51 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 4.51 | 4.51  
| λ | 3.6 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean | 15.91 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 15.91 | 15.91  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% | 2.552 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 2.552 | 2.552  
Table 7.1.3-4: Full-queue results (ISD-200m, CF=2GHz Geographical wrapping,
FDD)
* * *
              **Source 2**   **Source 4**   **Source 5**   **Source 11**   **Source 14**   **Source 9**   **Source 15**   **SOURCE 16**            **Avg.**   **Med.**
              R1-145008      R1-150218      R1-152153      R1-151629       R1-151362       R1-151551      R1-151690       R1-152143
Cell avg. 2.63 3.16 2.94 2.68 3.39 3.00 2.65 2.45 2.86 2.81 Cell edge 0.09
0.07 0.06 0.052 0.0630 0.063 0.079 0.07 0.07 0.07
* * *
Table 7.1.3-5: Full-queue results (ISD-200m, CF=2GHz Geographical wrapping,
TDD)
* * *
              **Source 5**   **SOURCE 16**   **Source18**                           **Avg.**   **Med.**
              R1-152153      R1-152143       R1-152184
Cell avg. 3.5 3.08 4.09 3.56 3.50 Cell edge 0.09 0.08 0.05 0.07 0.08
* * *
Table 7.1.3-6: FTP results (ISD-200m, CF=3.5GHz Geographical wrapping, FDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** | **Source 2** | **Source 3** | **Source 4** | **Source 5** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8** | **Source 9** | **Source 10** | **Source 11** | **Source 14** | **Source 17** | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-151935 | R1-145008 | R1-144974 | R1-150218 |  | R1-151409 | R1-144669 | R1-144593 | R1-151551 | R1-145014 | R1-151629 | R1- 151362 | R1-150683 |  |   
| λ | 1.6 | 1.5 |  | 1.6 |  | 1.3 | 1.5 | 1.2 | 2.0 |  | 1.4 | 2 | 1 |  |   
| RU | 20% | 24% |  | 18% |  | 20% | 19.9 | 20% | 22.7% |  | 21.7% | 19% | 20% |  |   
20 | Mean | 33.13 | 34.40 | 33.90 | 36.50 |  | 31.86 | 31.89 | 31.30 | 31.83 |  | 31.87 | 37.10 | 28.50 | 32.93 | 31.89  
| 50% |  | 30.80 | 33.00 | 38.10 |  | 26.42 | 28.17 | 29.40 | 28.99 |  | 27.81 | 33.03 | 24.73 | 30.05 | 29.20  
| 5% | 10.81 | 6.65 | 10.10 | 11.40 |  | 7.37 | 10.36 | 8.00 | 10.50 |  | 8.81 | 11.69 | 7.36 | 9.37 | 10.10  
| λ | 3.0 | 3.0 |  | 3.4 |  | 2.1 | 3 | 2.7 | 3.5 |  | 2.5 | 4 | 1.8 |  |   
| RU | 50% | 65% |  | 55% |  | 50% | 55.2 | 50% | 52.8% |  | 48.1% | 50% | 50% |  |   
50 | Mean | 22.52 | 16.90 | 20.80 | 23.80 |  | 19.59 | 18.43 | 21.40 | 19.16 |  | 22.46 | 24.63 | 18.06 | 20.70 | 20.80  
| 50% |  | 10.60 | 16.50 | 19.80 |  | 14.81 | 14.18 | 17.80 | 14.93 |  | 18.52 | 20.88 | 15.33 | 16.34 | 15.92  
| 5% | 4.77 | 2.55 | 4.70 | 3.75 |  | 3.43 | 4.33 | 5.00 | 3.94 |  | 4.15 | 5.23 | 3.32 | 4.11 | 4.15  
| λ | 3.7 | 3.5 |  | 4.3 |  | 2.7 | 4 | 3.8 | 4.2 |  | 3.3 | 5 | 2.7 |  |   
| RU | 70% | 78% |  | 75% |  | 70% | 7.6 | 72% | 73.1% |  | 71.5% | 70% | 70% |  |   
70 | Mean | 16.02 | 12.20 | 14.50 | 18.50 |  | 13.85 | 12.90 | 15.70 | 12.27 |  | 15.94 | 17.86 | 13.61 | 14.85 | 14.50  
| 50% |  | 7.00 | 10.60 | 12.90 |  | 8.96 | 10.03 | 12.30 | 8.68 |  | 12.02 | 13.34 | 9.65 | 10.55 | 10.32  
| 5% | 2.34 | 1.77 | 2.80 | 1.75 |  | 1.92 | 2.56 | 3.20 | 1.64 |  | 2.09 | 3.04 | 1.73 | 2.26 | 2.09  
Table 7.1.3-7: FTP results (ISD-200m, CF= 3.5GHz, Geographical wrapping, TDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 2** | **Source 8** | **Source 13** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-145009 | R1-144593 | R1-144945 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ |  | 1.3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU |  | 18% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean |  | 33.50 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 33.50 | 33.50  
| 50% |  | 33.10 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 33.10 | 33.10  
| 5% |  | 10.00 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 10.00 | 10.00  
| λ | 3.0 | 3.0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU | 46% | 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean | 24.70 | 23.30 | 21.70 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 23.23 | 23.30  
| 50% | 20.30 | 20.50 | 15.20 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 18.67 | 20.30  
| 5% | 3.80 | 5.80 | 3.30 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 4.30 | 3.80  
| λ |  | 3.8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU |  | 69% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean |  | 19.00 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 19.00 | 19.00  
| 50% |  | 15.30 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 15.30 | 15.30  
| 5% |  | 4.10 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 4.10 | 4.10  
Table 7.1.3-8: FTP results (ISD-200m, CF=3.5GHz Radio-distance wrapping, FDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-151935 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ | 1.6 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean | 32.44 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 32.44 | 32.44  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% | 10.92 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 10.92 | 10.92  
| λ | 2.9 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean | 21.90 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 21.90 | 21.90  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% | 4.72 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 4.72 | 4.72  
| λ | 3.6 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean | 15.27 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 15.27 | 15.27  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% | 2.38 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 2.38 | 2.38  
Table 7.1.3-9: Full-queue results (ISD-200m, CF=3.5GHz Geographical wrapping,
FDD)
| **Source 2** | **Source 4** | **Source 11** | **Source 9** | **Source** **14** |  |  |  |  |  | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| R1-145008 | R1-150218 | R1-151629 | R1-151551 | R1- 151362 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Cell avg. | 2.62 | 3.12 | 2.76 | 2.95 | 3.40 |  |  |  |  |  | 2.97 | 2.95  
Cell edge | 0.09 | 0.07 | 0.045 | 0.062 | 0.0636 |  |  |  |  |  | 0.07 | 0.06  
### 7.1.4 Scenario 4 (Non co-channel heterogeneous network case with macro and
small cell layer at different carrier frequencies)
Table 7.1.4-1: FTP results (Geographical wrapping, FDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1*** | **Source 2** | **Source 3*** | **Source 4*** | **Source 5**** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8** | **Source 9** | **Source 10** | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | R1-150665 |  | R1-151981 | R1-150220 | R1-152153 |  |  | R1-150050 |  |  |  |   
| λ | 6.4 |  | 6 | 7.5 | 10 |  |  | 1.1 |  |  |  |   
| RU | 24% |  | 18.8% | 23% | 23% |  |  | 20% |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean | 34.8 |  | 36.30 | 35.8 | 34.96 |  |  | 26.0 |  |  | 33.57 | 34.96  
| 50% | 32.0 |  | 37.10 | 37.7 | 37.31 |  |  | 23.0 |  |  | 33.42 | 37.10  
| 5% | 5.82 |  | 11.80 | 8.79 | 9.09 |  |  | 7.0 |  |  | 8.50 | 8.79  
| λ | 14.4 |  | 14.4 | 15 | 20 |  |  | 3.6 |  |  |  |   
| RU | 57% |  | 51.7% | 50% | 53% |  |  | 52% |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean | 21.5 |  | 23.90 | 27.6 | 27.44 |  |  | 19.6 |  |  | 24.01 | 23.90  
| 50% | 15.0 |  | 19.70 | 25.0 | 27.09 |  |  | 17.8 |  |  | 20.92 | 19.70  
| 5% | 3.13 |  | 6.23 | 4.82 | 5.19 |  |  | 5.3 |  |  | 4.93 | 5.19  
| λ |  |  | 19.2 | 20 | 26 |  |  | 5.4 |  |  |  |   
| RU |  |  | 72.9% | 70% | 72% |  |  | 72% |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean |  |  | 16.20 | 22.2 | 23.06 |  |  | 19.5 |  |  | 20.24 | 20.85  
| 50% |  |  | 12.0 | 17.6 | 20.22 |  |  | 17.4 |  |  | 16.81 | 17.50  
| 5% |  |  | 3.50 | 2.56 | 2.23 |  |  | 4.4 |  |  | 3.17 | 3.03  
NOTE: λ is defined as the number of arrived UEs per second per macro cell area, which have one macro cell and 4 small cells *: indicates that λ corresponds to only UEs connected to the small cell layer **: indicates that λ corresponds to UEs connected to both the macro and the small cell layer |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 7.1.4-2: FTP results (Geographical wrapping, TDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** | **Source 2** | **Source 3** | **Source 4** | **Source 5** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8** | **Source 9** | **Source 10** | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 7.1.4-3: Full-queue results (Geographical wrapping, FDD)
* * *
              **Source 1**   **Source 2**   **Source 3**   **Source 4**   **Source 5**   **Source 6**   **Source 7**   **Source 8**   **Source 9**   **Source 10**   **Avg.**   **Med.**
                                                           R1-150220
Cell avg. 3.75 3.75 3.75 Cell edge 0.108 0.108 0.108
* * *
Table 7.1.4-4: Full-queue results (Geographical wrapping, TDD)
* * *
              **Source 1**   **Source 2**   **Source 3**   **Source 4**   **Source 5**   **Source 6**   **Source 7**   **Source 8**   **Source 9**   **Source 10**   **Avg.**   **Med.**
Cell avg.  
Cell edge
* * *
### 7.1.5 Scenario 5 (Co-channel heterogeneous network case with macro and
small cell layer with no Elevation BF/FD-MIMO in small cells)
Table 7.1.5-1: FTP results (Geographical wrapping, FDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** | **Source 2** | **Source 3** | **Source 4** | **Source 5** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8** | **Source 9** | **Source 10** | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  | R1-150219 | R1-152153 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ |  |  |  | 7.4 | 8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU |  |  |  | 25% | 23% |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean |  |  |  | 37.6 | 32.70 |  |  |  |  |  | 35.15 | 35.15  
| 50% |  |  |  | 40.4 | 30.53 |  |  |  |  |  | 35.47 | 35.47  
| 5% |  |  |  | 13.0 | 8.08 |  |  |  |  |  | 10.54 | 10.54  
| λ |  |  |  | 11.5 | 12 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU |  |  |  | 50% | 56% |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean |  |  |  | 29.5 | 18.13 |  |  |  |  |  | 23.82 | 23.82  
| 50% |  |  |  | 27.4 | 13.47 |  |  |  |  |  | 20.44 | 20.44  
| 5% |  |  |  | 6.97 | 2.15 |  |  |  |  |  | 4.56 | 4.56  
| λ |  |  |  | 14.8 | 16 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| RU |  |  |  | 70% | 75% |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean |  |  |  | 24.1 | 16.52 |  |  |  |  |  | 20.31 | 20.31  
| 50% |  |  |  | 20.3 | 11.76 |  |  |  |  |  | 16.03 | 16.03  
| 5% |  |  |  | 3.82 | 1.61 |  |  |  |  |  | 2.72 | 2.72  
Table 7.1.5-2: FTP results (Geographical wrapping, TDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** | **Source 2** | **Source 3** | **Source 4** | **Source 5** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8** | **Source 9** | **Source 10** | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| λ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 7.1.5-3: Full-queue results (Geographical wrapping, FDD)
* * *
              **Source 1**   **Source 2**   **Source 3**   **Source 4**   **Source 5**   **Source 6**   **Source 7**   **Source 8**   **Source 9**   **Source 10**   **Avg.**   **Med.**
                                                           R1-150219
Cell avg. 2.91 2.91 2.91 Cell edge 0.10 0.10 0.10
* * *
Table 7.1.5-4: Full-queue results (Geographical wrapping, TDD)
* * *
              **Source 1**   **Source 2**   **Source 3**   **Source 4**   **Source 5**   **Source 6**   **Source 7**   **Source 8**   **Source 9**   **Source 10**   **Avg.**   **Med.**
Cell avg.  
Cell edge
* * *
### 7.1.6 Scenario 6 (Co-channel heterogeneous network case with macro and
small cell layer with Elevation BF/FD-MIMO in small cells)
Table 7.1.6-1: FTP results (Geographical wrapping, FDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** | **Source 2** | **Source 3** | **Source 4** | **Source 5** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8** | **Source 9** | **Source 10** | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  | R1-150219 |  |  |  | R1-151280 |  |  |  |   
| λ |  |  |  | 3.75 |  |  |  | 3.2 |  |  |  |   
| RU |  |  |  | 20% |  |  |  | 19% |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean |  |  |  | 41.1 |  |  |  | 39.7 |  |  | 40.40 | 40.40  
| 50% |  |  |  | 47.1 |  |  |  | 42.6 |  |  | 44.85 | 44.85  
| 5% |  |  |  | 15.5 |  |  |  | 16.5 |  |  | 16.00 | 16.00  
| λ |  |  |  | 7.5 |  |  |  | 6.5 |  |  |  |   
| RU |  |  |  | 52% |  |  |  | 51% |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean |  |  |  | 30.9 |  |  |  | 30.0 |  |  | 30.45 | 30.45  
| 50% |  |  |  | 29.2 |  |  |  | 27.8 |  |  | 28.50 | 28.50  
| 5% |  |  |  | 6.47 |  |  |  | 9.20 |  |  | 7.84 | 7.84  
| λ |  |  |  | 10 |  |  |  | 10 |  |  |  |   
| RU |  |  |  | 76% |  |  |  | 70% |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean |  |  |  | 25.1 |  |  |  | 26.0 |  |  | 25.55 | 25.55  
| 50% |  |  |  | 21.5 |  |  |  | 23.1 |  |  | 22.30 | 22.30  
| 5% |  |  |  | 2.84 |  |  |  | 6.00 |  |  | 4.42 | 4.42  
Table 7.1.6-2: FTP results (Geographical wrapping, TDD)
**RU** **%** | **UPT** | **Source 1** | **Source 2** | **Source 3** | **Source 4** | **Source 5** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8** | **Source 9** | **Source 10** | **Avg.** | **Med.**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | R1-151280 |  |  |  |   
| λ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 3.2 |  |  |  |   
| RU |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 20% |  |  |  |   
20 | Mean |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 40.4 |  |  | 40.4 | 40.4  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 43.5 |  |  | 43.5 | 43.5  
| 5% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 18.0 |  |  | 18.0 | 18.0  
| λ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 7.5 |  |  |  |   
| RU |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 51% |  |  |  |   
50 | Mean |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 30.5 |  |  | 30.5 | 30.5  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 29.0 |  |  | 29.0 | 29.0  
| 5% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 10.3 |  |  | 10.3 | 10.3  
| λ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 11 |  |  |  |   
| RU |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 70% |  |  |  |   
70 | Mean |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 27.1 |  |  | 27.1 | 27.1  
| 50% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 24.1 |  |  | 24.1 | 24.1  
| 5% |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 6.80 |  |  | 6.80 | 6.80  
Table 7.1.6-3: Full-queue results (Geographical wrapping, FDD)
* * *
              **Source 1**   **Source 2**   **Source 3**   **Source 4**   **Source 5**   **Source 6**   **Source 7**   **Source 8**   **Source 9**   **Source 10**   **Avg.**   **Med.**
                                                           R1-150219
Cell avg. 3.14 3.14 3.14 Cell edge 0.06 0.06 0.06
* * *
Table 7.1.6-4: Full-queue results (Geographical wrapping, TDD)
* * *
              **Source 1**   **Source 2**   **Source 3**   **Source 4**   **Source 5**   **Source 6**   **Source 7**   **Source 8**   **Source 9**   **Source 10**   **Avg.**   **Med.**
Cell avg.  
Cell edge
* * *
## 7.2 Phase 2 results
### 7.2.1 Implementation based enhancements
The simulation results for the implementation based enhancement schemes are
available in the attached excel spreadsheet.
Implementation based enhancement schemes have been evaluated for different (M,
N, P, Q) TXRU configurations. Results for the following cases are available:
\- (M, N, P, Q) = (8,4,2,8), (8,4,2,16), (8,4,2,32), (8,4,2,40), (8,4,2,64);
(8,2,2,8), (8,2,2,16); (4,8,2,16), (4,8,2,32); (2,16,2,16), (2,16,2,32),
(2,16,2,64); (5,3,2,16); (1,5,2,16);
\- For non-co-channel heterogeneous network scenario: (M, N, P, Q) =
(4,4,2,8), (4,4,2,16), (4,4,2,32)
\- FTP and full-buffer traffic
\- Category 1, 2, 3 and 4 schemes
\- Scenarios 1-6
### 7.2.2 Specification based enhancements
#### 7.2.2.1 Potential CSI-RS and feedback enhancements
##### 7.2.2.1.1 Enhancements related to beamformed CSI-RS-based schemes
The results are compiled in the attached excel spreadsheet and summarized in
the following figures and tables. In all the figures, x-axis represents
arrival rate while y-axis represents gain over the baseline in percentage.
Figure is not given when there is only one set of results.
For UMi-200m 2 GHz scenario with Q=16:
{width="3.036111111111111in" height="2.35in"}{width="3.1729166666666666in"
height="2.348611111111111in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-1: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 2 GHz, Q=16
Table 7.2.2.1.1-1: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 2 GHz, Q=16
* * *
(M, N, P, Q) RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(8,4,2,16) Mean UPT -4.9% \~ 3.8% 0.8% -0.2% \~ 8.8% 2.3% 1.5% \~ 9% 3.2% 5%
UPT -4.0% \~ 12.3% 3.2% 6.1% \~ 36.0% 12.0% 5.9% \~ 20.2% 16.0% (8,2,2,16)
Mean UPT 10% 10% 37% 37% 50% 50% 5% UPT 22% 22% 68% 68% 91% 91%
* * *
For UMi-200m 2 GHz scenario with Q=32:
{width="3.240972222222222in"
height="2.576388888888889in"}{width="3.2416666666666667in"
height="2.5541666666666667in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-2: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 2 GHz, Q=32
Table 7.2.2.1.1-2: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 2 GHz, Q=32
* * *
(M, N, P, Q) RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(8,4,2,32) Mean UPT -2.6% \~ 5.0% -0.10% -0.6% \~ 19.0% 2.90% -0.8% \~ 19.0%
6.8% 5% UPT 1.0% \~ 15.4% 7.60% 1.2% \~ 34.3% 20.1% 0.0% \~ 46.2% 22.2%
* * *
For UMi-200m 2 GHz scenario with Q=64:
{width="3.251388888888889in"
height="2.611111111111111in"}{width="3.2493055555555554in"
height="2.484722222222222in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-3: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 2 GHz, Q=64
Table 7.2.2.1.1-3: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 2 GHz, Q=64
* * *
(M, N, P, Q) RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(8,4,2,64) Mean UPT -4.4% \~ 8.3% 2.6% -3.2% \~ 27.3% 10.0% -3.0% \~ 19.9%
3.3% 5% UPT 0.9% \~ 48.1% 10.2% 5.3% \~ 120.4% 10.5% 0.2% \~ 74.9% 24.9%
* * *
For UMa-500m 2 GHz scenario with Q=16:
{width="3.2in" height="2.6590277777777778in"}{width="3.2in"
height="2.658333333333333in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-4: Performance gain -- UMa-500m 2 GHz, Q=16
Table 7.2.2.1.1-4: Performance gain -- UMa-500m 2 GHz, Q=16
* * *
(M, N, P, Q) RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(8,4,2,16) Mean UPT -0.2% \~ 12.0% 2.20% 0.4% \~ 21.0% 6.20% 2.4% \~ 31.0%
8.40% 5% UPT 4.2% \~ 17.0% 12.20% 7.7% \~ 49.0% 15.20% 2.1% \~ 73.0% 14.70%
* * *
For UMa-500m 2 GHz scenario with Q=32:
_[only one set of results]_
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-5: Performance gain -- UMa-500m 2 GHz, Q=32
Table 7.2.2.1.1-5: Performance gain -- UMa-500m 2 GHz, Q=32
* * *
(M, N, P, Q) RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(8,4,2,32) Mean UPT 0.5% 0.5% 2.4% 2.4% 2.5% 2.5% 5% UPT 1.5% 1.5% 4.3% 4.3%
4.4% 4.4%
* * *
For UMa-500m 2 GHz scenario with Q=64:
{width="3.248611111111111in"
height="2.5409722222222224in"}{width="3.248611111111111in"
height="2.5409722222222224in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-6: Performance gain -- UMa-500m 2 GHz, Q=64
Table 7.2.2.1.1-6: Performance gain -- UMa-500m 2 GHz, Q=64
* * *
(M, N, P, Q) RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(8,4,2,64) Mean UPT 0.6% \~ 6.0% 3.3% 1.3% \~ 36.9% 19.1% 3.7% \~ 61.7% 32.7%
5% UPT -73.5% \~ 4.6% -34.5% 5.1% \~ 40.6% 22.9% 8.9% \~ 102.1% 55.5%
* * *
For UMa-200m 2 GHz scenario with Q=16:
{width="3.247916666666667in" height="2.692361111111111in"}{width="3.25in"
height="2.6958333333333333in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-7: Performance gain -- UMa-200m 2 GHz, Q=16
Table 7.2.2.1.1-7: Performance gain -- UMa-200m 2 GHz, Q=16
* * *
(M, N, P, Q) RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(8,4,2,16) Mean UPT -0.2% \~ 32% 15.9% 3.1% \~ 36% 19.6% 5% \~ 79% 42% 5% UPT
-1.7% \~ 40% 19.20% 8.8% \~ 40% 24.4% 8.7% \~ 132% 70.4%
* * *
For UMa-200m 2 GHz scenario with Q=32:
_[only one set of results]_
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-8: Performance gain -- UMa-200m 2 GHz, Q=32
Table 7.2.2.1.1-8: Performance gain -- UMa-200m 2 GHz, Q=32
* * *
(M, N, P, Q) RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(8,4,2,32) Mean UPT 0.8% 0.8% 0.7% 0.7% 1.5% 1.5% 5% UPT 1.2% 1.2% 4.3% 4.3%
3.5% 3.5%
* * *
For UMa-200m 2 GHz scenario with Q=64:
_[only one set of results]_
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-9: Performance gain -- UMa-200m 2 GHz, Q=64
Table 7.2.2.1.1-9: Performance gain -- UMa-200m 2 GHz, Q=64
* * *
(M, N, P, Q) RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(8,4,2,64) Mean UPT 0.5% 0.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 5% UPT 0.0% 0.0% 6.6% 6.6%
6.3% 6.3%
* * *
For UMi-200m 3.5 GHz scenario with Q=16:
{width="3.2416666666666667in"
height="2.7305555555555556in"}{width="3.2416666666666667in"
height="2.7305555555555556in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-10: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 3.5 GHz, Q=16
Table 7.2.2.1.1-10: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 3.5 GHz, Q=16
* * *
(M, N, P, Q) RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(8,4,2,16) Mean UPT -7.5% \~ 36% -0.4% -2.5% \~ 66% 2.4% 4.8% \~ 98% 20.9% 5%
UPT -1.1% \~ 66% -0.2% 7.4% \~ 129% 16.6% 7.2% \~ 234% 66.2%
* * *
For UMi-200m 3.5 GHz scenario with Q=32:
{width="3.251388888888889in"
height="2.6638888888888888in"}{width="3.251388888888889in"
height="2.667361111111111in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-11: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 3.5 GHz, Q=32
Table 7.2.2.1.1-11: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 3.5 GHz, Q=32
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (M, | RU 20 | RU50 | RU70 | | | | | | N, P, | | | | | | | | | Q) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Range | M | Range | M | Range | M | | | | | edian | | edian | | edian | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (8,4, | Mean | -5.1% | -2.6% | -1.6% | 1.30% | 2.4% | 1 | | 2,32) | UPT | \~ | | \~ | | \~ | 4.90% | | | | | | 4.1% | | 27.4% | | | | | -0.1% | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 0.5% | 6.5% | -0.8% | 1 | 5.8% | 50.5% | | | UPT | \~ | | \~ | 4.30% | \~ | | | | | 12.5% | | 29.3% | | 95.2% | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
For UMi-200m 3.5 GHz scenario with Q=64:
_[only one set of results]_
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-12: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 3.5 GHz, Q=64
Table 7.2.2.1.1-12: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 3.5 GHz, Q=64
* * *
(M, N, P, Q) RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(8,4,2,64) Mean UPT 0.7% 0.7% 1.4% 1.4% 1.4% 1.4% 5% UPT 2.7% 2.7% 7.4% 7.4%
3.8% 3.8%
* * *
For non-co-channel heterogeneous network, the following results for beamformed
CSI-RS based schemes are available for Q=16 and 32:
Table 7.2.2.1.1-13: Performance gain -- non-co-channel heterogeneous networks
* * *
RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(M, N, P, Q) = (4, 4, 2, 16) Mean UPT 0% 0% 4% 4% 14% 14% 5% UPT 2% 2% 10% 10%
33% 33% (M, N, P, Q) = (4, 4, 2, 32) Mean UPT 2% 2% 7% 7% 18% 18% 5% UPT 5% 5%
15% 15% 42% 42%
* * *
##### 7.2.2.1.2 Enhancements related to non-precoded CSI-RS-based schemes
The results are compiled in the attached excel spreadsheet and summarized in
the following figures and tables. In all the figures, x-axis represents
arrival rate while y-axis represents gain over the baseline in percentage.
Figure is not given when there is only one set of results.
For UMi-200m 2 GHz scenario with Q=16:
{width="3.2506944444444446in"
height="2.7645833333333334in"}{width="3.297222222222222in"
height="2.7645833333333334in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.2-1: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 2 GHz, Q=16
Table 7.2.2.1.2-1: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 2 GHz, Q=16
* * *
RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(M, N, P, Q) = (8,4,2,16) Mean UPT 0% \~ 17% 5% -7.3% \~ 19.8% 10.50% -22.9%
\~ 28.0% 10.30% 5% UPT -3% \~ 39% 11.20% -21.3% \~ 54.4% 25.80% -32.4% \~
87.2% 40.20% (M, N, P, Q) = (8,2,2,16) Mean UPT 1.50% 1.50% 5.4% \~ 20.0%
12.70% 2.6% \~ 23.0% 12.80% 5% UPT -24% -24% -20.6% \~ 48.0% 13.70% -20.6% \~
43.0% 11.20% (M, N, P, Q) = (4,8,2,16) Mean UPT 5% 5% 11% \~ 16% 13.50% 24% \~
36% 30.00% 5% UPT 19% 19% 30% \~ 141% 85.50% 73% \~ 271% 172.00% (M, N, P, Q)
= (2,16,2,16) Mean UPT 14% 14% 21% 21% - - 5% UPT 33% 33% 15% 15% - - (M, N,
P, Q) = (5,3,2,30) Mean UPT 12% 12% 34% 34% 58% 58% 5% UPT 43% 43% 131% 131%
200% 200% (M, N, P, Q) = (1,5,2,10) Mean UPT 7% 7% 13% 13% 32% 32% 5% UPT 22%
22% 35% 35% 61% 61%
* * *
For UMi-200m 2 GHz scenario with Q=32:
{width="3.2506944444444446in"
height="2.6590277777777778in"}{width="3.2493055555555554in"
height="2.6590277777777778in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.2-2: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 2 GHz, Q=32
Table 7.2.2.1.2-2: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 2 GHz, Q=32
* * *
RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(M, N, P, Q) = (8,4,2,32) Mean UPT 1% \~ 8% 4% 3% \~ 15.9% 7.40% 2% \~ 27%
12.30% 5% UPT 4.8% \~ 14.2% 12.20% 8.6% \~ 37% 34.60% 9.9% \~ 73% 49.10% (M,
N, P, Q) = (4,8,2,32) Mean UPT - - 9% 9% 11% 11% 5% UPT - - 108% 108% 99% 99%
* * *
For UMi-200m 2 GHz scenario with Q=64:
{width="3.2444444444444445in"
height="2.951388888888889in"}{width="3.2430555555555554in"
height="2.9506944444444443in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.2-3: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 2 GHz, Q=64
Table 7.2.2.1.2-3: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 2 GHz, Q=64
* * *
RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(M, N, P, Q) = (8,4,2,64) Mean UPT -1.8% \~ 1.3% -0.20% 3.4% \~ 3.9% 3.70%
1.9% \~ 3.9% 2.90% 5% UPT 4.9% \~ 15.1% 10.00% 1.4% \~ 32.9% 17.10% 9.1% \~
37.8% 23.50% (M, N, P, Q) = (2,16,2,64) Mean UPT 3% 3% 29% 29% 55% 55% 5% UPT
37% 37% 138% 138% 241% 241%
* * *
For UMa-500m 2 GHz scenario with Q=16:
{width="2.8in" height="2.7368055555555557in"}{width="3.6243055555555554in"
height="2.754861111111111in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.2-4: Performance gain -- UMa-500m 2 GHz, Q=16
Table 7.2.2.1.2-4: Performance gain -- UMa-500m 2 GHz, Q=16
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | RU 20 | RU50 | RU70 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Range | M | Range | M | Range | M | | | | | edian | | edian | | edian | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (M, | Mean | -7.8% | 4.80% | 7 | 1 | 5.5% | 1 | | N, P, | UPT | \~ | | .3%\~ | 2.10% | \~ | 8.30% | | Q) = | | 6.0% | | 34.8% | | 22.3% | | | (8,4, | | | | | | | | | 2,16) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | - | 8.60% | 18.5% | 2 | 4.3% | 2 | | | UPT | 35.0% | | \~ | 2.60% | \~ | 5.00% | | | | \~ | | 1 | | 32.9% | | | | | 20.8% | | 04.4% | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (M, | Mean | 1 | 1 | 2 | 2 | 3 | 3 | | N, P, | UPT | 2.60% | 2.60% | 5.10% | 5.10% | 5.30% | 5.30% | | Q) = | | | | | | | | | (8,2, | | | | | | | | | 2,16) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 2 | 2 | 3 | 3 | 4 | 4 | | | UPT | 4.50% | 4.50% | 2.50% | 2.50% | 5.30% | 5.30% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (M, | Mean | 0.4 | 2.7% | 11.60 | 18.3% | 3.20 | 28.1% | | N, P, | UPT | 0\~5% | | \~25% | | \~53% | | | Q) = | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (4, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 2,16) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 0. | 2.6% | 16.40 | 33.7% | - | 60.2% | | | UPT | 2\~5% | | \~51% | | 1.60\ | | | | | | | | | ~122% | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (M, | Mean | 17% | 17% | 16% | 16% | - | - | | N, P, | UPT | | | | | | | | Q) = | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | 2,16, | | | | | | | | | 2,16) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 28% | 28% | 7% | 7% | - | - | | | UPT | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (M, | Mean | 12% | 12% | 33% | 33% | 47% | 47% | | N, P, | UPT | | | | | | | | Q) = | | | | | | | | | (5,3, | | | | | | | | | 2,30) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 61% | 61% | 106% | 106% | 178% | 178% | | | UPT | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (M, | Mean | 8% | 8% | 17% | 17% | - | - | | N, P, | UPT | | | | | | | | Q) = | | | | | | | | | (1,5, | | | | | | | | | 2,10) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5% | 24% | 24% | 37% | 37% | - | - | | | UPT | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
For UMa-500m 2 GHz scenario with Q=32:
{width="3.2375in" height="3.076388888888889in"}{width="3.2381944444444444in"
height="3.076388888888889in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.2-5: Performance gain -- UMa-500m 2 GHz, Q=32
Table 7.2.2.1.2-5: Performance gain -- UMa-500m 2 GHz, Q=32
* * *
RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(M, N, P, Q) = (8,4,2,32) Mean UPT 0.8% \~ 7.5% 1.90% 5.0% \~ 18.1% 12.50%
3.3% \~ 27.1% 9.10% 5% UPT -9.9% \~ 17.8% 4.40% 4.5% \~ 45.1% 24.30% 7.4% \~
58.7% 32.00% (M, N, P, Q) = (4,8,2,32) Mean UPT 10.30% 10.30% 30.50% 30.50%
39.90% 39.90% 5% UPT 0% 0% 44.40% 44.40% 0% 0%
* * *
For UMa-500m 2 GHz scenario with Q=64:
{width="3.252083333333333in"
height="2.826388888888889in"}{width="3.251388888888889in"
height="2.8256944444444443in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.2-6: Performance gain -- UMa-500m 2 GHz, Q=64
Table 7.2.2.1.2-6: Performance gain -- UMa-500m 2 GHz, Q=64
* * *
RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(M, N, P, Q) = (8,4,2,64) Mean UPT -0.60% -0.60% 0.20% 0.20% 3.60% 3.60% 5%
UPT -1.20% -1.20% -0.30% -0.30% 5.80% 5.80% (M, N, P, Q) = (2,16,2,64) Mean
UPT 0% 0% 23% 23% 53% 53% 5% UPT 25% 25% 85% 85% 200% 200%
* * *
For UMa-200m 2 GHz scenario with Q=16:
{width="3.2583333333333333in" height="2.80625in"}{width="3.2555555555555555in"
height="2.80625in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.2-7: Performance gain -- UMa-200m 2 GHz, Q=16
Table 7.2.2.1.2-7: Performance gain -- UMa-200m 2 GHz, Q=16
* * *
RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(M, N, P, Q) = (8,4,2,16) Mean UPT 5.3%\~11.3% 6% 4%\~14% 7.70% -7.1%\~30%
12.60% 5% UPT -9.7%\~11% 7.20% -23.3%\~81% 15.40% -31.8%\~107% 33.80% (M, N,
P, Q) = (4,8,2,16) Mean UPT - - 8% 8% 16% 16% 5% UPT - - 124% 124% 208% 208%
(M, N, P, Q) = (8,2,2,16) Mean UPT 26% 26% 36.40% 36.40% 36.30% 36.30% 5% UPT
15.60% 15.60% 3.30% 3.30% -6.80% -6.80%
* * *
For UMa-200m 2 GHz scenario with Q=32:
{width="3.2375in" height="2.7840277777777778in"}{width="3.2375in"
height="2.7006944444444443in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.2-8: Performance gain -- UMa-200m 2 GHz, Q=32
Table 7.2.2.1.2-8: Performance gain -- UMa-200m 2 GHz, Q=32
* * *
RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(M, N, P, Q) = (8,4,2,32) Mean UPT 4.2%\~8% 6% 3.5%\~19% 11% 8%\~30% 9.77% 5%
UPT 3.35%\~16% 9.70% 12.45%\~106% 45% 18.6%\~113% 67% (M, N, P, Q) =
(4,8,2,32) Mean UPT - - 5% 5% 4% 4% 5% UPT - - 110% 110% 125% 125%
* * *
For UMa-200m 2 GHz scenario with Q=64:
_[only one set of results]_
Figure 7.2.2.1.2-9: Performance gain -- UMa-200m 2 GHz, Q=64
Table 7.2.2.1.2-9: Performance gain -- UMa-200m 2 GHz, Q=64
* * *
RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(M, N, P, Q) = (8,4,2,64) Mean UPT -0.20% -0.20% 1.30% 1.30% 3.90% 3.90% 5%
UPT -1% -1% 4.80% 4.80% 8.10% 8.10%
* * *
For UMi-200m 3.5 GHz scenario with Q=16:
{width="3.2465277777777777in"
height="2.5819444444444444in"}{width="3.251388888888889in"
height="2.5819444444444444in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.2-10: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 3.5 GHz, Q=16
Table 7.2.2.1.2-10: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 3.5 GHz, Q=16
* * *
RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(M, N, P, Q) = (8,4,2,16) Mean UPT 3.1\~3.4 3.3 5.9\~9.5 7.7 11.9\~29.3 20.6
5% UPT 4.0\~16.2 10.1 12.1\~31.4 21.8 16.5\~79.6 48.1
* * *
For UMi-200m 3.5 GHz scenario with Q=32:
{width="3.25625in" height="2.6041666666666665in"}{width="3.25625in"
height="2.5972222222222223in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.2-11: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 3.5 GHz, Q=32
Table 7.2.2.1.2-11: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 3.5 GHz, Q=32
* * *
RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(M, N, P, Q) = (8,4,2,32) Mean UPT 4.2% \~ 6.6% 5.40% 4.7% \~ 14.5% 9.60% 7.1%
\~ 33.9% 20.50% 5% UPT 3.7% \~ 24.5% 14.10% 9.7% \~ 51.2% 30.50% 14.1% \~
104.3% 59.20%
* * *
For UMi-200m 3.5 GHz scenario with Q=64:
_[only one set of results]_
Figure 7.2.2.1.2-12: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 3.5 GHz, Q=64
Table 7.2.2.1.2-12: Performance gain -- UMi-200m 3.5 GHz, Q=64
* * *
RU 20 RU50 RU70  
Range Median Range Median Range Median  
(M, N, P, Q) = (8,4,2,64) Mean UPT 0.90% 0.90% 3.80% 3.80% 3.10% 3.10% 5% UPT
3.10% 3.10% 10.40% 10.40% 9.60% 9.60%
* * *
##### 7.2.2.1.3 Enhancements related to hybrid CSI-RS-based schemes
Table 7.2.2.1.3-1: Performance gain of enhancements related to hybrid CSI-RS-
based schemes
* * *
Source Scenario Scheme No. TXRU RU (%) Arrival Rate Gain (%)  
Mean UPT 5% UPT 11 [excel] FDD, UMi 2GHz Full non-precoded CSI-RS + beamformed
CSI-RS 16 18 1.8 13 20 41 3.4 16 46 55 4.5 29 79 32 18 1.7 15 25 42 3.2 19 33
59 3.9 26 62 11 [excel] FDD, UMi 3.5GHz Full non-precoded CSI-RS + beamformed
CSI-RS 16 17 1.7 10 19 39 3.6 14 28 54 4.7 23 62 32 17 1.8 15 21 39 3.3 19 49
58 4.2 26 69 13 [excel] TDD, UMi 2GHz RI-RS + beamformed CSI-RS 64 50 3.3 45
-2 Full queue 20 -5  
5 [10] TDD, UMi 2GHz RI-RS + beamformed CSI-RS 8 72 5 8.5 29 5 [10] TDD, UMi
2GHz RI-RS + beamformed CSI-RS 32 76 7 5.1 20
* * *
The following is observed from the results in Table 7.2.2.1.3-1:
\- Gain on mean UPT gain has the range of 5% to 45% under FTP traffic.
\- Gain on 5% UPT has the range of -5% to 69% under FTP traffic.
##### 7.2.2.1.4 Enhancements related to non-codebook based CSI reporting for
TDD
Table 7.2.2.1.4-1: Performance gain of enhancements related to non-codebook-
based CSI reporting for TDD
* * *
Source Scenario, No. of TXRU TDD CSI enhancement RU Arrival rate Gain in mean
UPT Gain in 5% UPT 2 [9] Scenario 1 8TXRU Beamformed CSI-RS based CQI \~0.50 -
+4% +7% 2 [9] Scenario 1 8TXRU Beamformed CSI-RS based CQI and RI \~0.50 -
+11% +18% 5 [10] Scenario 3 8TXRU Beamformed CSI-RS based CQI and RI 0.72 5
+8.5% +30% 5 [10] Scenario 3 32TXRU Beamformed CSI-RS based CQI and RI 0.77 7
+5.6% +23.2% 5 [10] Scenario 3 8TXRU Hybrid CSI-RS based CQI and RI 0.72 5
+8.5% +29% 5 [11] Scenario 3 32TXRU Hybrid CSI-RS based CQI and RI 0.77 7
+5.5% +21% 13 [11] Scenario 3 64TXRU Hybrid CSI-RS based CQI and RI 0.35 3.3
+45% -2%
* * *
NOTE: The percentage gain is the gain compared to the Category 4 baseline.
The following is observed from the results in Table 7.2.2.1.4-1:
\- Gain on mean UPT gain has the range of 4% to 45% under FTP traffic.
\- Gain on 5% UPT has the range of -2% to 30% under FTP traffic.
##### 7.2.2.1.5 Enhancements related to SRS
Table 7.2.2.1.5-1: Performance gain of enhancements related to SRS
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Source | Sc | SRS | RU | Arrival | Gain on | Gain on | | | enario, | enha | | rate | mean | 5% UPT | | | No. of | ncement | | | UPT or | | | | TXRU | | | | cell SE | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 13 | S | 2X SRS | 0.63 | 6 | +7% | +24% | | [12] | cenario | c | | | | | | | 1 | apacity | | | | | | | 64TXRU | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 13 | S | 2X SRS | Full | +2.6% | +50% | | | [12] | cenario | c | queue | | | | | | 1 | apacity | | | | | | | 64TXRU | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 13 | S | 2X SRS | Full | +2% | +24% | | | [12] | cenario | c | queue | | | | | | 3 | apacity | | | | | | | 64TXRU | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 | S | 2X SRS | 0.21 | 9 | +0% | +4% | | [13] | cenario | c | | | | | | | 4 | apacity | | | | | | | 32TXRU | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 | S | 2X SRS | 0.48 | 18 | +5% | +18% | | [13] | cenario | c | | | | | | | 4 | apacity | | | | | | | 32TXRU | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 | S | 2X SRS | 0.61 | 22 | +8% | +38% | | [13] | cenario | c | | | | | | | 4 | apacity | | | | | | | 32TXRU | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5 | S | 2X SRS | 0.79 | 5 | +3.3% | +15% | | [14] | cenario | c | | | | | | | 3 8TXRU | apacity | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5 | S | 2X SRS | 0.66 | 6 | +3% | +11% | | [14] | cenario | c | | | | | | | 3 | apacity | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 32TXRU | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5 | S | 4Tx | 0.43 | 5 | +17% | +33% | | [14] | cenario | sw | | | | | | | 3 | itching | | | | | | | 32TXRU | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 | S | 4Tx | Full | +19.4% | +29.8% | | | [15] | cenario | sw | queue | | | | | | 1 | itching | | | | | | | 64TXRU | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
The following is observed from the results in Table 7.2.2.1.5-1:
\- Gain on 5% UPT has the range of 11%-38% under FTP traffic with medium to
high load.
\- Gain on mean UPT gain has the range of 3%-17% under FTP traffic with medium
to high load.
#### 7.2.2.2 Potential DMRS enhancements
{width="5.482638888888889in" height="3.8409722222222222in"}
Figure 7.2.2.2-1: Performance gain -- full buffer scenarios
{width="5.491666666666666in" height="3.334722222222222in"}
Figure 7.2.2.2-2: Performance gain in average cell throughput -- FTP scenarios
{width="5.491666666666666in" height="3.7159722222222222in"}
NOTE: Baseline 1 = 2 scrambling sequences; Baseline 2 = 1 scrambling sequence
Figure 7.2.2.2-3: Performance gain in cell edge throughput -- FTP scenarios
From the results in Table 7.2.2.2-1, 7.2.2.2-2, and 7.2.2.2-3, it is observed
that DMRS enhancements provide [-6.03% , 57.68%] and [-4.74%, 102%] cell-
average and cell edge performance gain respectively across all of the
scenarios:
\- For full buffer, the range of performance gain is [-6.03%, 57.68%] and
[-4.74%\~21.04%] for cell-average and cell edge respectively.
\- For FTP, the range of performance gain is [-3.17%, 17%] and [-4.1%\~102%]
for cell-average and cell edge respectively.
\- Note that some of results are based on ideal CSI knowledge at eNB.
\- Note: Refer to the excel sheet attached in [16] for the summary of
simulation results.
#### Potential enhancements on RRM measurements
It is observed that no enhancement is necessary for RRM measurements, at least
for cell association, for supporting FD-MIMO.
# 8 Considerations on Potential CSI-RS and Feedback Enhancements
Within the scope of this study, the following aspects can be considered in
relation to beamformed, non-precoded, and hybrid CSI-RS-based schemes.
For beamformed CSI-RS based schemes, increased CSI-RS coverage may be achieved
by using EB/FD-MIMO beamforming. For this category, existing NZP-CSI-RS
resources and codebooks may be reused to support EB/FD-MIMO. This category of
schemes has potential to support different EB/FD-MIMO antenna arrays at the
eNB including those with more than 64 TXRUs (although only rectangular arrays
with up to 64 TXRUs have been studied). In addition, this category may support
EB/FD-MIMO beamforming for SU-MIMO with rank greater than 2. Finally, similar
UE complexity for CSI measurements may be maintained as in Rel-12.
For non-precoded CSI-RS based schemes, three-dimensional MIMO channel
measurements for CSI are available at the UE (that is, all eNB antennas or
ports can be measured at each UE antenna). For this category, LTE implicit CSI
feedback framework may be extended to support FD-MIMO. This category of
schemes supports high rank SU-MIMO by codebook design. In addition, implicit
CSI feedback is sufficient for the eNB to determine DL precoder. Finally,
similar UE complexity for CSI calculation may be maintained as in Rel-12 by
codebook design.
For hybrid beamformed and non-precoded CSI-RS based schemes, in addition to
the above aspects, CSI-RS overhead reduction for larger number of TXRUs may be
attained. This category facilitates determining beamforming weight for
beamformed CSI-RS. Finally, similar UE complexity for CSI measurements may be
maintained as in Rel-12
# 9 Conclusions
Based on this study, the following conclusions are drawn:
\- Non-precoded, beamformed, and hybrid CSI-RS based schemes demonstrate
significant throughput gain in realistic non-full buffer traffic models over
the best baseline using implementation based enhancements in many scenarios
\- The best choice between these schemes may depend on factors including the
number of TXRUs
\- Non-codebook based CSI reporting is beneficial for EB/FD-MIMO compared to
the best baseline using implementation based enhancements.
\- SRS enhancement is beneficial for EB/FD-MIMO compared to the best baseline
using implementation based enhancements.
\- From the performance perspective, DMRS enhancements are beneficial for
EB/FD-MIMO.
###### ### Annex A: Simulation assumptions
_Editor's note: This annex will capture the simulation assumptions agreed for
performance evaluation of elevation beamforming/FD-MIMO in RAN WG1_
## A.1 Simulation assumptions for homogeneous networks (scenarios 1, 2, 3)
The assumptions in Table A.1-1 are used for both phase-1 and phase-2
evaluations.
Table A.1-1: Simulation assumptions
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Tx power | 46dBm for scenario-1, 41dBm for | | | scenario-2, 41 dBm for scenario-3 | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Polarized antenna modeling | Model -2 from 36.873 [3] | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Traffic model | Mandatory: FTP Model 1 with packet | | | size 0.5 Mbytes (low \~20% RU*, | | | medium \~50% RU, high \~70%RU), the | | | number of UEs is variable and | | | according to desired load for bursty | | | | | | Optional: Full buffer model | | | | | | *RU clarification: multiple SU or MU | | | layers are not counted multiple times | | | towards RU, max RU=100% | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Wrapping method | Mandatory: Geographical distance | | | based | | | | | | Optional: Radio distance based | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Handover margin | 3dB | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Metrics | Mean, 5%, 50% UPT | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | System bandwidth | 10MHz (50 PRBs) | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE attachment | Option 1) Based on RSRP (formula) | | | from CRS port 0* | | | | | | *This does not restrict any | | | virtualization weights for CRS port 0 | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | Mandatory: 2GHz for scenarios 1, 2 | | | and 3, 3.5 GHz for scenario-3, | | | | | | Optional: 3.5 GHz only for scenario-2 | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Network synchronization | Synchronized | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE Speed | 3km/h | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE distribution | according to 36.873 [3] | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE array orientation | Ω~UT,a~ uniformly distributed on | | | [0,360] degree, Ω~UT,b~ = 90 | | | degree, Ω~UT,g~ = 0 degree | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE antenna pattern | Isotropic antenna gain pattern | | | A'(θ',ф') = 1 | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Receiver | Non-ideal channel estimation and | | | interference modeling, detailed | | | guidelines according to Rel-12 | | | [71-12] assumptions | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | | LMMSE-IRC receiver, detailed | | | guidelines according to Rel-12 | | | [71-12] assumptions | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE Rx antenna configuration | 2 Rx cross-polarized (0/+90) | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+
The assumptions in Table A.1-2 are used for phase-1 evaluations.
Table A.1-2: Simulation assumptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Feedback | PUSCH 3-2 for non-reciprocity | | | operation (PUSCH 3-0 for | | | reciprocity based operation) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | CQI, PMI and RI reporting | | | triggered per 5ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Feedback delay is 5 ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Rel-10 8Tx codebook based for | | | non-reciprocity based operation | | | (SRS for reciprocity based | | | operation only for TDD) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Transmission scheme | TM10, single CSI process, | | | dynamic SU/MU-MIMO with rank | | | adaptation | | | | | | Single CSI process is used for | | | phase 1 simulation only | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Overhead | 3 symbols for DL CCHs, 2 CRS | | | ports and DM-RS with 12 REs per | | | PRB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scheduler | Frequency selective scheduling | | | (multiple UEs per TTI allowed) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna configuration | Antenna elements config (M, N, | | | P): (8, 4, 2), TXRU config | | | (M~TXRU~, N, P): (1, 4, 2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of UE transmit antennas | 1 or 2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CSI-RS, CRS | CSI-RS, CRS: CSI-RS 1-1 mapping | | | to TXRU, only CRS port 0 is | | | modeled for UE attachment, CRS | | | port 0 is associated with the | | | first column with +45 degree | | | pol, CRS port 0 to TXRU mapping | | | is ideal and given by [1, 0, 0, | | | 0, 0, 0, 0, 0] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downtilt | θ~etilt~ = 100 deg for | | | scenario-1, scenario-3, θ~etilt~ | | | = 104 deg for scenario-2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CSI-RS/SRS periodicity | 5msec | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SRS error modelling | $\overset{\sim}{H | | | } = \alpha\left( H + E \right)$, | | | according to [5][6] - Note | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: $\overset{\sim}{H}$is the | | | estimated channel, $H$is the | | | channel response in frequency | | | domain, $E$is the white complex | | | Gaussian variables with zero | | | mean and variance | | | $\sigma_{E}^{2}$, $\alpha$is the | | | scaling factor | | | $\alph | | | a = \sqrt{11 + \sigma_{E}^{2}}$. | | | The details of calculation on | | | $\sigma_{E}^{2}$ should be | | | provided by each company and | | | additional factors (e.g, SRS | | | interference due to UL traffic, | | | non-perfect open loop power | | | control, UE TX antenna gain | | | imbalance modelling) may be | | | considered. | | | $\sigma_{E}^{2} = \frac{1} | | | {\text{SINR} \ast \Delta}$where, | | | | | | Interference power: | | | | | | - no intra-cell SRS | | | interference | | | | | | - for inter-cell SRS | | | interference: UEs are | | | randomly grouped to 4 groups | | | in baseline cases, UEs in | | | the same group (in different | | | cells) would interfere with | | | each other's SRS; | | | | | | - Use pathloss/linkloss | | | for interference | | | calculation | | | | | | - Inclusion of CAZAC | | | sequence gain needs to | | | be clarified | | | | | | > Signal power: | | | | | | - Use open loop power control | | | (based on linkloss from | | | serving cell) | | | | | | - Ex: SINR based on pathloss | | | can be derived by: | | | | | | > $\text{ | | | SINR}_{t}^{c} = \frac{p_{t}\text | | | {PL}_{t}^{c}}{\sum_{i = 1}^{M}{p | | | _{i}\text{PL}_{i}^{c} + N_{0}}}$ | | | > _where_ $\text{SINR}_{t}^{c}$ | | | > is the received SINR of the | | | > target UE t at cell c, M is | | | > the number of SRS interferers | | | > considered in the simulation, | | | > $p_{i}$is the transmit power | | | > of UE i based on open loop | | | > power control, | | | > $\text{PL}_{i}^{c}$is the | | | > pathloss from UE i to cell c. | | | > | | | > Δ (Delta): | | | | | | - The details of delta | | | derivation should be | | | provided by each company | | | | | | - Example can be a constant | | | value of 9 dB | | | | | | - Other values are not | | | precluded, and may be | | | determined by LLS or other | | | look-up table | | | | | | > Note that _baseline is given | | | > by the following -_ "4 groups" | | | > corresponds to 2 SC-FDMA | | | > symbols and 2 comb per 5ms for | | | > SRS transmission. "no | | | > intra-cell SRS interference" | | | > assumes that in a SC-FDMA | | | > symbol not more than 4 CSs are | | | > used for SRS transmission | | | > simultaneously. | | | > | | | > Each company should provide | | | > detailed assumptions including | | | > power control parameter | | | > settings (e.g., alpha, P0) in | | | > a contribution. Note that | | | > example of power control | | | > setting parameters existed in | | | > R1-144943. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## A.2 Simulation assumptions for non co-channel heterogeneous networks
(scenario 4)
The assumptions in Table A.2-1 and Table A.2-2 are used for both phase-1 and
phase-2 evaluations unless specifically mentioned.
Table A.2-1: Simulation assumptions
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Macro cell | Small cell | | | | | | | (only for cell | (for performance | | | association) | evaluation) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Layout | According to | Step 1: Randomly | | | scenario 1 | drop small cell | | | | centers around the | | | | small cell cluster | | | | center within a | | | | radius of Rc; and | | | | consider the minimum | | | | distance between | | | | small cell centers | | | | (Dscc). | | | | | | | | Step 2: Randomly | | | | deploy small cell | | | | antennas on area | | | | circle with the | | | | radius of half of | | | | Dscc. | | | | | | | | Step 3: Determine | | | | the horizontal angle | | | | of the small cells | | | | with the planer | | | | facing to the small | | | | cell center. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS antenna | Aligned with | (M, N, K) = (4, 2 or | | configuration | scenario 1 | 4, 1 or 2), X-pol | | | assumptions | (+/-45), (_d~H~_ , | | | | _d~V~_) = (0.5λ, | | | | 0.5λ), θ~etilt~=120 | | | | deg | | | | | | | | 8 TXRU with N=4 for | | | | phase 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel model | 3D-UMa | 3D-UMi | | between eNB and UE | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total BS Tx power | 46 dBm | 30 dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS antenna height | 25 m | 10 m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of clusters | 1 | | | per macro cell | | | | geographical area | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of small | 4 | | | cells per cluster | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | _Radius for UE | 70m | | | dropping in a | | | | cluster_ | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | _Radius for small | 50m | | | cell center dropping | | | | in a cluster (Rc)_ | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum distance | (Dscc) small cell | | | (2D) | center -- small cell | | | | center: 40m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Small cell -- UE: | | | | 10m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Macro -- small cell | | | | cluster center: 105m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Macro -- UE: 35m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Small cell cluster | | | | center - small cell | | | | cluster center: | | | | 2*Rc+Dscc | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE distribution | 2/3 UEs randomly and | | | | uniformly dropped | | | | within the clusters, | | | | 1/3 UEs randomly and | | | | uniformly dropped | | | | throughout the macro | | | | geographical area. | | | | 20% UEs are outdoor | | | | and 80% UEs are | | | | indoor | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table A.2-2: Simulation assumptions
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Polarized antenna modeling | Model -2 from 36.873 [3] | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Traffic model | Mandatory: FTP Model 1 with packet | | | size 0.5 Mbytes (low \~20% RU*, | | | medium \~50% RU, high \~70%RU), the | | | number of UEs is variable and | | | according to desired load for bursty | | | | | | Optional: Full buffer model | | | | | | *RU clarification: multiple SU or MU | | | layers are not counted multiple times | | | towards RU, max RU=100% | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Wrapping method | Mandatory: Geographical distance | | | based | | | | | | Optional: Radio distance based | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Handover margin | 3dB | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Metrics | Mean, 5%, 50% UPT | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | System bandwidth | 10MHz (50 PRBs) | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | 2GHz for macro cells, 3.5GHz for | | | small cells | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Network synchronization | Synchronized | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE Speed | 3km/h | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE distribution | according to 36.873 [3] | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE array orientation | Ω~UT,a~ uniformly distributed on | | | [0,360] degree, Ω~UT,b~ = 90 | | | degree, Ω~UT,g~ = 0 degree | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE antenna pattern | Isotropic antenna gain pattern | | | A'(θ',ф') = 1 | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Receiver | Non-ideal channel estimation and | | | interference modeling, detailed | | | guidelines according to Rel-12 | | | [71-12] assumptions | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | | LMMSE-IRC receiver, detailed | | | guidelines according to Rel-12 | | | [71-12] assumptions | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE Rx antenna configuration | 2 Rx cross-polarized (0/+90) | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+
The assumptions in Table A.2-3 are used for phase-1 evaluations.
Table A.2-3: Simulation assumptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Feedback | PUSCH 3-2 for non-reciprocity | | | operation (PUSCH 3-0 for | | | reciprocity based operation) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | CQI, PMI and RI reporting | | | triggered per 5ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Feedback delay is 5 ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Rel-10 8Tx codebook based for | | | non-reciprocity based operation | | | (SRS for reciprocity based | | | operation only for TDD^*^) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Transmission scheme | TM10, single CSI process, | | | dynamic SU/MU-MIMO with rank | | | adaptation | | | | | | Single CSI process is used for | | | phase 1 simulation only | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Overhead | 3 symbols for DL CCHs, 2 CRS | | | ports and DM-RS with 12 REs per | | | PRB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scheduler | Frequency selective scheduling | | | (multiple UEs per TTI allowed) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna configuration | (M,N,P) = (8,4,2), M~TXRU~ = 1 | | | for macro cells | | | | | | (M,N,P) = (4,4,2), M~TXRU~ = 1 | | | for small cells | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of UE transmit antennas | 1 or 2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CSI-RS, CRS | CSI-RS, CRS: CSI-RS 1-1 mapping | | | to TXRU, only CRS port 0 is | | | modeled for UE attachment, CRS | | | port 0 is associated with the | | | first column with +45 degree | | | pol, CRS port 0 to TXRU mapping | | | is ideal and given by [1, 0, 0, | | | 0, 0, 0, 0, 0] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downtilt | Baseline: Antenna downtilting | | | angle θ~etilt~ = 100 degree for | | | macro cell | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CSI-RS/SRS periodicity | 5msec | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SRS error modelling | $\overset{\sim}{H | | | } = \alpha\left( H + E \right)$, | | | according to [5] -- Note 1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cell association | _Geometry-based UE association | | | with 2dB bias (i.e.,_ | | | $\text{RSRP}_{T | | | }/\left( \sum_{i}^{}\text{RSRP}_| | | {i} + \text{noise} \right)$where | | |_T_ and _RSRP~i~_ represent | | | index of the target cell and | | | RSRP from cell #i, | | | respectively. The sum of the | | | RSRP is taken over all cells in | | | the same frequency band to the | | | target cell. | | | | | | _) -- Note 2_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: $\overset{\sim}{H}$is | | | the estimated channel, $H$is the | | | channel response in frequency | | | domain, $E$is the white complex | | | Gaussian variables with zero | | | mean and variance | | | $\sigma_{E}^{2}$, $\alpha$is the | | | scaling factor | | | $\alph | | | a = \sqrt{11 + \sigma_{E}^{2}}$. | | | The details of calculation on | | | $\sigma_{E}^{2}$ should be | | | provided by each company and | | | additional factors (e.g, SRS | | | interference due to UL traffic, | | | non-perfect open loop power | | | control, UE TX antenna gain | | | imbalance modelling) may be | | | considered. | | | | | | NOTE 2: These simulation | | | assumptions use macro cells only | | | for cell association and | | | approximate the cell association | | | behaviour of separate frequency | | | heterogeneous networks with full | | | buffer traffic on all cells. | | | The cell association statistics | | | of UEs with non-full buffer | | | traffic could therefore differ | | | by an undetermined amount when | | | traffic is simulated on the | | | macro cell and an RSRQ or RSRP | | | based cell association method is | | | used. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The macro cells are used for cell association only.
At least for Phase 1, the following assumptions are used for cell association:
\- Cell association is based on CRS port 0 for both small cell and macro cell
\- CRS port 0 is associated with the first column with +45 degree polarization
\- For macro cells, CRS port 0 is associated with one TXRU, and that TXRU to
antenna element mapping is given by:
where _m_ =1,...,K, θ~etilt~ is the electrical vertical steering angle, K = 8.
For Phase 1, the following assumptions are used for cell association:
\- For small cells, CRS port 0 is associated with one TXRU, and that TXRU to
antenna element mapping is given by:
where _m_ =1,...,K, θ~etilt~ is the electrical vertical steering angle, K = 4.
**[For phase 2 evaluation:]{.underline}**
Optimized bias values and electrical tilting values for each company can be
considered. The same ratio of small cell UEs, i.e., 2/3, is used for baseline
and enhancements.
## A.3 Simulation assumptions for co-channel heterogeneous networks (scenario
5, 6)
The assumptions in Table A.3-1 are used for both phase-1 and phase-2
evaluations. For other assumptions follow Table A.2-1 and Table A.2-2 for both
phase-1 and phase-2 evaluations and follow Table A.2-3 for phase-1
evaluations.
Table A.3-1: Simulation assumptions
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Macro cell | Small cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Layout | According to | Same as Table A.2-1 | | | scenario 1 | for directional | | | | antenna arrays, same | | | | as Table A.2-1 | | | | except small cells | | | | are located at the | | | | small cell center | | | | for omni-directional | | | | arrays. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS antenna | Aligned with | a) 3D omni pattern | | configurations | scenario 1 | for low power node | | | | in [4] with | | | | θ~etilt~=90 deg, | | | | 2Tx, antenna gain + | | | | connector loss = 5 | | | | dBi | | | | | | | | b) (M,N,K)=(4, 4 ,2 | | | | or 4), X-pol(+/-45), | | | | (d~H~, d~V~) = | | | | (0.5λ, 0.5λ) with | | | | θ~etilt~=120 deg, | | | | according to Table | | | | 5.2.1-1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2 GHz | 2 GHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CRE bias | 0dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE association | _Based on RSRP | | | | (formula defined in | | | | TR36.873) from CRS | | | | port 0_ | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coordination | _No coordination | | | | among any antenna | | | | arrays, no | | | | coordination between | | | | macro cells and | | | | small cells, no | | | | coordination among | | | | small cells, no | | | | coordination among | | | | macro cells_ | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
**[For phase-2 evaluation:]{.underline}**
Enhanced systems are evaluated at the offered traffic load, that results in RU
20%, 50%, or 70% across all the [macro]{.underline} cells, of a reference
scheme. This assumes the macro cell layer is more loaded compared to other
layers.
## A.4 Simulation assumptions for uplink
* * *
Parameter Values Channel model & BS antenna downtilt Aligned with DL Phase 1
simulation assumptions BS antenna element configurations M=8, N=4, P=2, Q=8 BS
antenna polarization Cross-polarized UE attachment Aligned with downlink Phase
1 simulation assumptions Carrier Frequency 2GHz Network sync Synchronized
System bandwidth 10MHz (50RBs) UE distribution/speed/array orientation/antenna
pattern Aligned with DL phase 1 simulation assumptions Wrapping method
Geographical distance based Handover margin 3dB Traffic model Aligned with DL
simulation assumptions except with packet size equal to 100kbytes Scheduler PF
scheduler (considering single carrier property) Receiver Ideal/non-ideal
channel estimation, both demodulation and sounding Explicit intercell
interference modelling MMSE-IRC Hybrid ARQ Maximum 4 transmissions, CC
Transmission scheme 1xM~R~ SIMO (M~R~=Q) Maximum UE TX power 23dBm Target BLER
10% Overhead 2 SC-FDMA symbols per 1ms for the demodulation RS 2 SC-FDMA
symbols per 5ms for channel sounding RS 8RBs for PUCCH SRS configurations 5ms
of channel sounding RS period (infinite SRS capacity) 4ms of channel sounding
delay Power control P0=-80dBm, alpha=0.8 Metrics Mean, 5%, 50% UPT Number of
Tx antenna at UE 1 antenna
* * *
## A.5 Simulation assumptions for DMRS enhancement
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Scenarios | 3D-UMa (ISD 200m), 3D-UMi | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Frequency | 2GHz | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Bandwidth | 10MHz (50RBs), | | | | | | Note: PRG size for the baseline may be | | | chosen for other BW | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | eNB Antenna configurations | (M,N,P, Q)=(8,4,2,8/16/32/64) | | | | | | Cross-polarization: +/-45 degrees | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | UE configurations | Speed: 3km/h | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | | 2 Rx with X-polarized: 0/+90 degrees | | | | | | Pol model: aligned with phase 1 | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Scheduler | PF | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Traffic load | FTP-1 RU: 20%, 50% 70% (Note: for | | | baseline | | | | | | scheme) | | | | | | Optional: Full Buffer | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Number of UEs per cell | 15 for optional full buffer traffic | | | model | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Transmit Mode | Dynamic SU/MU: rank-adaption | | | | | | Up to 2 layers for each UE | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Receiver | Non-Ideal DMRS channel estimation and | | | interference estimation | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | | MMSE-IRC receiver aligned with phase 1 | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Hybrid ARQ | Maximum 4 transmissions | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | CSI Feedback | Non ideal CSI feedback and non-ideal | | | CSI-RS channel estimation and | | | non-ideal interference estimation | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Overhead | 3 symbols for DL CCHs, 2 CRS ports and | | | DM-RS with 12 or 24 REs per PRB | | | depending on the alternative | | | enhancement scheme | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | UE attachment | Based on RSRP from CRS port 0 aligned | | | with Phase-1 | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Wrapping method | Geographical distance based | | | | | | Optional: radio distance based | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Handover margin | 3 dB | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
#