# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for work items of LTE Advanced
inter-band Carrier Aggregation (3DL/3UL) of Band 39 and B41 which were
approved at TSG RAN #69 [3] and [4]. The present document provides the
relevant background information and studies in order to address mixed intra-
band contiguous and inter band Carrier Aggregation(3DL/3UL) requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] RP-151402: \" New WI proposal: LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation
(3DL/3UL) of Band 39, Band 41 and Band 41\".
[4] RP-151403: \" New WI proposal: LTE Advanced 3 Band Carrier Aggregation
(3DL/3UL) of Band 39, Band 39 and Band 41\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[7] 3GPP TR 36.860-12: \" LTE-Advanced dual uplink inter-band Carrier
Aggregation (CA) (Release 12)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply in the case of a single component
carrier. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Aggregated Channel Bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth in which a UE transmits and
receives multiple contiguously aggregated carriers.
**Aggregated Transmission Bandwidth Configuration: The number of resource
block allocated within the aggregated channel bandwidth.**
**Carrier aggregation: Aggregation of two or more component carriers in order
to support wider transmission bandwidths.**
**Carrier aggregation band:** A set of one or more operating bands across
which multiple carriers are aggregated with a specific set of technical
requirements.
**Carrier aggregation configuration** : A combination of CA operating band(s)
and CA bandwidth class(es) supported by a UE.
**Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Inter-band carrier aggregation: Carrier aggregation of component carriers in
different operating bands**.
NOTE: Carriers aggregated in each band can be contiguous or non-contiguous.
**Intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation:** Contiguous carriers aggregated
in the same operating band.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
ΔR~IB,c~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for inter-
band CA operation, for serving cell _c_.
ΔT~IB,c~ Allowed maximum configured output power relaxation due to support for
inter-band CA operation, for serving cell _c_.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction
BS Base Station
CA Carrier Aggregation
CA_X-Y CA for band X and band Y where X and Y are the applicable E-UTRA
operating band
CC Component Carriers
DL Downlink
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
PA Power Amplifier
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity power level
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for LTE Advanced inter-band Carrier
Aggregation (3DL/3UL) of Band 39 and B41. It covers both the UE and BS side.
The document is divided in two different parts:
\- General part: this part covers BS and UE specific which is band combination
independent.
\- Specific band combination part: this part covers each band combination and
its specific issues independently from each other (i.e. one subclause is
defined per band combination).
# 5 3DL/3UL Inter-band Carrier Aggregation: general part for mixed intra-band
contiguous and inter-band case
## 5.1 BS specific
The 3DL/3UL mixed intra-band contiguous and inter-band CA of Band39 and Band41
only introduces one additional UL carrier based on existing 3DL/2UL inter band
CA of Band 39 and Band 41 from UE point of view and is agnostic to BS
implementation that supports Carrier Aggregation. The corresponding bands were
introduced in the table of intra-band contiguous operation band and inter-
band operation bands (two bands) in BS specification during the finalization
of related Carrier Aggregation Work Item. Hence the existing BS requirements
and test configurations could remain unchanged.
## 5.2 UE specific
### 5.2.1 UE reference architecture
In the discussion of 2UL inter band CA of Band 39 and Band 41, it is agreed to
use the RF architecture in figure 5.2.1-1 as the reference architecture for UE
not supporting simultaneous.
Figure 5.2.1-1: RF architecture for UE supporting CA of B39 and B41
In the discussion for intra-contiguous CA of Band 39 and intra-contiguous CA
of Band 41 it is assumed that UE can support up to 2 CCs on the UL with single
TX chain.
Therefore, in the case of 3DL/3UL mixed intra-band contiguous and inter-band
CA of Band39 and Band41 without simultaneous RX/TX, the UE RF architecture in
figure 5.2.1-1 can be reused. Furthermore, the TX/RX relaxation agreed in 2UL
inter band CA of Band 39 and Band 41 also can be adopted.
### 5.2.2 General TX/RX requirements
#### 5.2.2.1 TX requirements
##### 5.2.2.1.1 Transmit power
**Maximum output power class**
For inter-band carrier aggregation with 3 uplink carriers assigned to two
E-UTRA bands, UE maximum output power could be measured over all component
carriers from different bands. If each band has separate antenna connectors,
maximum output power is measured as the sum of maximum output power at each UE
antenna connector. Considering lower tolerance is impacted by the number of
transmitters rather than the number of antenna connectors, the lower tolerance
of maximum output power of UL MIMO and dual uplink inter-band CA can be reused
for this type of CA as table 5.2.2.1.1-1.
Table 5.2.2.1.1-1: UE Power Class for 3 uplink interband CA
* * *
E-UTRA CA Configuration Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance
(dB) Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) CA_39A-41C 23
+2/-3  
CA_39C-41A 23 +2/-3
* * *
The P~CMAX~ definition in subclause 6.2.5A should be updated to include 3UL
mixed intra-band contiguous and inter-band CA. The Pcmax tolerance for dual-
uplink inter-band CA specified in table 6.2.5A-1 of TS 36.101 is still
applicable for 3UL mixed intra-band contiguous and inter-band CA case.
**Power reduction**
For mixed intra-band contiguous and inter-band carrier aggregation with two
contiguous uplink carrier active in one E-UTRA band and one component carrier
active in the other band, the requirements in subclause 6.2.3 of TS 36.101
apply for the band configured with only one uplink component carrier, and the
allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power in table
5.2.2.1.1-1 due to higher order modulation and contiguously aggregated
transmit bandwidth configuration (resource blocks) specified in Table 6.2.3A-1
of TS 36.101 could be applied for the band configured with 2 active uplink
contiguous carriers.
For mixed intra-band contiguous and inter-band carrier aggregation with the UE
configured for transmissions on three serving cells the maximum output power
reduction specified in Table 6.2.4-1 of TS 36.101 is allowed for the band
configured with only one uplink component carrier, and the A-MPR specified for
intra-band contiguous CA in table 6.2.4A-1 of TS 36.101 could be applied for
the band assigned with 2 contiguous uplink carriers.
##### 5.2.2.1.2 Output dynamic range
For mixed intra-band contiguous and inter-band carrier aggregation with3
uplink assigned to two E-UTRA bands, the requirement of output dynamic range
could be defined for per component carrier as current requirement of CA in TS
36.101. Additional text is needed to extend the requirement for this new CA
type.
##### 5.2.2.1.3 Frequency error
To simplify the specification, it is proposed to that for inter-band carrier
aggregation with 3 uplink assigned to two E-UTRA bands, the frequency error
requirements defined in subclause 6.5.1 of TS 36.101 could apply on each
component carrier with all component carriers active.
##### 5.2.2.1.4 Transmit modulation quality
For inter-band carrier aggregation with 3 uplink carriers assigned to two
E-UTRA bands the requirement of Transmit modulation quality could be verified
with all component carriers active. The requirements defined in clause 6.5.2
of TS 36.101 could apply to the component carrier assigned to the band
configured with only one uplink carrier. And requirements defined for intra-
band contiguous CA in clause 6.5.2A of TS 36.101 could apply to each component
carrier belongs to the band with 2 contiguous uplink carriers.
##### 5.2.2.1.5 Output RF spectrum emissions
For inter-band carrier aggregation with 3uplink assigned to two E-UTRA bands
the requirement of Output RF spectrum emissions could apply with all component
carriers active. The requirements defined for single carrier of TS 36.101
could apply to the component carrier assigned to the band configured with only
one UL carrier. And requirements defined for intra-band contiguous CA of TS
36.101 could apply to the band assigned with two contiguous carriers. In the
case of requirement of SEM, if for some frequency a component carrier spectrum
emission mask overlaps with the channel bandwidth of another component
carrier(s), then the emission mask does not apply for that frequency.
##### 5.2.2.1.6 Spurious emissions
For inter-band carrier aggregation with 3uplink assigned to two E-UTRA bands
the requirement of spurious emissions could apply with all component carriers
active. The requirements defined for single carrier of TS 36.101 could apply
to the component carrier assigned to the band with only one UL carrier. And
requirements defined for intra-band contiguous CA of TS 36.101 could apply to
the band with two contiguous uplink carriers. If for some frequency a
component carrier spectrum emission mask overlaps with the channel bandwidth
of another component carrier, then the emission mask does not apply for that
frequency.
##### 5.2.2.1.7 TX IM
For inter-band carrier aggregation with 3uplink assigned to two E-UTRA bands
the requirement of TX IM could apply with all component carriers active. The
requirements defined for single carrier of TS 36.101 could apply to the
component carrier assigned to the band configured with only one UL carrier.
And requirements defined for intra-band contiguous CA of TS 36.101 could apply
to the band assigned with two contiguous uplink carriers.
#### 5.2.2.2 RX requirements
As both CA band combinations considered here are TDD CA without simultaneous
RX/TX, the introduction of additional UL carrier has no impact on the receiver
requirement. Therefore, it is proposed to keep current RX requirement
unchanged in Rel-13.
## 5.3 RRM specific
The RRM requirements for carrier aggregations, as specified in the
specification TS 36.133, need to be updated to support CA operation up to 3UL
carriers.
Table 5.3-1: RRM requirements impacted by 3UL Carrier Aggregation in TS 36.133
* * *
**Section No.** **Requirements** **Notes to the requirements** 6.2.2
Introduction of Random Access for E-UTRA carrier aggregation The applicability
of requirements should be extended to up to three uplink CCs for inter-band
contiguous carrier aggregation 7.1.2 Introduction of UE transmit timing for
E-UTRA carrier aggregation The applicability of requirements should be
extended to up to three uplink CCs for inter-band contiguous carrier
aggregation. In addition new requirements due to change in timing reference
cell when sTAG contains two activated SCells should be FFS. 8.3.1 Introduction
of Measurements for E-UTRA carrier aggregation The applicability of
requirements should be extended to up to three uplink CCs for inter-band
contiguous carrier aggregation 8.7.1 Introduction of Discovery signal
measurements for E-UTRA carrier aggregation The applicability of requirements
should be extended to up to three uplink CCs for inter-band contiguous carrier
aggregation
* * *
# 6 Band specific combination Part
## 6.1 LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 39, Band 39 and Band 41
### 6.1.1 Operating bands for CA_39C-41A
Table 6.1.1-1: Operating bands for CA_39C-41A
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_39-41 39 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz TDD 41 2496 MHz -- 2690
MHz 2496 MHz -- 2690 MHz
* * *
### 6.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA_39C-41A
Table 6.1.2-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths for CA_39C_41A
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | Uplink CA configurations (NOTE 4) | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4  
MHz | 3  
MHz | 5  
MHz | 10  
MHz | 15  
MHz | 20  
MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_39C-41A | CA_39A_41A, CA_39C-41A | 39 | See CA_39C Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.6A.1-1 of TS 36.101 | 55 | 0 |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 41 |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.1.3 Harmonics and IMD study
#### 6.1.3.1 For the BS
For BS supporting 3DL inter-band CA of Band 39, Band 39 and Band 41, the DL
harmonic and intermodulation product analysis is done in the 3DL/1UL TR
36.853. Corresponding suggestion can be reused.
#### 6.1.3.2 For the UE
For UE supporting 3UL inter-band CA of Band 39, Band 39 and Band 41 own
receiver desensitization study 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and 2^nd^,
3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order intermodulation products are calculated and
present in following tables.
Table 6.1.3.2-1: 3UL harmonics and IMD products for CA_39C-41A
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high
UL frequency (MHz) 1880 1920 2496 2690
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 3760 -- 3840 4992 -- 5380
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 5640 -- 5760 7488 -- 8070
2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low
+ fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 576-810 4376 -- 4610
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1070 -- 1344 3072 -- 3500
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 6256 -- 6530 6872 -- 7300
Three-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (fx_low --\ (fx_high +\ (fy_low --\
(fy_high +\ max BW fy) max BW fy) max BW fx) max BW fx)
IMD frequency range (MHz) 1860 to 1940 2461 to 2725
* * *
> Table 6.1.3.2-2: Two-tone IMD4 products with difference of frequency
> components for CA_39C-41A
* * *
**IMD4** **IMD4 frequency range** \|3*fx - 1*fy\| 2950 to 3264 MHz \|3*fy -
1*fx\| 5568 to 6190 MHz \|2*fx - 2*fy\| 1152 to 1620 MHz
* * *
> Table 6.1.3.2-3: Two-tone IMD5 products for CA_39C-41A
* * *
**IMD5** **IMD5 frequency range** \|3*fx - 2*fy\| 260 to 768 MHz \|3*fy -
2*fx\| 3648 to 4310 MHz \|3*fx + 2*fy\| 10632 to 11140 MHz \|3*fy + 2*fx\|
11248 to 11910 MHz \|4*fx - 1*fy\| 4830 to 5184 MHz \|4*fy - 1*fx\| 8064 to
8880 MHz \|4*fx + 1*fy\| 10016 to 10370 MHz \|4*fy + 1*fx\| 11864 to 12680 MHz
* * *
> Table 6.1.3.2-4: Protected bands / spectrum affected by IMD2/IMD3/IMD4/IMD5
> from CA with CA_39C-41A
* * *
**Interference Type** **Affected frequency band** Protected bands / spectrum
affected by 2^nd^ or 3^rd^ order harmonics Band 43 Protected bands / spectrum
affected by IMD2 Band 12, 13, 14, 17, 20, 28, 29, 44 Protected bands /
spectrum affected by IMD3 Band 2, 3, 7, 9, 22, 25,33, 35,36,37,38,42 Protected
bands / spectrum affected by IMD4 Band 11, 21, 24, 32 Protected bands /
spectrum affected by IMD5 Band 12, 13, 14, 17,28, 29, 43, 44
* * *
The TDD inter-band CA combination of Band 39 and Band 41 does not have
intermodulation problems into its own downlink and other TDD bands downlink
band for synchronized operation.
When 3UL inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products may have
impact on these systems. Table 6.1.3.2-5 lists whether up to 3^rd^ order
harmonics and IMD up to 5^th^ order fall into one of these receiving bands or
not.
> Table 6.1.3.2-5: 3UL CA_39C-41A harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD4 | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | Yes | | IMD4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | Yes | | IMD4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | Yes | US | IMD3 | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | IMD3 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | Yes | US | H2, H3, | | band | | | | | | IMD4 | | | | | | | | IMD5 | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | Yes | Europe | H2, | | | | | | | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | Yes | | H3, | | | | | | | | IMD4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | H2, H3, | | | | | | | | IMD4 | | | | | | | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 6.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
Since UE studied in WID of 3UL inter-band CA_39C-41A only supports non-
simultaneous Tx/Rx, the UE RF architecture of 2UL/3DL can be reused for both
Tx and Rx chain as indicated in clause 5.2. Therefore it is proposed to define
the following ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ values for CA_39C-41A with three uplinks
in Table 6.1.4-1 and Table 6.1.4-2:
> Table 6.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_39C-41A 39 0.5^10^ 41
0.5^10^ NOTE : Applicable for UE supporting inter-band carrier aggregation
with three uplinks and without simultaneous Rx/Tx.
* * *
> Table 6.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_39C-41A 39 0.2^10^ 41
0.2^10^ NOTE : Applicable for UE supporting inter-band carrier aggregation
with three uplinks and without simultaneous Rx/Tx.
* * *
## 6.2 LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 39, Band 41 and Band 41
### 6.2.1 Operating bands for CA_39A_41C
> Table 6.2.1-1: Operating bands for CA_39A_41C
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_39-41 39 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz TDD 41 2496 MHz -- 2690
MHz 2496 MHz -- 2690 MHz
* * *
### 6.2.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA_39A_41C
> Table 6.2.2-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths for CA_39A_41C
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | Uplink CA configurations (NOTE 4) | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4  
MHz | 3  
MHz | 5  
MHz | 10  
MHz | 15  
MHz | 20  
MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_39A-41C | CA_39A_41A, CA_39A-41C | 39 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | 60 |   
|  | 41 |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |   
|  | 41 |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all for the constituent bands as
defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.2.3 Harmonics and IMD Products
#### 6.2.3.1 For the BS
For BS supporting 3DL inter-band CA of Band 39, Band 41 and Band 41, the DL
harmonic and intermodulation product analysis has been done in TR 36.853.
Corresponding suggestions can be reused.
#### 6.2.3.2 For the UE
For UE supporting 3UL inter-band CA of Band 39, Band 41 and Band 41, the 2^nd^
and 3^rd^ order harmonics and 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order
intermodulation products are calculated and presented in following tables.
> Table 6.2.3.2-1: Harmonics and IMD products analysis for CA_39A_41C
* * *
UE UL carriers Fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high
UL frequency (MHz) 1880 1920 2496 2690
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 3760 -- 3840 4992 -- 5380
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 5640 -- 5760 7488 -- 8070
2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low
+ fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 576-810 4376 -- 4610
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1070 -- 1344 3072 -- 3500
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 6256 -- 6530 6872 -- 7300
Three-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (fx_low --\ (fx_high +\ (fy_low --\
(fy_high +\ max BW f2) max BW f2) max BW f1) max BW f1)
IMD frequency range (MHz) 1840 to 1960 2476 to 2710
* * *
> Table 6.2.3.2-2: Two-tone IMD4 products with difference of frequency
> components
* * *
**IMD4** **IMT4 product frequency** \|3*fx - 1*fy\| 2950 to 3264 MHz \|3*fy -
1*fx\| 5568 to 6190 MHz \|2*fx - 2*fy\| 1152 to 1620 MHz
* * *
> Table 6.2.3.2-3: Band 39 and Band 41 two-tone IMD5 products
* * *
**IMD5** **IMD5 product frequency** \|3*fx - 2*fy\| 260 to 768 MHz \|3*fy -
2*fx\| 3648 to 4310 MHz \|3*fx + 2*fy\| 10632 to 11140 MHz \|3*fy + 2*fx\|
11248 to 11910 MHz \|4*fx - 1*fy\| 4830 to 5184 MHz \|4*fy - 1*fx\| 8064 to
8880 MHz \|4*fx + 1*fy\| 10016 to 10370 MHz \|4*fy + 1*fx\| 11864 to 12680 MHz
* * *
> Table 6.2.3.2-4: Protected bands / spectrum affected by IMD2/IMD3/IMD4/IMD5
> from CA_39A-41C
* * *
**Interference Type** **Affected frequency band** Protected bands / spectrum
affected by 2^nd^ or 3^rd^ order harmonics Band 43 Protected bands / spectrum
affected by IMD2 Band 12, 13, 14, 17, 20, 28, 29, 44 Protected bands /
spectrum affected by IMD3 Band 2, 3, 7, 9, 22, 25,33, 35,36,37,38,42 Protected
bands / spectrum affected by IMD4 Band 11, 21, 24, 32 Protected bands /
spectrum affected by IMD5 Band 12, 13, 14, 17, 28, 29, 43, 44
* * *
The TDD inter-band CA combination of Band 39 and Band 41 does not have
intermodulation problems into its own downlink and other TDD bands downlink
band for synchronized operation.
When 3ULs inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products may have
impact on these systems. Table 6.2.3.2-5 lists whether harmonics and IMD
products fall into one of these receiving bands or not.
> Table 6.2.3.2-5: Harmonic and IMD for protection of ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD4 | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | Yes | | IMD4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | Yes | | IMD4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | Yes | US | IMD3 | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | IMD3 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | Yes | US | H2, H3, | | band | | | | | | IMD4 | | | | | | | | IMD5 | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | Yes | Europe | H2, | | | | | | | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | Yes | | H3, | | | | | | | | IMD4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | H2, H3, | | | | | | | | IMD4 | | | | | | | | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 6.2.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
Since UE studied in WID of 3UL inter-band CA_39A-41C only supports non-
simultaneous Tx/Rx, the UE RF architecture of 2UL/3DL can be reused for both
Tx and Rx chain as indicated in clause 5.2. Therefore it is proposed to define
the following ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ values for CA_39A-41C with three uplinks
in Table 6.2.4-1 and Table 6.2.4-2:
> Table 6.2.4-1: ΔTIB,c
+------------------------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Inter-band CA Configuration | E-UTRA Band | ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] | +------------------------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | CA_39A-41C | 39 | 0^1^ | +------------------------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | | 41 | 0^1^ | +------------------------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | CA_39A-41C | 39 | 0.5^2^ | +------------------------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | | 41 | 0.5^2^ | +------------------------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: Only applicable for UE | | | | supporting inter-band carrier | | | | aggregation with uplink in one | | | | E-UTRA band and without | | | | simultaneous Rx/Tx. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for UE | | | | supporting inter-band carrier | | | | aggregation with three uplinks and | | | | without simultaneous Rx/Tx. | | | +------------------------------------+-------------+-----------------+
> Table 6.2.4-2: ΔRIB,c
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_39A-41C 39 0.2^1^ 41
0.2^1^ NOTE: Applicable for UE supporting inter-band carrier aggregation with
three uplinks and without simultaneous Rx/Tx.
* * *
#