# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the findings of the Study Item
(FS_LTE_MIMO_OTA_ATF) to describe the antenna test function for the two-stage
MIMO OTA test method.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 37.977: \"Verification of radiated multi-antenna reception
performance of User Equipment (UE)\"
[3] 3GPP TS 36.509: \"Special conformance testing functions for User Equipment
(UE)\"
[4] 3GPP TS 36.521-1: User Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio
transmission and reception, Part 1: Conformance Testing\"
[5] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Physical layer; Measurements\"
[6] 3GPP TS 36.508: \"Common test environments for User Equipment (UE)
conformance testing\"
[7] 3GPP TS 24.007; \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
> (none)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ATF Antenna Test Function
CN Carrier number
NR Number of receivers
RSAP Reference Signal Antenna Power
RSARP Reference Signal Antenna Relative Phase
Rx~n~ Receiver number n
# 4 Background
TSG RAN WG4 has been studying methods for testing the radiated performance of
MIMO devices. This work culminated in Release 12 with the publication of TR
37.977 [2]. This TR defined four testing methodologies:
\- Anechoic Chamber Multi-Probe
\- Reverberation Chamber
\- Reverberation Chamber + Channel Emulator
\- Two-stage method (radiated)
For the two-stage method the following was noted in TR 37.977 subclause
12.3.1.4:
It shall be noted that use of the two-stage method for conformance test
depends on the specification of a UE antenna measurement function which is not
part of this work item [that is UID 550116].
An outline of the antenna test function (ATF) is given in TR 37.977 subclause
6.3.1.3 but the formal specification of the test function was outside the
scope of the previous work item. A new study item has been approved at RAN #64
to develop the description of the ATF (FS_LTE_MIMO_OTA_ATF) in this present
TR.
## 4.1 Study item objective
The objective of this study item is to define, in a stand-alone document, the
behavioural aspects of the antenna test function, ahead of this definition
being specified in [3] at a time when radiated MIMO conformance tests have
been drafted. Until that time this TR will serve as the definition of the ATF
for the purposes of developing the two-stage MIMO OTA test method. The only
anticipated change in [3] as a result of the study item will be the addition
of an informative note to reserve message types for future use. This will
ensure that the definition in this TR can be transferred into [3] in the
future without any dependency on other possible additions to [3] beforehand.
Any use of \"shall\" or \"must\" in the definition is used for clarification
to indicate that the function, and/or result may not be as expected if the
indicated \"shall\" or \"must\" item is not used or followed. The use of
\"shall\" or \"must\" in the definition is not meant to imply a specific UE
requirement.
## 4.2 Overview of the two-stage method and motivation for the Antenna Test
Function
The overall description of the two-stage method can be found in subclause
6.3.1.3 of [2]. Conventional anechoic OTA test methods emulate a 2D or 3D
field representing the desired spatial channel model. This involves the use of
multiple probes. The two-stage method takes a different approach using a first
stage of antenna pattern measurement followed by a second stage of throughput
measurement using a signal generated by convolving the device\'s complex
antenna pattern with the desired spatial channel model. This results in a test
method that can be implemented using only two probes. See table 12.4-1 of [2]
for a fuller comparison of the approved test methods.
Central to the two-stage method therefore is the need to obtain, without
impairment, the complex UE antenna pattern as seen by the UE receiver.
Traditional methods of measuring antennas are intrusive and require
modification of the device to connect cables. The resulting patterns will have
been disturbed by the intrusion and cannot be considered valid. It is
important to note that any errors in estimating the magnitude and phase of the
complex UE antenna pattern translate to an error in the final MIMO OTA
performance metric.
To get round this problem a method for non-intrusive measurement of the UE
receive antenna patterns was developed and described in [2]. It has been shown
in a dual receiver device that by measuring the gain of each antenna and the
relative phase between the antennas at successive angles of arrival that the
complex antenna pattern can be constructed for either a 2D cut or a more
comprehensive full 3D measurement. The need to measure the received amplitude
and relative phase is what motivates the need for the ATF. Existing UE
measurements such as Reference Signal Received Power (RSRP) go a long way to
providing a mechanism for power measurement however there is no equivalent UE
measurement defined for relative phase.
This led to the proposal to define two new UE measurements for amplitude and
relative phase, tailored specifically to enable UE antenna pattern measurement
as part of future conformance testing. Consequently, these new measurements
are quite distinct from the traditional UE measurements used in the radio
access network (RAN) for radio resource management (RRM) functions in the
following ways:
\- Use and access strictly limited to UE conformance testing purposes (no RAN
use)
\- Support is optional and will determine applicability of any two-stage test
cases
\- Enabled through presence of a test USIM
\- No impact on existing physical layer UE measurement reporting capabilities
-- these antenna test function measurements will not be accessible during
normal network operation
\- Intended operating conditions, non-faded with high SINR
The new amplitude measurement is called Reference Signal Antenna Power (RSAP)
and is similar to the existing RAN measurement RSRP. The new phase measurement
has no equivalent in the RAN and is called Reference Signal Antenna Relative
Phase (RSARP).
The specification of UE requirements for the new ATF measurements is outside
the scope of this study item being the domain of future work in RAN WG4 which
will address measurement uncertainty for the approved test methods in a future
work item. Therefore the remainder of this TR will focus on the behavioural
aspects of the ATF.
# 5 Definition of the Antenna Test Function radio environment and measurements
This clause describes the types of signals the ATF measurements are expected
to measure and then goes on to describe the ATF measurements themselves.
## 5.1 Test system radio environment for ATF measurements
The conditions in which the ATF measurements are expected to operate are in a
highly controlled anechoic radio environment, isolated from unwanted external
signals, and with low reflectivity and appropriate calibration. Table 5.1-1
lists the attributes of the test signal.
Table 5.1-1: Signal conditions for ATF measurements
* * *
Parameter Value Propagation conditions Static, line of sight Incident power at
UE -50 dBm to -70 dBm Downlink configuration Any Fixed Reference Channel for
Receiver Requirements in Table A.3.2-1 of [4] for FDD and Table A.3.2-2 of [4]
for TDD. Downlink antenna configuration Linear polarized reference antenna
Downlink frequency As required Downlink channel bandwidth As required
* * *
The above conditions represent a very high SINR unfaded environment suitable
for characterizing the UE antenna. ATF measurements in other conditions are
possible but add no value over these ideal conditions.
## 5.2 Reference Signal Antenna Power (RSAP) definition
The RSAP measurement is based on RSRP as defined in subclause 5.1.1 of [5].
Since it is the intention to measure UE radiated receiver performance using
fully allocated downlink channels, the RSAP is a measure of the average power
of the CRS resource elements across the entire channel bandwidth.
Table 5.2-1: Reference Signal Antenna Power (RSAP) definition
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | > **Definition** | > Reference signal antenna power (RSAP) | | | > is defined per receive antenna (Rx~0~ | | | > .. Rx~n~) as the linear average over | | | > the power contributions (in [W]) of | | | > the resource elements that carry | | | > cell-specific reference signals across | | | > the entire LTE channel bandwidth. | | | > | | | > For RSAP determination the | | | > cell-specific reference signals R~0~ | | | > according to TS 36.211 shall be used. | | | > | | | > The reference point for the RSAP shall | | | > be the antenna connector of the UE. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | > **Measurement period** | > Since the signal is static there is no | | | > minimum measurement period defined but | | | > a figure of one 10 ms subframe is | | | > suggested. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | > **Applicable for** | > RRC_CONNECTED intra-frequency | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
Note 1: The number of resource elements within the measurement period that are
used by the UE to determine RSAP is left up to the UE implementation with the
limitation that corresponding measurement accuracy requirements have to be
fulfilled.
Note 2: The power per resource element is determined from the energy received
during the useful part of the symbol, excluding the CP.
Accuracy requirements are FFS and not considered at this time other than an
expectation of monotonicity. The future work includes assessing the impact of
UEs with antenna patterns that change significantly over the LTE channel
bandwidth which may depend on UE implementation.
## 5.3 Reference Signal Antenna Relative Phase (RSARP) definition
The RSARP is similarly defined as RSAP. The relative phase difference of the
CRS resource elements is the average across the entire channel bandwidth.
Table 5.3-1: Reference Signal Antenna Relative Phase (RSARP) definition
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | > **Definition** | > Reference signal antenna relative | | | > phase (RSARP), is defined as the | | | > difference between the average phase | | | > of the resource elements that carry | | | > cell-specific reference signals across | | | > the entire LTE channel bandwidth | | | > received by the reference antenna | | | > (chosen here as Rx~0~) and the average | | | > phase of the resource elements that | | | > carry cell-specific reference signals | | | > across the entire LTE channel | | | > bandwidth received by one other | | | > receiver antenna (Rx~1~ .. Rx~n~). | | | > | | | > For RSARP determination, the | | | > cell-specific reference signals R~0~ | | | > according to TS 36.211 [3] shall be | | | > used. | | | > | | | > The reference point for the RSARP | | | > shall be the antenna connector of the | | | > UE. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | > **Measurement period** | > Since the signal is static there is no | | | > minimum measurement period defined but | | | > a figure of one 10 ms subframe is | | | > suggested. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | > **Applicable for** | > RRC_CONNECTED intra-frequency | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
Note 1: The number of resource elements within the measurement period that are
used by the UE to determine RSARP is left up to the UE implementation with the
limitation that corresponding measurement accuracy requirements have to be
fulfilled.
Note 2: The phase per resource element is determined from the energy received
during the useful part of the symbol, excluding the CP.
Accuracy requirements are FFS and not considered at this time other than an
expectation of monotonicity. The future work includes assessing the impact of
UEs with antenna patterns that change significantly over the LTE channel
bandwidth which may depend on UE implementation.
# 6 ATF measurement procedure
This clause describes the ATF measurement procedure. An alternative client
application procedure is defined in Annex A. The procedures described below
are defined for a dual antenna single carrier system although it is the
intention for this design to be easily extended for quad and octo antenna
systems including carrier aggregation (CA) for when these capabilities come
online in the future.
The use case for the measurements is that the conditions defined subclause 5.1
would be established. Then, for any arbitrary orientation of the UE relative
to the probe antenna, the test system can request a set of measurements. After
receiving the results the UE can be repositioned and further sets of
measurements requested until the required number of points on the sphere has
been sampled. Typically a 2D cut of the UE will be measured at both horizontal
and vertical polarizations. The complex antenna pattern can then be derived
from the reported RSAP and RSARP values. This derivation includes calibration
procedures not covered in the scope of this document.
### 6.1 Request Antenna Information values
Figure 6.1-1: Antenna Test Function measurement procedure
#### 6.1.1 General
The SS uses the ATF measurement procedure to request reporting of the current
values of RSAP and RSARP according to the requested carrier number. The
response depends on the number of receivers NR supported by the UE for the
requested carrier number.
#### 6.1.2 Initiation
The SS can request antenna information when the UE is in E-UTRA connected
state.
NOTE: Refer to TS 36.508 [6] subclause 4.5.1 for more details on UE states.
The SS requests the UE to report its current antenna information values by
sending an ANTENNA INFORMATION REQUEST message which specifies the desired
carrier number (CN). The mapping from CN to carrier is given in subclause 7.2.
#### 6.1.3 Reception of ANTENNA INFORMATION REQUEST by the UE
Upon receiving the ANTENNA INFORMATION REQUEST message the UE shall:
1> perform an RSAP measurement on receiver Rx~0~ for the carrier number
indicated in the ANTENNA INFORMATION REQUEST message
1> if the number of supported receivers (NR) is >1 perform an RSAP measurement
on receiver Rx~1~ for the carrier number indicated in the ANTENNA INFORMATION
REQUEST message and perform an RSARP measurement using receivers Rx~0~ and
Rx~1~
1> if the number of supported receivers (NR) is >2 perform an RSAP measurement
on receiver Rx~2~ for the carrier number indicated in the ANTENNA INFORMATION
REQUEST message and perform an RSARP measurement using receivers Rx~0~ and
Rx~2~
1> if the number of supported receivers (NR) is >3 perform an RSAP measurement
on receiver Rx~3~ for the carrier number indicated in the ANTENNA INFORMATION
REQUEST message and perform an RSARP measurement using receivers Rx~0~ and
Rx~3~
1> if the number of supported receivers (NR) is >4 perform an RSAP measurement
on receiver Rx~4~ for the carrier number indicated in the ANTENNA INFORMATION
REQUEST message and perform an RSARP measurement using receivers Rx~0~ and
Rx~4~
1> if the number of supported receivers (NR) is >5 perform an RSAP measurement
on receiver Rx~5~ for the carrier number indicated in the ANTENNA INFORMATION
REQUEST message and perform an RSARP measurement using receivers Rx~0~ and
Rx~5~
1> if the number of supported receivers (NR) is >6 perform an RSAP measurement
on receiver Rx~6~ for the carrier number indicated in the ANTENNA INFORMATION
REQUEST message and perform an RSARP measurement using receivers Rx~0~ and
Rx~6~
1> if the number of supported receivers (NR) is >7 perform an RSAP measurement
on receiver Rx~7~ for the carrier number indicated in the ANTENNA INFORMATION
REQUEST message and perform an RSARP measurement using receivers Rx~0~ and
Rx~7~
1> report the used carrier number CN, the number of supported receivers NR,
the Rx~0~ RSAP measurement result and the conditional RSAP and RSARP
measurement results to the SS using the ANTENNA INFORMATION RESPONSE message
# 7 Message definitions and contents
This clause defines the messages and their contents used to communicate
between the UE the test system.
## 7.1 ANTENNA INFORMATION REQUEST
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [7], subclause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [7], subclause
11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 Carrier number (CN) M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 octet 1
* * *
where carrier number is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 0 C2 C1 C0 octet 1
* * *
C2..C0 = Carrier number (CN) value 0 .. 4 (binary coded, C2 is most
significant bit and C0 least significant bit).
The mappings from CN to carrier are as follows:
CN = 0 Primary serving cell
CN = 1 Secondary serving cell (if present)
CN = 2 Tertiary serving cell (if present)
CN = 3 Quaternary serving cell (if present)
CN = 4 Quinary serving cell (if present)
## 7.2 ANTENNA INFORMATION RESPONSE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [7], subclause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [7], subclause
11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 Carrier number M V 1 Number of receives
(NR) M V 1 RSAP (for Rx~0~) M V 2 RSAP (for Rx~1~) C if NR > 1 V 2 RSARP (for
Rx~0\ and~ Rx~1~) C if NR > 1 V 2 RSAP (for Rx~2~) C if NR > 2 V 2 RSARP (for
Rx~0\ and~ Rx~2~) C if NR > 2 V 2 RSAP (for Rx~3~) C if NR > 3 V 2 RSARP (for
Rx~0\ and~ Rx~3~) C if NR > 3 V 2 RSAP (for Rx~4~) C if NR > 4 V 2 RSARP (for
Rx~0\ and~ Rx~4~) C if NR > 4 V 2 RSAP (for Rx~5~) C if NR > 5 V 2 RSARP (for
Rx~0\ and~ Rx~5~) C if NR > 5 V 2 RSAP (for Rx~6~) C if NR > 6 V 2 RSARP (for
Rx~0\ and~ Rx~6~) C if NR > 6 V 2 RSAP (for Rx~7~) C if NR > 7 V 2 RSARP (for
Rx~0\ and~ Rx~7~) C if NR > 7 V 2
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 octet 1
* * *
where carrier number is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 0 C2 C1 C0 octet 1
* * *
C2..C0 = Carrier number value 0 .. 4 (binary coded, C2 is most significant bit
and C0 least significant bit).
The reported carrier number should match the value given in the previous
ANTENNA INFORMATION REQUEST message
where number of receivers is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 0 N2 N1 N0 octet 1
* * *
N2 .. N0 is the number of receivers (NR) supported by the UE for the indicated
carrier number. The value is binary coded with N2 as the most significant bit
and N0 as the least significant bit. The expected values are in the range 1,
2, 4 or 8.
The reported number of receive antennas determines the presence of the
optional fields for RSAP on Rx~1..7~ and the corresponding RSARP values
where RSAP is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 R13 R12 R11 R10 R9 R8 octet 1 R7 R6 R5 R4 R3 R2 R1
R0 octet 2
* * *
R13..R0 is the measured RSAP value for the indicated receiver and carrier
number. The RSAP value in -xxx.xx dBm shall be multiplied by -100 and binary
coded with R13 as the most significant bit and R0 as the least significant
bit. The RSAP value shall be in the range of 0.00 to -120.00 dBm
where RSARP is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. P15 P14 P13 P12 P11 P10 P9 P8 octet 1 P7 P6 P5 P4 P3
P2 P1 P0 octet 2
* * *
P15..P0 is the measured RSARP value for the indicated receivers and carrier
number. The RSARP value xxx.xx degrees shall be multiplied by 100 and binary
coded with P15 as the most significant bit and P0 as the least significant
bit. The RSARP value shall be in the range of 0 to 359.99 degrees.
# 8 ATF Applicability for Device Types
As support of the antenna test function is optional, future work when
specifying MIMO OTA conformance tests will need to determine and specify the
applicability of any two-stage test cases. This clause can be used to capture
interim information on applicability as it becomes available.
# 9 Investigation of additional new UE measurements
This subclause will capture the potential for any additional measurements
beyond those so far identified (RSAP and RSARP) in the SI. At this time there
are no additional measurements identified.
## 9.1 Analysis of narrowband ATF measurements
The definitions of RSAP and RSARP are calculated from the average RS power and
phase across the entire channel bandwidth which can be any of the six E-UTRA
bandwidth specified from 1.4 MHz to 20 MHz. In order to investigate the impact
of using an average value for the entire channel an experiment was carried out
to compare the antenna patterns and throughput observed using three adjacent 3
MHz channels with the results seen using a 10 MHz channel covering the same
RB.
The measurements were made using a Band 2 smartphone using the UMa channel
model at the following frequencies shown in Table 9.1-1:
Table 9.1-1: Measurement conditions
* * *
Configuration Centre Frequency Channel Bandwidth Low, 3M 1956.5MHz 3 MHz Mid,
3M 1960MHz 3 MHz High, 3M 1963.5MHz 3 MHz Mid, 10M 1960 MHz 10 MHz
* * *
The UE RSAP for the main and sub antennas was measured as well as the RSARP
for both horizontal and vertical polarizations. The result can be found in
Figures 9.1-1 to 9.1-6.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 9.1-1: RSAP for main antenna (vertical)
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 9.1-2: RSAP for main antenna (horizontal)
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 9.1-3: RSAP for sub antenna (vertical)
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 9.1-4: RSAP for sub antenna (horizontal)
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 9.1-5: RSARP (vertical)
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 9.1-6: RSARP (horizontal)
Figures 9.1-1 through 9.1-6 show differences in RSAP and RSARP between the
average of the three 3 MHz channels and the 10 MHz channel. It is not
particularly helpful to interpret specific antenna gain and phase differences
for each rotation angle but the average difference in antenna correlation
across the twelve rotation angles was computed as 0.00083. The corresponding
average difference in MIMO channel gain was 0.0533 dB. The consequence of
these differences can be seen in the measured throughput in Figure 9.1-7. Very
little difference can be seen, with a maximum difference of 0.3 dB in outage
level at the 25 Mbps point. The measured differences are well inside the
normal variations seen when re-testing the same device in the same conditions.
It is also noted that the actual RB represented by the three 3 MHz channels
are not identical to the RB used by the 10 MHz channel.
Figure 9.1-7: Throughput
This initial analysis suggests that computing the average RSAP and RSARP
across the entire channel is a close approximation to the average of narrower
band measurements. Further analysis of this aspect can be carried out in
future work on measurement uncertainty not part of the scope of this work
item.
# 10 UE Requirements
Editor\'s note: It is understood that documenting UE ATF requirements in this
TR is a holding place until such time as RAN WG5 specifies MIMO OTA
conformance tests at which time it is expected that the UE ATF performance
requirements as confirmed by RAN4 will be moved to a RAN5 TS.
The following subclauses define the accuracy requirements for the RSAP and
RSARP measurements.
It should be noted that the two-stage test method includes RSAP and RSARP
validation and if necessary linearization of the results prior to calibration
of the results against known radiated metrology standards, therefore the
requirement for RSAP and RSARP is that they are monotonic over a given range
and resolution. As a consequence their absolute accuracies are not relevant.
However, due to the similarity with RSRP, in order to guide RSAP
implementation, an upper bound limit on accuracy is defined for RSAP. Since
RSAP is measured in much easier conditions than RSRP, the RSRP absolute
requirement will not increase the demands on existing receiver designs.
## 10.1 RSAP
The requirements for RSAP accuracy are given in Table 10-1.
Table 10-1: Reference Signal Antenna Power requirements
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | > **Parameter** | > **Value** | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | > **Absolute accuracy** | > ± 6 dB | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | > **Range** | > RSAP absolute accuracy and monotonicity | | | > to be maintained over the range -60 dBm | | | > to -80 dBm incident power measured at | | | > the orientation of the DUT's maximum | | | > antenna gain. | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | > **Monotonicity** | > Monotonicity over a 1 dB interval. This | | | > is necessary to enable linearization of | | | > the UE RSAP response as part of the | | | > accuracy requirements for the derived | | | > complex antenna pattern. | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
## 10.2 RSARP
The requirements for RSARP accuracy are given in Table 10-2.
Table 10-2: Reference Signal Antenna Relative Phase requirements
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | > **Parameter** | > **Value** | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | > **Range** | > RSARP monotonicity to be maintained over the | | | > range -60 dBm to -80 dBm incident power | | | > measured at the orientation of the DUT's | | | > maximum antenna gain. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | > **Monotonicity** | > Monotonicity over a 5 degree interval. This | | | > is necessary to enable linearization of the | | | > UE RSARP response as part of the accuracy | | | > requirements for the derived complex antenna | | | > pattern. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
###### ## Annex A: Definition of the UE ATF Client Application
This annex defines a client application for access to the ATF as an
alternative to the layer 3 definition provided in section 6 and 7.
The UE ATF client application (or simply the "ATF test application") to
support LTE over-the-air radiated performance testing allows the UE:
\- to receive the ANTENNA INFORMATION REQUEST from the Test Platform
\- to respond to the Test Platform with the ANTENNA INFORMATION RESPONSE
The application needs to be tailored to the specific device which needs to
support the underlying RSAP and RSARP ATF measurements in the device chipset.
For data-centric devices, the ATF test application is designed to run on a
host laptop, e.g., USB modem plugged into the laptop, or configured by a host
laptop tethered to the UE only for initial configuration as shown in Figure
A.1.
{width="5.997222222222222in" height="2.3895833333333334in"}
Figure A.1: Tethered UE ATF Client Application Connection Diagram
For phones, notebooks, and tablets, the ATF test application is embedded by
the vendor on the devices provided to the test lab for over-the-air radiated
performance testing as shown in Figure A.2.
{width="4.872916666666667in" height="2.8333333333333335in"}
Figure A.2: Embedded UE ATF Client Application Connection Diagram
On launch of the ATF test application, the DUT listens on the IP address and
UDP port configured on the test platform and wait for the test platform to
initiate communication with the ATF test application.
The ATF test application communicates with the test platform using the
commands detailed in the Section "Message Definitions and Contents".
The ATF test application needs to have a user interface through which the user
can configure the IP address and port number defined for use by the test
platform. This configuration is stored across DUT power cycles.
The ANTENNA INFORMATION RESPONSE is expected to be sent by the UE within 1 s
of the ANTENNA INFORMATION REQUEST.
##### Message Definitions and Contents {#message-definitions-and-contents-1
.H6}
The message definition and their contents used to communicate between the UE
and the test platform are outlined below. These message definitions are for
legacy single carrier 2x2 MIMO devices. For the commands detailed below, the
following notation applies:
\- Presence: is either M=Mandatory or O=Optional
\- Format: equivalent to [6], subclause 11.2.3.1.1
\- Length: in octets
##### ANTENNA INFORMATION REQUEST {#antenna-information-request-1 .H6}
This message is only sent in the direction from the Test Platform to the UE.
* * *
Information Element Presence Format Length Message0 type M V 1 Request type M
V 1
* * *
where message0 type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 octet 1
* * *
where request type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 octet 1
* * *
##### ANTENNA INFORMATION RESPONSE {#antenna-information-response-1 .H6}
This message is only sent in the direction from the UE to the Test Platform.
* * *
Information Element Presence Format Length Message0 type M V 1 Date M V 4 Time
M V 4 Message0 type M V 1 Message0 type M V 1 RSAP (for Rx~0~) M V 2 RSARP
(for Rx~0~ and Rx~1~) M V 2 Message1 type M V 1 RSAP (for Rx~1~) M V 2
* * *
where message0 type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 octet 1
* * *
and where message1 type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 octet 1
* * *
The date is encoded with
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 0 Y10 Y9 Y8 octet 1 Y7 Y6 Y5 Y4 Y3 Y2 Y1 Y0
octet 2 0 0 0 0 M3 M2 M1 M0 octet 3 0 0 0 D4 D3 D2 D1 D0 octet 4
* * *
Y10..Y0 is the year and binary coded with Y10 as the most significant bit and
Y0 as the least significant bit. M3..M0 is the month and binary coded with M3
as the most significant bit and M0 as the least significant bit. D4..D0 is the
day and binary coded with D4 as the most significant bit and D0 as the least
significant bit.
The time i encoded with:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 H3 H2 H1 H0 octet 1 0 0 MIN5 MIN4 MIN3 MIN2
MIN1 MIN0 octet 2 S15 S14 S13 S12 S11 S10 S9 S8 octet 3 S7 S6 S5 S4 S3 S2 S1
S0 octet 4
* * *
H3..H0 is the hour and binary coded with H3 as the most significant bit and H0
as the least significant bit. MIN5..MIN0 is the minutes and binary coded with
MIN5 as the most significant bit and MIN0 as the least significant bit.
S15..S0 is the seconds. The seconds value in xx.xxx format is multiplied by
1000 and binary coded with S15 as the most significant bit and S0 as the least
significant bit.
The RSAP is encoded with:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 R13 R12 R11 R10 R9 R8 octet 1 R7 R6 R5 R4 R3 R2 R1
R0 octet 2
* * *
R13..R0 is the measured RSAP value for the indicated receiver. The RSAP value
in -xxx.xx dBm shall be multiplied by -100 and binary coded with R13 as the
most significant bit and R0 as the least significant bit. The RSAP value shall
be in the range of 0.00 to -120.00 dBm.
while RSARP is encoded with:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. P15 P14 P13 P12 P11 P10 P9 P8 octet 1 P7 P6 P5 P4 P3
P2 P1 P0 octet 2
* * *
P15..P0 is the measured RSARP value between receivers Rx~1~ and Rx~0~. The
RSARP value xxx.xx degrees shall be multiplied by 100 and binary coded with
P15 as the most significant bit and P0 as the least significant bit. The RSARP
value shall be in the range of 0 to 359.99 degrees.
Alternatively, the ATF test application can follow the message definition and
contents defined in sections 6 and 7, e.g. to support CA and or UEs with more
than two Rx antennas.
#