# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
# 1 Scope
This document is related to the technical report for the study item "Study on
latency reduction techniques for LTE" [2]. The purpose of this TR is to
capture the findings from TSG RAN WG2 and WG1 according to their respective
objectives, and to draw a conclusion on way forward.
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
potential impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP
systems.
This document is a 'living' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which through reference in this
text constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-150465, New SI proposal: Study on Latency reduction techniques for LTE,
Ericsson, RAN#67, March 2015.
[3] R2-152326, Latency reductions in LTE, Ericsson, RAN2#90, May 2015
[4] R2-152174, Impact of latency reduction on TCP slow-start behaviour, Intel
Corp. RAN2#90, May 2015
[5] R2-152456, Evaluation on the gains provided by 0.5ms TTI, Huawei,
HiSilicon, RAN2#90, May 2015
[6] R2-154743, Email discussion report for [91#29][LTE/Latency] Evaluation
results, RAN2#91, October 2015
[7] 3GPP TR 36.814: "Further advancements for E-UTRA physical layer aspects".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.213: "Physical layer procedures".
[9] R2-156340 Performance evaluation on short TTI, ZTE Corporation, RAN2#92,
Nov 2015
[10] R2-156278 L2 overhead for shorter TTI, Nokia Networks, RAN2#92, Nov 2015
[11] R2-156202, Report of email discussion [91bis#35] [LTE/LATRED] Handover
evaluations and solutions, RAN2#92, November 2015
[12] **3GPP TS 36.300, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description;
Stage 2"**
[13] 3GPP TS 36.331, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification"
[14] 3GPP TS 36.133, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management"
[15] 3GPP TS 36.321, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification"
[16] R2-154191, Contention based uplink transmission, Huawei, HiSilicon,
RAN2#91bis, October 2015
[17] R2-154122, Analysis on resource efficiency of uplink access solutions,
CATT, CATR, RAN2#91bis, October 2015
[18] R2-156402, Performance evaluation of CB-PUSCH, Nokia Networks, RAN2#92,
November 2015
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 Study Objectives
Potential gains like reduced response time and improved TCP throughput due to
latency improvements on typical applications and use cases are identified and
documented. In this evaluation, latency reductions due to protocol
enhancements as well as shortened TTIs are assumed. Specifically, the
following items should apply:
  * Consider the web application (HTTP/FTP+TCP) use case and analyse the possible gains in the performance metrics of delay and perceived data rate for TCP based data transactions.
  * Consider real-time application use case and analyse the possible gains in delay, service coverage and system capacity.
  * Other areas in accordance with [2] may be considered as well
  * Aspects of complexity, energy-consumption, signalling overhead and resource efficiency should be considered.
The evaluations include active UEs and UEs that have been inactive a longer
time, but are kept in RRC Connected. Reducing user plane latency for the
scheduled UL transmission with resource efficient solution as a result of
protocol and signalling enhancements are studied and compared to the pre-
scheduling solutions allowed by the standard today.
Specification impact, feasibility and performance of TTI lengths between 0.5ms
and one OFDM symbol are studied, taking into account impact on e.g. L2
overhead, reference signals and physical layer control signalling.
Backwards compatibility shall be preserved, i.e. solutions should allow normal
operation of pre-Rel 13 UEs on the same carrier.
# 5 Overview of LTE latency
In an LTE system there are multiple components contributing to the total end
to end delay for connected UEs. The limitations in performance are in general
use case dependent; for which e.g. UL latency may influence the DL application
performance and vice versa.
## 5.1 Delay components
### 5.1.1 UL and DL latency
Examples of sources to latency are listed below. For UL, a signalling chart is
shown in Figure 5.1.1-1. For DL, a corresponding signalling chart is shown in
Figure 5.1.1-2. In this example, UL synchronization is assumed.
Figure 5.1.1-1. Overview of UL transmission delay. Does not include
retransmissions.
Figure 5.1.1-2. Overview of DL transmission delay. Does not include
retransmissions
**Grant acquisition**
A UE with data to send must send a Scheduling Request (SR) and receive a
scheduling grant before transmitting the data packet. In order to send a SR it
must wait for a SR-valid PUCCH resource and a corresponding scheduling grant
transmitted to the UE in response. When the grant is decoded the data
transmission can start over PUSCH.
**Random access**
If the UL timing of a UE is not aligned, initial time alignment is acquired
with the random access procedure. The time alignment can be maintained with
timing advance commands from the eNB to the UE. However, it may be desirable
to stop the maintenance of UL time alignment after a period of inactivity,
thus the duration of the random access procedure may contribute to the overall
latency in RRC_CONNECTED. The random access procedure also serves as an UL
grant acquisition mechanism (Random Access based Scheduling Request).
Therefore, for cases where random access is needed, no separate PUCCH based SR
procedure/step is needed.
**Transmission Time Interval (TTI)**
The transmission of a request, grant, or data is done in subframe chunks with
a fixed duration (1 ms), which is the source of a delay per packet exchange
between the UE and the eNodeB.
**Processing**
Data and control need to be processed (e.g., encoded and decoded) in the UE
and eNodeB. Data processing is a source of processing delays, which are
proportional to the TB size. The processing of control information is
typically less dependent on TB size.
**HARQ Round Trip Time (RTT)**
For UL transmission in FDD, the hybrid-ARQ acknowledgement for a packet
received by the eNodeB in subframe _n_ is reported in subframe _n+4_. If a
retransmission is needed by the UE this is done in subframe _n+8_. Thus the
hybrid-ARQ RTT is 8 ms for FDD UL. For TDD, RTT depends on TDD Configuration.
The RTT for DL transmissions is not specified in detail, as the HARQ scheme is
asynchronous. The HARQ feedback is available at subframe _n+4_ in FDD, and
retransmissions can typically be scheduled in subframe _n+8_ or later if
needed.
**Core / Internet**
In the core network, packets can be queued due to congestion and delayed due
to transmission over backhaul links. Internet connections can be congested and
therefore add to the experienced end-to-end packet delay. EPC and/or Internet
delays vary widely. In the context of latency reductions, it is reasonable to
assume that latency performance of the transport links is good.
Note: In the context of evaluations in this study, a Core/internet latency
component between 1-20 ms is assumed.
### 5.1.2 Handover latency [11]
Figure 5.1.2-1 below shows intra E-UTRAN handover procedure (Figure
10.1.2.1.1-1 of [12]) with the focus on handover execution phase, i.e., only
step 7 to step 11.
Figure 5.1.2-1: Handover execution procedure
**Step 7: RRC Connection Reconfiguration Incl._mobilityControlInfo_**
In this step, the UE receives the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message with
necessary parameters (i.e. new C-RNTI, target eNB security algorithm
identifiers, and optionally dedicated RACH preamble, target eNB SIBs, etc.)
and is commanded by the source eNB to perform the HO [12]. RRC procedure delay
includes RRC Connection Reconfiguration including _mobilityControlInfo_ as
well as related reconfigurations, including [12] [13]:
\- Layer 2 reset / reconfiguration
\- Reset MAC.
\- Re-establish/reconfigure PDCP and RLC for all RBs that are established.
\- Enable integrity protection and ciphering of RRC messages.
  * Layer 3 reconfiguration (e.g. measurement configuration)
**As per** section 11.2 of TS 36.331 [13], for handover, the maximum allowed
delay for RRC procedure is 15 ms.
**Step 8: SN Status Transfer**
In this step, the source eNB sends the SN STATUS TRANSFER message to the
target eNB to convey the uplink PDCP SN receiver status and the downlink PDCP
SN transmitter status of E-RABs for which PDCP status preservation applies
(i.e. for RLC AM).
Since this is eNB to eNB signalling which is not related to air interface and
it can be done in parallel with step 9 below, the delay contribution of this
step can be considered negligible total handover latency.
**Step 9: Synchronization**
After receiving handover command (i.e., Step 7: _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_
message including _mobilityControlInfo_), the UE may perform the following in
this step [12] [13]:
\- Physical layer synchronization and reconfiguration
\- Start synchronizing to the DL of the target PCell.
\- Reconfigure physical layer.
\- Access the target cell via RACH (following a contention-free procedure if a
dedicated RACH preamble was indicated in the _mobilityControlInfo_ , or
following a contention-based procedure if no dedicated preamble was indicated)
\- Layer 2 reconfiguration
\- Security key update: UE derives target eNB specific keys and configures the
selected security algorithms to be used in the target cell.
According to TS 36.133 [14], when the UE receives a RRC message implying
handover the UE shall be ready to start the transmission of the new uplink
PRACH channel within D~handover~ seconds from the end of the last TTI
containing the RRC command, where D~handover~ is the sum of RRC procedure
delay and the "interruption time". The interruption time is defined as the
time between end of the last TTI containing the RRC command on the old PDSCH
and the time the UE starts transmission of the new PRACH, excluding the RRC
procedure delay.
Interruption time includes:
\- Target cell search
\- UE processing time for RF/baseband retuning, derive target eNB specific
keys, configure security algorithm to be used in target cell
\- RACH procedure related (uncertainty delay to acquire RACH opportunity
followed by PRACH preamble transmission)
**Step 9.1: Target cell search:** As, in most cases, target cell is selected
based on UE measurement reports and can be assumed to be "known", the delay
due to this step can be considered to be 0 ms for this study.
**Step 9.2: UE processing time for RF/baseband re-tuning, security update:**
While the exact value can vary significantly based on various parameters, for
the purpose of this SI, we consider UE processing time (for RF/baseband
retuning, derive target eNB specific keys, configure security algorithm to be
used in target cell) to be 20 ms as defined in TS 36.133.
**Step 9.3: Delay to acquire first available PRACH in target eNB:**
Considering a typical RACH configuration where PRACH is available every 5
subframes, the minimum delay for this step 0.5ms and a typical delay would be
2.5 ms.
**Step 9.4 PRACH preamble transmission:** The last delay element in step 9 is
1 subframe required for PRACH preamble transmission.
**Step 10: UL Allocation + TA for UE**
In this step, the target eNB responds with UL allocation and timing advance.
This corresponds to RAR from target eNB.
Assuming LTE FDD and that subframe number is continuously numbered, if UE
sends RACH preamble in subframe _n_ , following current specification, eNB can
send RAR as early as in subframe _n_ +3 (section 5.1.4 of TS 36.321[15]).
**Assuming that the grant decoding and/or TA delay is not included in this
step, the minimum delay of this step would be 3ms and typical/average delay
would be 5ms.**
**Step 11: UE sends RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete**
When the UE has successfully accessed the target cell, the UE sends the
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message (C-RNTI) to confirm the
handover, along with an uplink Buffer Status Report, whenever possible, to the
target eNB to indicate that the handover procedure is completed for the UE.
The target eNB verifies the C-RNTI sent in the
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message. The target eNB can now begin
sending data to the UE [12].
According to section 6.1.1 of TS 36.213 [8], UE can then send
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ as early as after k~1~ >= 6 subframes,
i.e., the delay of this step is typically 6 ms. This includes UE Processing
Delay (decoding of scheduling grant and timing alignment + L1 encoding of UL
data) and transmission of RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete.
## 5.2 Current performance
### 5.2.1 UL and DL latency
As an example, a simple assessment of important sources of latency for an UL
transmission is presented in Table 1. Assuming Rel-8 functionality the average
waiting time for a PUCCH at a periodicity of 10 ms is 5 ms, leading to a radio
access latency sum of 17 ms in the example. With a SR period set to 1 ms, the
average waiting time is reduced to 0.5 ms, which would lead to a sum of 12.5
ms in this example. Corresponding values for a DL transmission are given in
Table 2.
Table 5.2.1-1. Typical radio access latency components (Rel. 8/Rel. 9) for an
UL transmission from a UE without a valid uplink grant
Table 5.2.1-2. Typical radio access latency components (Rel. 8/Rel. 9) for a
DL transmission
From the tables it can be seen that grant acquisition delay, transmission and
data processing times are additive.
### 5.2.2 Handover latency [11]
As another example, based on discussion in Section 5.1.2, a simple assessment
of sources of latency during handover execution is presented in Table 5.2.2-1.
Table 5.2.2-1. Minimum/Typical radio access latency components (Rel. 8/Rel. 9)
during handover
* * *
Component/ Step Description Time (ms) 7 RRC Connection Reconfiguration Incl.
_mobilityControlInfo_ 15 8 SN Status Transfer 0 9.1 Target cell search 0 9.2
UE processing time for RF/baseband re-tuning, security update 20 9.3 Delay to
acquire first available PRACH in target eNB 0.5/2.5 9.4 PRACH preamble
transmission 1 10 UL Allocation + TA for UE 3/5 11 UE sends RRC Connection
Reconfiguration Complete 6 Minimum/Typical Total delay [ms] 45.5/49.5
* * *
It should be noted that above values assume successful transmission at first
attempt. This may not always be true especially for handover scenarios where
channel quality may be degraded. The actual delay values can be higher if some
steps require retransmissions.
Based on above discussion, we see that total latency during HO process
consists of various elements, as depicted in Figure 5.2.2-1. Service
interruption time in handover can be defined as the duration between the time
when UE stops transmission/reception with the source eNB and the time when
target eNB resumes transmission/reception with the UE.
{width="5.051388888888889in" height="1.5381944444444444in"}
Figure 5.2.2-1: Service interruption time in handover
Broadly, the various delay components fall into one of the following three
categories:
\- RRC procedure delay, including RRC signalling processing (step 7)
\- UE processing time, including delay for RF/baseband retuning, derive target
eNB specific keys, configure security algorithm to be used in target cell
(step 9.2)
\- RACH procedure and _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ , including delay
to acquire first RACH occasion in the target cell (steps 9.3 to 11)
Among these, the following steps contribute to a major portion of total delay
and can be **addressed for possible latency reduction:**
\- RACH procedure including delay to acquire first available PRACH in target
cell, PRACH preamble transmission and UL allocation + TA (steps 9.3, 9.4, 10),
\- UE processing time after RA procedure including decoding of scheduling
grant and timing alignment + L1 encoding of UL data, and transmission of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ (step 11).
## 5.3 Existing means to limit latency
With a short SR period, e.g. 1ms, the control plane overhead is increased
which may reduce resource efficiency as more PUCCH resources in the cell to
support the same number of users is needed. In addition, PUCCH resources are
assigned and reconfigured with dedicated RRC signaling.
Pre-scheduling of scheduling grants uses PDCCH resources, and the granted
PUSCH resources cannot be used by other UEs, which may limit the radio
resource utilization. Further, the UE is expected to send a zero padded
transmission also if the buffer of the scheduled UE is empty.
With SPS, periodic UL/DL resources can currently not be configured more
frequently than every 10 subframes. Also with UL SPS, the UE is expected to
send zero padded transmissions that may come with associated inefficient UE
battery performance and increased UL interference.
# 6 Scenarios, Applications and Use Cases
A number of existing and new applications will benefit from reduced latency.
Example of existing applications that would be positively impacted by reduced
latency in terms of increased perceived quality of experience are TCP based
applications, gaming, real-time applications like VoLTE/OTT VoIP and video
telephony/conferencing.
For new applications it is expected that some will be increasingly delay
critical; examples include remote control/driving of vehicles, augmented
reality applications in e.g. smart glasses, or specific machine communications
requiring low latency as well as critical communications.
It should be noted that applications/use cases have different characteristics
and may be subject to different bottlenecks and benefit differently from
particular improvements in latency.
# 7 Evaluation Structure and Assumptions
# 8 Solutions for latency reduction
## 8.1 Semi-Persistent Scheduling
With current Semi-Persistent Scheduling (SPS), the eNodeB may configure SPS
periodicity via dedicated RRC signalling. Current minimum SPS periodicity is
10ms. Supporting a SPS periodicity of 1TTI is beneficial as this may reduce
the latency of initial UL transmissions. This would allow UL transmission in
consecutive subframes.
## 8.2 UL Grant reception
In current specifications, the UE sends a MAC PDU containing a MAC CE for
padding BSR and optionally padding bits in response to an allocated UL dynamic
or configured grant even if no data is available for transmission in the UE
buffer and no other regular MAC CE is needed to be sent. It is beneficial to
allow UEs to skip (most) dynamic and configured uplink grants if no data is
available for transmission. With frequent UL grants, allowing skipping UL
grants may decrease UL interference and improve UE battery efficiency. The UE
will continue to send one or more regular MAC CE(s), if any. The eNB may
enable skipping UL grants by RRC dedicated signalling.
### 8.2.1 Configured SPS activation and deactivation
The SPS resources are UE specific and may be reserved (configured and active)
for a longer period in time. As such, it is in some cases considered useful
for the eNB to be timely aligned with the UE state on activated or deactivated
SPS resource(s), and if UL transmissions might occur in the granted SPS
resource allocation instances.
An acknowledgement in response to a PDCCH grant indication activation could
for example consist of an UE transmitted **new MAC PDU containing zero MAC
SDUs on the first SPS granted resource to indicate successful activation when
the UE buffer is empty.**
If the PDCCH grant indicating activation is not received, and UE has UL data
to be transmitted, it is assumed that the UE would initiate a SR procedure if
no other action is performed by the eNB.
For Deactivation, the eNB can indicate release of SPS resources on PDCCH. Also
in these cases the eNB would in some cases benefit from being timely aligned
with the UE state on activate or deactivated SPS resource(s).
Similarly to activation, a single transmission could be used also as
deactivation acknowledgement as in instances of skipped transmissions as the
absence of a UL transmission cannot be used as an implicit
deactivation/release acknowledgement mechanism. Other means may thus be
beneficial to specify.
Acknowledgment based Pro's
1 With an acknowledgment on the PDCCH grant activating or deactivating the SPS
allocation, the eNB may be able to distinguish from cases where the PDCCH is
missed by the UE.
2 With a higher degree of robustness of the activation/deactivation mechanism,
the eNB may not have to repeat unnecessarily the SPS grant.
3 A activation and deactivation acknowledgement mechanism may allow for less
conservative use of preconfigured SPS resources and may allow decreased PDCCH
load as lower aggregation level can be used.
4 An acknowledged activation/deactivation of the SPS grant resources may
reduce DRX misalignment.
Acknowledgement based Con's
1 Unnecessary UE battery consumption in instances of empty UE buffer at
activation/deactivation;
2 DRX impacted by the additional UL transmission including the HARQ wait time
(handling of inactivity timer /short cycle timer)
3 Increased uplink interference in instances where the SPS allocation is
changed due to e.g. PDCCH activation/deactivation and where the UE buffer is
empty.
4 New UE behaviour needed for deactivation/release acknowledgment.
5 DRX misalignment probability may be increased due to loss of ACK compared to
if ACK is received correctly
6 SPS resources may be unused for a duration as a result of a missing ACK
after successful PDCCH reception.
Acknowledgement free Pro's
1 Relies on the legacy behaviour that the UE in the rare cases of PDCCH loss
(e.g. 1%) and non-empty buffer may initiate a SR procedure (alt. RACH
procedure). The eNB may then re-initialise SPS or allocate a dynamic grant for
the UE to compensate the PDCCH loss.
2 No additional UL transmissions that may cause interference in instances
where the SPS allocation is changed due to e.g. PDCCH activation/deactivation
and the UE buffer is empty.
3 UE may go earlier to DRX
4 UE behaviour simplified and no new behaviour at deactivation is needed.
Acknowledgement free Con's
1 Increased PDCCH aggregation level may need to be used which increases the
PDCCH resource usage
2 SPS resources may be unused until a SR procedure has been initiated by the
UE missing the PDCCH
3 SPS deactivation on PDCCH may need repetition to have robust SPS resource
release
4 SPS resources are not released after release indication and are only
detected at first periodic grant allocation opportunity after the release
signalling time instance.
## 8.3 Handover Latency
One possible area of improvement where several existing and new applications
could benefit from is to minimize latency during handovers for a mobile UE.
Although TCP based applications could recover from errors introduced by poor
radio conditions during handovers, the delay introduced by handovers for real
time applications is least desired. Two potential solutions to reduce latency
during HO are provided below.
### 8.3.1 Solution 1: RACH-less handover
The solution of RACH-less handover can be introduced when the source cell, the
target cell and the UE are synchronized. In a synchronized network, it is
assumed that subframe boundary between the source cell and target cell are
aligned. One option is that at a mutually agreed time (e.g. SFN), the UE
switches from source cell to target cell, without requiring random access
procedure. Another option is that the UE follows the legacy handover procedure
but skips the RACH related steps. A RACH attempt procedure during handovers
typically takes \~10\~12 ms. An average handover procedure takes \~40\~50 ms
to complete. Eliminating \~10\~12 ms of RACH delay during a handover procedure
can significantly reduce the data interruption during handovers and improve
the user experience.
The synchronization may be achieved between the two eNB cells over X2
signalling and the UE via RRC signalling. Based on the fact that all three
nodes are in sync, the source cell stops DL transmission to the UE, the target
cell provides an uplink grant to the UE, and the UE acquires the target.
**Target cell TA without RACH**
One of the main purposes of RACH procedure during HO is to obtain target cell
TA. In absence of RACH procedure, the UE may be able to obtain the target cell
TA without explicit TA command when the source cell and the target cell are
time synchronized. As illustrated in Figure 8.X.2-1, the UE first obtains the
DL propagation delay difference between the source cell and the target cell
(i.e., T1-T2). Assuming the UL propagation delay is the same as the DL
propagation delay, the UE can derive the target cell TA from the source cell
TA by:
TA~target~ = TA~source~ -- 2 (T~1~ -- T~2~).
NOTE: The accuracy of the target cell TA obtained by this method needs to be
further checked by RAN4.
{width="3.2805555555555554in" height="1.4395833333333334in"}
Figure 8.3.1-1: Obtain target cell TA
**UL grant allocation for handover command response**
Another purpose of RACH procedure during HO is to obtain UL grant for the
transmission of the handover command response (i.e., RRC Connection
Reconfiguration Complete message). In absence of RACH procedure in target eNB,
allocation of UL grant is needed in the target cell. One option is UL grant
pre-allocation in handover command. The pre-allocated UL grant can be kept
valid within a period of time, starting from the time when the UE achieves
synchronization with the target cell. Another option is UL grant allocation by
dynamic scheduling in the target cell. The target cell allocates UL grant to
the UE by dynamic scheduling from the time when it expects the UE to be
available for scheduling (e.g., based on mutually agreed time, or sometime
later after the handover preparation procedure which is subject to eNB
implementation).
The initial value of PUSCH transmission power control is based on PRACH
preamble power and total power ramp. If PRACH procedure is removed, power
control in PUSCH should be modified. The impact in uplink power control needs
to be studied by RAN1.
### 8.3.2 Solution 2: Maintaining Source eNB Connection during Handover
**This solution can reduce data interruption during handover (HO) by not
releasing the connection to the source eNB until handover is completed at the
target eNB. Continuous transmission of user data from source cell well after
handover procedure start can significantly improve the user experience.**
**In current LTE HO, the UE resets MAC and reestablishes PDCP upon receiving
the HO command and thus communication with the source eNB is stopped. The data
disruption will happen until the UE receives the first packet from the target
eNB. The proposal is to delay the MAC and PDCP reset until the UE performs
successful RACH at the target eNB. This requires that the UE monitor both
source and target links simultaneously, which is similar to Dual Connectivity
on the same frequency. To continue the data transmission with the source eNB,
the UE should continue sending CSI and HARQ feedback to the source eNB.
However, if the radio link quality becomes bad, this shouldn't force the UE to
declare RLF since that would trigger RRC Connection Re-establishment.
Therefore, RLM for the source eNB needs to be suspended until the end of
handover (success or failure). The impact on uplink transmission should be
evaluated if the UE still sends uplink signal in bad radio link quality due to
suspension of RLM.**
**This solution can provide the additional benefit of returning back to the
source eNB if handover fails. When RACH is completed successfully at the
target eNB, the source eNB should be made aware that it can stop transmissions
to the UE. This indication can come from the UE or from the target eNB with
the X2 option being more efficient due to better reliability.**
Under current specifications, the UE cannot transmit simultaneously to source
cell and target cell on the same frequency although this may be feasible by
using multiple RF chains at least on downlink while uplink may require changes
such as TDM operation. Since this can impact physical layer procedures, this
solution should also be studied by RAN1/RAN4.
## 8.4 Contention based PUSCH transmission
In the pre-scheduling scheme allowed by current specifications, the eNB will
assign one separate UL grant for each UE in each pre-scheduling interval, and
the assigned UL grant will be wasted if one UE has no available data to
transmit during one pre-scheduling interval. For contention based PUSCH
transmission, multiple UEs may share the same PUSCH resource (either
dynamically granted or configured). Collision will happen if two or more UEs
that share the same PUSCH resource perform the PUSCH transmission at the same
time, and in this case the eNB may not be able to successfully decode all of
the PUSCH transmissions. Contention based PUSCH transmission allows more
efficient PUSCH resource utilization compared to the existing pre-scheduling
scheme. However, as a result of collision, the potential retransmissions can
result in increased latency for colliding UEs.
### 8.4.1 Solution 1 [16]
This contention based PUSCH transmission scheme is featured with UE
identification even if collision happens. If the UE has available data to
transmit and no collision happens, the initial transmission is identical with
the existing PUSCH transmission. Nevertheless, when the initial transmission
fails, the eNB needs to schedule the retransmission on a dedicated PUSCH
resource to avoid the potential collision. If the UE has available data to
transmit and unfortunately collision happens, for each of the colliding UE,
since the eNB can distinguish it, the eNB can either first respond by PHICH
ACK to hold the uplink transmission and later schedule the retransmission on a
dedicated PUSCH resource, or immediately schedule the retransmission on a
dedicated PUSCH resource, so as to avoid further collision. A UE configured
with contention based PUSCH transmission also needs to be configured with UL
grants skipping if no available data to transmit (as described in section 8.2)
to minimize the potential collision.
An example of distinguishing the colliding UEs is DMRS-based UE
identification. The eNB may allocate different DMRS resources (i.e. different
DMRS Cyclic Shifts) to different UEs that share the same PUSCH resource, so
that the eNB can identify the exact UE that performed the PUSCH transmission
even if collision happens. In the current specification, there are 8 different
DMRS resources. In some scenarios, the eNB may only use part of them (e.g. 4
out of 8) to maximize the orthogonality.
If the contention based PUSCH resource is assigned by dynamic scheduling, then
there is no impact to the current specifications, as the DMRS Cyclic Shift can
be provided by the DCI for uplink scheduling. If the contention based PUSCH
resource is assigned during SPS activation, considering that the DMRS Cyclic
Shift provided in the DCI for SPS activation is fixed to \'000\', RRC
specification needs to be updated so that the eNB can provide the DMRS Cyclic
Shift to the UE in SPS configuration.
### 8.4.2 Solution 2 [17]
The characteristics of this CB PUSCH mechanism are given as below:
\- More than one UE shares the same CB resource indicated by CB grant;
\- If UE needs to transmit uplink data, it monitors CB grant, and transmits
the data on the indicated CB resource; otherwise, UE is not required to
monitor CB grant;
\- If only one UE transmits data on the CB resource, there is no collision:
\- Based on the received data eNB can acquire the related UE information, and
gives the response to that UE;
\- Otherwise, if more than one CB UE transmits data simultaneously, the
collision happens:
\- For eNB, it cannot successfully decode the data received on CB resource,
and does not give any feedback to UE;
\- For UE, it can realize the collision by not receiving any feedback, and
perform the following actions:
\- Flush the HARQ buffer for this CB transmission;
\- Indicate the transmission failure information to RLC, and RLC performs the
related RLC PDU retransmission;
\- Perform backoff mechanism, and the next CB transmission can be performed
after a random backoff time;
Note: Here we assume the value of backoff time is between 0 and 10ms.
Note: HARQ retransmission is not supported by CB-PUSCH transmission.
# 9 Performance Evaluation
_Editors Note: The study evaluation includes resource efficiency, including
air interface capacity, battery lifetime, control channel resources,
specification impact and technical feasibility. Both FDD and TDD duplex modes
are considered._
## 9.1 Protocol evaluations on TTI reduction and Fast UL
**TCP Slow Start**
TCP Slow-start is in general part of the congestion control mechanism used by
TCP and is used in conjunction with other algorithms to avoid network
congestion. Slow-start begins initially with a congestion window size, and it
will be increased with each acknowledgment received, effectively increasing
the window size each round trip time (RTT). The transmission rate will be
increased with slow-start algorithm until either a loss is detected, or the
receiver\'s advertised window is the limiting factor, or the slow-start
threshold is reached. If a loss event occurs, TCP assumes that it is due to
network congestion and takes steps to reduce the offered load on the network
[4].
### 9.1.1 Simulation 1
TCP slow-start behavior for FTP file download based on reduced TTI and reduced
SR periodicity [4]
In this simulation it is assumed that the core network and the Internet delay
is very small and is independent of the TTI values. The assumed latency
between eNB and TCP Server is 1-2 ms.
The average DL data-rate the same for different scenarios. This is achieved by
scaling the TBS sizes according to the duration of TTI compared to the current
1ms TTI.
For the FTP based file download using TCP protocol, TCP New Reno is used. File
size is kept so as to achieve the saturation in data-rate so that the
conditions when UE's perceived instantaneous as well as overall data-rate
reaches at least 90% of the saturation rate can be determined.
The instantaneous throughput is calculated as 25ms moving window average of
TCP layer throughput. Aggregate user perceived throughput (UPT) is calculated
as total TCP layer data downloaded divided by the time elapsed. Initial time
for setting up the network and for the UE to attach to network is removed as
offset from the results such that the FTP request is sent to the server from
the UE at time 0.
A saturation data-rate of approximately 21Mbps (example scenario is 3 CA 20MHz
each, cell spectral efficiency \~3.5bps/Hz, 10 UEs/cell) is assumed. MCS index
of UE is set such that on an average this data-rate is achieved when TCP has
fully ramped up (channel adaptation is disabled).
The results for TTI reduction in this simulation do not take into account
possible overhead due to e.g. additional L1/2 overhead.
**Results simulation 1**
Figure 3 shows the comparison of 1ms TTI with 0.5ms and 0.1ms TTI scenarios.
The SR periodicity is 5 TTI in each case. As expected the TCP ramps up quickly
with smaller TTI durations compared to 1ms TTI.
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 3 Effect of reduced TTI on TCP slow-start behaviour for SR periodicity
of 5 TTIs
Figure 4 shows the comparison of TCP ramp-up behaviour with SR periodicity of
1 TTI for different TTI values.
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 4 Effect of reduced TTI on TCP slow-start behaviour for SR periodicity
of 1 TTI
Table 3 shows the comparison of the six scenarios described above. It is
observed that, the slow-start ramp-up time to 90% saturation throughput
reduces by 44% when SR periodicity of 1 TTI is used for the 1ms TTI duration
compared to SR periodicity of 5 TTIs. The ramp-up time is observed to reduce
by 92% when TTI is reduced from 1ms to 0.1ms keeping the same SR periodicity
(5 TTIs). Note that because of reduction in TTI duration, the periodicity of
SR opportunities implicitly increases by the same factor when periodicity is
fixed in terms of number of TTIs. Therefore, to compare the TCP performance
with the same absolute periodicity of SR opportunities among the considered
scenarios, we can compare 0.5ms TTI with SR periodicity 1 TTI and 0.1ms TTI
with SR periodicity 5 TTI, where we observe 73% reduction in TCP slow-start
time and 63% reduction in minimum file size for TCP ramp-up to 90% of the
saturation rate as a result of TTI reduction from 0.5ms to 0.1ms.
  1. When core network and the Internet latencies are minimal, air-interface latency becomes the dominant factor.
  2. TCP slow-start ramp-up time reduces significantly with smaller TTI durations compared to 1ms TTI.
  3. TCP slow-start ramp-up time reduces with reduced SR periodicity.
Table 3 Comparison of TCP slow-start performance
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TTI, | Time for | Min file | Time taken | Min file | | | TCP ramp-up | size for | for UPT to | size for | | SR | to 90% of | TCP ramp-up | be 90% of | UPT to be | | periodicity | saturation | to 90% of | saturation | 90% of | | in TTIs | rate* | saturation | rate* | saturation | | | | rate | | rate | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1ms, 5 TTI | 180ms | 156KB | 1.31s | 3.12MB | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0.5ms, 5 | 70ms | 64KB | 485ms | 1.56MB | | TTI | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0.1ms, 5 | 15ms | 20KB | 150ms | 366KB | | TTI | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1ms, 1 TTI | 100ms | 93KB | 720ms | 1.72MB | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0.5ms, 1 | 55ms | 54KB | 380ms | 908KB | | TTI | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0.1ms, 1 | 10ms | 15KB | 100ms | 248KB | | TTI | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
***Note: minimum time granularity for TCP throughput observations in Table 3
is 5ms.**
Table 3 also shows that the minimum file size for the users to realize
aggregate UPT of 90% of saturation rate decreases by about the same factor
(45%) when SR periodicity of 1 TTI is used for 1ms TTI duration compared to SR
periodicity of 5 TTIs. The same performance metric (minimum file size for UPT
to be 90% of saturation rate) is observed to reduce by 88% when TTI is reduced
from 1ms to 0.1ms keeping the same SR periodicity (5 TTIs). Compared to 1ms
TTI with SR periodicity of 5 TTIs, 0.1ms TTI with SR periodicity of 1 TTIs
results in 13x reduction in minimum file size required to realize UPT of 90%
of saturation rate.
Table 4 shows the average air-interface latency for UEs in connected mode.
Average downlink latency and latency for the UE initiated uplink data
transmission for a UE with uplink synchronization are calculated following the
timing analysis of [3]. The details of the calculation are shown in Appendix
A. For this calculation, we assume that the processing times at the eNB and UE
can be reduced by the same factor as the TTI reduction; and two cases for UL
and DL HARQ transmissions -- a) no HARQ retransmissions are required (i.e.,
error-free), and b) 10% error probability for initial transmission and up to 1
HARQ retransmission. For the UL, we also separate the latency due to SR
related steps and actual UL data transmission where we assume that the UE
processing time is divided into half for scheduling grant decoding and L1 data
encoding. To be consistent in comparison of DL and UL, we add the eNB
processing delay in the UL after the UL data is received by the eNB.
Table 4: Average Air-interface latency
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TTI, | Av | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | SR | air | | | | | | | | | p | -inte | | | | | | | | | eriod | rface | | | | | | | | | icity | la | | | | | | | | | in | tency | | | | | | | | | TTIs | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | DL | UL | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | error | 10% | error | 10% | | | | | | | free | error | free | error | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | SR-re | Data | Total | SR-re | Data | Total | | | | | lated | Tx | | lated | Tx | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1ms, | 4ms | 4.8ms | 9ms | 4ms | 13ms | 9ms | 4.8ms | 1 | | 5 TTI | | | | | | | | 3.8ms | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 | 2ms | 2.4ms | 4.5ms | 2ms | 6.5ms | 4.5ms | 2.4ms | 6.9ms | | .5ms, | | | | | | | | | | 5 TTI | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 | 0.4ms | 0 | 0.9ms | 0.4ms | 1.3ms | 0.9ms | 0 | 1 | | .1ms, | | .48ms | | | | | .48ms | .38ms | | 5 TTI | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1ms, | 4ms | 4.8ms | 7.0ms | 4ms | 11ms | 7.0ms | 4.8ms | 1 | | 1 TTI | | | | | | | | 1.8ms | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 | 2ms | 2.4ms | 3.5ms | 2ms | 5.5ms | 3.5ms | 2.4ms | 5.9ms | | .5ms, | | | | | | | | | | 1 TTI | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 | 0.4ms | 0 | 0.7ms | 0.4ms | 1.1ms | 0.7ms | 0 | 1 | | .1ms, | | .48ms | | | | | .48ms | .18ms | | 1 TTI | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
It is observed from the latency values in Table 4and TCP ramp-up performance
results in Table 3 that the TCP ramp-up performance is highly correlated, as
expected, to the average air-interface latency, i.e., the ramp-up is faster if
the air-interface latency is lower. In addition, the same benefits in terms of
TCP slow-start performance can be observed with latency reduction in general
regardless of how the lower latency is achieved.
  1. Reduced air-interface latency can help to achieve higher user perceived throughput even for smaller TCP sessions.
  2. TCP slow-start performance benefits are highly correlated with the UL air-interface latency but independent of the method how the faster UL access is achieved.
It is also observed that SR-related latency in the UL is the dominant factor
in average latency values. It is noted that SR-related delay includes delay
due to SR periodicity; uplink scheduling delay and uplink grant transmission.
Therefore, it is clear that solutions, which reduce or completely remove the
SR-related delay, will improve the TCP slow-start behaviour significantly.
### 9.1.2 Simulation 2
Capacity and throughput gain with 0.5ms TTI [5]
Table 5 lists the distribution (i.e. probability) of the number of PRB(s)
occupation for different packet size. This PRB distribution is a result from
system simulations, using 0.5ms TTI length. In Table 2.2-1, 1 PRB means one
PRB for 1ms TTI length (i.e. existing PRB concept), and 0.5 PRB means half of
the existing PRB. Taken the packet size of 32 Bytes as one example, the
probability that it occupies 0.5 PRB is 25.02%.
Table 5: Distribution of # PRB for different packet size
Index i =1 i=2 i=3 i=4 i=5 i=6 i=7 i=8 i=9
* * *
              0.5 PRB   1 PRB    1.5 PRB   2 PRB    2.5 PRB   3 PRB    3.5 PRB   4 PRB   ≥4.5 PRB
32 Bytes 25.02% 55.10% 12.65% 3.44% 1.71% 1.21% 0.14% 0.25% 0.21% 40 Bytes
5.48% 64.48% 16.33% 7.17% 3.04% 1.38% 1.01% 0.17% 0.06% 50 Bytes 2.03% 56.94%
20.53% 10.62% 3.68% 2.70% 0.96% 0.94% 0.64% 60 Bytes 1.29% 43.15% 25.80%
13.84% 5.64% 3.35% 2.48% 1.66% 0.41% 70 Bytes 3.68% 28.37% 33.06% 14.23% 7.81%
3.33% 3.09% 2.28% 1.73% 80 Bytes 0.39% 8.79% 45.29% 16.56% 10.57% 5.38% 3.19%
3.81% 1.29% 90 Bytes 0.34% 6.08% 37.82% 21.29% 12.21% 5.92% 4.89% 2.14% 2.81%
100 Bytes 0.25% 3.88% 31.82% 22.68% 11.68% 11.36% 4.25% 3.17% 2.29%
With 0.5ms TTI, different packet size will obtain different gains, and the
gain for different packet size could be calculated as below:
For example, for the packet size of 32 Bytes, if one packet occupies 0.5 PRB
with 0.5ms TTI, it means it will occupy 1 PRB with 1ms TTI. In this case, the
capacity is (1-0.5)/0.5 = 100%. If one packet occupies 1 PRB with 0.5ms, it
means it will also occupy 1 PRB with 1ms TTI. In this case, the is 0%.
Similarly, the is (2-1.5)/1.5 = 33.33%.
Figure 5 illustrates the system capacity gain for different packet size
provided by 0.5ms TTI. It could be observed that the packet size of 32Bytes
can achieve the highest capacity gain, which is about 29.5%.
Figure 5: Capacity gain for different packet size
  1. With 0.5ms TTI, system capacity gain can be achieved for small packet. For the packet size of 32Bytes, 29.5% system capacity gain can be achieved.
**FTP throughput**
Today, TCP is the dominating transport layer protocol used for varies
applications over the Internet. For a FTP file with relative small size (e.g.
0.5Mbytes), the TCP slow start period is a significant part of the total
transport period. During TCP slow start, the performance is latency limited.
Shortened TTI over the air interface can accelerate the TCP ACK from the peer
entity to shorten the TCP slow start phase, so that the TCP throughput can be
improved. Further more, shortened TTI over the air interface can also shorten
the TCP RTT, which will also contribute to the increased TCP throughput.
Figure 6 illustrates the UPT (User Perceived Throughput) gain provided by
0.5ms TTI for FTP download, wrt different number of UEs per cell. The FTP file
size is 0.5Mbytes. The simulation assumptions on radio aspects are provide in
Annex A.2, the FTP traffic model is provided in Annex A.4, and the TCP
parameters are provided in Annex A.3.
Figure 6: UPT gain for FTP download
It could be observed that 58% UPT gain can be achieved with 0.5ms TTI, if
there is only one UE per cell. For increased number of UEs per cell, the UPT
gain will be slightly decreased, as radio interface becomes the bottleneck.
Figure 7 shows how the TCP slow start phase can be promoted with 0.5ms TTI,
taken one UE with moderate geometry as the example. It could be observed that
the TCP window for the TCP transmission with 0.5ms TTI grows more quickly and
than that with 1ms TTI in the TCP slow start phase.
Figure 7: Accelerated TCP window by 0.5ms TTI
  1. With 0.5ms TTI, FTP UPT gain can be achieved. For the FTP file size of 0.5Mbytes, 58% UPT gain can be achieved.
### 9.1.3 Simulation 3
Throughput and packet download time with reduced latency in LTE [3]
Figure 8 shows the potential gains in terms of increased download throughput
and reduction of download time for reduced latency in LTE. In the simulation
download file sizes (e.g. of an FTP item, downloaded with TCP) between 100 KB
and 5MB were analysed.
For the LTE baseline a peak-latency performance when no retransmissions are
needed is assumed (e.g. 0% HARQ BLEP). Thus, for the DL a delay of 4ms for
transmission and decoding is assumed, and for the UL a 10ms PUCCH cycle is
assumed, and a SR to grant period of 8ms, as well as 4ms for transmission and
decoding, which leads to an average total of 17ms latency in the UL. For
transport, core network and Internet a total delay of 10ms is assumed. Only
the %-reduction of the radio delay is analysed in the figures. The download
throughput is assumed to be 150Mbit/s and the uplink throughput 50Mbit/s.
One can see that e.g. for a radio latency reduction of 50%, the download time
for a file of less than 1MB can be reduced by 25%. This is for an unchanged
throughput of the LTE system.
It can further be noted that for the LTE baseline a HARQ block error
probability of 0% was assumed. For higher block error probabilities, higher
average LTE latencies need to be considered due to possible HARQ
retransmissions. In this case, overall latency reductions could also be
achieved e.g. by means of HARQ RTT reductions.
{width="6.834722222222222in" height="4.131944444444445in"}
Figure 8. Simulated download delay, speed and relative gain in speed and delay
(y-axes) for different file sizes (x-axis) and percentages of UL and DL
latency reduction techniques
In the above, the maximum achievable LTE link throughput is assumed to be 150
Mbit/s in this simulation and the transport and Internet delay is 10 ms.
  1. Considering the additive effect of grant acquisition, transmission and processing delay reductions, overall latency reduction and performance improvement can be significant.
### 9.1.4 Simulation 4
Latency evaluation results for TTI reduction and Fast UL [6]
#### 9.1.4.1 Simulation assumptions
The performance of a single FTP download over TCP for file sizes between 100
kB and 5 MB is evaluated; in addition to a radio network delay a fixed delay
of 10 ms from core, transport and Internet is assumed.
For the LTE radio part a system with a 10 TTI PUCCH cycle, an 8 TTI SR to
grant period, and an 8 TTI HARQ round trip time (allowing for 8 HARQ
processes) is assumed. For the LTE baseline, a TTI length of 1ms (14 OFDM/SC-
FDMA symbols) is assumed.
With the technique of TTI shortening the TTI length is scaled to 7, 2, and 1
symbol. The TTI scaling in this evaluation also directly scales the HARQ RTT,
so that a proportional scaling of the transport block size is achieved. For
simplicity, it is further assume that a reduction of the TTI length also
scales the SR to grant period, as well as the PUCCH cycle. For the shorter
TTIs it is assumed that an additional DL and uplink overhead due to increased
signalling applies, see Table 9.1.4-1. For the SR period one standard case (10
TTI) and one short case (1 TTI) is studied for comparison.
With a faster first UL grant, the UE is assumed to not perform a legacy PUCCH
cycle nor SR to grant period, i.e. the grant acquisition delay is assumed to
be 0ms.
In Table 9.1.4-1 below we summarize the simulation parameter setup used in
this evaluation.
Table 9.1.4-1. TCP download simulation setup
* * *
Simulation scenario Static UE in a cell
* * *
DL and UL throughput DL 150 Mb/s, UL 50 Mb/s
Number of OFDM/SC-FDMA symbols per TTI, same in both DL and UL 1, 2, 7, 14\
corresponding to\ \- HARQ RTT: of 0.57ms, 1.14 ms, 4 ms, 8 ms\ \- SR to grant
period: 0.57ms, 1.14, 4 ms, 8 ms\ \- PUCCH cycle: 0.7ms, 1.4 ms, 5 ms, 10 ms
HARQ error probability 0.3 for 1^st^ transmission, 0.1 for 2^nd^, 0.05 for
3^rd^, 0.01 for 4^th^, ...
Traffic model FTP download\ over TCP (initial window: 10segments)
Core, transport and internet network delay 10ms
FTP file size [100 kB, 500 kB, 1 MB, 5 MB]
SR period [1 TTI, 10 TTI]
DL PHY overhead 7%, 7%, 25%, 25% for TTI length of 14, 7, 2, 1 symbols
respectively
UL PHY overhead 14%, 14%, 33%, 50% for TTI length of 14, 7, 2, 1 symbols
respectively
* * *
#### 9.1.4.2 TTI shortening simulations
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="4.01875in"}
Figure 9.1.4-1: Download speed and delay, as well as relative gains in speed
and delay compared to baseline for different file sizes and latency reduction
techniques in LTE. The baseline is 1 ms TTI and SR. SR period is 10 TTI.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="4.0368055555555555in"}
Figure 9.1.4-2: Download speed and delay, as well as relative gains in speed
and delay compared to baseline for different file sizes and latency reduction
techniques in LTE. The baseline is 1 ms TTI and SR. SR period is 1 TTI.
From the results in Figure 9.1.4-1, for a SR period of 10 TTI, it is clear
that significant gains in download delay and FTP object bit rate can be
achieved at smaller FTP file sizes with the two studied latency reduction
techniques. Generally, the smaller the FTP file size is (for a given link
level throughput), the larger the fraction of the TCP slow start phase on the
overall download time. During the TCP slow start phase the maximum achievable
throughput is not fully utilized, instead the performance depends on the RTT,
i.e. directly on the latency.
The same trend can be seen in Figure 9.1.4-2, for a SR period of 1 TTI, but
compared to the 10 TTI case the baseline is somewhat improved, and therefore
the gains with shorter TTI and Fast UL are slightly reduced.
It becomes evident that a high gain in terms of overall download time
reduction can be achieved with a faster first UL grant (green line); compared
to the baseline the download time is reduced by 20% for smaller file sizes. A
similar and somewhat higher reduction can be achieved with a 7 symbol TTI
(0.5ms), i.e. 25% reduction (red line). It is noteworthy that these techniques
can complement each other. With a combined use, reductions of about 35% can be
achieved for the download time (cyan line).
Further improvements are achievable with further reduction of the TTI length.
In the case of 2 symbol TTI (1/7ms) and with the use of fast UL grant as well
(orange line), the total download time reduces by 50% at the smaller file
sizes. For a 0.5 MB FTP download this corresponds to a reduction from a 0.35 s
to 0.18 s download time. Reducing even further to 1 symbol TTI (1/14ms)
provides only a minor additional benefit compared to the 2 symbol TTI. This is
due to the assumed comparably large transport/internet/core delay of 10ms
compared to the reducible RAN delay.
For file sizes below 5MB an improvement in performance can be achieved from
shortening the TTI length further than 1/2ms, while at 5MB file size a TTI
length of 1/2ms gives the best performance, due to the impact of higher DL
overhead for TTI reductions beyond 1/2ms.
  1. Reducing TTI length down to 1 or 2 symbols gives largest latency reduction for file sizes up to 1MB, and for larger file sizes a TTI length of 7 gives best latency performance.
  2. Adding Fast UL gives an improved performance with both legacy and short TTI length in all studied cases.
  3. The gain in both download speed and time is larger for smaller file sizes with all TTI lengths compared to the 5MB file size. Further, for the small file sizes, these gains are largest with 1 symbol TTI. These observations are due to the proportional length of TCP slow start compared to the total file download time.
#### 9.1.4.3 Fast UL system simulations
The Fast UL grant mechanism was simulated in a system level simulator tool
with FTP traffic and its performance was compared to that of SR grants and SPS
grants. The simulator parameters are given in Table 9.1.4-2. Figure 9.1.4-3
shows the user FTP throughput for the different grant mechanisms. As can be
seen in the figure, a gain of 30-40% can be achieved with fast UL grants
compared to SR grants with a period of 10 TTI, and gains of \~20% compared to
SR grants with a period of 1 TTI. The FTP throughput is similar to that of SPS
grants.
The resource utilization is given in Figures 4 for DL and in Figure 9.1.4-5
for UL.
Table 9.1.4-2. Simulation parameters
Network 7 sites with 3-sector cells, 500m ISD
* * *
Bandwidth 10 MHz in all cells Duplex FDD Traffic model Single FTP file
download File size 1 MB TCP initial window size 10 SR period [1 TTI, 10 TTI]
UE arrival rate Poisson Distribution, [2.82, 6.58, 9.3975, 12.22, 15.04] per
second Radio clock power consumption 10mW RF RX mixer and LNA power
consumption 72mW RF RX filter and ADC power consumption per MHz 14mW/MHz RX
baseband power consumption (mW) 25 + 7 x Mbps~RX~ TX mixer power consumption
80mW TX DAC power consumption per Mhz 16mW/MHz TX baseband power consumption
(mW) 11 + 1 x Mbps~TX~ Power consumption of PA (mW) 72 + 17.5 _P_ ~TX~^0.784^
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="5.01875in"}
Figure 9.1.4-3. FTP Download Rate for fast UL grant (magenta) compared to SR
(blue and black) and SPS (red)
In Figure 9.1.4-6 the energy consumption of the different grant mechanisms is
shown. Here, we can see that the Fast UL grant solution exhibits the lowest
energy consumption among the studied cases, about 10% lower than for SR
grants. Compared to SPS, no padding is sent unless there is UL data, which
saves battery. It should be noted that no DRX functionality has been assumed
in these simulation. If DRX could be applied in the UE during the "inactive"
phase with fast UL grant, additional reduction in power consumption can be
expected.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="5.01875in"}
Figure 9.1.4-4: DL Resource Utilization for fast UL grant (magenta) compared
to SR (blue and black) and SPS (red).
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="5.01875in"}
Figure 9.1.4-5: UL Resource Utilization for fast UL grant (magenta) compared
to SR (blue and black) and SPS (red).
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="5.01875in"}
Figure 9.1.4-6. Energy consumption for fast UL grant (magenta) compared to SR
(blue and black) and SPS (red).
  1. Fast UL reduces the energy consumption compared to SR and SPS.
### 9.1.5 Simulation 5
System Performance with TTI shortening [6]
#### 9.1.5.1 General information
For the service transmission, the whole latency includes backhaul latency (the
transmission delay between eNB and application server) and RAN latency.
Although the SI is only intended to shorten RAN latency, when we analysis the
performance of RAN latency reduction, the impact of backhaul latency should
not be neglected, and backhaul delay should be considered as an evaluation
factor.
For FTP download application, since the improvement on the file download time
brought by latency reduction would mainly on the TCP slow start phase, the
improvement would be different and depend on the proportion of TCP slow start
phase in the whole file download time. Hence, the downloaded file size should
be considered as an evaluation factor.
Besides the file size, the throughput in Uu interface provided to UE (i.e.
MCS, PRBs) also brings the impact on the benefit brought in the TCP slow start
phase. Hence, the Uu throughput should also be considered as an evaluation
factor.
As discussed in meeting, we should also take the L1 control and RS overhead
into account.
For RAN latency, it includes data transmission time (i.e. TTI), RTT, and UL
access latency (in UL direction, means the period from UL data arrival in UE
to data transmission based on the receiving UL grant). Currently, TTI is 1ms;
RTT is 8TTI (i.e. 8ms for FDD). UL access latency is about 14.5ms (in D-SR
case). To reduce the latency further, for TTI, the smaller granularity should
be evaluated, 1 OFDM symbol, 3 OFDM symbol and 7 OFDM symbols.
For extra UL latency, two existing solutions, i.e. Short D-SR and pre-
allocation, with shorter UL latency are evaluated.
#### 9.1.5.2 Simulation assumptions and parameters
The evaluation assumptions are given as below:
1 FTP download application is used in evaluation, and [Downloading Response
Time]{.underline} (DRT, sec) is regarded as the metric of performance
evaluation. Wherein, DRT includes the time period from UE requesting FTP
service to finishing downloading successfully;
2 Evaluation is based on single UE system with specific block error rate at
air interface (i.e. 10% initial BLER);
3 Simulation parameters in Uu interface are given in table below.
\- For backward compatibility, we assume at least half of bandwidth should be
reserved for legacy UEs;
\- To evaluate the impact on various backhaul latency, FTP file size and UL
access, we considers the sufficient resource allocation with 50 PRBs and
assumes the good channel quality with MCS 20;
\- To evaluate the impact on the various Uu throughput, we also consider the
limited resource allocation with 10 PRBs and assume middle channel quality
with MCS 12.
4 L1 overhead (i.e. L1 control channel and RS) is considered as 10%, 20%, 30%
and 50%, which is reflected into the TBS calculation. To unify the TBS
calculation, we also use the same TBS calculation for the base line case (i.e.
1ms TTI), and the 20% L1 overhead is assumed. The detail on TBS calculation is
given in Annex A1.5.
5 L2 overhead is not taken into account.
Table 9.1.5-1: Simulation parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Assumptions | +==================================+==================================+ | APP Server \ eNB delay | 0, 5, 10, 20, 30, 50 | | (ms) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | FTP File Size | 10KByte, 100KByte, 1MByte, | | | 2MByte, 5MByte | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uu throughput (Mbps) | 27.907Mbps (MCS=20, PRB_Num=50) | | | | | | 2.848 (MCS=12, PRB_Num=10) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TTI Duration | 1ms (as baseline) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Available PRB number for LR UE | 50 (for 20MHz BW) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Target Packet Error Rate | 0.1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max Transmission times | 4 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HARQ RTT | 8*TTI | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 9.1.5.3 Performance results
##### 9.1.5.3.1 Various backhaul latency
Assuming FTP file size 100KByte, Table 9.1.5.-2 and Figure 9.1.5-1 give the
improvement of each TTI length for various backhaul latency, with taking
various L1 overhead (L1_OH) into account.
Table 9.1.5-2: backhaul latency
+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TTI | L | | AppS | | | | | | | l | 1_OH | | erver | | | | | | | ength | | | \ | | | | | | | (in | | | eNB | | | | | | | OFDM | | | la | | | | | | | s | | | tency | | | | | | | ymbol | | | | | | | | | | nu | | | | | | | | | | mber) | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | | | 0ms | 5ms | 10ms | 20ms | 30ms | 50ms | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | 20% | DRT | 0.183 | 0.263 | 0.342 | 0.500 | 0.660 | 0.977 | | s | | | | | | | | | | ymbol | (Base | | | | | | | | | (base | line) | | | | | | | | | line) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | 10% | DRT | 0.097 | 0.171 | 0.251 | 0.410 | 0.571 | 0.891 | | s | | | | | | | | | | ymbol | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 8.80% | | | | | 6.99% | 4.98% | 6.61% | 8.00% | 3.48% | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 20% | DRT | 0.102 | 0.176 | 0.255 | 0.413 | 0.574 | 0.894 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 8.50% | | | | | 4.26% | 3.08% | 5.44% | 7.40% | 3.03% | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 30% | DRT | 0.105 | 0.177 | 0.256 | 0.414 | 0.574 | 0.895 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 8.39% | | | | | 2.62% | 2.70% | 5.15% | 7.20% | 3.03% | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | DRT | 0.120 | 0.186 | 0.258 | 0.416 | 0.577 | 0.896 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 3 | 2 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 8.29% | | | | | 4.43% | 9.28% | 4.56% | 6.80% | 2.58% | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | 10% | DRT | 0.058 | 0.124 | 0.203 | 0.363 | 0.523 | 0.842 | | s | | | | | | | | | | ymbol | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 6 | 5 | 4 | 2 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 8.31% | 2.85% | 0.64% | 7.40% | 0.76% | 3.82% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 20% | DRT | 0.062 | 0.127 | 0.203 | 0.363 | 0.524 | 0.843 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 6 | 5 | 4 | 2 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 6.12% | 1.71% | 0.64% | 7.40% | 0.61% | 3.72% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 30% | DRT | 0.067 | 0.130 | 0.203 | 0.364 | 0.524 | 0.843 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 6 | 5 | 4 | 2 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 3.39% | 0.57% | 0.64% | 7.20% | 0.61% | 3.72% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | DRT | 0.085 | 0.143 | 0.213 | 0.368 | 0.529 | 0.848 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 1 | | | | | 3.55% | 5.63% | 7.72% | 6.40% | 9.85% | 3.20% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 10% | DRT | 0.042 | 0.103 | 0.179 | 0.339 | 0.498 | 0.818 | | s | | | | | | | | | | ymbol | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 7 | 6 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 7.05% | 0.84% | 7.66% | 2.20% | 4.55% | 6.27% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 20% | DRT | 0.047 | 0.106 | 0.179 | 0.340 | 0.499 | 0.819 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 7 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 4.32% | 9.70% | 7.66% | 2.00% | 4.39% | 6.17% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 30% | DRT | 0.052 | 0.110 | 0.180 | 0.340 | 0.500 | 0.820 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 7 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 1.58% | 8.17% | 7.37% | 2.00% | 4.24% | 6.07% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | DRT | 0.071 | 0.124 | 0.192 | 0.344 | 0.503 | 0.823 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 1.20% | 2.85% | 3.86% | 1.20% | 3.79% | 5.76% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Note: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1) | | | | | | | | | | DRT | | | | | | | | | | (sec) | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | stat | | | | | | | | | | istic | | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | | tric, | | | | | | | | | | means | | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | | ownlo | | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | | ponse | | | | | | | | | | time; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2) | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | gain | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | calcu | | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | -DRT/ | | | | | | | | | | Basel | | | | | | | | | | ine_ | | | | | | | | | | DRT), | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | here, | | | | | | | | | | >0 | | | | | | | | | | means | | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | | prove | | | | | | | | | | ment, | | | | | | | | | | \ * | > TBS | > TB | > TBS | > L2 | > L2 | > L2 | | I~TBS~* | _14sym | S_7sym | _2symb | > OH | > O | > O | | | | | | _14sym | H_7sym | H_2sym | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | > 0 | > 1384 | > 680 | > 177 | > 0.034 | > 0.068 | > 0.239 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 1 | > 1800 | > 888 | > 237 | > 0.026 | > 0.053 | > 0.184 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 2 | > 2216 | > 1096 | > 296 | > 0.021 | > 0.043 | > 0.150 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 3 | > 2856 | > 1416 | > 387 | > 0.017 | > 0.033 | > 0.117 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 4 | > 3624 | > 1800 | > 497 | > 0.013 | > 0.026 | > 0.092 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 5 | > 4392 | > 2184 | > 607 | > 0.011 | > 0.022 | > 0.076 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 6 | > 5160 | > 2568 | > 717 | > 0.009 | > 0.019 | > 0.065 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 7 | > 6200 | > 3088 | > 865 | > 0.008 | > 0.015 | > 0.054 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 8 | > 6968 | > 3472 | > 975 | > 0.007 | > 0.014 | > 0.048 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 9 | > 7992 | > 3984 | > 1121 | > 0.006 | > 0.012 | > 0.042 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 10 | > 8760 | > 4368 | > 1231 | > 0.005 | > 0.011 | > 0.038 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 11 | > 9912 | > 4944 | > 1395 | > 0.005 | > 0.010 | > 0.034 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 12 | > 11448 | > 5712 | > 1615 | > 0.004 | > 0.008 | > 0.029 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 13 | > 12960 | > 6468 | > 1831 | > 0.004 | > 0.007 | > 0.026 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 14 | > 14112 | > 7044 | > 1995 | > 0.003 | > 0.007 | > 0.024 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 15 | > 15264 | > 7620 | > 2160 | > 0.003 | > 0.006 | > 0.022 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 16 | > 16416 | > 8196 | > 2325 | > 0.003 | > 0.006 | > 0.020 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 17 | > 18336 | > 9156 | > 2599 | > 0.003 | > 0.005 | > 0.018 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 18 | > 19848 | > 9912 | > 2815 | > 0.002 | > 0.005 | > 0.017 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 19 | > 21384 | > 10680 | > 3034 | > 0.002 | > 0.004 | > 0.016 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 20 | > 22920 | > 11448 | > 3254 | > 0.002 | > 0.004 | > 0.015 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 21 | > 25456 | > 12716 | > 3616 | > 0.002 | > 0.004 | > 0.013 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 22 | > 27376 | > 13676 | > 3890 | > 0.002 | > 0.004 | > 0.012 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 23 | > 28336 | > 14156 | > 4027 | > 0.002 | > 0.003 | > 0.012 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 24 | > 30576 | > 15276 | > 4347 | > 0.002 | > 0.003 | > 0.011 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 25 | > 31704 | > 15840 | > 4509 | > 0.002 | > 0.003 | > 0.011 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 26 | > 36696 | > 18336 | > 5222 | > 0.001 | > 0.003 | > 0.009 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
[[CHART]]{.chart} Figure 9.1.12-1: L2 overhead with 50PRB
Table 9.1.12-2: L1 overhead with 5PRBs
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > * | > TBS | > TB | > TBS | > L2 | > L2 | > L2 | | I~TBS~* | _14sym | S_7sym | _2symb | > OH | > O | > O | | | | | | _14sym | H_7sym | H_2sym | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | > 0 | > 120 | > 48 | > 0 | > 0.333 | > 0.667 | > 1.000 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 1 | > 176 | > 76 | > 5 | > 0.240 | > 0.480 | > 1.000 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 2 | > 208 | > 92 | > 9 | > 0.207 | > 0.414 | > 1.000 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 3 | > 256 | > 116 | > 16 | > 0.171 | > 0.343 | > 1.000 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 4 | > 328 | > 152 | > 26 | > 0.136 | > 0.273 | > 0.955 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 5 | > 424 | > 200 | > 40 | > 0.107 | > 0.214 | > 0.750 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 6 | > 504 | > 240 | > 51 | > 0.091 | > 0.182 | > 0.636 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 7 | > 584 | > 280 | > 63 | > 0.079 | > 0.158 | > 0.553 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 8 | > 680 | > 328 | > 77 | > 0.068 | > 0.136 | > 0.477 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 9 | > 776 | > 376 | > 90 | > 0.060 | > 0.120 | > 0.420 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 10 | > 872 | > 424 | > 104 | > 0.054 | > 0.107 | > 0.375 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 11 | > 1000 | > 488 | > 122 | > 0.047 | > 0.094 | > 0.328 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 12 | > 1128 | > 552 | > 141 | > 0.042 | > 0.083 | > 0.292 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 13 | > 1256 | > 616 | > 159 | > 0.038 | > 0.075 | > 0.263 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 14 | > 1416 | > 696 | > 182 | > 0.033 | > 0.067 | > 0.233 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 15 | > 1544 | > 760 | > 200 | > 0.031 | > 0.061 | > 0.214 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 16 | > 1608 | > 792 | > 209 | > 0.029 | > 0.059 | > 0.206 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 17 | > 1800 | > 888 | > 237 | > 0.026 | > 0.053 | > 0.184 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 18 | > 1992 | > 984 | > 264 | > 0.024 | > 0.048 | > 0.167 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 19 | > 2152 | > 1064 | > 287 | > 0.022 | > 0.044 | > 0.154 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 20 | > 2344 | > 1160 | > 314 | > 0.020 | > 0.041 | > 0.142 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 21 | > 2472 | > 1224 | > 333 | > 0.019 | > 0.038 | > 0.135 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 22 | > 2664 | > 1320 | > 360 | > 0.018 | > 0.036 | > 0.125 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 23 | > 2856 | > 1416 | > 387 | > 0.017 | > 0.033 | > 0.117 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 24 | > 2984 | > 1480 | > 406 | > 0.016 | > 0.032 | > 0.112 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 25 | > 3112 | > 1544 | > 424 | > 0.015 | > 0.031 | > 0.107 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > 26 | > 3752 | > 1864 | > 515 | > 0.013 | > 0.025 | > 0.089 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
[[CHART]]{.chart} Figure 9.1.12-2: L2 overhead with 5PRB
  1. L2 overhead increases significantly for shorter TTI length with smaller TBS.
  2. L2 overhead is very high when the number of PRBs used for shorter TTI is limited and when low MCS is used, for some cases the TBS is not even enough just for the L2 headers and CRC.
## 9.2 Protocol evaluations on Contention based PUSCH transmission
### 9.2.1 Evaluation 1 on solution 1 [16]
In the following evaluations, we assume that 4 different UEs share the same
PUSCH resource.
#### 9.2.1.1 Resource efficiency
Assuming the UE packet arrival rate is 'a', the collision probability from
system perspective can be calculated as follow:
6*a\^2*(1-a)\^2 + 4*a\^3*(1-a) + a\^4 (i.e. probability for 2, 3 and 4
colliding UEs respectively)
Figure 9.2.1.1-1 illustrates the resource efficiency gain provided by
contention based PUSCH transmission (compared to the pre-scheduling scheme
allowed by current specifications for which UL grant is assigned every 1ms)
and the corresponding collision probability with different UE packet arrival
rates (i.e. 10% means in average one UL packet every 10ms). It is observed
that the collision probability increases with the increase of UE packet
arrival rate, and the resource efficiency gain decreases with the increase of
collision probability. The radio efficiency gain is significant when the
collision probability is low (e.g.\ _resource efficiency= (valid number of data transmission) / (total PUSCH
> resource for CB or SPS)._
Note: valid number of data transmission = observation time * PAR5% * CB UE
number;
The comparison results are given in Table 9.2.2.2-7 (observation time = 100ms)
.
Table 9.2.2.2-7: Resource efficiency comparison
+------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Case | Item | CB PUSCH | SPS | | +======+=================+=================+=================+========+ | 1 | 1ms SPS | Average UL | ≈7.5 ms | 7.5 ms | | | interval | latency | | | | | | | (Collision prob | | | | | | ≈ 2%) | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Grant interval | 1ms | 1ms | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | CB UE number | 2 | 1 | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Valid number of | 4 (PAR=2%) | 2 | | | | data | | | | | | transmission | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Total PUSCH | 100 | 100 | | | | resource | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | PUSCH | 4% | 2% | | | | efficiency | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | 2 | 2ms SPS | | CB PUSCH | SPS | | | interval | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Average UL | ≈8 ms | 8 ms | | | | latency | | | | | | | (Collision prob | | | | | | ≈ 6%) | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Grant interval | 1ms | 2ms | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | CB UE number | 4 | 1 | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Valid number of | 8 (PAR=2%) | 2 | | | | data | | | | | | transmission | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Total PUSCH | 100 | 50 | | | | resource | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | PUSCH | 8% | 4% | | | | efficiency | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | 3 | 3ms SPS | | CB PUSCH | SPS | | | interval | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Average UL | ≈8.5 ms | 8.5 ms | | | | latency | | | | | | | (Collision prob | | | | | | ≈ 10%) | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Grant interval | 1ms | 3ms | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | CB UE number | 5 | 1 | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Valid number of | 10 (PAR=2%) | 2 | | | | data | | | | | | transmission | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Total PUSCH | 100 | 33 | | | | resource | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | PUSCH | 10% | 6% | | | | efficiency | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | 4 | 4ms SPS | | CB PUSCH | SPS | | | interval | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Average UL | ≈9 ms | 9 ms | | | | latency | | | | | | | (Collision prob | | | | | | ≈ 19%) | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Grant interval | 1ms | 4ms | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | CB UE number | 4 | 1 | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Valid number of | 20 (PAR=5%) | 5 | | | | data | | | | | | transmission | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Total PUSCH | 100 | 25 | | | | resource | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | PUSCH | 20% | 20% | | | | efficiency | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | 5 | 10ms SPS | | CB PUSCH | SPS | | | interval | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Average UL | ≈12 ms | 12 ms | | | | latency | | | | | | | (Collision prob | | | | | | ≈ 37%) | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Grant interval | 1ms | 10ms | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | CB UE number | 3 | 1 | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Valid number of | 30 (PAR=10%) | 10 | | | | data | | | | | | transmission | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Total PUSCH | 100 | 10 | | | | resource | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | PUSCH | 30% | 100% | | | | efficiency | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+
**[Analysis]{.underline}**
From Table 9.2.2.2-7, it can be seen that the PUSCH efficiency improves with
the increased UL latency, both for the CB PUSCH and SPS solution. With the low
collision probability, CB PUSCH is better than SPS in PUSCH resource
efficiency aspect, e.g. collision probability is lower than 10%. However, with
higher collision probability, e.g. 37%, the PUSCH efficiency of CB PUSCH is
worse than that of SPS. In summary, CB PUSCH solution can improve radio
resource efficiency and provide good latency in case of lower collision
probability.
  1. Observation 4: With the same latency performance as 1ms interval SPS, CB PUSCH solution can improve radio resource efficiency in case of lower collision probability.
### 9.2.3 Evaluation 2 on solution 1 [18]
In the following section, we evaluate the collision probability and UL delay
for CB-PUSCH transmissions. There are two cases: a) evaluation of CB-PUSCH
collision rate, in a scenario with CB-PUSCH users only (i.e. in the system
there are only the CB-PUSCH users), b) evaluation of CB-PUSCH collision rate,
while having in the system both CB-PUSCH only users and dynamically scheduled
users.
Note: In both cases, the re-transmissions are dynamically scheduled on non-CB
resources.
A) Evaluation of CB-PUSCH collision rate, in a scenario with only CB-PUSCH
users
In this case, there is only one contention based group, to which the users
could belong to in case they are using the CB-PUSCH resources. There are up to
6 UEs that could belong to this group, this assumption being based on the DMRS
orthogonality achieved by allocating different cyclic shifts to UEs that can
be supported by Rel-8.
In the evaluations, we have used UL traffic; with FTP model 3 [4] with static
number of UE and packet arrival according to Poisson process, having the file
size of 100 B. More parameters are given in Table A1.7-1 and Table A1.7-2 in
Annex A1.7. The evaluation is done for different packet arrival rates (PAR),
varying from low PAR 2% up to PAR 30% (i.e. approx. every 3^rd^ TTI there is a
file download).
In Figure 9.2.3.1 is shown the collision rate of CB-PUSCH and in Figure
9.2.3.2 is shown the average UL delay. The collision probability refers to
collision probability of the transmissions.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.010939413823272in" | | ng){width="3.0128215223097112in" | height="2.2542508748906385in"} | | height="2.2632786526684163in"} | | | | Figure 9.2.3.2 Average UL delay | | Figure 9.2.3.1 Collision rate of | | | CB-PUSCH | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
From the results, we can observe that:
  1. 
\- Only for PAR 2% the collision rate stays below 10%. Increasing the PAR, the
collision rate increases up to \~70% in the case of PAR 30%. Of course, having
higher number of users per group increases the probability of collisions.
\- From the average UL latency point of view, taking as reference the legacy
D-SR UL grant scheme with an average delay of 12.5 ms, we can get better
performance in most of the cases i.e. unless there are very many collisions
than the legacy D-SR UL grant scheme with an average delay of 12.5 ms, but it
always has longer latency than 1ms pre-scheduling/SPS due to the collision.
The trade-off is UL overhead due to CB-PUSCH resources that are reserved even
though not always used. Figure 9.2.3.3 shows the trade-off between the UL
overhead and latency. The UL overhead here is relative to dynamic scheduling
of all transmissions.
{width="4.6819444444444445in" height="3.513888888888889in"}
Figure 9.2.3.3 Trade-off between UL overhead and avg. latency
From the results we can observe that:
  1. 
\- With low packet arrival rate, the CB-PUSCH resources are mostly unused,
which means large resource overhead and inefficiency.
\- With higher packet arrival rate the resource usage is more efficient, while
the latency reduction benefit diminishes.
B) Evaluation of CB-PUSCH collision rate, in a scenario with CB-PUSCH and
dynamically scheduled users
In this case, there are up to four contention-based groups, to which the users
could belong to in case they are using the CB-PUSCH resources. Up to 4 UEs
could belong to one group.
We have used FTP model 1 [3], with UE arrival according to Poisson process,
having the file size of 0.5 MB. More parameters are given in Table A1.7-1 and
Table A1.7-3 in Annex A1.7.
In the evaluations, we used DL traffic, having in UL TCP ACKs. This represents
as the 'best performance' case traffic for the CB-PUSCH, as increasing the UL
traffic the collisions and the delay would only increase even more.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="2.897222222222222in" | ng){width="2.7381944444444444in" | | height="2.747916666666667in"} | height="2.7756944444444445in"} | | | | | Figure 9.2.3.4 **Collision | Figure 9.2.3.5** Probability of | | rate**| full CB PUSCH groups** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
From the results we can observe that:
  1. 
\- There is a high impact of the number of CB-groups per TTI: the lower the
number of CB-groups, the higher the collision probability (e.g. in case of one
CB-group, there is a 60% probability of collision, while with 4 CB-groups the
collision probability could reach up to 18%)
\- The collision probability depends on the load in the NW (simultaneously
active UE/cell) and also number of RB reserved for the CB
\- From the probability that all available CB PUSCH groups are full for
different loads and numbers of groups:
\- With 5 Mbps of offered DL load the probability of filling even one group of
4 UEs is zero
\- Two groups can tolerate up to 15 Mbps offered load without getting full,
three groups up to 20 Mbps and four groups up to 25 Mbps
One key point to observe it is the UL delay (E2E delay). In that case, our
reference case is legacy D-SR UL grant (with SR periodicity 5 ms). This aspect
is plotted for selected cases, corresponding for 10 Mbps and 25 Mbps offered
load.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.05625in" | | ng){width="3.0277777777777777in" | height="2.7194444444444446in"} | | height="2.747916666666667in"} | | | | Figure 9.2.3.7 **UL end to end | | Figure 9.2.3.6** UL end to end | delay for 25 Mbps**| | delay for 10 Mbps** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
From the results we can observe that:
  1. SR-based UL grant gives more predictable delay performance whereas the gains from CB-PUSCH are sensitive to load and number of UEs sharing the same resources. High end of delay distribution is significantly worse for CB-PUSCH, especially in high load.
## 9.3 Handover latency [11]
Figure 9.3-1 captures typical interruption time for legacy handover vs. gains
achieved by Synchronous handover. As can be seen from the figure 9.3-1 below,
the interruption time is much higher for UE's with more speed and the case of
higher number of small cells under a Macro cell. This is due to the fact that
if the UE moves with higher speed, it will experience more frequent handovers
than a UE with lower speed. The increased number of handovers, each
introducing some interruption time adds up to a higher overall delay. However,
the interruption time is significantly lower for the case of synchronized
handover. The fact remains, that the higher number of handover a UE
experiences, the higher will be the data interruption time. However, comparing
the two scenarios, the benefits are obvious with synchronized handover.
{width="4.766666666666667in" height="1.7756944444444445in"}
Figure 9.3-1: Average Percentage of the Interruption Time.
# 10 Protocol Impact
## 10.1 Control Plane
## 10.2 User Plane
# 11 Conclusion
## 11.1 RAN2 Protocol Evaluations
In protocol evaluations, the potential gains in terms of increased download
throughput and reduction of download time for reduced latency in LTE has been
performed and evaluated.
For TCP, and TCP slow start specifically, results show that reduced UL
latency, shorter RTT and HARQ RTT can have a positive impact on TCP
performance depending on cell load and L1/L2 overhead. This is due to the fact
that the receiver may acknowledge TCP packets faster which enables a faster
increase in the TCP window size. Latency reduction has shown a positive impact
on both TCP congestion avoidance mode and in TCP slow start phase.
As the initial window size for each TCP connection is very small and the
increase is steeper for each size increment, the effect of latency reductions
for both RTT and HARQ RTT are more considerable for the slow start phase. This
impact is large for small file sizes, especially where the slow start period
lasts for the entire duration of the file transfer (how long the phase lasts
depends on TCP congestion control algorithm and parameters). For larger file
sizes, the proportion of the slow start phase of the whole file is smaller if
packet losses can be avoided.
Furthermore, the following high-level observations have been obtained:
For TTI shortening, the potential gain depends on the following aspects:
\- Delays in the core network and Internet also impact the UE perceived
throughput. If these delays dominate over radio network delays, latency
reduction techniques will be less efficient.
\- In high loaded cells, or in situations where the available scheduled Uu
bitrate is low, e.g. due to radio conditions, user data is queued before
transmitting. This has an impact on User Throughput. In these scenarios,
efforts to reduce radio latency will be less important as the limited
availability of UL resources may result in reduced performance as the queuing
delay dominates over the radio delay.
\- By reducing the TTI length, the network can schedule the UE faster, which
reduces the RTT. A reduction in RTT increases the TCP throughput. A reduction
of TTI length may also increase the system capacity for small data
transmission.
\- For file transfers using TCP, the amount of UPT gain provided by shorter
TTI may decrease with larger file size.
\- With reduced TTI length, the processing time may be reduced with a
resulting scaling of the RTT and HARQ RTT. Shortening the TTI gives a larger
latency reduction effect compared to only shortened processing time(s).
\- A reduction of TTI length may require additional L1 overhead e.g. CRC, RS,
DCI, UCI and result in a relative increase of L2 headers. Increased overhead
will to some extent limit the User Throughput gain from TTI reduction.
\- Shorter TTI can enable quicker HARQ and CSI feedback, which may give faster
link adaptation to channel conditions. Gain can be observed for the UE
perceived throughput as well as median delay.
For fast uplink access:
\- An enhancement to SPS to allow for periodic UL grants every TTI (Fast UL)
reduces the latency of the first UL transmission compared to legacy intervals,
and performs equally well compared with SR every 1ms with lower control
channel load. Fast UL improves User Throughput also with shorter TTI, although
the relative gain is smaller compared to longer TTIs.
\- An enhancement of UL grants allowing the UE to skip padding transmissions
in grant if it has no UL data in the UE buffer is beneficial as it may
decrease UL interference and improve UE battery efficiency.
\- The gains of acknowledged activation/deactivation of SPS has not been
established and needs to be discussed further in a work item phase.
**SR based PUSCH transmission and the pre-scheduling scheme allowed by current
specifications could give more predictable delay performance whereas the delay
of contention based PUSCH transmission are sensitive to the collision
probability, which is subject to the number of UEs sharing the same PUSCH
resource (e.g. depends on the cell load) and the UE's traffic arrival
interval. Contention based PUSCH transmission allows more efficient PUSCH
resource utilization compared to the pre-scheduling scheme, but with increased
uplink latency if collision occurs. When the collision probability is low, the
increase in uplink latency is small. In this case the PUSCH resource
utilization is lower than that of the SR based PUSCH transmission because the
contention based PUSCH resources reserved for the UEs may not be used.**
**It would be beneficial if the NB can identify the UE that performed the
PUSCH transmission even when collision happens, e.g. by different DMRS Cyclic
Shift. RAN2 evaluation for contention based PUSCH transmission assumes that
the eNB can always detect the DMRS resources whenever there are transmissions
from UEs, but the actual performance would depend on success rate of DMRS
resource detection, which should be studied by RAN1.**
For handover latency reduction:
\- The following steps contribute to a major portion of total handover delay
and can be addressed for possible latency reduction:
\- RACH procedure including delay to acquire first available PRACH in target
cell, PRACH preamble transmission and UL allocation + TA,
\- UE processing time after RA procedure including decoding of scheduling
grant and timing alignment + L1 encoding of UL data, and transmission of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_.
\- Two potential solution directions which may be beneficial were identified
during the study. The feasibility of these solutions has not been studied by
other WGs. No further work is expected in this study.
###### ### Annex \: Simulation assumptions
## A1 Protocol Simulations
## A1.1 Simulation 1 [4]
### Average down-link latency calculation
Following the same approach as in section B.2.1 in 3GPP TR 36.912, the LTE
U-plane one-way latency for a scheduled UE consists of the fixed node
processing delays and 1 TTI duration for transmission, as shown in Figure A.1
below. Assuming the processing times can be scaled by the same factor of TTI
reduction keeping the same number of HARQ processes, the one way latency can
be calculated as
D = 1.5 TTI (eNB processing and scheduling) + 1 TTI (transmission) + 1.5 TTI
(UE processing) + n*8 TTI (HARQ retransmissions)
= (4 + n*8) TTI.
Considering a typical case where there would be 0 or 1 retransmission, and
assuming error probability of the first transmission to be p, the delay is
given by
D = (4 + p*8) TTI.
So, for 0% BLER, D = 4 * TTI,
And for 10% BLER, D = 4.8 * TTI.
Figure A.1 eNB and UE processing delays and HARQ RTT
### Average UE initiated UL transmission latency calculation
Assume UE is in connected/synchronized mode and wants to do UL transmission,
e.g., to send TCP ACK. Following table shows the steps and their corresponding
contribution to the UL transmission latency. To be consistent in comparison of
DL and UL, we add the eNB processing delay in the UL after the UL data is
received by the eNB (step 7).
Table A.1 UL transmission latency calculation
Step Description Delay
* * *
1\. Average delay to next SR opportunity SR periodicity/2 2\. UE sends SR 1
TTI 3\. eNB decodes SR and generates scheduling grant 3 TTI 4\. Transmission
of scheduling grant (assumed always error free) 1 TTI 5\. UE processing delay
(decoding Scheduling grant + L1 encoding of data) 3 TTI 6\. UE sends UL
transmission (1 + p*8) TTI where p is initial BLER. 7\. eNB receives and
decodes the UL data 1.5 TTI
In the table above, steps 1-4 and half delay of step 5 is assumed to be due to
SR, and rest is assumed for UL data transmission in values shown in Table 4
## A1.2 Simulation 2 [5]
### Simulation assumptions on radio aspects
Table A.2-1: Simulation assumptions on radio aspects
+------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Parameter | Assumption | | +==============================+==============================+=====+ | Simulation time | 51s(Ftp1), 100s(HTTP) | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | System bandwidth | 20 MHz | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Duplex mode | FDD | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Carrier frequency | 2GHz | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Cell layout | Hexagonal grid, 7 sites, 3 | | | | cells per site, with | | | | wrap-around | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Number of UEs | 1, 5, 10, 20 per cell | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Inter-site distance | 500m | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE speed | 3Km/h | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Antenna configuration | 2 tx , 4 rx (CELL) ; 1 tx, 2 | | | | rx (UE) | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Antenna pattern (horizontal) | = 70 degrees, A~m~ = 25 dB | | | | | | | (For 3-sector cell sites | | | | with fixed antenna patterns) | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Antenna pattern (vertical) | = 10, SLA~v~ = 20 dB | | | | | | | (For 3-sector cell sites | The parameter is the | | | with fixed antenna patterns) | electrical antenna downtilt. | | | | The value for this | | | | parameter, as well as for a | | | | potential additional | | | | mechanical tilt, is not | | | | specified here, but may be | | | | set to fit other RRM | | | | techniques used. For | | | | calibration purposes, the | | | | values = 15 degrees for 3GPP | | | | case 1 and = 6 degrees for | | | | 3GPP case 3 may be used. | | | | Antenna height at the base | | | | station is set to 32m. | | | | Antenna height at the UE is | | | | set to 1.5m. | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Combining method in 3D | | | | antenna pattern | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Total BS TX power (Ptotal) | 46 dBm -- 20MHz carrier | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE power class | 23dBm (200mW)\ | | | | This corresponds to the sum | | | | of PA powers in multiple Tx | | | | antenna case | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Channel model | Large Fading channel model | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Distance-dependent pathloss | L=128.1+37.6log10(R) (R in | | | | km) | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Lognormal shadowing model | Reference to B1.4.1.4 in | | | | UMTS TR30.03 | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Lognormal shadowing standard | 8dB | | | deviation | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Correlation distance of | 50 ms | | | shadowing | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Shadowing correlation | Between sites | 0.5 | | | | | | | | 1 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | | Between cells | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Penetration loss | 20dB | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | CQI measurement period | 5 ms | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | SRS reporting period | 5 ms | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Number of RLC ARQ max | 16 | | | transmit | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Number of MAC HARQ max | 3 | | | transmit | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | TP layer | TCP | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | CN Delay | 0ms (assuming eNB and APP | | | | server are co-located) | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | BSR Period | 5ms | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | SR Period | 1ms | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+
### TCP parameters
Table A.3-1: TCP parameters [3]
Parameter Assumption
* * *
TCP ACK Delay 0ms Initial TCP Window 1460 Bytes Initial Ssthresh 65535Bytes
Ssthresh 65536 Bytes TCP Connection Number 1(FTP1), 5(HTTP)
### FTP traffic model
Table A.4-1: FTP traffic model [3]
Parameter Assumption
* * *
FTP Model Model 1 Packet Size 0.5Mbytes User arrival rate λ Poisson
distributed with arrival rate λ, λ = 0.2
### HTTP traffic model
Table A.5-1: HTTP traffic model [4]
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Component | Distribution | Parameters | PDF | +================+================+================+================+ | Main object | Truncated | Mean = 10710 | $$f_{x} = | | size (SM) | Lognormal | Bytes | \frac{1}{\sqrt | | | | | {2\pi}\text{δx | | | | SD = 25032 | }}\exp\left\lb | | | | Bytes | rack \frac{- ( | | | | | {lnx - \mu)}^{ | | | | Min = 100 | 2}}{2\delta^{2 | | | | Bytes | }} \right\rbra | | | | | ck,x \geq 0,$$ | | | | Max = 2 MBytes | | | | | | $$\delta = 1.3 | | | | | 7,\mu = 8.37$$ | | | | | | | | | | if x > max or | | | | | x \ max or | | | | | x \ max, | | | | | discard and | | | | | regenerate a | | | | | new value for | | | | | x. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reading time | Exponential | Mean = 30 sec | $$ | | | | | f_{x} = \lambd | | | | | a e^{- \lambda | | | | | x},x \geq 0$$ | | | | | | | | | | $$\la | | | | | mbda = 0.033$$ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parsing time | Exponential | Mean = 0.13sec | $$ | | | | | f_{x} = \lambd | | | | | a e^{- \lambda | | | | | x},x \geq 0$$ | | | | | | | | | | $$\l | | | | | ambda = 7.69$$ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## A1.3 Simulation 4 [6]
For one symbol length TTI, we assume new PDCCH will be used for data
scheduling. Although the legacy PDCCH is not needed anymore, we keep one
symbol length legacy PDCCH region for CSS.
As we evaluated in system simulation for 3GPP Case 1, the average PDCCH
Aggregation Level is 1.42. Therefore, we assume that the average PDCCH payload
for each UE is 52 REs.
Table A1.3-1: L1 overhead analysis (CRS based DL channel estimation)
TTI length 1ms 1 symbol
* * *
Number of legacy UEs (not capable of one symbol length TTI) scheduled per ms
20 0 Number of new UEs (capable of one symbol length TTI) scheduled per ms 0
20 Number of CRS port 2  
Number of DMRS port 0  
System Bandwidth (MHz) 20  
Average PDCCH payload for each UE (number of RE) 52  
CRS overhead in non-PDCCH region (number of RE/PRB/ms) 12  
Legacy PDCCH overhead for legacy UE scheduling (number of RE/ms) 1040 0 Total
legacy PDCCH overhead (number of RE/ms) 2400 (2 symbols) 1200 (1 symbol) New
PDCCH overhead for new UE scheduling (number of RE/ms) 0 1040 Total PDCCH
overhead (number of RE/ms) 2400 2240 CRS overhead (number of RE/ms) 1200 1200
Total overhead (number of RE/ms) 3600 3440 Overhead ratio 21.43% 20.48%
Normalized L1 data rate (compared to 1ms TTI) 100% 101.21%
Table A1.3-2: L1 overhead analysis (DM-RS based DL channel estimation)
TTI length 1ms 1 symbol
* * *
Number of legacy UEs (not capable of one symbol length TTI) scheduled per ms
20 0 Number of new UEs (capable of one symbol length TTI) scheduled per ms 0
20 Number of CRS port 1  
Number of DMRS port 2  
System Bandwidth (MHz) 20  
Average PDCCH payload for each UE (number of RE) 52  
CRS overhead in non-PDCCH region (number of RE/PRB/ms) 6  
DMRS overhead (number of RE/PRB/TTI) 12 4 Legacy PDCCH overhead for legacy UE
scheduling (number of RE/ms) 1040 0 Total legacy PDCCH overhead (number of
RE/ms) 2400 (2 symbols) 1200 (1 symbol) New PDCCH overhead for new UE
scheduling (number of RE/ms) 0 1040 Total PDCCH overhead (number of RE/ms)
2400 2240 CRS overhead (number of RE/ms) 600 600 DMRS overhead (number of
RE/ms) 1200 5200 Total overhead (number of RE/ms) 4200 8040 Overhead ratio
25.00% 47.86% Normalized L1 data rate (compared to 1ms TTI) 100% 69.52%
## A1.4 Simulation 9 [6]
### A1.4.1 Downlink
It has been understood by RAN2 that processing delays in the different nodes
form the major part of the delay in obtaining valid scheduling assignment, and
reducing such processing delay could improve the latency compared to LTE Rel-8
[TR 36.912]. Following the same approach as in section B.2.1 in [TR 36.912],
the LTE U-plane one-way latency for a scheduled UE consists of the fixed node
processing delays and 1TTI duration for transmission, as shown in Figure B.1
below. Let us denote total processing time for eNB from UL reception to DL
transmission (in ms) by ∆~eNB~ and total processing time for UE from DL
reception to UL transmission (in ms) by ∆~UE~. The fraction of these
processing times needed for processing the reception and preparing the
transmission are denoted by w, x, y and z where w + x =1 and y + z = 1.
Figure A.1.4.1: eNB and UE processing delays and HARQ RTT
The one way latency can be calculated as
D = y.∆~eNB~ + 1 TTI + w.∆~UE~ + n* (∆~eNB~ + ∆~UE~ + 2TTI), where n is the
number of HARQ retransmissions.
Considering a typical case where there would be 0 or 1 retransmission,
assuming error probability of the first transmission to be p, and w = x = y =
z = 1/2, the delay is given by
D = (1/2 + p) * (∆~eNB~ + ∆~UE~ + 2TTI).
So, for 0% BLER, D = 0.5 * (∆~eNB~ + ∆~UE~ + 2TTI), and for 10% BLER, D = 0.6
* (∆~eNB~ + ∆~UE~ + 2TTI).
### A.1.4.2 UE initiated UL transmission
Assume UE is in connected/synchronized mode and wants to do UL transmission,
e.g., to send TCP ACK. Following table shows the steps and their corresponding
contribution to the UL transmission latency.
Table A.1.4.1 UL transmission latency calculation
Step Description Delay
* * *
1\. Average delay to next SR opportunity SR periodicity/2 2\. UE sends SR 1
TTI 3\. eNB decodes SR and generates scheduling grant ∆~eNB~ 4\. Transmission
of scheduling grant (assumed always error free) 1 TTI 5\. UE processing delay
(decoding Scheduling grant + L1 encoding of data) ∆~UE~ 6\. UE sends UL
transmission 1TTI + p * (∆~eNB~ + ∆~UE~ + 2TTI) where p is initial BLER. 7\.
eNB receives and decodes the UL data z.∆~eNB~
In the table above, steps 1-4 and half delay of step 5 is assumed to be due to
SR, and rest is assumed for UL data transmission in values shown in Table
9.1.9-3.
## A1.5 Simulation 5 [6]
### A1.5.1 Baseline L1 overhead calculation
We assume 20% L1 overhead for baseline case, which is calculated as following:
\- TTI = 14 OFDM symbol
\- Control overhead: 2 PDCCH OFDM symbols (24 REs)
\- RS Overhead: 2 CRS antenna ports (additional 12 REs)
Total number of REs per PRB: 14*12 = 168
Overhead: 36/168 ≈ 21%
### A1.5.2 TBS calculation
L1 overhead (i.e. L1 control channel and RS) is considered as 10%, 20%, 30%
and 50%, which is reflected into the TBS calculation. To unify the TBS
calculation, we also use the same TBS calculation for the base line case (i.e.
1ms TTI), and the 20% L1 overhead is assumed.
TBS is calculated by following formula based on efficiency in table below
(R1-081638).
TBS = PRB_Num * RE_per_PRB * efficiency * L1_Overhead
Where,
\- PRB_Num is available PRB number we set in simulation;
\- RE_per_PRB is the total RE number in a PRB, e.g., for 14 OFDM Symbol TTI,
RE_per_PRB is 12*14 = 168, and for 7 OFDM symbol TTI, RE_per_PRB is 12*7 = 84;
\- Efficiency is for calculating the TBS table in TS 36.213, and efficiency =
code rate * modulation level;
\- L1_Overhead denotes the L1 signaling and RS overhead.
Note: CRC impact not considered.
* * *
MCS Index modulation coding rate x 1024 efficiency Comments Code Rate 0 2 120
0.2344 from CQI table 0.1171875 1 2 157 0.3057 Average Efficiency 0.15332031 2
2 193 0.377 from CQI table 0.18847656 3 2 251 0.4893 Average Efficiency
0.24511719 4 2 308 0.6016 from CQI table 0.30078125 5 2 379 0.7393 Average
Efficiency 0.37011719 6 2 449 0.877 from CQI table 0.43847656 7 2 526 1.0264
Average Efficiency 0.51367188 8 2 602 1.1758 from CQI table 0.58789063 9 2 679
1.3262 Average Efficiency 0.66308594 10 4 340 1.3262 overlap 0.33203125 11 4
378 1.4766 from CQI table 0.36914063 12 4 434 1.69535 Average Efficiency
0.42382813 13 4 490 1.9141 from CQI table 0.47851563 14 4 553 2.1602 Average
Efficiency 0.54003906 15 4 616 2.4063 from CQI table 0.6015625 16 4 658 2.5684
Average Efficiency 0.64257813 17 6 438 2.5684 overlap 0.42773438 18 6 466
2.7305 from CQI table 0.45507813 19 6 517 3.0264 Average Efficiency 0.50488281
20 6 567 3.3223 from CQI table 0.55371094 21 6 616 3.6123 Average Efficiency
0.6015625 22 6 666 3.9023 from CQI table 0.65039063 23 6 719 4.21285 Average
Efficiency 0.70214844 24 6 772 4.5234 from CQI table 0.75390625 25 6 822
4.8193 Average Efficiency 0.80273438 26 6 873 5.1152 from CQI table 0.85253906
27 6 910 5.33495 Average Efficiency 0.88867188 28 6 948 5.5547 from CQI table
0.92578125
* * *
### A1.5.3 UL latency components
Normally, we assume that the UL access latency is stated in following tables:
Normal D-SR UL Latency component
* * *
Component Description Time 1 Average waiting time for PUCCH (5 TTI SR period)
2.5 * TTI 2 UE sends Scheduling Request (SR) on PUCCH 1 * TTI 3 eNB decodes
Scheduling Request and generates the Scheduling Grant 3 * TTI 4 Transmission
of Scheduling Grant 1 * TTI 5 UE Processing Delay (decoding of grant + L1
encoding of UL data) 3 * TTI 6 Transmission of UL data 1 * TTI 7 Data decoding
and processing in eNodeB 3 * TTI 8 Backhaul(CN/Internet) transmission (to App
server) 5ms Total 14.5TTI+5ms
* * *
Short D-SR UL Latency component
* * *
Component Description Time 1 Average waiting time for PUCCH (1 TTI SR period)
0.5 * TTI 2 UE sends Scheduling Request (SR) on PUCCH 1 * TTI 3 eNB decodes
Scheduling Request and generates the Scheduling Grant 3 * TTI 4 Transmission
of Scheduling Grant 1 * TTI 5 UE Processing Delay (decoding of grant + L1
encoding of UL data) 3 * TTI 6 Transmission of UL data 1 * TTI 7 Data decoding
and processing in eNodeB 3 * TTI 8 Backhaul(CN/Internet) transmission (to App
server) 5ms Total 12.5TTI+5ms
* * *
Pre-allocation UL Latency component
* * *
Component Description Time 1 Average waiting time for PDCCH 0.5 * TTI 2 UE
reads Resource Blocks on PDCCH 1 * TTI 3 UE Processing Delay (decoding of
grant + L1 encoding of UL data) 3 * TTI 4 Transmission of UL data 1 * TTI 5
Data decoding and processing in eNodeB 3 * TTI 6 Backhaul(CN/Internet)
transmission (to App server) 5ms Total 8.5TTI+5ms
* * *
## A1.6 Simulation 11 [9]
The UL transmission latency and the HARQ RTT are based on the assumptions
given in A1.1.
Table A1.6-1 Simulation assumptions
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +============================+========================================+ | Simulation time | 20s(Ftp model 2) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | TTI duration | 1, 2, 7 OFDM symbol; 1ms (legacy | | | baseline) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | System bandwidth | 10 MHz | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Duplex mode | FDD | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2GHz | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Cell layout | Hexagonal grid, 7 sites, 3 cells per | | | site | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | UE distribution | Random distribution; average number of | | | UE per cell: 2 | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Inter-site distance | 500m | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | HARQ RTT | 8TTI | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | L1 overhead | For 1, 2, 7 OFDM symbol: 5%, 10%, 20%, | | | 30%, 50% | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | UE mobility | 0 Km/h | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Reserved OFDM symbol | 0, 1 for legacy PDCCH | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | One-way CN Delay | 1ms | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Target BLER | 10% | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Downlink scheduler | Proportional fair in time and | | | frequency | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration | 2 tx , 2 rx (CELL) ; 1 tx, 1 rx (UE) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Maximum Tx Power of eNodeB | 46 dBm | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | UE power class | 23dBm (200mW) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Channel model | Large Fading channel model | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | TCP parameters | Initial TCP window: 1460 | | | | | | MSS: 1460 | | | | | | Ssthresh: 65535 | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
+----------------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | FTP traffic model | FTP Traffic Model 2 | | | | | | File size: 0.5 Mbytes | | | | | | Reading Time: Exponential Distribution, Mean = 1s | +======================+===================================================+ | Overheads of headers | **TCP header: 20 bytes** | | | | | | **IP header: 20 bytes** | | | | | | **PDCP header: 2 bytes** | | | | | | **TCP+IP header overheads after RoHC: 8 bytes** | | | | | | **RLC header: 2 bytes** | | | | | | **MAC header: 2 bytes** | +----------------------+---------------------------------------------------+
**TBS calculation assumption**
The TBS (Transport Block Size) of each short TTI PDSCH is calculated as
follows:
$$\mathbf{\text{TBS}}_{\mathbf{\text{short}}}\mathbf{=}\mathbf{\text{TBS}}_{\mathbf{\text{legacy}}}\mathbf{\times}\frac{\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{\text{short}}}}{\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{\text{legacy}}}}\mathbf{\times}\frac{\mathbf{1
-}\mathbf{L}_{\mathbf{\text{short}}}}{\mathbf{1
-}\mathbf{L}_{\mathbf{\text{legacy}}}}$$
TBS~short~: The TBS of short TTI PDSCH
TBS~legacy~: The TBS of legacy PDSCH which uses the same MCS and PRB(s) as the
short TTI PDSCH.
N~short~: The number of REs in short TTI PDSCH per PRB
N~legacy~: The number of REs in legacy PDSCH per PRB
L~short~: The loss rate of PHY layer within the short TTI PDSCH due to the REs
not used for data transmission
L~legacy~: The loss rate of PHY layer within the legacy PDSCH due to the REs
not used for data transmission
**Resource mapping of short TTI**
In Figure A1.6-1 the resource map above is the legacy resource mapping per PRB
in one subframe, considering 2 Antenna ports and 2 OFDM symbols control field.
In Figure A1.6-1 the resource map below is the short TTI resource mapping,
considering 2 OFDM symbols used for the control field in order to ensure the
backward compatibility. The loss rates (L~legacy~, e.g. 5% - 50%) of the PHY
layer in short TTI duration are assumed.
{width="6.123611111111111in" height="6.427083333333333in"}
Figure A1.6-1: resource mapping per PRB in one subframe
**TBS Calculation of short TTI**
According to the resource mapping and the TBS calculation formula given above,
the loss rate of PHY layer for legacy PDSCH is calculated as follows:
$$\mathbf{L}_{\mathbf{\text{legacy}}}\mathbf{\
}\mathbf{=}\frac{\mathbf{\text{the}}\mathbf{\text{\ number\ of\ reference\
symbols\ within\ PDSCH}}}{\mathbf{\text{\ the\ number\ of\ REs\ within\
PDSCH}}}\mathbf{= \ }\frac{\mathbf{12}}{\mathbf{144}}\mathbf{= \ 8.3\%}$$
For different short TTI duration, The TBS of short TTI PDSCH is calculated as
the following table:
Table A1.6-2: TBS calculation for different TTI duration
TTI Duration TBS of short TTI PDSCH (TBS~short~)
* * *
7 OFDM symbol $$\text{TBS}_{\text{short}} = \text{TBS}_{\text{legacy}} \times
\frac{60}{144} \times \frac{1 - L_{\text{short}}}{1 - 8.3\%}$$
$$\text{TBS}_{\text{short}} = \text{TBS}_{\text{legacy}} \times \frac{84}{144}
\times \frac{1 - L_{\text{short}}}{1 - 8.3\%}$$ 2 OFDM symbol
$$\text{TBS}_{\text{short}} = \text{TBS}_{\text{legacy}} \times \frac{24}{144}
\times \frac{1 - L_{\text{short}}}{1 - 8.3\%}$$ 1 OFDM symbol
$$\text{TBS}_{\text{short}} = \text{TBS}_{\text{legacy}} \times \frac{12}{144}
\times \frac{1 - L_{\text{short}}}{1 - 8.3\%}$$
## A1.7 Simulation on contention based PUSCH transmission
The common evaluation assumptions are given in Table A1.7-1 below.
Table A1.7-1 Common evaluation assumptions
Parameter Assumption
* * *
System bandwidth 20 MHz Duplex mode FDD Carrier frequency 2GHz Cell layout
Hexagonal grid, 7 sites, 21 cells per site, with wrap-around Inter-site
distance 500m UE speed 3 km/h, quasi-static model Antenna configuration 1x2
MRC eNB TX power 46 dBm UE Tx power 23dBm Channel model Typical Urban Pathloss
model 25.814 Lognormal shadowing, std. dev. 8dB Penetration loss 20dB HARQ RTT
8ms SR Period 5 ms DRX OFF Maximum number of scheduled users per TTI 10 L1
overhead 20% TTI Length 14 symbols
The dedicated evaluation assumptions for scenario with only CB PUSCH users are
given in Table A1.7-2 below.
Table A1.7-2 evaluation assumptions for only CB PUSCH users
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +========================+============================================+ | Number of UEs | 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 per cell (per CB PUSCH | | | group) | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | FTP packet size | 100 bytes | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Packet arrival rate λ | FTP model 3 with packet arrival according | | | to Poisson process | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Core network delay | 0ms | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | UL Load per macro cell | Packet arrival rate: 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30% | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Delays: CB PUSCH model | Grant reception: 1ms | | | | | | UE processing delay: 3 ms | | | | | | eNB processing delay: 3ms | | | | | | Retransmission delay: 8 ms | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | CB PUSCH capacity | Number of groups: 1 | | | | | | Number of RBs per group: 10 | | | | | | Maximum number of UEs per group: 2, 3, 4, | | | 5, 6 | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
The dedicated evaluation assumptions for scenario with CB PUSCH and
dynamically scheduled users are given in Table A1.7-3 below.
Table A1.7-3 evaluation assumptions for CB PUSCH and dynamically scheduled
users
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +=================================+===================================+ | Number of UEs | According to offered load | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | SR to grant | 4ms -- scaled down with shorter | | | TTI | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Initial TCP Window | 3 x 1500 Bytes (MSS), RFC 5681, | | | section 3.1 | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Initial Ssthresh | 45 x 1500 Bytes (MSS) | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Ssthresh | Dynamic according to RFC 5681, | | | sections 3.1 and 3.2 | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | FTP file size | 0.5 MB | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | User arrival rate λ | FTP model 1 with UE arrival | | | according to Poisson process | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Core network delay | 2ms | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | DL Load per macro cell | 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 Mbps | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | UL Load per macro cell | TCP acks for the DL traffic above | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Scheduler | TD: PF, FD: PF | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Delays: SR based UL grant model | SR to grant reception: 4ms | | | | | | UE processing delay: 3 ms | | | | | | Average waiting time for SR: 2.5 | | | ms | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Delays: CB PUSCH model | Grant reception: 1ms | | | | | | UE processing delay: 3 ms | | | | | | Retransmission delay: 8 ms | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | CB PUSCH capacity | Number of groups: 1, 2, 3, 4 | | | | | | Number of RBs per group: 20 | | | | | | Maximum number of UEs per group: | | | 4 | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
#