# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
UMTS will support a wide range of applications with different quality of
service profiles. At present many of these applications are not possible to
predict. Also the usage of the different applications are difficult to predict
i.e. it is not possible to optimise UMTS to only one set of applications. One
conclusion of this is that UMTS must be built in such a way that it is
flexible and possible to evolve so it will have a long technical lifetime.
Therefore a modular approach is recommended when defining the network parts of
UMTS. This is in line with the recommendation from GMM. In this context a
module represents a part of a UMTS network i.e. one or several physical
network nodes that together implements some functionality. The modular
approach should also make UMTS possible to implement efficiently in different
environments.
# 1 Scope
This TS defines the basic physical and functional separation of UMTS. The
contents of this specification is limited to those features that are common to
all UMTS networks independent of their origin. It identifies and names the
reference points and functional groupings appearing at this level.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ETSI Global Multimedia Mobility (GMM) report
[2] UMTS 22.01: \"Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS): Service
aspects; Service principles\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Terms introduced in this document:
**Domain:** The highest-level group of physical entities. Reference points are
defined between domains.
**Stratum:** Grouping of protocols related to one aspect of the services
provided by one or several domains.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Cu Reference point between USIM and ME
Iu Reference point between Access and Serving Network domains
Uu Reference point between User Equipment and Infrastructure domains, UMTS
radio interface
[Yu] Reference point between Serving and Transit Network domains
[Zu] Reference point between Serving and Home Network domains
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
USIM User Services Identity Module
ME Mobile Equipment
MT Mobile Termination
MExE Mobile Station Application Execution Environment
TE Terminal Equipment
# 4 General
The general UMTS architecture is modelled, at a high level, from both physical
and functional viewpoints. The physical aspects are modelled using the domain
concept and the functional aspects are modelled using the strata concept.
The two views are introduced separately and then the mapping between the views
is discussed.
This specification shows at a basic level physical and functional separations
to allow a UMTS network to fit within the context of the IMT-2000 family of
networks. It does not attempt to develop aspects of a UMTS network that are
highly specific to that implementation.
# 5 Domains in UMTS
The following figure shows the basic domains in UMTS as described in this
section.
NOTE : The domains identified in the figure will generally result from an
evolution of existing network infrastructures. The core network domain may
result from evolutions of existing network infrastructures, e.g., a GSM
infrastructure, a N-ISDN infrastructure, a B-ISDN infrastructure or a PDN
infrastructure. The evolution of these infrastructures may be performed via
the use of IWUs, hidden within the domains shown in the figure.
Figure 1: UMTS domains and reference points
Cu = Reference point between USIM and ME
Iu = Reference point between Access and Serving Network domains
Uu = Reference point between User Equipment and Infrastructure domains, UMTS
radio interface
[Yu] = Reference point between Serving and Transit Network domains
[Zu] = Reference point between Serving and Home Network domains
## 5.1 Domain split
A basic architectural split is between the user equipment (terminals) and the
infrastructure. This results in two domains: the **User Equipment Domain** and
the **Infrastructure domain**.
User equipment is the equipment used by the user to access UMTS services. User
equipment has a radio interface to the infrastructure. The infrastructure
consists of the physical nodes which perform the various functions required to
terminate the radio interface and to support the telecommunication services
requirements of the users. The infrastructure is a shared resource that
provides services to all authorised end users within its coverage area.
The reference point between the user equipment domain and the infrastructure
domain is termed the "Uu" reference point (UMTS radio interface).
NOTE: The description assumes an access interface based on UTRA. However, the
physical and functional separation described in this document is general and
is applicable also if other access technologies are used.
## 5.2 User equipment Domain
This domain encompasses a variety of equipment types with different levels of
functionality. These equipment types are referred to as user equipment
(terminals), and they may also be compatible with one or more existing access
(fixed or radio) interfaces e.g. dual mode UMTS-GSM user equipment. The user
equipment may include a removable smart card that may be used in different
user equipment types. The user equipment is further sub-divided in to the
**Mobile Equipment Domain** (ME) and the **User Services Identity Module
Domain** (USIM).
The reference point between the ME and the USIM is termed the "Cu" reference
point.
For the purpose of UMTS Cellular networks the following definition applies:
User Equipment is a device allowing a user access to network services. For the
purpose of 3GPP specifications the interface between the UE and the network is
the radio interface. A User Equipment can be subdivided into a number of
domains, the domains being separated by reference points. Currently defined
domains are the USIM and ME Domains. The ME Domain can further be subdivided
into several components showing the connectivity between multiple functional
groups. These groups can be implemented in one or more hardware devices. An
example of such a connectivity is the TE -- MT interface. Further, an
occurrence of User Equipment is an MS for GSM as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002.
The figure below shows the Functional Model for the User Equipment, UE.
Figure 1a: Functional Model for the User Equipment
The 07- and 27-series refer to physical instances of this Functional Model.
The figure below shows an example of a physical configuration as it could be
used in these specifications. The boxes, in this figure, refer to physical
elements. The names within brackets are just provided to map the functional
blocks from the figure above onto physical elements.
Figure 1b: Example of physical configuration
### 5.2.1 Mobile equipment Domain
The Mobile Equipment performs radio transmission and contains applications.
The mobile equipment may be further sub-divided into several entities, e.g.
the one which performs the radio transmission and related functions, **Mobile
Termination,** MT, and the one which contains the end-to-end application or
(e.g. laptop connected to a mobile phone), **Terminal Equipment.** TE. This
separation is used in the description of the functional communication in
figure 3 but no reference point is defined in this specification.
### 5.2.2 USIM Domain
The USIM contains data and procedures which unambiguously and securely
identify itself. These functions are typically embedded in a stand alone smart
card. This device is associated to a given user, and as such allows to
identify this user regardless of the ME he uses.
## 5.3 Infrastructure Domain
The Infrastructure domain is further split into the **Access Network Domain**
, which is characterised by being in direct contact with the User Equipment
and the **Core Network Domain.** This split is intended to simplify/assist the
process of de-coupling access related functionality from non-access related
functionality and is in line with the modular principle adopted for the UMTS.
The Access Network Domain comprises roughly the functions specific to the
access technique, while the functions in the Core network domain may
potentially be used with information flows using any access technique. This
split allows for different approaches for the Core Network Domain, each
approach specifying distinct types of Core Networks connectable to the Access
Network Domain, as well as different access techniques, each type of Access
Network connectable to the Core Network Domain.
The reference point between the access network domain and the core network
domain is termed the "Iu" reference point.
NOTE: The split into the User Equipment Domain, the Access Network Domain and
the Core Network Domain is consistent with the GMM report.
### 5.3.1 Access Network Domain
The Access Network Domain consists of the physical entities which manage the
resources of the access network and provides the user with a mechanism to
access the core network domain.
Additional reference points within the access domain may be identified in
other specifications.
### 5.3.2 Core Network Domain
The Core Network Domain consists of the physical entities which provide
support for the network features and telecommunication services. The support
provided includes functionality such as the management of user location
information, control of network features and services, the transfer (switching
and transmission) mechanisms for signalling and for user generated
information.
[Note: Much more could/should be written about the reference points between
the core network and other networks].
The core network domain is sub-divided into the **Serving Network Domain** ,
the **Home Network Domain** and the **Transit Network Domain**.
The reference point between the serving network domain and the home network
domain is termed the [Zu] reference point.
The reference point between the serving network domain and the transit network
domain is termed the [Yu] reference point.
Additional sub-divisions and reference points within the core network domain
may be identified in other specifications.
#### 5.3.2.1 Serving Network Domain
The serving network domain is the part of the core network domain to which the
access network domain that provides the user's access is connected. It
represents the core network functions that are local to the user's access
point and thus their location changes when the user moves. The serving network
domain is responsible for routing calls and transport user data/information
from source to destination. It has the ability to interact with the home
domain to cater for user specific data/services and with the transit domain
for non user specific data/services purposes.
#### 5.3.2.2 Home Network Domain
The home network domain represents the core network functions that are
conducted at a permanent location regardless of the location of the user's
access point.
The USIM is related by subscription to the home network domain. The home
network domain therefore contains at least permanently user specific data and
is responsible for management of subscription information. It may also handle
home specific services, potentially not offered by the serving network domain.
NOTE: Most of the functionality associated with the service provider role
according to the UMTS role model (ref UMTS 22.01), is normally contained
within the home network domain.
#### 5.3.2.3 Transit Network Domain
The transit network domain is the core network part located on the
communication path between the serving network domain and the remote party.
If, for a given call, the remote party is located inside the same network as
the originating UE, then no particular instance of the transit domain is
activated.
# 6 Functional Communication between UMTS domains
The following strata have been identified within UMTS:
\- Application stratum;
\- Home stratum;
\- Serving stratum and
\- Transport stratum
The following figures show the interactions between the UMTS domains. Two
figures are used to reflect the path diversion between the flows exchanged
between serving and home domains on one side and between serving and transit
on the other side.
Figure 2 below shows the interactions between the USIM, MT/ME, Access Network,
Serving Network and Home Network domains. Figure 3 shows the interactions
between TE, MT, Access Network, Serving Network, Transit Network domains and
the Remote Party. The Home Stratum only involves domains from figure 2, the
Application Stratum only involves domains from figure 3. The Serving and
Transport Strata involve domains from figures 2 and 3, so part of them are
duplicated in the two figures
The direct flows between non-contiguous domains (i.e. between domains non
directly interconnected) are transparently transported across all the domains
and interfaces located on the communication path between these end domains.
E.g. the USIM-Home Network flows are transparently transported through USIM-
MT, MT-Access Network, Access Network-Serving Network and Serving Network-Home
Network interfaces, and relayed without interpretation by MT, Access Network
and Serving Network domains.
The dotted lines indicates that the protocol used is not specific to UMTS, in
some cases different protocols are possible. However, to provide easy roaming
capabilities, it is desirable to agree upon the protocols used. The definition
of these protocols is outside the scope of the UMTS specifications.
Figure 2: Functional flows between the USIM, MT/ME, Access Network, Serving
Network and Home Network domains.
Figure 3: Functional flow between TE, MT, Access Network, Serving Network,
Transit Network domains and the Remote Party
The "Remote Party" represents the remote end entity (user or machine) and is
included in the figure to show the end-to-end character of the communication,
the specification of the remote party is outside the scope of the UMTS
specifications.
## 6.1 Transport stratum
This stratum supports the transport of user data and network control
signalling from other strata through UMTS. The transport stratum includes
consideration of the physical transmission format used for transmission and
also:
\- mechanisms for error correction and recovery;
\- mechanisms to encrypt data over the radio interface and in the
infrastructure part if required;
\- mechanisms for adaptation of data to use the supported physical format (if
required); and
\- mechanisms to "transcode" data to make efficient use of, e.g., the radio
interface (if required).
It may also include resource allocation and routing local to the different
interfaces.
The **Access Stratum,** which is specific to UMTS, is the part of the
transport stratum located between the edge node of the serving core network
domain and the MT ('MT-Access Network' and 'Access Network-Serving Network'
arrows in figure 2 and 3).
## 6.2 Access Stratum
This is the functional groupings consisting of the parts in the infrastructure
and in the user equipment and the protocols between these parts being specific
to the access technique (i.e. the way the specific physical media between the
User Equipment and the Infrastructure is used to carry information). The
access stratum provides services related to the transmission of data over the
radio interface and the management of the radio interface to the other parts
of UMTS.
The access stratum includes the following protocols:
\- Mobile Termination - Access Network\ This protocol supports transfer of
detailed radio-related information to co-ordinate the use of radio resources
between the MT and the access network.
\- Access Network - Serving Network\ This protocol supports the access from
the serving network to the resources provided by the access network. It is
independent of the specific radio structure of the access network.
## 6.3 Serving Stratum
This stratum consists of protocols and functions to route and transmit
data/information, user or network generated, from source to destination. The
source and destination may be within the same or different networks. Functions
related to telecommunication services and are located in this stratum.
The serving stratum includes the following protocols:
\- USIM - Mobile Termination\ This protocol supports access to subscriber-
specific information for support of functions in the user equipment domain.
\- Mobile Termination - Serving Network\ This protocol supports access from
the MT to the services provided by the serving network domain.
\- Terminal Equipment- Mobile Termination\ This protocol support exchange of
control information between the TE and the MT.
## 6.4 Home Stratum
This stratum contains the protocols and functions related to the handling and
storage of subscription data and possibly home network specific services. It
also includes functions to allow domains other than the home network domain to
act on behalf of the home network. Functions related to subscription data
management, customer care, including billing and charging, mobility management
and authentication are located in this stratum.
The home stratum includes the following protocols:
\- USIM - Home Network\ This protocol supports co-ordination of subscriber-
specific information between the USIM and the home network.
\- USIM - MT\ This protocol provides the MT with access to user specific data
and resources necessary to perform actions on behalf of the home network.
\- MT - Serving Network\ This protocol supports user specific data exchanges
between the MT and the Serving Network.
\- Serving Network - Home Network\ This protocol provides the serving network
with access to home network data and resources necessary to perform its
actions on behalf of the home network, e.g., to support the users
communications, services and features (including VHE).
## 6.5 Application Stratum
This stratum represents the application process itself, provided to the end-
user. It includes end-to-end protocols and functions which make use of
services provided by the home, serving and transport strata and infrastructure
to support services and/or value added services.
The functions and protocols within the application stratum may adhere to
GSM/UMTS standards such as MExE or may be outside the scope of the UMTS
standards. However, the definition of the services provided by the other
strata, and the interfaces to them, is within the scope of the standards
End-to-end functions are applications which are consumed by users at the edge
of/outside the overall network. The applications may be accessed by
authenticated users who are authorised to access such applications. The users
may access the applications by using any of the variety of available user
equipment.
#