# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document provides an index to the set of specifications for interworking
between 3GPP systems and Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs).
No further changes to this specification are intended. If any future evolution
of the procedures in this specification is necessary, it should be documented
in other specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] void.
[2] void.
[3] void.
[4] void.
[5] void.
[6] void.
[7] void.
[8] void.
[9] 3GPP TS 24.234: \"3GPP System to WLAN Interworking; UE to Network
protocols; Stage 3 (Release 12)\".
[10] void.
[11] void.
[12] void.
[13] void.
[14] 3GPP TS 33.234: \"WLAN Interworking Security (Release 12)\".
[15] void.
[16] void.
[17] void.
[18] void.
[19] void.
[20] void.
[21] void.
[22] void.
[23] void.
[24] void.
[25] 3GPP TS 22.234: \"Requirements on 3GPP system to Wireless Local Area
Network (WLAN) interworking (Release 13)\".
[26] 3GPP TS 32.252: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) charging (Release 11)\".
[27] void.
[28] void.
[29] void.
[30] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[31] void.
[32] void.
[33] void.
[34] void.
[35] void.
[36] void.
[37] void.
[38] void.
[39] void.
[40] void.
[41] 3GPP TS 24.235: \"3GPP System to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking Management Object (MO) (Release 12)\".
[42] 3GPP TS 24.327: \"Mobility between 3GPP Wireless Local Area Network
(WLAN) interworking (I-WLAN) and 3GPP systems; General Packet Radio System
(GPRS) and 3GPP I-WLAN aspects; Stage 3 (Release 12)\".
[43] 3GPP TS 29.161: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting packet based services with Wireless Local Area Network
(WLAN) access and Packet data (Release 11)\".
[44] 3GPP TS 29.234: \"3GPP system to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking; Stage 3 (Release 11)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions defined in
TR 21.905 [30] apply.
## 3.2 Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
I-WLAN Interworking WLAN
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
# 4 WLAN Radio networks interworking with 3GPP
This feature has been discontinued since Release 13 and the present
specification is used to provide references to the latest versions of the
stage-1, 2 and 3 specifications.
\- TS 22.234 [25].
\- TS 24.234 [9].
\- TS 24.235 [41].
\- TS 24.327 [42].
\- TS 29.161 [43].
\- TS 29.234 [44].
\- TS 33.234 [14].
\- TS 32.252 [26].
# 5 Void
# 6 Void
# 7 Void
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
###### ## Annex B (informative): Void
###### ## Annex C (informative): Void
###### ## Annex D (normative): Void
# D.2 Void
# D.3 Void
###### ## Annex E (informative): Void
###### ## Annex F (normative): Void
###### ## Annex G (informative): Void
###### ## Annex H (informative): Void
#