# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The fact of having several domains within the 3GPP mobile system (e.g.
Circuit-Switched, Packet-Switched, IP Multimedia Subsystem) and access
technologies (e.g. GERAN, UTRAN and WLAN) introduces a wide distribution of
data associated with the user. Further, the new functions both in terminals
and networks mean that the data related to users, services and user equipment
will be increased greatly. This causes difficulties for users, subscribers,
network operators and value added service providers to create, access and
manage the user-related data located in different entities.
The objective of specifying the 3GPP Generic User Profile is to provide a
conceptual description to enable harmonized usage of the user-related
information located in different entities. Technically the 3GPP Generic User
Profile provides an architecture, data description and interface with
mechanisms to handle the data.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the stage 2 architecture description to the 3GPP
Generic User Profile (GUP), which includes the elements necessary to realise
the stage 1 requirements in TS 22.240 [1].
The present document includes the GUP reference architecture with descriptions
of functional entities, and their interfaces and procedures, as well as the
high-level information model for the GUP data.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.240: \"Stage 1 Service Requirement for the 3GPP Generic User
Profile (GUP)\".
[2] Liberty Discovery Service Specification, http://www.projectliberty.org/
[3] Liberty ID-WSF SOAP Binding Specification, http://www.projectliberty.org/
[4] Liberty ID-WSF Data Services Template, http://www.projectliberty.org/
[5] Liberty ID-WSF Security and Privacy Overview,
http://www.projectliberty.org/
[6] Liberty ID-WSF Security Mechanisms, http://www.projectliberty.org/
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document the following definitions apply:
**3GPP Generic User Profile (GUP)** : The 3GPP Generic User Profile is the
collection of user related data which affects the way in which an individual
user experiences services and which may be accessed in a standardized manner
as described in this specification.
**GUP Component** : A GUP component is logically an individual part of the
Generic User Profile.
**Data Element** : the indivisible unit of Generic User Profile information.
**Data Element Group** : A pre-defined set of Data Elements and/or other Data
Element Groups closely related to each other. One or more Data Element Groups
can constitute the GUP Component.
**Data Description Method** : A method describing how to define the data
contained in the Generic User Profile.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document the following symbols apply:
Rg Reference Point between Applications and the GUP Server.
Rp Reference Point between the GUP Server and GUP Data Repositories, and
between Applications and GUP Data Repositories.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document the following abbreviations apply:
FFS For Further Study
GUP 3GPP Generic User Profile
HPLMN Home PLMN
LCS Location services
OSA Open Service Access
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
RAF Repository Access Function
UE User Equipment
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Reference Architecture
## 4.1 GUP Functionalities
### 4.1.1 Harmonized access interface
The GUP harmonized access interface is the interface which can be used by the
GUP suppliers and GUP consumers to access, manage and transfer the profile
data. This application layer interface is independent of the profile
structure.
### 4.1.2 Single point of access
There exists for each Profile a single point of access, which knows the
location of the various components of the Profile. A discovery service, e.g.
Liberty Discovery Service Specification [2] may be used to get the contact
reference information for this access point if not known by other means.
### 4.1.3 Authentication of profile access
A GUP functionality exists that is responsible to authenticate applications.
Authentication is a vital function to be passed before any kind of access to
GUP data is granted. GUP shall adopt generic mechanisms such as used for the
OSA framework approach. More specifically GUP shall use authentication
mechanisms from Liberty Alliance Project as specified in Liberty ID-WSF
Security and Privacy Overview [5], Liberty Discovery Service [2] and Liberty
ID-WSF Security Mechanisms [6].
### 4.1.4 Authorization of profile access
A GUP functionality exists that is responsible to authorise applications to
access GUP data based on User specific or common privacy rules. All attempts
to access the GUP data are to be authorized according to the defined policies
which shall include the requestor information, the requested data, the target
subscriber and the performed operation, or some of those.
GUP shall use authorization mechanisms from Liberty Alliance Project as
specified in Liberty ID-WSF Security and Privacy Overview [5] and Liberty ID-
WSF Security Mechanisms [6].
The GUP data structures need to satisfy the requirement to provide the
authorization information on the different levels: profile, component or data
element. In addition to the generic authorization data, additional service
specific data may be defined (e.g. for LCS). The same applies for the
authorization decision logic. The execution of the authorization logic leads
to a decision whether a requestor is allowed to make the request at all, and
additionally to which part of data the requestor has the appropriate access
rights with regard to the nature of the request.
GUP provides mechanisms for the different GUP entities for managing the
authorization data.
Both HPLMN based applications and non-HPLMN based applications are expected to
send requests to the GUP Server. The GUP server shall have functionality to
apply different authorization criteria, policy control and load control to
HPLMN and non-HPLMN applications. Policy control and load control are out of
the scope of the present document.
### 4.1.5 Privacy control
The tight connection of authentication, authorization and subscriber specific
privacy requirements results in privacy control. Privacy control implies a
centralized management for access rights including the subscriber\'s privacy
requirements.
GUP shall use privacy control mechanisms and other privacy related features
from Liberty Alliance Project as specified in Liberty ID-WSF Security and
Privacy Overview [5] and Liberty ID-WSF Security Mechanisms [6].
### 4.1.6 Synchronization of data storage
The GUP data repository holds the master copy of the GUP component data.
Applications or GUP server may copy (i.e. read) the component data or request
synchronization. The present document defines how the data is requested and
sent. What is thereafter done with the data by the application or GUP server
is beyond the scope of the present document.
Synchronization means that the changes to the master copy of the data are
propagated to the entities that request synchronization. The synchronization
request specifies which data are monitored for changes. It is also possible to
request that all changes are reported.
Synchronization may cause heavy processing load to the involved entities, thus
some policies are required in the implementations but those are not specified
for the time being. However the GUP interfaces should carry sufficient data
for enabling the load control mechanisms to work.
The entity under a heavy processing load has the responsibility to handle the
error cases and conditions and to reach the synchronization as fast as
possible. All the unresolved errors or load balancing actions that affect
synchronization shall be reported.
### 4.1.7 Access of profile from visited network
Access to GUP from a visited network shall follow the single point of access
principle.
### 4.1.8 Location of Profile Components
A GUP functionality exists that keeps information where GUP data are located.
### 4.1.9 Charging for profile access
The GUP Server shall be capable of providing charging information, e.g. to
enable transaction/event based charging.
Some GUP Data Repositories may provide charging information, while other GUP
Data Repositories do not provide charging information.
Mechanisms are needed to permit the GUP Server to know which GUP Data
Repositories are (and are not) producing their own charging information. When
the GUP Data Repository is capable of producing charging information,
mechanisms are needed for the correlation of the charging information produced
by GUP Server and GUP Data Repository.
The charging information may also be used for other event logging, customer
care, privacy auditing, etc. functions.
## 4.2 GUP functional entities
The GUP reference architecture as shown in Figure 4.1 consists of:
\- GUP Server;
\- Repository Access Function (RAF);
\- GUP Data Repositories;
\- Rg and Rp reference points;
\- Applications.
Figure 4.1: GUP reference architecture
An example of mapping the GUP reference architecture to current infrastructure
environment is shown in Figure 4.2.
Figure 4.2: An example of mapping the GUP reference architecture to current
infrastructure environment
### 4.2.1 GUP Server
The GUP Server is a functional entity providing a single point of access to
the Generic User Profile data of a particular subscriber. The reference
architecture does not specify or limit the physical location of the GUP Server
enabling flexibility in the implementations. However, the GUP Server shall be
located in the home operator network of the targeted subscriber.
The GUP Server includes the following main functionalities:
  * Single point of access for reading and managing generic user profile > data of a particular subscriber.
  * Location of Profile Components.
  * Authentication of profile requests.
  * Authorization of profile requests.
  * Synchronization of Profile Components.
The GUP Server may support two modes of operation:
\- **Proxy mode** (see figure 4.3). The Application requests user related data
located in the GUP Data Repositories from the GUP Server. After taking care of
needed actions specified for the GUP Server (and depending on the type of the
request) the GUP Server makes requests to the corresponding GUP Data
Repositories and receives responses from them. Finally the Application gets a
response to the original request from the GUP Server. Depending on the type of
the request also possible subsequent responses are delivered through the GUP
Server.
\- **Redirect mode** (see figure 4.4). The Application requests user related
data located in the GUP Data Repositories from the GUP Server. After taking
care of needed actions specified for the GUP Server (and depending on the type
of the request) the GUP Server returns to the Application the information
(e.g. address of GUP Data Repository(s)) to allow the Application to request
the information from the GUP Data Repositories. The Application then directly
requests the information from the GUP Data Repositories.
The Proxy mode is the default mode of operation. Redirect capability and
preference for the applied mode may be indicated by the application with the
Requestor data parameter when accessing the GUP Server. The GUP Server decides
which mode is selected for the different requests. In addition to the
Requestor data parameter, the decision is based on the capabilities of the GUP
Server and the related Repository Access Functions (RAF) as well as on the
service configuration and policy data in the GUP Server related to the
particular application. These service configuration and policy data are out of
the scope of GUP standardisation. If the Redirect mode is not supported by the
GUP Server the response is always sent according to the Proxy mode.
Figure 4.3: GUP Server acting as a Proxy Server
Figure 4.4: GUP Server acting as a Redirect Server.
#### 4.2.1.1 Single point of access
The GUP Server shall accept data management related requests from the
applications via the Rg reference point, and either convey the corresponding
GUP component specific requests to GUP Data Repositories via Rp reference
point or redirect the Application to convey the requests to the GUP Data
Repositories. Note that one data request from an application to the GUP Server
can cause sending of several GUP Data Repository requests by the GUP Server or
Application. Also mapping to proprietary interfaces instead of Rp is possible
in implementations.
In Proxy mode the GUP Server shall receive the results of the requests from
GUP Data Repositories and deliver the results back to the requestor
(Application). In case of responses from several GUP Data Repositories the GUP
Server shall combine separate XML documents received from the repositories and
deliver the composed information to the requestor. In redirect mode the
Application will receive the results of the requests from the GUP Data
Repositories.
#### 4.2.1.2 Location of profile components
The GUP Server stores information about the GUP Components and the locations
of data repositories of GUP Components related to each subscriber. Thus e.g.
the separate GUP components composing the whole User Profile of a certain
subscriber can be located and identified. The application shall be able to
affect where a new GUP Component is created by the GUP Server. It is beyond
this specification how the GUP server gets the component locations in the
cases when it is not involved in the creation of those components.
#### 4.2.1.3 Authentication of profile request
The GUP Server shall make sure that the application requesting user profile
data is properly authenticated. The authentication is based on the
identification of the requesting application and/or the identification of the
possible subscriber requesting the user profile data. The GUP Server may rely
on the authentication made by other trusted entities.
#### 4.2.1.4 Authorization of profile request
The GUP Server shall take care of the authorization of the access to the user
profile data. The authorization itself may be handled by a separate entity in
the network, or alternatively by the RAF or GUP Data Repository. The
authorization shall be based on the requestor information, the requested data,
the target subscriber and the performed operation, or some of them. The
authorization rules of the requested data shall be defined at least in the GUP
Component level in GUP Server. (Note that the authorization may be based on
also on finer granularity of the data content.) It shall be possible to manage
the authorization data via the Rg and Rp reference points.
#### 4.2.1.5 Synchronization of profile components
In proxy mode, the GUP Server shall convey the data synchronization requests
from the applications to the RAFs in the same way as the other profile
requests. Also the related change notifications from the RAFs are passed on to
the requesting application. This requires that some kind of book keeping about
the synchronization requests implemented. In redirect mode the GUP server
shall redirect the Application to the RAFs in the same way as the other
profile requests.
The GUP Server may store a copy of the actual data from the GUP Data
Repository, but it is up to the local policy of the GUP Server.
#### 4.2.1.6 Additional functionality
The GUP Server may take part in the charging of the data management operations
concerning the profile.
The GUP Server may take part in the rate and/or size limiting of the data
operations towards the profile.
The GUP Server may utilise a discovery service to register its contact
reference information.
### 4.2.2 Repository Access Function (RAF)
The Repository Access Function (RAF) realizes the harmonized access interface.
It hides the implementation details of the data repositories from the GUP
infrastructure. The RAF performs protocol and data transformation where
needed.
The protocol between the RAF and the GUP data repository is out of the
standardization scope. It is recommended that the protocol used should support
GUP requirements.
The RAF may take part in the authorization of access to such GUP information,
which are under the control of the RAF. In addition, the authorization data
may be managed via the Rp reference point.
### 4.2.3 GUP Data Repository
Each GUP Data Repository stores the primary master copy of one or several
profile components. The RAF provides for the standardized access to the GUP
Data Repository. The storage formats or the interface between the RAF and GUP
Data Repository are not specified by GUP. It is presumed that the RAF and the
GUP Data Repository are usually co-located in the same network element.
The GUP Data Repository may contain also the authorization data depending on
the authorization model and architecture.
### 4.2.4 Reference Points
Reference Points in the GUP Reference Architecture:
**1\. Reference point Rg** \ This reference point shall allow applications to
create, read, modify and delete any user profile data using the harmonized
access interface. The GUP Server locates the data repositories responsible of
the storage of the requested profile component(s) and in case of proxy mode
carries out the requested operation on the data. The reference point Rg shall
support interworking to other mechanisms that support parts of the user
profile outside the scope of 3GPP e.g. Liberty ID-WSF SOAP Binding
Specification [3] and Liberty ID-WSF Data Services Template [4].
In the redirect mode, the GUP Server returns the locations of the GUP Data
Repositories and the application can then send the requested operations via
reference point Rp directly to the corresponding GUP Data Repositories.
The reference point Rg carries user related data, and therefore shall be
protected by security mechanisms.
**2\. Reference point Rp** \ This reference point shall allow the GUP Server
or applications, excluding external applications (e.g. located in a third
party application or in the UE), to create, read, modify and delete user
profile data using the harmonized access interface. Rp is an intra-operator
reference point. External applications and third party GUP data repositories
shall be connected to the GUP Server only using the Rg reference point.
The reference point Rp carries user related data, and therefore shall be
protected by security mechanisms.
### 4.2.5 Applications
The applications that may apply GUP reference points Rg and Rp may be targeted
for different purposes e.g. for value added services or subscription
management. Both operator\'s own applications and third party applications are
covered. The latter ones shall apply Rg reference point.
Additionally the applications may utilise a discovery service to discover the
contact reference information if not found out by other means. A discovery
service e.g., as specified in Liberty Discovery Service Specification [2], may
also act as Trusted Authority providing essential security related information
(e.g. preferences in terms of peer entity and message authentication mechanism
to be used and authentication and/or authorization assertions). Different
policies may be followed in the use of discovery service. It may be used by
different applications in different ways: per each operation, occasionally or
not at all. In general terms, third party applications belonging to external
security domains shall use a discovery service as a normal step, but in
operator's services it may not be needed at all.
Applications have different authorization rights to the GUP data of different
subscribers as agreed between the parties.
### 4.2.6 Message flow of using GUP
For an application requesting GUP data component(s) a message flow is
described in the following:
> \- The application requests a GUP component(s) via Single Point of Access
> (Rg) from the GUP server. The application will indicate if it can support
> the Redirect mode.
>
> \- The GUP server authenticates the application. Note that also separate
> authentication services may be applied.
>
> \- The GUP Server identifies the level of authorization the Application is
> allowed to access the GUP data.
>
> \- The GUP Server identifies the location of the GUP component(s).
At this point the GUP Server may (see figure 4.5 below)
> \- Access the GUP component(s) by means of the Harmonized Access Interface
> (Rp) or by other means outside the scope of GUP.
>
> \- Respond to the application with the result of the request, optionally
> combining results from different GUP data repositories.
Or, depending on GUP data repositories choice and if the application has
indicated that it can support the Redirect mode (see figure 4.6 below)
> \- Respond to the application with reference(s) to the component(s) and
> additionally authorization credentials with limited lifetime. Note that
> authorization credentials from other sources are not excluded.
>
> \- The application uses the reference(s) and the authorization credentials
> to access GUP data repositories by means of the Rp reference point.
Privacy rules may stay together with the data it applies to at the data
repository where the data is stored. In this case this privacy rules shall
apply. Optionally, the GUP Server may apply additional privacy rules. However
the GUP Server must never \"bypass\" existing privacy rules.
The following figures show the message flows for both cases as described.
{width="6.21875in" height="5.301388888888889in"}
Figure 4.5: An Example of Application requesting GUP data component(s) message
flow (Proxy mode)
{width="6.21875in" height="5.707638888888889in"}
Figure 4.6: An Application requesting GUP data component(s) message flow
(Redirect mode)
## 4.3 Rg reference point procedures
This subclause defines the procedures applied in the Rg reference point
between the applications and the GUP Server. This reference point supports
also third party profile access. Rg can be used e.g. to create the whole user
profile or some components in it, to read any piece of data in the profile or
to modify those. There are means to authorise all requests and protect the
user\'s privacy in all operations. Rg is applied to control the data stored in
the different GUP components identified by a resource identity and the
component type. The resource identity contains either a subscriber identity or
a generic component identification, which is given to components that are not
bound to a single subscriber.
There are the following procedures:
\- Create
\- Delete
\- Modify
\- List
\- Query
\- Subscribe
\- Unsubscribe
\- Notify
Instead of proxying the requests (or handling them by itself) the GUP Server
may also apply the redirect mode of operation for applications that support
redirect mode, which implies that the GUP Server responds to the request with
the redirection information such as redirection address and authorisation
assertions. Redirection can be made with Create, Delete, Modify, Query and
Subscribe procedures.
### 4.3.1 Create procedure
Create procedure is used by the application to create a new user profile or
new components to an existing profile. The procedure is always related to a
single resource identity which is given in the request. Additionally the
Create procedure shall carry the component types and the data to be created to
each component. At least one component shall be provided. Creation of the
first component implies profile creation. The component type identifies what
data are concerned i.e. not just the data typing. It is presumed that the
profile data structure is already known by the both parties. No new type of
data can be defined by this procedure, only the data contents are provided.
Furthermore the application shall provide the necessary data for
authentication and authorization of this create function (e.g. credentials,
assertions and identifications).
The outcome of the procedure shall be provided in a separate response message.
If the requestor data indicated that the application is able to receive
redirect instructions, the GUP server may decide to return redirect
instructions based on policies set by the operator in the GUP server. After
this response the procedure is terminated without any other specified results
or retained information in the GUP Server.
Table 4.1: Request data of Create procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Resource Identity Specifies the resource identity
with its type (e.g. SIP URI public ID). Mandatory Component data Specifies
which components are addressed and provides the data for those. There may be
several Component data elements corresponding to several created components.
At least one element must be present. See the table below for the more
detailed contents. Mandatory Requestor data Specifies the data related to the
requestor. These data may be used as input in the authentication and
authorization process. E.g. end user and application identification,
credentials or privacy policy information. Optional
* * *
Table 4.2: Contents of Component data parameter
* * *
Parameter Description Use Component type Specifies the type of the created
component. The Component type identifies the applied component data
definitions. Mandatory Data Specifies the GUP component data according to the
specified Component type. Mandatory
* * *
Table 4.3: Response data of Create procedure
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Parameter | Description | Use | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Redirection data | Specifies the | Optional | | | redirection | | | | instructions and | | | | assertions. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Status | Indicates whether: | Mandatory (like the | | | | response itself) | | | 1. The procedure was | | | | carried out | | | | successfully, | | | | | | | | 2. The request was | | | | redirected, or | | | | | | | | 3. A failure was | | | | detected. | | | | | | | | For the proxy mode 1 | | | | or 3 can be indicated. | | | | For the redirect mode | | | | 2 or 3 can be | | | | indicated. The | | | | possible failure is | | | | described in | | | | sufficient detail. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
### 4.3.2 Delete procedure
Delete procedure is used by the application to remove a profile or selected
GUP components from the repository. The attached resource identity and the
component type are specified. If no component type is provided, the whole user
profile identified by the resource identity will be deleted. The application
shall provide the necessary data for authentication and authorization purposes
(e.g. credentials, assertions and identifications).
The outcome of the procedure shall be provided in a separate response message.
If the requestor data indicated that the application is able to receive
redirect instructions, the GUP server may decide to return redirect
instructions based on policies set by the operator in the GUP server. After
this response the procedure is terminated without any other specified results
or retained information in the GUP Server.
Table 4.4: Request data of Delete procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Resource identity Specifies the resource identity
with its type (e.g. SIP URI public ID). Mandatory Component types Specifies
the types of the components. Optional Requestor data Specifies the data
related to the requestor. These data may be used as input in the
authentication and authorization process. E.g. end user and application
identification, credentials or privacy policy information. Optional
* * *
Table 4.5: Response data of Delete procedure
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Parameter | Description | Use | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Redirection data | Specifies the | Optional | | | redirection | | | | instructions and | | | | assertions. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Status | Indicates whether: | Mandatory (like the | | | | response itself) | | | 1. The procedure was | | | | carried out | | | | successfully, | | | | | | | | 2. The request was | | | | redirected, or | | | | | | | | 3. A failure was | | | | detected. | | | | | | | | For the proxy mode 1 | | | | or 3 can be indicated. | | | | For the redirect mode | | | | 2 or 3 can be | | | | indicated. The | | | | possible failure is | | | | described in | | | | sufficient detail. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
### 4.3.2a List procedure
List procedure is used by the application to list the existing profile items
in the various GUP Data Repositories, and it is needed to handle large number
of items. Different search criteria may be given as input. Only the references
(i.e. resource identities and component types) are returned by the procedure.
The listing may optionally operate sequentially, and then only a selected
number of items is returned in one listing. The application shall provide the
necessary data for authentication and authorization purposes (e.g.
credentials, assertions and identifications).
The outcome of the procedure shall be provided in a separate response message.
Table 4.5a: Request data of List procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Search criteria Specifies which profiles are to be
listed. The criteria may include at least resource identity (or part of it)
and/or component type. Mandatory Requestor data Specifies the data related to
the requestor. These data may be used as input in the authentication and
authorization process. E.g. end user and application identification,
credentials or privacy policy information. Optional
* * *
Table 4.5b: Response data of List procedure
+----------------+---------------------------------------+-----------+ | Parameter | Description | Use | +----------------+---------------------------------------+-----------+ | Listing data | Provides the listed data (several | Mandatory | | | elements). See the table below for | | | | the contents of a single element. | | +----------------+---------------------------------------+-----------+ | End indication | Indicates that the end of list has | Optional | | | been reached. | | +----------------+---------------------------------------+-----------+ | Status | Indicates whether: | Mandatory | | | | | | | 1. The procedure was carried out | | | | successfully, | | | | | | | | 2. The request was redirected, or | | | | | | | | 3. A failure was detected. | | | | | | | | For the proxy mode 1 or 3 can be | | | | indicated. For the redirect mode 2 or | | | | 3 can be indicated. The possible | | | | failure is described in sufficient | | | | detail. | | +----------------+---------------------------------------+-----------+
Table 4.5c: Contents of Listing data parameter
* * *
Parameter Description Use Resource identity Specifies the resource identity
with its type (e.g. SIP URI public ID). Mandatory Component types Specifies
the component types which are linked to the Resource identity and match with
the search criteria. Mandatory
* * *
### 4.3.3 Modify procedure
Modify procedure is used by the application to change the data in the GUP
components. Also adding and deleting data is possible by Modify procedure, but
it cannot create a new component. The modified data are identified by the
resource identity and the data reference. The modification may concern the
whole component or any lower level piece of data referenced in the procedure
invocation. The contents for the entire referenced data shall be provided.
Several individual changes to different components can be made with one
procedure invocation. It must be noted that if modification of one component
fails, the other changes cannot always be rolled back (implementation specific
feature). However the response data shall specify which modifications were not
accomplished. It is also possible to add more similar type of data elements to
an existing array type of element. The requestor shall provide the necessary
data for authentication and authorization purposes (e.g. credentials,
assertions and identifications).
The outcome of the procedure shall be provided in a separate response message.
If the requestor data indicated that the application is able to receive
redirect instructions, the GUP server may decide to return redirect
instructions based on policies set by the operator in the GUP server. After
this response the procedure is terminated without any other specified results
or retained information in the GUP Server.
Table 4.6: Request data of Modify procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Resource identity Specifies the resource identity
with its type (e.g. SIP URI public ID). Mandatory Modification data Specifies
which data are addressed and how those are changed. There may be several
Modification data items corresponding to several individual modifications.
These modifications may concern the same or different components. See the
table below for the contents of one modification. Mandatory Requestor data
Specifies the data related to the requestor. These data may be used as input
in the authentication and authorization process. E.g. end user and application
identification, credentials or privacy policy information. Optional
* * *
Table 4.7: Contents of Modification data parameter
* * *
Parameter Description Use Data reference Specifies which data are modified or
expanded. The reference identifies both the component type and the possible
deeper level data reference. The reference must be unique in a way that it
refers only to one data item. Mandatory New data Specifies the data to be
stored in the GUP component. It is expected that all the data elements in the
referenced data structure are given. Mandatory Overwrite indication Specifies
if the data are added to the existing data or replaces those. Default action
is \"insert\". Optional
* * *
Table 4.8: Response data of Modify procedure
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Parameter | Description | Use | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Redirection data | Specifies the | Optional | | | redirection | | | | instructions and | | | | assertions. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Status | Indicates whether: | Mandatory (like the | | | | response itself) | | | 1. The procedure was | | | | carried out | | | | successfully, | | | | | | | | 2. The request was | | | | redirected, or | | | | | | | | 3. A failure was | | | | detected. | | | | | | | | For the proxy mode 1 | | | | or 3 can be indicated. | | | | For the redirect mode | | | | 2 or 3 can be | | | | indicated. The | | | | possible failure is | | | | described in | | | | sufficient detail. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
### 4.3.4 Query procedure
Query procedure is used by the application to retrieve the data in the user
profile or its specific components. The queried data are identified by the
resource identity and the data reference. The data retrieval may concern the
whole profile, component or any parts of a component as referenced in the
invocation. The requestor shall provide the necessary data for authentication
and authorization purposes (e.g. credentials, assertions and identifications).
The retrieved data shall be provided in a separate response message. If the
requestor data indicated that the application is able to receive redirect
instructions, the GUP server may decide to return redirect instructions based
on policies set by the operator in the GUP server. After this response the
procedure is terminated without any other specified results or retained
information in the GUP Server.
Table 4.9: Request data of Query procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Resource identity Specifies the resource identity
with its type (e.g. SIP URI public ID). Mandatory Data references Specifies
which data are read. The data reference identifies the component type and the
deeper level reference (if the whole component is not meant to be read).
Multiple references may be given. It is also possible to refer to the profile
root which implies that the whole profile data are queried. Mandatory
Requestor data Specifies the data related to the requestor. These data may be
used as input in the authentication and authorization process. E.g. end user
and application identification, credentials or privacy policy information.
Optional
* * *
Table 4.10: Response data of Query procedure
+------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------+ | Parameter | Description | Use | +------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------+ | Data | Contains the retrieved data as | Mandatory | | | indicated by the Data references. | | +------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------+ | Redirection data | Specifies the redirection | Optional | | | instructions and assertions. | | +------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------+ | Status | Indicates whether: | Mandatory | | | | | | | 1. The procedure was carried out | | | | successfully, | | | | | | | | 2. The request was redirected, or | | | | | | | | 3. A failure was detected. | | | | | | | | For the proxy mode 1 or 3 can be | | | | indicated. For the redirect mode 2 | | | | or 3 can be indicated. The possible | | | | failure is described in sufficient | | | | detail. | | +------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------+
### 4.3.5 Subscribe procedure
Subscribe procedure is used by the application to request notifications about
changes in the GUP component data. The subscribed data are identified by the
resource identity and the data reference. Furthermore the application can
identify which elements are to be monitored for changes if it is not
interested in all changes. Data synchronization can be performed by Subscribe
and Notify procedures. The GUP Server returns the identification of the
subscription request to provide means for the application to link the
notifications of Notify procedure to the related subscribe requests. With
Subscribe procedure an application can also request a list of all its
subscriptions to notifications from the GUP Server. The GUP Server shall
provide all the application's subscriptions to notifications in the response
message.
A filtering data parameter is defined to facilitate performance optimization.
This may be left partly vendor/operator specific. The requestor shall provide
the necessary data for authentication and authorization purposes (e.g.
credentials, assertions and identifications).
The outcome of the procedure shall be provided in a separate response message.
If the requestor data indicated that the application is able to receive
redirect instructions, the GUP server may decide to return redirect
instructions based on policies set by the operator in the GUP server. After
this response the procedure is terminated without any other specified results
or retained information in the GUP Server.
Table 4.11: Request data of Subscribe procedure
+------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Description | Use | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Resource identity | Specifies the resource | Conditional | | | identity with its type | | | | (e.g. SIP URI public | | | | ID). | | | | | | | | This parameter may be | | | | absent only when List of | | | | subscriptions parameter | | | | is present, otherwise | | | | this parameter shall | | | | always be present. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Notification Reference | Specifies the call-back | Mandatory | | | address of the | | | | Requestor. The GUP | | | | server shall send the | | | | notifications to this | | | | address. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | List of subscriptions | Indicates that the | Optional | | | application requests the | | | | list of all its | | | | subscriptions from the | | | | GUP server. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Data references | Specifies which data are | Optional | | | monitored for changes. | | | | The reference identifies | | | | both the component type | | | | and the possible deeper | | | | level data reference. | | | | Multiple references may | | | | be given. Any change | | | | within the referenced | | | | data structure causes a | | | | notification to be sent. | | | | If the parameter is | | | | absent, all | | | | modifications are | | | | notified. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Requestor data | Specifies the data | Optional | | | related to the | | | | requestor. These data | | | | may be used as input in | | | | the authentication and | | | | authorization process. | | | | E.g. end user and | | | | application | | | | identification, | | | | credentials or privacy | | | | policy information. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Filter data | Specifies additional | Optional | | | conditions for sending | | | | notifications to | | | | optimize the performance | | | | e.g. when immediate | | | | synchronization is not | | | | required. The parameter | | | | specifies also whether | | | | the initial data values | | | | are requested to be | | | | reported. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+
Table 4.12: Response data of Subscribe procedure
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Description | Use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Invoke | Contains the invoke | Mandatory (unless | | identifications | identification | the request is | | | assigned by the GUP | redirected or fails) | | | Server for this | | | | request. | | | | | | | | When the application | | | | has requested the | | | | list of all its | | | | subscriptions, this | | | | parameter will | | | | contain all the | | | | invoke | | | | identifications | | | | assigned by the GUP | | | | Server to the | | | | application. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Redirection data | Specifies the | Optional | | | redirection | | | | instructions and | | | | assertions. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Status | Indicates whether: | Mandatory (like the | | | | response itself) | | | 1. The procedure | | | | was carried out | | | | successfully, | | | | | | | | 2. The request was | | | | redirected, or | | | | | | | | 3. A failure was | | | | detected. | | | | | | | | For the proxy mode 1 | | | | or 3 can be | | | | indicated. For the | | | | redirect mode 2 or 3 | | | | can be indicated. | | | | The possible failure | | | | is described in | | | | sufficient detail. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.3.6 Unsubscribe procedure
Unsubscribe procedure is used by the application to cancel one or several
existing subscriptions. The outcome of the procedure shall be provided in a
separate response message.
Table 4.13: Request data of Unsubscribe procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Invoke identifications Specifies one or several
invoke identifications assigned by the GUP Server for the subscriptions.
Mandatory
* * *
Table 4.14: Response data of Unsubscribe procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Status Indicates whether the procedure was carried
out successfully or whether some failure was detected. The possible errors are
described in sufficient detail. Mandatory (like the response itself)
* * *
### 4.3.7 Notify procedure
Notify procedure is invoked by the GUP Server when the data which was
identified in Subscribe procedure changes or when the invoked Subscribe
procedure requested sending of all the initial values of the referenced data.
The procedure identifies the changed data and provides the new values.
The outcome of the procedure shall be provided in a separate response message.
Table 4.15: Request data of Notify procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Invoke identification Specifies the invoke
identification assigned by the GUP Server for this subscription. Mandatory
Notified data Specifies which data are reported together with the data itself.
Multiple pieces of data may be provided. Mandatory
* * *
Table 4.16: Response data of Notify procedure (optional)
* * *
Parameter Description Use Status Indicates whether the procedure was carried
out successfully or whether some failure was detected. The possible errors are
described in sufficient detail. Mandatory (however the whole response is
optional)
* * *
### 4.3.8 Common information definitions
The information elements that are applied in several procedures of Rg
reference point are described in this subclause.
#### 4.3.8.1 Requestor data
The Requestor data contain the information that the sender of the request
provides in order to facilitate the authentication and authorization
functions. The access control and user privacy functions work based on these
data. Also an unspecified Additional info parameter is defined to carry data
e.g. for monitoring or accounting purposes. All the elements are optional.
However at least one shall be present if the parameter is applied.
Table 4.17: Requestor data
* * *
Element Description Use Subscriber identification Specifies the end user being
served. Optional Application identification Specifies the application being
served. The GUP Server has to link the Application identification to the
actual sender of the request by the appropriate means taking into account the
applied security measures and domains. Optional Credentials Contains
authentication information. Optional Authorization assertion Contains the
assertion for authorization. The nature of the assertion must be for one time
use to prevent replay and cut-and-paste attacks. E.g. digest or signature
mechanisms may be applied. Optional Privacy policy Information about the
applied privacy policy. Optional Redirection indications Specifies if the
application being served is able to handle returned redirect requests or if it
specifically desires to apply the redirect mode. However the GUP Server
decides which mode is used. If the parameter is missing, it is presumed that
no such capability exists with the application. Optional Additional info
Additional unspecified information related to the requestor or request.
Optional
* * *
#### 4.3.8.2 Redirection data
The Redirection data is returned to the requester if redirection is called
for. These data contain the address where the request is to be redirected to
and the authorisation assertions optionally provided by the GUP Server, which
may this way carry out at least part of the authorisation on behalf of the RAF
(or Data Repository). The RAF (or the GUP Data Repository) takes the final
decision whether the authorisation is accepted or not.
Table 4.17a: Redirection data
* * *
Element Description Use Redirection address Specifies the address (e.g. URI)
where the request is to be redirected. Optional Authorisation assertion
Contains the assertion for authorisation. This may be placed in the Requestor
data item in the subsequent requests over Rp reference point. Optional
* * *
### 4.3.9 Error handling and common error types
The basic principle in error handling is that all errors in carrying out the
procedures lead to complete abortion of the requested operation. However if
e.g. multiple modifications with separate data references are made with one
procedure invocation, it is possible that part of these are completed even if
some would fail. The procedure error responses identify the error type
together with more detailed information about the cause of the error.
The common error types which can be applied to all procedures contain:
Table 4.18: Common error types
* * *
Error Description Invalid operation The operation is invalid or unsupported.
Invalid parameter The given parameter of the operation is invalid.
Unauthorized operation There was no authority for the requested operation.
Data unavailable The requested data were not available. Unexpected error An
unexpected error condition was met. Authentication error The authentication of
the requestor has failed.
* * *
## 4.4 Rp reference point procedures
This subclause defines the procedures applied in the Rp reference point. The
application or GUP server acts as the active requestor towards the Repository
Access Function (RAF) entities e.g. to read or modify the data. It is assumed
that the both ends share initially the same data structure definitions. Rp is
applied to control the data stored in the different user profile components
identified by a resource identity and the component type. The resource
identity contains either a subscriber identity or a generic component
identification which is given to components that are not bound to a single
subscriber.
There are the following procedures:
  * Create Component
  * Delete Component
  * Modify Data
  * List Data
  * Read Data
  * Subscribe To Data
  * Unsubscribe To Data
  * Notify Data
  * Define Data
### 4.4.1 Create Component procedure
Create Component procedure is used by the application to add a new profile
component in the contacted repository. The attached resource identity and the
created component type are specified along with the created data. The
component type identifies what data are concerned i.e. not just the data
typing. It is presumed that the profile data structure is already known by the
both parties. No new type of data can be defined by this procedure, only the
data contents are provided. The requestor shall provide the necessary data for
authorization purposes (e.g. assertions and identifications).
This procedure is synchronous in nature but it is also possible to define a
separate response message.
Table 4.19: Request data of Create Component procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Resource Identity Specifies the resource identity
with its type (e.g. SIP URI public ID). Mandatory Component type Specifies the
type of the created component. This is needed because several types may be
supported by one RAF. The Component type identifies the applied component data
definitions. Mandatory Requestor data Specifies the data related to the
requestor. These data may be used as input in the authorization process. E.g.
end user and application identification. See subclause 4.4.9. Optional
Component data Specifies the profile component data according to the specified
Component type. Mandatory
* * *
Table 4.20: Response data of Create Component procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Status Indicates whether the procedure was carried
out successfully or whether some failure was detected. The possible errors are
described in sufficient detail. Mandatory (like the response itself)
* * *
### 4.4.2 Delete Component procedure
Delete Component procedure is used by the application to remove a profile
component from the contacted repository. The attached resource identity and
the component type is specified. The requestor shall provide the necessary
data for authorization purposes (e.g. assertions and identifications).
This procedure is synchronous in nature but it is also possible to define a
separate response message.
Table 4.21: Request data of Delete Component procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Resource identity Specifies the resource identity
with its type (e.g. SIP URI public ID). Mandatory Component type Specifies the
type of the component. Mandatory Requestor data Specifies the data related to
the requestor. These data may be used as input in the authorization process.
E.g. end user and application identification. See subclause 4.4.9. Optional
* * *
Table 4.22: Response data of Delete Component procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Status Indicates whether the procedure was carried
out successfully or whether some failure was detected. The possible errors are
described in sufficient detail. Mandatory (like the response itself)
* * *
### 4.4.2a List Data procedure
List Data procedure is used by the application to list the existing profile
items in the various GUP Data Repositories, and it is needed to handle large
number of items. Different search criteria may be given as input. Only the
references (i.e. resource identities and component types) are returned by the
procedure. The listing may optionally operate sequentially, and then only a
selected number of items is returned in one listing. The application shall
provide the necessary data for authentication and authorization purposes (e.g.
credentials, assertions and identifications).
The outcome of the procedure shall be provided in a separate response message.
Table 4.22a: Request data of List Data procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Search criteria Specifies which profiles are to be
listed. The criteria may include at least resource identity (or part of it)
and/or component type. Mandatory Requestor data Specifies the data related to
the requestor. These data may be used as input in the authentication and
authorization process. E.g. end user and application identification,
credentials or privacy policy information. Optional
* * *
Table 4.22b: Response data of List Data procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Listing data Provides the listed data (several
elements). See the table below for the contents of a single element. Mandatory
End indication Indicates that the end of list has been reached. Optional
Status Indicates whether the procedure was carried out successfully or whether
some failure was detected. The possible errors are described in sufficient
detail. Mandatory
* * *
Table 4.22c: Contents of Listing data parameter
* * *
Parameter Description Use Resource identity Specifies the resource identity
with its type (e.g. SIP URI public ID). Mandatory Component types Specifies
the component types which are linked to the resource identity and match with
the search criteria. Mandatory
* * *
### 4.4.3 Modify Data procedure
Modify Data procedure is used by the application to change the data in a
profile component. The component is identified by the resource identity and
the component type. The modification may concern the whole component or any
lower level piece of data referenced in the procedure invocation. The contents
for the entire referenced data shall be provided. Several individual changes
to the component can be made with one procedure invocation. It is also
possible to add more similar type of data elements to an existing array type
of element. The requestor shall provide the necessary data for authorization
purposes (e.g. assertions and identifications).
This procedure is synchronous in nature but it is also possible to define a
separate response message.
Table 4.23: Request data of Modify Data procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Resource identity Specifies the resource identity
with its type (e.g. SIP URI public ID). Mandatory Component type Specifies the
type of the component. Mandatory Modified data Specifies which data are
addressed and how those are changed. There may be several modified data items
corresponding to several individual modifications. See the table below for the
contents of one modification. Mandatory Requestor data Specifies the data
related to the requestor. These data may be used as input in the authorization
process. E.g. end user and application identification. See subclause 4.4.9.
Optional
* * *
Table 4.24: Contents of Modified data parameter
* * *
Parameter Description Use Data reference Specifies which data are modified or
expanded. The reference may indicate the whole component or any deeper level
piece of data. The reference must be unique in a way that it refers only to
one data item. Mandatory New data Specifies the data to be stored in the
profile component. It is expected that all the data elements in the referenced
data structure are given. Mandatory Overwrite indication Specifies if the data
are added to the existing data or replaces those. Default action is
\"insert\". Optional
* * *
Table 4.25: Response data of Modify Data procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Status Indicates whether the procedure was carried
out successfully or whether some failure was detected. The possible errors are
described in sufficient detail. Mandatory (like the response itself)
* * *
### 4.4.4 Read Data procedure
Read Data procedure is used by the application to retrieve the data in a
profile component. The component is identified by the resource identity and
the component type. The data retrieval may concern the whole component or any
parts of it as referenced in the invocation. The requestor shall provide the
necessary data for authorization purposes (e.g. assertions and
identifications).
Table 4.26: Request data of Read Data procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Resource identity Specifies the resource identity
with its type (e.g. SIP URI public ID). Mandatory Component type Specifies the
type of the component. Mandatory Data references Specifies which data are
read. The data reference may point to a piece of data on any level in the data
structure (also to the whole component). Multiple references may be given.
Mandatory Requestor data Specifies the data related to the requestor. These
data may be used as input in the authorization process. E.g. end user and
application identification. See subclause 4.4.9. Optional
* * *
Table 4.27: Response data of Read Data procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Data Contains the retrieved data as indicated by the
Data references. All the data under the referenced one are returned. Multiple
packets of data are given if so requested. Mandatory Status Indicates whether
the procedure was carried out successfully or whether some failure was
detected. The possible errors are described in sufficient detail. Mandatory
(like the response itself)
* * *
This procedure is synchronous in nature but it is also possible to define a
separate response message.
### 4.4.5 Subscribe To Data procedure
Subscribe To Data procedure is used by the application to request
notifications about changes in the profile component data. The component is
identified by the resource identity and the component type. Furthermore the
application can identify which elements are to be monitored for changes if it
is not interested in all changes. Data synchronization can be performed by
Subscribe To Data and Notify Data procedures. The RAF returns the
identification of the subscription request to provide means for the
application to link the notifications of Notify Data procedure to the related
subscribe requests. With Subscribe To Data procedure an application can also
request a list of all its subscriptions to notifications from the RAF. The RAF
shall provide all the application's subscriptions to notifications in the
response message.
A filtering data parameter is defined to facilitate performance optimization.
This may be left partly vendor/operator specific. The requestor shall provide
the necessary data for authorization purposes (e.g. assertions and
identifications).
Table 4.28: Request data of Subscribe To Data procedure
+------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Description | Use | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Resource identity | Specifies the resource | Conditional | | | identity with its type | | | | (e.g. SIP URI public | | | | ID). | | | | | | | | This parameter may be | | | | absent only when List of | | | | subscriptions parameter | | | | is present, otherwise | | | | this parameter shall | | | | always be present. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Notification Reference | Specifies the call-back | Mandatory | | | address of the | | | | Requestor. The RAF shall | | | | send the notifications | | | | to this address. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | List of subscriptions | Indicates that the | Optional | | | application requests the | | | | list of all its | | | | subscriptions from the | | | | RAF. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Component type | Specifies the type of | Mandatory | | | the component. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Data references | Specifies which data are | Optional | | | monitored for changes. | | | | Multiple references may | | | | be given. Any change | | | | within the referenced | | | | data structure causes a | | | | notification to be sent. | | | | If the parameter is | | | | absent, all | | | | modifications are | | | | notified. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Requestor data | Specifies the data | Optional | | | related to the | | | | requestor. These data | | | | may be used as input in | | | | the authorization | | | | process. E.g. end user | | | | and application | | | | identification. See | | | | subclause 4.4.9. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Filter data | Specifies additional | Optional | | | conditions for sending | | | | notifications to | | | | optimize the performance | | | | e.g. when immediate | | | | synchronization is not | | | | required. The parameter | | | | specifies also whether | | | | the initial data values | | | | are requested to be | | | | reported. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+
Table 4.29: Response data of Subscribe To Data procedure
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Description | Use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Invoke | Contains the invoke | Mandatory | | identifications | identification | | | | assigned by the RAF | | | | for this request. | | | | | | | | When the application | | | | has requested the | | | | list of all its | | | | subscriptions, this | | | | parameter will | | | | contain all the | | | | invoke | | | | identifications | | | | assigned by the RAF | | | | to the application. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Status | Indicates whether | Mandatory (like the | | | the procedure was | response itself) | | | carried out | | | | successfully or | | | | whether some failure | | | | was detected. The | | | | possible errors are | | | | described in | | | | sufficient detail. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.4.6 Unsubscribe To Data procedure
Unsubscribe To Data procedure is used by the application to cancel one or
several existing subscriptions.
Table 4.30: Request data of Unsubscribe To Data procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Invoke identifications Specifies one or several
invoke identifications assigned by the RAF for the subscriptions. Mandatory
* * *
Table 4.31: Response data of Unsubscribe To Data procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Status Indicates whether the procedure was carried
out successfully or whether some failure was detected. The possible errors are
described in sufficient detail. Mandatory (like the response itself)
* * *
### 4.4.7 Notify Data procedure
Notify Data procedure is invoked by the RAF when the data which was identified
in Subscribe To Data procedure changes or when the invoked Subscribe To Data
procedure requested sending of all the initial values of the referenced data.
The procedure identifies the changed data and provides the new values.
Table 4.32: Request data of Notify Data procedure
* * *
Parameter Description Use Invoke identification Specifies the invoke
identification assigned by the RAF for this subscription. Mandatory Notified
data Specifies which data are reported together with the data itself. Multiple
pieces of data may be provided. Mandatory
* * *
Table 4.33: Response data of Notify Data procedure (optional)
* * *
Parameter Description Use Status Indicates whether the procedure was carried
out successfully or whether some failure was detected. The possible errors are
described in sufficient detail. Mandatory (however the whole response is
optional)
* * *
### 4.4.8 Define Data procedure
Define Data procedure is used by the application to define new data elements
to the profile component data structure. The names and types for the new data
are specified. This procedure facilitates extension of the profile data with
new, proprietary data. Subsequently these data can be handled by the above
described procedures e.g. modified by the Modify Data procedure.
### 4.4.9 Common information definitions
The information elements that are applied in several procedures are described
in this subclause.
#### 4.4.9.1 Requestor data
The Requestor data contain the information that the sender of the request
provides in order to facilitate the authorization functions. The access
control and user privacy functions work based on these data. Also an
unspecified Additional info parameter is defined to carry data e.g. for
monitoring or accounting purposes. All the elements are optional. However at
least one shall be present if the parameter is applied.
Table 4.34: Requestor data
* * *
Element Description Use Subscriber identification Specifies the end user being
served. Optional Application identification Specifies the application being
served. The RAF has to link the Application identification to the actual
sender of the request by the appropriate means taking into account the applied
security measures and domains. Optional Authorization assertion Contains the
assertion for authorization. The nature of the assertion must be for one time
use to prevent replay and cut-and-paste attacks. E.g. digest or signature
mechanisms may be applied. The provisioning of the assertions or any related
shared secrets is beyond Rp reference point specifications. Optional
Additional info Additional unspecified information related to the requestor or
request. Optional
* * *
### 4.4.10 Error handling and common error types
The basic principle in error handling is that all errors in carrying out the
procedures lead to complete abortion of the requested operation. The procedure
error responses identify the error type together with more detailed
information about the cause of the error.
The common error types which can be applied to all procedures contain:
Table 4.35: Common error types
* * *
Error Description Invalid operation The operation is invalid or unsupported.
Invalid parameter The given parameter of the operation is invalid.
Unauthorized operation There was no authority for the requested operation.
Data unavailable The requested data were not available. Unexpected error An
unexpected error condition was met. Authentication error The authentication of
the requestor has failed.
* * *
# 5 GUP information model
A Generic User Profile consists of a number of independent GUP Components.
However, a GUP Component may contain (i.e. reference) other GUP components
e.g. to enable reuse of data.
The GUP Component has a unique identity within the Generic User Profile. In
addition to the component type the component identity contains either a
subscriber identity or more generic identification depending on which kind of
component is in question. A GUP Component can be retrieved through one RAF,
and it may consist of a number of GUP Components, Data Element Groups and/or
Data Elements.
A GUP Component contains zero or more Data Element Groups. The Data Element
Group contains indivisible Data Elements and/or Data Element Groups. The
nested Data Elements Groups allow deeper hierarchical structures. The Data
Element Group in the lowest hierarchical level contains one or more Data
Elements. The Data Element Groups inside a GUP Component may be of the same or
different types.
Alternatively the GUP Component may contain zero or more Data Elements without
the Data Element Groups. A GUP component shall have at least one Data Element
Group or Data Element.
A Composite Datatype is used to define the structure of the whole GUP
Component. The structure includes definition about what kind of Data Element
Groups and/or which Data Elements belong to the defined GUP Component as well
as the data types and valid values of the data.
The UML Class Diagram below illustrates the basic concepts of the GUP
Information Model.
Figure 5.1: The basic concepts of GUP
GUP defines an Authorisation Component, which is just like any other GUP
Component. This implies that the same capabilities as for any GUP Component
(e.g. identities and structure) are also applied to the Authorisation
Component. The Authorisation Component is able to reference any element of the
GUP Information Model and define the authorisation regarding those elements.
The Authorisation Component may be either subscriber specific or common to
several subscribers and/or elements of the GUP Information Model.
Note that any GUP Component may include additional data items, which are used
(e.g. by RAF) for the authorisation purposes but those are seen as a part of
the data specific to a certain GUP Component, and thus not a part of the
generic authorisation specified by GUP.
Figure 5.2 presents an example structure of Generic User Profile with the
terms used in the UML Class Diagram. Note that the data structure may be also
deeper than shown in the example figure, e.g., the Data Element Groups might
consist of nested Data Element Groups.
Figure 5.2: Example structure of GUP information
One purpose of the example structure is to clarify the intended relation
between the UML Class Diagram and the hierarchical structure of GUP in terms
of XML. Use of XML fulfils the requirements for the architectural structure of
the GUP information model.
Each Generic User Profile consists of one or several GUP Components depending
on the nature of the user related data. GUP Components are independent XML
documents. The Generic User Profile is thus formed of a number of XML
documents.
Each GUP Component consists of GUP Components, Data Elements and/or Data
Element Groups as defined in the component specific definitions. In XML terms
the Data Elements are XML elements. The Data Element Group is a structured XML
element with an arbitrarily deep data structure.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Examples of 3GPP Generic User Profile usage
##### **Example 1: GUP Usage with Subscription Management** {#example-1-gup-
usage-with-subscription-management .H6}
An application is accessing targeted subscriber's subscription data (HSS GUP
Component) stored in the HSS. It is assumed that RAF is implemented in the HSS
and the targeted HSS GUP Component has been created by using the Create
Component procedure. The application in this case can be e.g. a Subscription
Management application, a service application or any third party application
that is interested in the subscription data of a specific subscriber in
operator A's network.
The example of the interworking interface diagram is shown in Figure A.2. In
this example GUP Server is working in the proxy mode of operation.
Figure A.2: An Example of the Interworking Diagram between GUP and an
Application
The interworking steps between the Application, GUP Server and HSS are
summarised below:
Step 1: Application A invokes a Query procedure to the GUP Server including
the targeted subscriber's public user identity joe.doe\@operatorA.com in the
Resource Identity parameter. The HSS GUP Component will be included in the
Data Reference parameter clarifying the targeted data (component type) that
the application is interested in. Also specific data (i.e. XML Data Element)
within one GUP Component can be requested. Application A's identity is
included in the Requestor data parameter for the identification and
authorisation purposes of the request.
Step 2: GUP Server authenticates the application and authorises the request
with the result that Application A is allowed to access the HSS GUP Component
of the subscriber joe.doe@operatorA.com.
Step 3: GUP Server locates the target GUP Data Repository (RAF address), i.e.
that the HSS GUP Component of the subscriber joe.doe\@operatorA.com is located
in the HSS 1, and invokes Read data procedure to HSS 1.
Step 4: HSS 1 makes an internal query by using the public user identity
joe.doe\@operatorA.com and returns a response to Read data procedure to the
GUP Server including the requested HSS GUP Component data of the subscriber
joe.doe\@operatorA.com.
Step 5: GUP Server passes the received response to Query procedure further to
Application A.
The GUP Server may retrieve authorisation GUP Components from a RAF, if it
does not hold sufficient information by itself to carry out the authorisation.
If necessary, e.g. when the application requests several GUP Components, or
the whole profile including several GUP components in different repositories,
GUP Server can invoke several requests to various RAFs and combine responses
to one response when returning a response to the application.
###### ## Annex B (informative): 3GPP Generic User Profile candidates
This table lists the Generic User Profile candidates grouped per GUP access.
It gives for each data access, the supplier, the consumer and the data
repository. The applied categorization of the data in the table does not imply
similar GUP component structure.
+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | GUP access | Supplier | Data | Description | Consumer | | | | repository | of the data | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | General | AS manager | AS | ISIM | S-CSCF | | user data | | | subscriber | | | for IMS | | | data for | | | | | | IMS: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Private | | | | | | & Public | | | | | | SIP URI of | | | | | | the user | | | | | | | | | | | | - Settings | | | | | | back | | | | | | up/restore | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | Preferences | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | languages) | | | | | | | | | | | | - Phone | | | | | | books | | | | | | | | | | | | - Buddy | | | | | | list | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | Available | | | | | | services | | | | | | | | | | | | - Service | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | | | | | | | | | | | - Active | | | | | | service | | | | | | profile | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | MMS VASP | AS manager | AS | MMS | MMS server | | a | | | application | | | pplications | | | specific | | | | | | data: | | | Ref 23.141 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | Au | | | | | | thorization | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | Conf | | | | | | identiality | | | | | | | | | | | | - Charging | | | | | | information | | | | | | | | | | | | - Message | | | | | | d | | | | | | istribution | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | Privacy | AS manager | AS | Privacy | UE-ISIM | | control | | | control | | | settings of | | | data of the | | | the user | | | user: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Privacy | | | | | | settings | | | | | | for | | | | | | s | | | | | | tandardized | | | | | | service | | | | | | like | | | | | | Presence | | | | | | | | | | | | - Privacy | | | | | | setting of | | | | | | non | | | | | | s | | | | | | tandardized | | | | | | services | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | PLMN | O&M | HSS | PLMN | S-CSCF | | specific | | | specific | | | user | | | user | AS | | information | | | i | | | | | | nformation: | | | | | | | | | | | | - User | | | | | | addresses | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | MSISDNs, | | | | | | URLs) | | | | | | | | | | | | - WAP | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | standard | | | | | | WAP | | | | | | gateway) | | | | | | | | | | | | - GPRS | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | Preferred | | | | | | access | | | | | | t | | | | | | echnologies | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | UTRAN, | | | | | | GERAN, WLAN | | | | | | etc...) | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | Authorized | O&M | HSS-HLR | Authorized | MSC/VLR | | and | | | and | | | subscribed | HSS-HLR | | subscribed | GMSC | | service | | | service | | | information | | | i | SGSN | | for CS & PS | | | nformation: | | | | | | | GGSN | | | | | - | | | | | | Subscriber | MMS server | | | | | ID (IMSI, | | | | | | MSISDNs) | | | | | | | | | | | | - General | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscription | | | | | | information | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | S | | | | | | ubscription | | | | | | r | | | | | | estrictions | | | | | | | | | | | | - Basic & | | | | | | Su | | | | | | pplementary | | | | | | services | | | | | | | | | | | | - Charging | | | | | | plans | | | | | | | | | | | | - Operator | | | | | | determined | | | | | | barring | | | | | | data is FFS | | | | | | | | | | | | - SMS | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscription | | | | | | | | | | | | - MMS | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscription | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | CSE | CSE | HSS-HLR | - | CSE | | handling of | | | Forwarding | | | user | | | & barring | | | su | | | information | | | bscriptions | | | | | | for | | | - CAMEL | | | | | | s | | | CS & PS | | | ubscription | | | | | | information | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | Authorized | O&M | HSS | Authorized | S-CSCF | | and | | | and | | | subscribed | | | subscribed | AS | | service | | | service | | | information | | | i | | | for IMS | | | nformation: | | | | | | | | | | | | - IM | | | | | | Subscriber | | | | | | ID (Private | | | | | | User ID, | | | | | | Public ID) | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | Subscribed | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | | | | | - Billing | | | | | | policy | | | | | | | | | | | | - Initial | | | | | | filter | | | | | | criteria | | | | | | | | | | | | - Service | | | | | | keys & | | | | | | triggering | | | | | | aspects | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | Authorized | | | | | | services | | | | | | that the | | | | | | subscriber | | | | | | may | | | | | | subscribe | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | - Services | | | | | | the | | | | | | subscriber | | | | | | actually | | | | | | has | | | | | | subscribed | | | | | | to | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | CAMEL | O&M | HSS-HLR | CAMEL | IM-SSF | | services | | | s | | | for IMS | | | ubscription | | | | | | information | | | | | | for IMS | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
#