# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document specifies the stage 2 description for the fourth phase
(see 3GPP TS 22.078 [2]) of the Customized Applications for Mobile network
Enhanced Logic (CAMEL) feature within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 2 description for the Customized
Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL) feature which provides
the mechanisms to support services for the IP Multimedia Core Network (IM CN)
Subsystem.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document._
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP
Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.078: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Customised Applications for
Mobile network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL); Service description, Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Systems Aspects; IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem --Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.078: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Networks; Customised Applications for Mobile network
Enhanced Logic (CAMEL) Phase 3 Stage 2 specification (Release 99)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.218: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Networks; IP Multimedia (IM) Session Handling; IP
Multimedia Call Model.
[6] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)
Stage 2\".
[7] Void
[8] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Networks; IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol based o
SIP and SDP; Stage 3\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network; Mobile Application Part (MAP)
specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Networks; Cx and Dx Interfaces Based on the Diameter
Protocol; Protocol details\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.278: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network; Customised Applications for Mobile network
Enhanced Logic (CAMEL) Phase 4 CAMEL Application Part (CAP) specification for
IP Multimedia Subsystems (IMS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Home Subscriber Server (HSS):** Functional entity containing the
subscription related information to support the network entities actually
handling calls/sessions. For subscribers requiring CAMEL support, the HSS
includes some functionality that was present in the HLR in previous 3GPP
releases for storing the information relevant to the current subscription
regarding CAMEL Subscription Information for IMS. The HSS sends IM CAMEL
Subscription Information data to the IM‑SSF and CSE using a MAP interface.
**IP Multimedia Service Switching Function (IM‑SSF):** CAMEL functional entity
that provides the interworking between SIP session control and the CAMEL state
models. The IM‑SSF also provides the CAMEL interface to HSS for downloading
the subscriber\'s CAMEL Subscription Information data for IMS.
**IP Multimedia Basic Call State Model (IM‑BCSM):** IM‑BCSM provides a high-
level model of CSCF activities required to establish and maintain
communication paths for users. As such, it identifies a set of basic call
activities in a CSCF and shows how these activities are joined together to
process a basic call.
**IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information (IM‑CSI):** IM‑CSI identifies
the subscriber as having IP Multimedia CAMEL services.
**IP Multimedia session:** IP Multimedia session and IP Multimedia call are
treated as equivalent in this specification.
**Originating IP Multimedia Basic Call State Model (O‑IM‑BCSM):** originating
half of the IM‑BCSM. The O‑IM‑BCSM corresponds to that portion of the IM‑BCSM
associated with the originating party.
**Originating IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information (O‑IM‑CSI):**
O‑IM‑CSI identifies the subscriber as having originating IP Multimedia CAMEL
services.
**Terminating IP Multimedia Basic Call State Model (T‑IM‑BCSM):** terminating
half of the IM‑BCSM. The T‑IM‑BCSM corresponds to that portion of the IM‑BCSM
associated with the terminating party.
**Terminating IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information (T‑IM‑CSI):**
T‑IM‑CSI identifies the subscriber as having terminating IP Multimedia CAMEL
services.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BCSM Basic Call State Model
CAMEL Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic
CAP CAMEL Application Part
CSCF Call State Control Function
DP Detection Point
D‑IM‑CSI Dialled Service IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information
EDP Event Detection Point
FTN Forwarded To Number
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
gsmSCF GSM Service Control Function
gsmSRF GSM Specialised Resource Function
gsmSSF GSM Service Switching Function
HPLMN Home PLMN
HSS Home Subscriber Server
IE Information Element
IF Information Flow
IP Internet Protocol
ISC IM‑CN Service Control
I‑CSCF Interrogating CSCF
IM IP Multimedia
IM‑BCSM IP Multimedia Basic Call State Model
IMCN IP Multimedia Core Network
imcnSSF IM CN Service Switching Function
IM‑CSI IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information
IM‑SSF IP Multimedia Service Switching Function
IPLMN Interrogating PLMN
MGCF Media Gateway Control Function
MO Mobile Originating
MT Mobile Terminating
NNI Network Node Interface
O‑IM‑BCSM Originating IP Multimedia Basic Call State Model
O‑IM‑CSI Originating IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information
PIC Point In Call
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
P‑CSCF Proxy CSCF
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
S‑CSCF Serving CSCF
SSME Service Switching Function Management Entity
T‑IM‑BCSM Terminating IP Multimedia Basic Call State Model
VT‑IM‑CSI Terminating IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information
TDP Trigger Detection Point
UNI User Network Interface
VPLMN Visited PLMN
# 4 CAMEL/IP Multimedia Core Network Interworking
## 4.1 Architecture
This subclause describes the functional architecture needed to support CAMEL
interactions with the S‑CSCF in the IP Multimedia Subsystem. The IM‑SSF is a
SIP Application Server that interfaces SIP to CAP. The generic SIP Application
Server behaviour of the IM‑SSF is specified in 3GPP TS 23.218 [5].
### 4.1.1 Functional Entities used for CAMEL at IP Multimedia Registration
Figure 4.1 shows the functional entities involved when an MS registers for IP
Multimedia session requiring CAMEL support. General registration procedure is
detailed in 3GPP TS 23.228 [6]. Upon notification of a UE\'s registration, the
IM‑SSF requests O‑IM‑CSI, D‑IM‑CSI, VT‑IM‑CSI data from the HSS over the Si
interface.
{width="5.750694444444444in" height="2.8118055555555554in"}
Figure 4.1: Functional architecture for support of CAMEL when mobile registers
for IP Multimedia session
### 4.1.2 Functional Entities used for CAMEL for MO and MT IP Multimedia
session
Figure 4.2 shows the functional entities involved in a Mobile Originated IP
Multimedia session requiring CAMEL support. The same functional architecture
applies in a Mobile Terminated IP Multimedia session for CAMEL.
{width="5.750694444444444in" height="2.8118055555555554in"}
Figure 4.2: Functional architecture for support of CAMEL control of a MO IP
Multimedia session
## 4.2 Interfaces defined for an IM‑SSF based Application Server
### 4.2.1 CSCF -- IM‑SSF interface
This interface is the IP Multimedia Service Control interface (ISC). This
interface shall be based on SIP as detailed in 3GPP TS 24.229 [8].
### 4.2.2 IM‑SSF - gsmSCF interface
This interface is used by the gsmSCF to control an IP Multimedia session in a
certain IM‑SSF. Relationships between the IM‑SSF and the gsmSCF on this
interface are opened as a result of the IM‑SSF sending a request for
instructions to the gsmSCF. This interface shall be based on 3GPP TS 29.278
[11].
### 4.2.3 HSS -- IM-SSF interface
This interface is the Si interface and is used to send CAMEL related
subscriber data to the IM-SSF, e.g. IM-CSI. This interface shall be a MAP
interface as described in 3GPP TS 29.002 [9].
## 4.3 Detection Points (DPs)
Certain basic call events may be visible to the GSM Service Control Function
(gsmSCF). The DPs are the points in call at which these events are detected.
A DP can be armed in order to notify the gsmSCF that the DP was encountered,
and potentially to allow the gsmSCF to influence subsequent handling of the
call. If the DP is not armed, the processing entity continues the processing
without gsmSCF involvement.
Three different types of DPs are identified:
\- Trigger Detection Point - Request (TDP‑R).
This detection point is statically armed and initiates a CAMEL control
relationship when encountered and there is no existing relationship due to the
same CSI. Processing is suspended when the DP is encountered.
\- Event Detection Point - Request (EDP‑R).
This detection point is dynamically armed within the context of a CAMEL
control relationship. Processing is suspended when encountering the DP and the
IM‑SSF waits for instructions from the gsmSCF.
\- Event Detection Point - Notification (EDP‑N).
This detection point is dynamically armed within the context of a CAMEL
control relationship. Processing is not suspended when encountering the DP.
The DPs are characterized in the following clauses.
### 4.3.1 Arming/Disarming mechanism
A DP may be statically armed or dynamically armed.
The following arming rules apply:
\- DP for a mobile originating call handling is statically armed in the IM‑SSF
as a result of O‑IM‑CSI and D‑IM‑CSI data delivery from the HSS. Likewise, DP
for mobile terminating call handling is statically armed in the IM‑SSF as a
result of VT‑IM‑CSI data delivery from the HSS. Static arming of DPs in the
IM‑SSF occurs during the UE\'s registration in the IMS CN. Basically, when the
IM‑SSF is notified of the UE\'s initial registration, the IM‑SSF queries the
HSS for the subscriber\'s CAMEL Subscription Information via the Si interface.
\- A DP is dynamically armed by the gsmSCF within the context of a CAMEL
control relationship as a result of IM‑SSF receiving the
RequestReportBCSMEvent operation.
\- A Request Report BCSM Event information flow for a detection point for a
leg overwrites any previous Request Report BCSM Event information flow for
that detection point for that leg.
The following disarming rules apply:
\- A statically armed DP is disarmed when the IP Multimedia CSI data is
withdrawn in the HSS. Only TDP‑Rs can be disarmed using this mechanism.
\- If an armed EDP is met, then it is disarmed.
\- If an EDP is met that causes the release of the related leg, then all EDPs
related to that leg are disarmed.
\- If a call session is released, then all EDPs related to that call session
are disarmed.
\- If an EDP is met, then other EDPS are disarmed, in accordance with the
implicit disarming rule table specified in TS 23.078 Rel‑99 4 (refer to the
section for \"Rules for Implicit Disarming of Event Detection Points\').
If an EDP is armed, it can be explicitly disarmed by the gsmSCF by means of
the RequestReportBCSMEvent information flow.
### 4.3.2 Criteria
Criteria are the conditions that must be met in order for the IM‑SSF to
request instructions from the gsmSCF.
DP criteria are checked in the IM‑SSF. Criteria for originating DPs (i.e.
Collected_Info, Analysed_Information, and Route_Select_Failure TDPs ) are
checked in the IM‑SSF associated with the originating UE\'s S‑CSCF. Criteria
for terminating DPs (i.e. T_Busy and T_No_Answer) are checked in the IM‑SSF
associated with the terminating UE\'s S‑CSCF.
Based on the Initial Filter Criteria information, the S‑CSCF forwards the SIP
message to the IM‑SSF. The DP encountered is identified based on the SIP
message received from the S‑CSCF. Refer to table 4.2 and table 4.4 for mapping
of SIP messages to CAMEL IM‑BCSM Detection Points.
#### 4.3.2.1 Criteria at Collected_Info
The following criteria are applicable for DP Collected_Info:
\- Destination number triggering criterion: The HSS may store a list of up to
10 destination numbers and/or up to 3 number lengths. There is no restriction
on the nature of address. There is no restriction on the numbering plan
indicator. This criterion may be defined to be either \"enabling\" or
\"inhibiting\". This criterion does not match when the destination number
received from the S-CSCF is not an ISDN number. In this case, a dialogue with
the gsmSCF may or may not be established depending on whether the criterion is
inhibiting or enabling respectively.
Triggering at DP Collected_Info shall be strictly based on the destination
number received from the S‑CSCF.
The destination number received from the S‑CSCF shall not be modified before
conditional triggering check takes place.
If the destination number triggering criterion is enabling, then the IM‑SSF
may establish a dialogue with the gsmSCF if:
\- the destination number matches one of the destination number strings
defined in the list; or
\- the length of the destination number matches one of the destination number
lengths defined in the list.
In this test the destination number matches one of the destination number
strings in the list if:
\- the nature of address of destination number is the same as the nature of
address of the destination number string;
\- the destination number is at least as long as the destination number string
in the list; and
\- all the digits in the destination number string in the list match the
leading digits of the destination number.
If the destination number triggering criterion is inhibiting, then the IM‑SSF
may establish a dialogue with the gsmSCF if:
\- the destination number does not match any of the destination number strings
defined in the list; and
\- the length of the destination number does not match any of the destination
number lengths defined in the list.
In this test the destination number matches one of the destination number
strings in the list if:
\- the nature of address of destination number is the same as the nature of
address of the destination number string;
> \- the destination number is at least as long as the destination number
> string in the list; and
\- all the digits in the destination number string in the list match the
leading digits of the destination number.
#### 4.3.2.2 Criteria at DP Analysed_Information
##### 4.3.2.2.1 General
The following criteria are applicable for DP Analysed_Information:
  * Destination number triggering criterion: The HSS may store a list of up to 10 destination numbers. There is no restriction on the nature of address. There is no restriction on the numbering plan indicator. This criterion does not match when the destination number received from the S-CSCF or the gsmSCF is not an ISDN number.
NOTE: The order in which the destination number criteria are checked in the
IM‑SSF is not determined. Hence, overlapping destination number criteria (e.g.
use of \"0800\" and \"0800123\" for two different services) should be avoided,
because they lead to unpredictable behaviour (i.e. either service might be
triggered).
Triggering at DP Analysed_Info shall be based on the destination number
received in the Connect operation from the gsmSCF during a Mobile Originating
CAMEL Service.
##### 4.3.2.2.2 Number comparison
The following procedure shall be performed for the comparison of the
destination number triggering criterion and the address information in the
given order.
1\. The numbering plan indicators of both numbers are ignored.
2\. The type of number/nature of address indicators of both numbers are
compared. If there is a match of the type of number indicator, then the check
shall be performed by comparing the digits as defined in step 6. If there is
no match of the type of number the comparison procedure shall continue as
follows.
3\. If either or both of the address information and destination number
triggering criterion includes a type of number/nature of address indicator
other than \"unknown\", \"national (significant) number\" or \"international
number\" then the destination number does not match the destination number
triggering criterion. Otherwise the comparison procedure shall continue as
follows.
4\. If there is a number (address information or destination number triggering
criterion) with type of number/nature of address \"unknown\" this number shall
be translated based on the numbering plan of the serving entity in either of
the following ways:
\- if the leading digits refer to an international prefix, those digits shall
be removed and the type of number/nature of address shall be set to
\"international number\".
\- if the leading digits refer to a national (trunk) prefix, those digits
shall be removed and the type of number/nature of address shall be set to
\"national (significant) number\".
> If the leading digits refer neither to an international prefix nor to a
> national (trunk) prefix, then the destination number does not match the
> destination number triggering criterion.
>
> If there is a match of the type of number/nature of address indicator after
> this number modification, then the check shall be performed by comparing the
> digits as defined in step 6, otherwise the comparison procedure shall
> continue as follows.
5\. If the type of number/nature of address of the address information or of
the destination number triggering criterion is \"national (significant)
number\" this number shall be translated based on the numbering plan of the
serving entity to international format by adding the country code of the
serving entity to the number string. After this modification both numbers
shall be in international format and shall be checked by comparing the digits
as defined in step 6.
6 If the number digits of the address information are compared with the number
digits of the destination number triggering criterion, then there is a match
if:
> \- the destination number is at least as long as the destination number
> string of the destination number triggering criterion; and
>
> \- all the digits in the destination number string of the destination number
> triggering criterion match the leading digits of the destination number.
The check described in this clause shall be repeated for every number
contained in the destination number triggering criterion of the D‑IM‑CSI until
a match is recognised and DP Analysed_Info is triggered, or until all the
destination numbers have been checked without a match being recognised. In the
latter case DP Analysed_Info is not triggered.
#### 4.3.2.3 Criteria at DP Route_Select_Failure
The HSS may store a list of up to 5 cause values.
The following criteria are applicable for DP Route_Select_Failure:
\- Release cause code.
The trigger criteria is met if the cause code received from the terminating
party\'s network (could be a PSTN or an IMS network) is equal to at least one
of the cause codes in the trigger criteria list.
If a O‑IM‑BCSM was already invoked and there is a relationship with the gsmSCF
at that moment, then no additional relationship shall be initiated.
#### 4.3.2.4 Criteria at DP T_Busy and T_No_Answer
The HSS may store a list of up to 5 cause values.
The triggering is based on the release cause code received from terminating
UE\'s P‑CSCF.
The following criteria are applicable for DP T_Busy and T_No_Answer:
\- Release cause code.
The trigger criteria are met if the cause code received from the terminating
UE\'s P‑CSCF is equal to at least one of the cause codes in the trigger
criteria list.
If trigger criteria are satisfied, then the corresponding Service Logic shall
be invoked.
## 4.4 Description of CAMEL Subscriber Data
### 4.4.1 IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information (IM‑CSI)
This subclause defines the contents of the IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription
Information. IM‑CSI data are provisioned in the HSS for subscribers having
originating and/or terminating IP Multimedia CAMEL services. This information
shall be sent by the HSS to the IM‑SSF via the Si Interface. The IM‑CSI data
contains the O‑IM‑CSI, D‑IM‑CSI, and VT‑IM‑CSI.
#### 4.4.1.1 Originating IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information
(O‑IM‑CSI)
##### 4.4.1.1.1 gsmSCF Address
Address to be used to access the gsmSCF for a particular subscriber. The
address shall be an E.164 number to be used for routeing.
##### 4.4.1.1.2 Service Key
The Service Key identifies to the gsmSCF the service logic that shall apply.
##### 4.4.1.1.3 Default Call Handling
The Default Call Handling indicates whether the IP Multimedia session shall be
released or continued as requested in case of error in the IM‑SSF to gsmSCF
dialogue.
##### 4.4.1.1.4 TDP List
The TDP List indicates on which detection point triggering shall take place.
The following trigger detection points are possible: DP Collected_Info and DP
Route_Select_Failure.
##### 4.4.1.1.5 CAMEL Capability Handling
CAMEL Capability Handling indicates the phase of CAMEL which is asked by the
gsmSCF for the service.
##### 4.4.1.1.6 CSI Status
The CSI state indicates whether the O‑IM‑CSI is active or not.
##### 4.4.1.1.7 Notification Flag
The notification flag indicates whether changes of the O‑IM‑CSI shall trigger
the Notification on Change of Subscriber Data. In order to update the IM‑SSF
of IM CSI changes, this flag shall be set to yes.
##### 4.4.1.1.8 DP Criteria
The DP criteria indicate whether the IM‑SSF shall request the gsmSCF for
instructions.
#### 4.4.1.2 Dialled Services IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information
(D‑IM‑CSI)
##### 4.4.1.2.1 gsmSCF Address
Address to be used to access the gsmSCF for a particular subscriber. The
address shall be an E.164 number to be used for routeing.
##### 4.4.1.2.2 Service Key
The Service Key identifies to the gsmSCF the service logic that shall apply.
##### 4.4.1.2.3 Default Call Handling
The Default Call Handling indicates whether the IP Multimedia session shall be
released or continued as requested in case of error in the IM‑SSF to gsmSCF
dialogue.
##### 4.4.1.2.4 CAMEL Capability Handling
CAMEL Capability Handling indicates the phase of CAMEL which is asked by the
gsmSCF for the service.
##### 4.4.1.2.5 CSI Status
The CSI state indicates whether the D‑IM‑CSI is active or not.
##### 4.4.1.2.6 Notification Flag
The notification flag indicates whether changes of the D‑IM‑CSI shall trigger
the Notification on Change of Subscriber Data. In order to update the IM‑SSF
of IM CSI changes, this flag shall be set to yes.
##### 4.4.1.2.7 DP Criteria
The DP criteria indicate whether the IM‑SSF shall request the gsmSCF for
instructions.
#### 4.4.1.3 Terminating IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information
(VT‑IM‑CSI)
##### 4.4.1.3.1 gsmSCF Address
Address to be used to access the gsmSCF for a particular subscriber. The
address shall be an E.164 number to be used for routeing.
##### 4.4.1.3.2 Service Key
The Service Key identifies to the gsmSCF the service logic that shall apply.
##### 4.4.1.3.3 Default Call Handling
The Default Call Handling indicates whether the IP Multimedia session shall be
released or continued as requested in case of error in the IM‑SSF to gsmSCF
dialogue.
##### 4.4.1.3.4 TDP List
The TDP List indicates on which detection point triggering shall take place.
The following trigger detection points are allowed: DP
Terminating_Attempt_Authorised, DP T_Busy, and DP T_No_Answer.
##### 4.4.1.3.5 CAMEL Capability Handling
CAMEL Capability Handling indicates the phase of CAMEL which is asked by the
gsmSCF for the service.
##### 4.4.1.3.6 CSI Status
The CSI state indicates whether the VT‑IM‑CSI is active or not.
##### 4.4.1.3.7 Notification Flag
The notification flag indicates whether changes of the VT‑IM‑CSI shall trigger
the Notification on Change of Subscriber Data. In order to update the IM‑SSF
of IM CSI changes, this flag shall be set to yes.
##### 4.4.1.3.8 DP Criteria
The DP criteria indicate whether the IM‑SSF shall request the gsmSCF for
instructions.
#### 4.4.1.4 Other CAMEL Data
##### 4.4.1.4.1 gsmSCF address list for CSI
The gsmSCF address list for CSI indicates a list of gsmSCF addresses to which
Notification on Change of Subscriber Data is to be sent. In order to provide
Notification on Change of Subscriber Data to the IM‑SSF, the IM‑SSF address
shall be included in the gsmSCF address list.
The IM‑SSF address is added to the address list for notification in the HSS as
described in subclause 4.6.1.2.
The IM‑SSF shall handle the receipt of the Notification on Change of
Subscriber Data using the same procedure as that of a gsmSCF.
## 4.5 Description of CAMEL State Models
In the IM Subsystem, calls are controlled by the Serving CSCF (S‑CSCF) where a
subscriber is registered. A state model describes the call control behaviour
of an IM‑SSF.
### 4.5.1 General Handling
The Basic Call State Model (BCSM) is used to describe the handling of
originating and terminating calls. It identifies the points in a call where
gsmSCF based service applications is permitted to interact with the call
control capabilities of an IM‑SSF. Figure 4.3 illustrates how transitions
between states, Detection Points and Points In Call components are shown in
the BCSM diagrams.
{width="1.2805555555555554in" height="1.21875in"}
Figure 4.3: BCSM Components
### 4.5.2 Originating CAMEL Basic Call State Model (O‑IM‑BCSM)
#### 4.5.2.1 Description of the O‑IM‑BCSM
The O‑IM‑BCSM is used to model the behaviour of an IM‑SSF for an originating
call. When an armed DP is encountered, O‑IM‑BCSM processing is suspended at
the DP and the IM‑SSF indicates this to the gsmSCF if appropriate.
{width="5.969444444444444in" height="5.677083333333333in"}
Figure 4.4: Originating CAMEL Basic Call State Model (O‑IM‑BCSM)
The following table 4.1defines the DPs that apply to originating calls.
Table 4.1: Description of the O‑IM‑BCSM DPs in an IM‑SSF
+----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | **CAMEL Detection |** DP Type**|** Description:**| | Point:** | | | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP Collected_Info | TDP‑R | Indication that the | | | | O‑IM‑CSI is analysed | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP A | TDP‑R | Availability of | | nalysed_Information | | routeing address and | | | | nature of address. | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP | TDP‑R, EDP‑N, EDP‑R | Indication that the | | Ro | | session | | ute_Select_Failure | | establishment | | | | failed. | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP O_Busy | EDP‑N, EDP‑R | Indication that: | | | | | | | | - a busy indication | | | | is received from the | | | | terminating party, | | | | | | | | - a not reachable | | | | event is determined | | | | upon a SIP error | | | | response. | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP O_No_Answer | EDP‑N, EDP‑R | Indication that: | | | | | | | | - an application | | | | timer associated | | | | with the | | | | O_No_Answer DP | | | | expires, | | | | | | | | - a no answer event | | | | is determined upon | | | | SIP a error response | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP O_Answer | EDP‑N, EDP‑R | Indication that the | | | | session is accepted | | | | and answered by the | | | | terminating party. | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP O_Disconnect | EDP‑N, EDP‑R | A disconnect | | | | indication is | | | | received from the | | | | originating party or | | | | from the terminating | | | | party. | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP O_Abandon | EDP‑N, EDP‑R | Indication that a | | | | disconnect | | | | indication is | | | | received from the | | | | originating party | | | | during the session | | | | establishment | | | | procedure. | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+
#### 4.5.2.2 Description of Points In Call
This subclause describes the Points In Call for originating calls. The entry
events, actions and exit events are described for each Point in Call.
##### 4.5.2.2.1 O_Null & Authorise_Origination_Attempt_Collect_Info
Entry events:
\- Disconnection and clearing of a previous call (DP O_Disconnect) or default
handling of exceptions by IM‑SSF completed.
\- Abandon event is reported from Analyse_Information or Routing and Alerting
PIC.
\- Exception event is reported.
Actions:
\- Interface is idled.
\- Originating call: SIP INVITE request message containing the dialled number
is received from MS.
\- Information being analysed e.g., O‑IM‑CSI is analysed.
Exit events:
\- Originating CSI is analysed.
\- An exception condition is encountered. For this PIC, if the call encounters
one of these exceptions during the PIC processing, the exception event is not
visible because there is no corresponding DP. Example exception condition:
Calling party abandons call.
##### 4.5.2.2.2 Analyse_Information
Entry events:
\- Originating CSI is analysed. (DP Collected Info).
\- New routeing information is received when Busy event (DP O_Busy), Route
Select Failure event (DP Route_Select_Failure), Not Reachable event (DP
O_Busy) or No Answer event (DP O_No_Answer) is reported from Routing and
Alerting PIC.
\- New routeing information is received when Disconnect event is reported from
O_Active PIC.
Actions:
\- Compare the called party number with the dialled services information.
Exit events:
\- Availability of routeing address and nature of address. (DP
Analysed_Information).
\- An exception condition is encountered (e.g. wrong number)- this leads to
the O_Exception PIC.
\- Calling party abandons the call- this leads to the O_Abandon DP.
##### 4.5.2.2.3 Routing and Alerting
Entry events:
\- Availability of routeing address and nature of address. (DP
Analysed_Information).
Actions:
\- Information is being analysed and/or translated according to dialling plan
to determine routeing address.
\- Routeing address being interpreted.
\- Call is being processed by the terminating half BCSM. Continued processing
of SIP call session setup (e.g., ringing) is taking place. Waiting for
indication from terminating half BCSM that the call has been answered by
terminating party.
Exit events:
\- Indication from the terminating half BCSM that the call is accepted and
answered by terminating party (DP O_Answer).
\- An exception condition is encountered - this leads to the O_Exception PIC.
\- Calling party abandons the call- this leads to the O_Abandon DP.
\- A busy indication is received from the terminating party - this leads to
the O_Busy DP.
\- A not reachable indication is received from the terminating party - this
leads to the O_Busy DP.
\- Attempt to select the route for the call fails - this leads to the
Route_Select_Failure DP.
If the no reply timer expires and DP O_No_Answer is armed - this leads to the
O_No_Answer DP.
##### 4.5.2.2.4 O_Active
Entry events:
\- Indication from the terminating half BCSM that the call is accepted and
answered by the terminating party (DP O_Answer).
Actions:
\- SIP session established between originating party and terminating party. -
Call release is awaited.
Exit events:
\- A disconnection indication is received from the originating party, or
received from the terminating party via the terminating half BCSM. (DP -
O_Disconnect).
\- An exception condition is encountered.
##### 4.5.2.2.5 O_Exception
Entry events:
\- An exception condition is encountered. In addition to specific examples
listed above, exception events include any type of failure, which means that
the normal exit events for a PIC can not be met.
Actions:
\- Default handling of the exception condition is being provided. This
includes general actions necessary to ensure that no resources remain
inappropriately allocated such as:
\- If any relationship exists between the IM‑SSF and the gsmSCF, the IM‑SSF
shall send an error information flow closing the relationships and indicating
that any outstanding call handling instructions will not run to completion.
\- Resources made available for setting up the SIP call session are released.
Exit events:
\- Default handling of the exception condition by IM‑SSF completed.
### 4.5.3 Mapping of SIP Method/Response to O‑IM-BCSM Detection Points
This subclause describes mapping of SIP methods and responses to CAMEL
Detection Points.
Table 4.2: Mapping of SIP Method/Response to CAMEL O‑IM-BCSM DPs
+---------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | **CAMEL O‑IM‑BCSM DP:** | **SIP Method/Response** | +---------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | DP Collected_Info | INVITE | +---------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | DP Analysed_Information | N/A | +---------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | DP Route_Select_Failure | 4XX (except 401, 407, 408, 480, 486), | | | | | | 5xx, and 6xx (except 600, 603) | +---------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | DP O_Busy | 486 Busy Here | | | | | | 600 Busy Everywhere | +---------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | DP O_No_Answer | 603 Decline | | | | | | 408 Request Timeout | | | | | | 480 Temp Unavailable | +---------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | DP O_Answer | 200 OK | +---------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | DP O_Disconnect | BYE | +---------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | DP O_Abandon | CANCEL | +---------------------------+---------------------------------------+
### 4.5.4 Terminating CAMEL Basic Call State Model (T‑IM‑BCSM)
#### 4.5.4.1 Description of the T‑IM‑BCSM
The T‑IM-BCSM is used to model the behaviour of an IM‑SSF for a terminating
call. When a DP is encountered, T‑IM-BCSM processing is suspended at the DP
and IM‑SSF indicates this to the gsmSCF if appropriate.
{width="5.240277777777778in" height="4.509722222222222in"}
Figure 4.5: Terminating CAMEL Basic Call State Model (T‑IM‑BCSM)
The following table 4.3defines the DPs that apply to terminating calls.
Table 4.3: Description of T‑IM‑BCSM DPs in the S‑CSCF
+----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | **CAMEL DP:** | **DP Type** | **Description:** | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP Te | TDP‑R | Indication that the | | rminating_Attempt_ | | VT‑IM‑CSI is | | | | analysed. | | _Authorised | | | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP T_Busy | TDP‑R, EDP‑N, EDP‑R | Indication that: | | | | | | | | - a busy indication | | | | is received from the | | | | terminating party, | | | | | | | | - a not reachable | | | | event is determined | | | | (e.g. terminating | | | | party is not | | | | currently | | | | registered). | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP T_No_Answer | TDP‑R, EDP‑N, EDP‑R | Indication that an | | | | application timer | | | | associated with the | | | | T_No_Answer DP | | | | expires. | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP T_Answer | EDP‑N, EDP‑R | Session is accepted | | | | and answered by | | | | terminating party. | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP T_Disconnect | EDP‑N, EDP‑R | A disconnect | | | | indication is | | | | received from the | | | | terminating party or | | | | from the originating | | | | party. | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | DP T_Abandon | EDP‑N, EDP‑R | A disconnect | | | | indication is | | | | received from the | | | | originating party | | | | during the session | | | | establishment | | | | procedure. | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+
#### 4.5.4.2 Description of Points In Call
This subclause describes the Points In Call for terminating calls. The entry
events, actions and exit events are described for each Point in Call.
##### 4.5.4.2.1 T_Null
Entry events:
\- Disconnection and clearing of a previous call (DP T_Disconnect) or default
handling of exceptions by IM-SSF completed.
\- Abandon event is reported from Terminating Call Handling PIC.
\- Exception event is reported.
Actions:
\- Interface is idled.
\- SIP INVITE message for terminating call request is received, the
appropriate information is analysed.
\- VT‑IM‑CSI is analysed.
Exit events:
\- Terminating CSI is analysed.
\- An exception condition is encountered. For this PIC, if the call encounters
one of these exceptions during the PIC processing, the exception event is not
visible because there is no corresponding DP.
Example exception condition is:
> \- Calling party abandons call.
##### 4.5.4.2.2 Terminating Call Handling
Entry events:
\- Terminating CSI (if available) is analysed. (DP
Terminating_Attempt_Authorised).
\- New routeing information is received when Busy event (DP T_Busy) or No
Answer event (DP T_No_Answer) is reported from Terminating Call Handling PIC.
\- New routeing information is received when Disconnect event is reported from
T_Active PIC.
\- New routeing information is received when the terminating party not
reachable is reported from Terminating Call Handling PIC.
Actions:
\- Routeing address and call type being interpreted. The next route or
terminating access is being selected.
\- The terminating party is being alerted. Waiting for the call to be answered
by terminating party.
Exit events:
\- Call is accepted and answered by terminating party.
\- An exception condition is encountered - this leads to the T_Exception PIC.
Example exception conditions: the SIP call session request was not successful.
\- Calling party abandons the call - this leads to the T_Abandon DP.
\- A busy indication is received from the terminating party\'s P‑CSCF - this
leads to the T_Busy DP.
\- Not reachable event detected from the terminating party\'s P‑CSCF - this
leads to the T_Busy DP.
\- If no reply timer expires and DP T_No_Answer is armed - this leads to the
T_No_Answer DP.
##### 4.5.4.2.3 T_Active
Entry events:
\- Indication that the call is accepted and answered by the terminating party.
(DP T_Answer).
Actions:
\- SIP session established between originating party and terminating party.
\- Call release is awaited.
Exit events:
  * A disconnection indication is received from the terminating party, > or received from the originating party via the originating half > BCSM. (DP T_Disconnect).
  * An exception condition is encountered. In addition to specific > examples listed above, exception events include any type of > failure that means that the normal exit events for a PIC can not > be met.
##### 4.5.4.2.4 T_Exception
Entry events:
\- An exception condition is encountered. In addition to specific examples
listed above, exception events include any type of failure, which means that
the normal exit events for PIC cannot be met.
Actions:
\- Default handling of the exception condition is being provided. This
includes general actions necessary to ensure that no resources remain
inappropriately allocated such as:
\- If any relationship exists between the IM‑SSF and the gsmSCF, the IM‑SSF
shall send an error information flow closing the relationships and indicating
that any outstanding call handling instructions will not run to completion.
\- Resources made available for setting up the SIP call session are released.
Exit events:
\- Default handling of the exception condition by IM‑SSF completed.
### 4.5.5 Mapping of SIP Method/Response to T‑IM‑BCSM Detection Points
This subclause describes mapping of SIP methods and responses to CAMEL
Detection Points.
Table 4.4: Mapping of SIP Method/Response to CAMEL T‑IM‑BCSM DPs
+---------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **CAMEL T‑IM‑BCSM DP:** | **SIP Method/Response** | +---------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DP Terminating_Attempt_ | INVITE | | | | | _Authorised | | +---------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DP T_Busy | 4XX (except 401, 407, 408, 480), | | | | | | 5xx, and 6xx (except 603) | +---------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DP T_No_Answer | 603 Decline | | | | | | 408 Request Timeout | | | | | | 480 Temp Unavailable | +---------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DP T_Answer | 200 OK | +---------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DP T_Disconnect | BYE | +---------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DP T_Abandon | CANCEL | +---------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 4.6 Procedures for IM‑SSF Application Server
The SDLs in this specification illustrate how CAMEL modifies the normal
multimedia call. They do not attempt to show all the details of multimedia
handling in all the modes that support CAMEL.
The text in this clause is a supplement to the definition in the SDL diagrams;
it does not duplicate the information in the SDL diagrams.
### 4.6.1 Overall SDL Architecture
{width="5.927083333333333in" height="3.5625in"}
Figure 4.6: SIP Registration into IM‑SSF
{width="5.927083333333333in" height="3.5625in"}
Figure 4.7: Originating Case
{width="5.927083333333333in" height="3.5625in"}
Figure 4.8: Terminating Case
#### 4.6.1.1 Handling of Registration and De-registration in the IM‑SSF
During the UE registration, the HSS shall send the filter criteria for the
IM‑SSF to the S‑CSCF if the subscriber is provisioned with IP Multimedia CAMEL
Subscription Information data at the HSS.
  * The HSS shall include the IMSI data for the subscriber within the Service Information element of the filter criteria for IM‑SSF. The IMSI shall be used for querying the HSS for CAMEL Subscription Information data via a MAP interface.
The CAMEL service provider determines the actual format of the data sent
within the Service Information element of the filter criteria (e.g. IMSI). The
actual format is transparent to the S‑CSCF i.e. CAMEL service information is
not processed, analysed, or evaluated by the S‑CSCF. It is, however, known to
the IM‑SSF, gsmSCF, and the HSS (for provisioning of the service information
data).
If a registration/de-registration request matches the filter criteria of the
IM‑SSF, the S‑CSCF informs the IM‑SSF of the request by performing a third
party registration/de-registration i.e. a SIP REGISTER message is sent from
the S‑CSCF to the IM‑SSF.
General handling of IP Multimedia registration, re-registration, de-
registration and receipt of initial filter criteria at the S‑CSCF is specified
in 3GPP TS 23.228 [6] and 23.218 [5].
The process and the procedures specific to CAMEL are specified in this
subclause:
\- Process Register_IM_SSF;
```{=html}
``` \- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_Register;
  * Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_DeRegister.
##### 4.6.1.1.1 Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_Register
When querying the HSS for the subscriber\'s IM CSI data, the IM‑SSF does not
have to wait for the HSS\'s response on the first query before the subsequent
queries are done. i.e Sending of multiple Any Time Interrogation operations
can be done in parallel. However, the IM‑SSF shall wait for all the responses
from the HSS before it shall send a SIP response message to the S‑CSCF.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.9: Process Register_IM_SSF (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.10: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_Register (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.11: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_DeRegister (sheet 1)
#### 4.6.1.2 Handling of Notify Subscriber Data Change
When the HSS updates the CSI for a subscriber in the IP Multimedia CN
subsystem, the HSS shall send a Notify Subscriber Data Change to the IM‑SSF if
all of the following conditions are true:
  * The IM CSI data is marked with the Notification Flag
  * The IM‑SSF address is included in the gsmSCF address list
The IM‑SSF address shall be added in the gsmSCF address list at the HSS for
notification of IM‑CSI updates if one of the following conditions occurs:
a. The HSS is notified of the subscriber\'s registration at the S‑CSCF (via Cx
interface), and the subscriber is provisioned with IM CSI data.
b. Operator provisions HSS subscriber data with IMS CAMEL service while the
subscriber is currently registered in the IMS network i.e. one or more IM CSI
data is added to the subscriber\'s profile in the HSS.
c. The HSS is notified of mobile termination for an unregistered subscriber
(via Cx interface), and the subscriber is provisioned with IM CSI data
The IM‑SSF address shall be deleted from the gsmSCF address list when the HSS
initiates, or is notified of, the UE\'s deregistration.
The IM‑SSF address in the gsmSCF address list may be changed when the HSS
receives a notification of a registration for a UE with a S‑CSCF name
different from the previously assigned S‑CSCF name (i.e. re-registration from
HSS point of view). The HSS shall overwrite the existing IM‑SSF address with
the IM‑SSF address associated with the new S‑CSCF name.
The HSS procedure for sending the Notify Subscriber Data Change to the IM‑SSF
is the same procedure used for notifying the gsmSCFs in the Circuit Switched
CN. This procedure is described in Procedure CAMEL_NSDC_HLR specified in 3GPP
TS 23.078 Rel‑99[4].
The process specific to IM‑SSF\'s handling of the Notify Subscriber Data
Change is specified in this subclause:
\- Process Update_CSI
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.12: Process Update_CSI (sheet 1)
#### 4.6.1.3 Handling of Mobile Originated Calls in the IM‑SSF
The functional behaviour of the S‑CSCF is specified in 3GPP TS 23.218 [5]. The
process and the procedures specific to CAMEL are specified in this subclause:
\- Process MO_IM_SSF;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_O_IM_CSI_INIT;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_D_IM_CSI_INIT;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_CANCEL;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_ANSWER;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_UNSUCCESSFUL;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_DISC1;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_DISC2;
\- Procedure CAMEL_OCH_CTR.
Internal interface indicated with the \"Int_SRF_\" prefix within this
subclause indicates internal interface with the MRFC.
##### 4.6.1.3.1 Actions of the IM‑SSF on receipt of Int_Error
The IM‑SSF checks the default Call Handling parameter in the relevant CSI.
If the default call handling is release, a BYE indication is sent to the MS.
The IM‑SSF then releases all resources and the invoked CAMEL procedure ends.
If the call handling is continue, the IM‑SSF continues processing without
CAMEL support.
##### 4.6.1.3.2 Actions of the IM‑SSF on receipt of Int_Continue
The IM‑SSF continues processing without any modification of call parameters.
##### 4.6.1.3.3 Actions of the IM‑SSF on receipt of Int_Continue_With_Argument
The IM‑SSF continues processing with modified call parameters. The IM‑SSF
shall modify the call parameters by the information received in the
Int_Continue_With_Argument message. Call parameters that are not included in
the Int_Continue_With_Argument_Message are unchanged.
##### 4.6.1.3.4 Actions of the IM‑SSF on receipt of Int_Connect
The IM-SSF continues processing with modified call parameters. The IM‑SSF
shall transparently modify the call parameters with the received information.
Call parameters, which are not included in the Int_Connect message, are
unchanged.
##### 4.6.1.3.5 Actions of the IM‑SSF on receipt of Int_Release_Call
A BYE is sent to the MS, and a BYE is sent to the destination CSCF. The
release cause received in the Int_Release_Call is used. The IM‑SSF then
releases all call resources and all CAMEL processing ends.
##### 4.6.1.3.6 Handling of procedure CAMEL_OCH_CTR, sheet 1
The IM‑SSF behaves as a B2BUA (Back‑2‑Back User Agent) when a SIP INVITE is
received for an outgoing call and SIP INVITE is sent to the MRFC (via S‑CSCF)
as a result of a CAP ConnectToResource request received from the SCF.
A SIP response 100 Trying is sent after each INVITE but is not shown in the
SDLs.
The IM‑SSF shall handle the 200 OK response from the MRFC as specified in 3GPP
TS 23.218 [5].
##### 4.6.1.3.7 Handling of procedure CAMEL_OCH_CTR, sheet 5
The specifics on transporting information between the MRFC and the Application
Server such as the IM-SSF, has not been standardised in 3GPP Rel‑5
specifications for IMS. i.e. the SIP method to return the Prompt_and_Collect
result from the MRFC to the IM‑SSF, the SIP method for sending notification of
play announcement completion to the IM‑SSF when a request for a Specialised
Resource Report was received, the SIP method to request the MRFC to play
announcement and the SIP method to request the MRFC to prompt and collect user
information, are not standardised.
##### 4.6.1.3.8 Receipt of 100 Trying Provisional Response (Process MO_IM_SSF)
The IM-SSF (acting as B2BUA) uses the S-CSCF as the next-hop server when
sending the SIP INVITE to the destination S-CSCF. The 100 Trying provisional
response received in the IM-SSF is actually generated and sent from the S-CSCF
to indicate that the INVITE request has been received by the next-hop server
(i.e. the S-CSCF) and is currently being processed.
##### 4.6.1.3.9 Handling of internal timers in Process MO_IM_SSF
The SIP B timer defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [8] is used for IM-SSF handling of
no response condition for an INVITE request, similar to the Circuit Switched
handling of TNRy Timer for No Reply. The use of B timer in the IM-SSF is
indicated in the SDL Process MO_IM_SSF. There are other SIP timers defined in
3GPP TS 24.229 [8] that are not specified in the SDLs for IM-SSF processing.
The usage of these timers is based on the network\'s implementation of the IM-
SSF (e.g. choice of UDP or TCP for transport of SIP, and how IM-SSF operates
as both a UAS and a UAC - i.e. back-to-back UA).
The following sub-clauses provide additional information on Process
MO_IM_SSF\'s handling of the internal timers:
Sheets 1-2: The inclusion of Expires header field in the INVITE method is
optional and is used to indicate the duration of the invitation in seconds.
When the timer fires before a final response is generated by the IM-SSF, the
INVITE message is considered to be \"expired\". The IM-SSF shall report a call
abandon event to the gsmSCF if requested and return a 487 Request Terminated
to the originating S-CSCF.
When the IM-SSF (taking the role of a UAC) sends out the INVITE request, the B
timer (i.e. Tb timer) shall be used for the INVITE transaction timeout timer.
Refer to 3GPP TS 24.229 [8] for the recommended B timer value.
Sheet 3: When the IM-SSF (taking the role of a UAS) sends the 200 OK final
response to the S-CSCF that sent the INVITE request, the IM-SSF shall start
the Tack timer to monitor the receipt of the ACK request. Refer to 3GPP TS
24.229 [8] for the recommended ACK timer value.
Sheet 4: The expiration of Tb timer shall be reported as a no answer event to
the gsmSCF if requested. If the Tinvite timer expires, the IM-SSF shall report
a call abandon event to the gsmSCF if requested.
Sheet 5: The expiration of the Tack shall be reported to the gsmSCF as a call
disconnect from the originating party if requested.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 4.13-1: Process MO_IM_SSF (sheet 1)
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 4.13-2: Process MO_IM_SSF (sheet 2)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.13-3: Process MO_IM_SSF (sheet 3)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.13-4: Process MO_IM_SSF (sheet 4)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.13-5: Process MO_IM_SSF (sheet 5)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.13-6: Process MO_IM_SSF (sheet 6)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.14-1: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_ O_IM_CSI_INIT (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.14-2: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_O_IM_CSI_INIT (sheet 2)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.14-3: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_O_IM_CSI_INIT (sheet 3)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.15-1: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_D_IM_CSI_INIT (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.15-2: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_D_IM_CSI_INIT (sheet 2)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.15-3: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_D_IM_CSI_INIT (sheet 3)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.16: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_CANCEL (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.17‑1: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_ANSWER (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.17‑2: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_ANSWER (sheet 2)
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="8.254861111111111in"}
Figure 4.18‑1: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_UNSUCCESSFUL (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.18‑2: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_UNSUCCESSFUL (sheet 2)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.18‑3: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_UNSUCCESSFUL (sheet 3)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.18‑4: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_UNSUCCESSFUL (sheet 4)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.18‑5: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_UNSUCCESSFUL (sheet 5)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.18‑6: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_UNSUCCESSFUL (sheet 6)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.19: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_DISC1 (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.20‑1: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_DISC2 (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.647916666666667in"}
Figure 4.20‑2: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MO_DISC2 (sheet 2)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.647916666666667in"}
Figure 4.21-1: Procedure CAMEL_OCH_CTR (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.647916666666667in"}
Figure 4.21-2: Procedure CAMEL_OCH_CTR (sheet 2)
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 4.21-3: Procedure CAMEL_OCH_CTR (sheet 3)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.647916666666667in"}
Figure 4.21-4: Procedure CAMEL_OCH_CTR (sheet 4)
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 4.21-5: Procedure CAMEL_OCH_CTR (sheet 5)
#### 4.6.1.4 Handling of Mobile Terminated IP Multimedia sessions in the
IM‑SSF
The functional behaviour of the S‑CSCF for handling terminating calls is
specified in 3GPP TS 23.218[5].The process and the procedures specific to
CAMEL are specified in this subclause:
\- Process MT_IM_SSF;
\- Procedure Check_Registration;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_VT_IM_CSI_INIT;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_RECONNECT;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_CANCEL;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_ANSWER;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_UNSUCCESSFUL;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_DISC1;
\- Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_DISC2;
\- Procedure CAMEL_CAMEL_MT_CTR.
Internal interface indicated with the \"Int_SRF_\" prefix within this
subclause indicates internal interface with the MRFC.
##### 4.6.1.4.1 Actions of the IM‑SSF on receipt of Int_Error
The IM‑SSF checks the default Call Handling parameter in the relevant CSI.
If the default call handling is release, a BYE indication is sent to the
originating CSCF. The IM‑SSF then releases all resources and the invoked CAMEL
procedure ends.
If the call handling is continue, the IM‑SSF continues processing without
CAMEL support.
##### 4.6.1.4.2 Actions of the IM‑SSF on receipt of Int_Release_Call
The IM‑SSF BYE message is sent to the originating CSCF and resources are
released.
##### 4.6.1.4.3 Actions of the IM‑SSF on receipt of Int_Continue_With_Argument
The IM‑SSF shall replace the call parameters by the information received in
the Int_Continue_With_Argument message. Call parameters that are not included
in the Int_Continue_With_Argument_Message are unchanged.
##### 4.6.1.4.4 Actions of IM‑SSF in procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_INVITE for
Unregistered Subscriber
When querying the HSS for the subscriber\'s IM CSI data, the IM^‑^SSF does not
have to wait for the HSS\'s response on the first query before the subsequent
queries are done. i.e. Sending of multiple Any Time Interrogation operations
can be done in parallel. However, the IM‑SSF shall wait for all the responses
from the HSS before it shall continue with the handling of the terminating IP
multimedia session.
##### 4.6.1.4.5 Handling of procedure CAMEL_MT_CTR, sheet 1
The IM‑SSF behaves as a B2BUA (Back‑2‑Back User Agent) when a SIP INVITE is
received for an terminating call and SIP INVITE is sent to the MRFC (via
S‑CSCF) as a result of a CAP ConnectToResource request received from the SCF.
A SIP response 100 Trying is sent after each INVITE but is not shown in the
SDLs.
The IM‑SSF shall handle the 200 OK response from the MRFC as specified in 3GPP
TS 23.218 [5].
##### 4.6.1.4.6 Handling of procedure CAMEL_MT_CTR, sheet 5
The specifics on transporting information between the MRFC and the Application
Server such as the IM‑SSF, has not been standardised in 3GPP Rel‑5
specifications for IMS. i.e. the SIP method to return Prompt_And_Collect
result from the MRFC to the IM‑SSF, the SIP method for sending notification of
play announcement completion to the IM‑SSF when a request for a Specialised
Resource Report was received, the SIP method to request the MRFC to play
announcement and the SIP method to request the MRFC to prompt and collect user
information, are not standardised.
##### 4.6.1.4.7 Receipt of 100 Trying Provisional Response (Process MT_IM_SSF)
The IM-SSF (acting as a B2BUA) uses the S-CSCF as a next-hop server when
sending the SIP INVITE to the terminating subscriber. The 100 Trying
provisional response received in the IM-SSF is actually generated and sent
from the S-CSCF to indicate that the INVITE request has been received by the
next-hop server (i.e. the S-CSCF) and is currently being processed.
##### 4.6.1.4.8 Handling of internal timers in Process MT_IM_SSF
For additional description on usage of internal timers in Process MT_IM_SSF,
please refer to the description in clause 4.6.1.3.9.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 4.22-1: Process MT_IM_SSF (sheet 1)
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 4.22-2: Process MT_IM_SSF (sheet 2)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.22-3: Process MT_IM_SSF (sheet 3)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.22-4: Process MT_IM_SSF (sheet 4)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.22-5: Process MT_IM_SSF (sheet 5)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.22-6: Process MT_IM_SSF (sheet 6)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.23: Procedure Check_Registration (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.24-1: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_VT_IM_CSI_INIT (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.24-2: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_VT_IM_CSI_INIT (sheet 2)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.24-3: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_VT_IM_CSI_INIT (sheet 3)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.25: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_RECONNECT (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.26: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_CANCEL (sheet 1)
{width="6.731944444444444in" height="8.306944444444444in"}
Figure 4.27-1: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_ANSWER (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.27-2: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_ANSWER (sheet 2)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.28-1: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_UNSUCCESSFUL (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.28-2: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_UNSUCCESSFUL (sheet 2)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.28-3: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_UNSUCCESSFUL (sheet 3)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.28-4: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_UNSUCCESSFUL (sheet 4)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.28-5: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_UNSUCCESSFUL (sheet 5)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.29: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_DISC1 (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.30-1: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_DISC2 (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.30-2: Procedure CAMEL_IMCN_MT_DISC2 (sheet 2)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.31: Procedure CAMEL_Start_TNRy (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.32: Procedure CAMEL_Stop_TNRy (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.844444444444445in"}
Figure 4.33-1: Procedure CAMEL_MT_CTR (sheet 1)
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 4.33-2: Procedure CAMEL_MT_CTR (sheet 2)
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 4.33-3: Procedure CAMEL_MT_CTR (sheet 3)
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 4.33-4: Procedure CAMEL_MT_CTR (sheet 4)
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 4.33-5: Procedure CAMEL_MT_CTR (sheet 5)
#### 4.6.1.5 Handling of call in the imcnSSF
Handling of mobile calls in the imcnSSF may involve the following process and
procedures:
> \- Process imcnSSF;
Note that the following procedures are specified in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel-99 [4].
For these procedures, the imcnSSF shall take the role of the gsmSSF.
\- Procedure Check_Criteria_Collected_Info;
\- Procedure Check_Criteria_Analysed_Info;
\- Procedure Check_Criteria_Unsuccessful;
\- Procedure Connect_To_Resource;
\- Procedure Handle_AC;
\- Procedure Handle_ACR;
\- Procedure Handle_CIR;
\- Procedure Handle_CIR_leg;
\- Procedure Complete_FCI_record;
\- Procedure Complete_all_FCI_records;
\- Procedure Handle_O_Answer;
\- Procedure Handle_T_Answer.
The detailed error handling for the process imcnSSF and the associated
procedures is specified in 3GPP TS 29.278 [11].
##### 4.6.1.5.1 Process imcnSSF
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-1: Process imcnSSF (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-2: Process imcnSSF (sheet 2)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-3: Process imcnSSF (sheet 3)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-4: Process imcnSSF (sheet 4)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-5: Process imcnSSF (sheet 5)
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 4.34-6: Process imcnSSF (sheet 6)
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="8.206944444444444in"}
Figure 4.34-7: Process imcnSSF (sheet 7)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-8: Process imcnSSF (sheet 8)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-9: Process imcnSSF (sheet 9)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-10: Process imcnSSF (sheet 10)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-11: Process imcnSSF (sheet 11)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-12: Process imcnSSF (sheet 12)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-13: Process imcnSSF (sheet 13)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.647916666666667in"}
Figure 4.34-14: Process imcnSSF (sheet 14)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-15: Process imcnSSF (sheet 15)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-16: Process imcnSSF (sheet 16)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-17: Process imcnSSF (sheet 17)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-18: Process imcnSSF (sheet 18)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-19: Process imcnSSF (sheet 19)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-20: Process imcnSSF (sheet 20)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-21: Process imcnSSF (sheet 21)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-22: Process imcnSSF (sheet 22)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-23: Process imcnSSF (sheet 23)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-24: Process imcnSSF (sheet 24)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-25: Process imcnSSF (sheet 25)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-26: Process imcnSSF (sheet 26)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-27: Process imcnSSF (sheet 27)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-28: Process imcnSSF (sheet 28)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-29: Process imcnSSF (sheet 29)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.34-30: Process imcnSSF (sheet 30)
#### 4.6.1.6 Process imcn_SSME_SSF and procedures
One process is instantiated at the IM-SSF for each Call Gap message received
from a gsmSCF.
This subclause contains the SDL process for IM‑SSF handling of the CallGap
operation received from a gsmSCF.
The following Call Gap procedures specified in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4] shall
also be applicable for IM‑SSF. The IM‑SSF shall take the role of the gsmSSF in
the following:
  * Procedure Store_Call_Gap_Criteria;
  * Procedure Check_Gap_Criteria.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.647916666666667in"}
Figure 4.35-1: Process imcn_SSME_SSF (sheet 1)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="8.647916666666667in"}
Figure 4.35-2: Process imcn_SSME_SSF (sheet 2)
## 4.7 Descriptions of information Flows
This clause contains the detailed description of the information flows used by
CAMEL for IP Multimedia Subsystems call control.
Each Information Element (IE) is marked as Mandatory (M), Conditional (C),
Specific conditions (S), mutually Exclusive (E), Optional (O) or not
applicable (-) for each different traffic case: IP Multimedia Origination
(IM_Orig), IP Multimedia Termination (IM_Term). The distinction between
IM_Orig and IM_Term calls is not applicable to all Information Flows.
An \'M\' IE shall always be included for the corresponding traffic case. A
\'C\' IE shall be included if the sending entity has the necessary information
to populate the IE. The conditions for the inclusion of an \'S\' IE are shown
in the \'Description\' column of the definition table. When a set of \'E\' IEs
is shown in the definition of an Information Flow or compound IE, only one of
those IEs may be included. An \'O\' IE may be included or omitted as required
by the service logic. A \'‑\' IE shall always be omitted for the corresponding
traffic case. This categorization is a functional classification, i.e. it
defines the requirements for the stage 2 information. It is not a stage 3
classification to be used for the ASN.1 syntax of the protocol.
Details of errors and exceptions to these rules are specified in 3GPP TS
29.278 [11].
### 4.7.1 IM‑SSF to gsmSCF information flows
#### 4.7.1.1 Activity Test ack
##### 4.7.1.1.1 Description
This IF is the response to the Activity Test.
##### 4.7.1.1.2 Information Elements
This IF contains no information elements.
#### 4.7.1.2 Apply Charging Report
##### 4.7.1.2.1 Description
This IF is used by the IM‑SSF to report to the gsmSCF the information
requested in the Apply Charging IF.
##### 4.7.1.2.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description Call Result M This IE contains the
charging information to be provided by the IM‑SSF.
* * *
Call Result contains the following information:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Time Duration Charging Result M
This IE is a list defined in the next table.
* * *
Time Duration Charging Result contains the following information:
* * *
Information element name Status Description
Time Information M This IE is a choice between Time if No Tariff Switch and
Time if Tariff Switch. This IE is described in the next table.
Party To Charge M This IE is received in the related ApplyCharging operation
to correlate the result to the request. This IE shall be a copy of the
corresponding IE received in the Apply Charging operation.
Call Active M This IE indicates whether the call is active or not.
Call Released at Tcp Expiry C This element is an indication that the IM‑SSF
has released the call and terminated the dialogue, due to Tcp expiry.\ It
shall be present when ACR is sent due to Tcp expiry and the IM‑SSF has
released the call (because \"ReleaseIfExceeded\" was present in ACH
operation).\ In all other circumstances, this element shall be absent.
* * *
Time Information contains one of the following information:
+--------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element name | Status | Description | +--------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Time If No Tariff Switch | C | This IE will be present if | | | | no tariff switch has | | | | occurred since the | | | | reception of the first | | | | Apply Charging IF for the | | | | connection to the Called | | | | Party or the MRFC | | | | connection, otherwise it | | | | will be absent. | | | | | | | | If Answer was detected for | | | | the connection to the | | | | Called Party or the MRFC | | | | connection, then the | | | | elapsed time since | | | | detection of Answer shall | | | | be reported. | | | | | | | | If answer was not detected, | | | | it shall be set to \"0\". | +--------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Time If Tariff Switch | C | This IE will be present if | | | | a tariff switch has | | | | occurred since the | | | | reception of the first | | | | Apply Charging IF for the | | | | connection to the Called | | | | Party or the MRFC | | | | connection, otherwise it | | | | will be absent. | +--------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 4.7.1.3 Call Gap
##### 4.7.1.3.1 Description
This IF is used to activate/modify/remove a call gap mechanism in the IM‑SSF.
The call gap mechanism is used to reduce the rate at which specific service
requests are sent to a gsmSCF.
A Call Gap operation can only be sent on an opened dialogue between a gsmSCF
and the IM‑SSF.
It is possible to have several call gapping conditions applicable to the same
IM‑SSF (i.e. each conditions were activated for a defined Service (identified
by the serviceKey) by a defined gsmSCF (identified by the gsmSCFAddress).
##### 4.7.1.3.2 Information Elements
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element name | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Gap Criteria | M | This IE specifies the | | | | criteria for a call to be | | | | subject to call gapping. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Gap Indicators | M | This parameter indicates | | | | the gapping | | | | characteristics. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Control Type | O | This parameter indicates | | | | the reason for activating | | | | call gapping. | | | | | | | | The value \"sCPOverloaded\" | | | | indicates that an automatic | | | | congestion detection and | | | | control mechanism in the | | | | SCP has detected a | | | | congestion situation. | | | | | | | | The value | | | | \"manuallyInitiated\" | | | | indicates that the service | | | | and or network/service | | | | management centre has | | | | detected a congestion | | | | situation, or any other | | | | situation that requires | | | | manually initiated | | | | controls. | | | | | | | | The controlType | | | | \"manuallyInitiated\" will | | | | have priority over | | | | \"sCPOverloaded\" call gap. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Gap Treatment | O | This parameter indicates | | | | how calls that were | | | | rejected due to the call | | | | gapping condition and for | | | | which the Default Call | | | | Handling was set to | | | | \"Release Call\" shall be | | | | treated. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | M Mandatory (The IE shall | | | | always be sent). | | | | | | | | O Optional (Service logic | | | | dependent). | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
Gap Criteria contains one of the following (Choice):
* * *
Information element name Status Description Basic Gap Criteria O This IE is a
choice of various basic criteria. Compound Gap Criteria O This IE is a choice
of various criteria including an ScfID. O Optional (Service logic dependent).
* * *
Compound Gap Criteria contains the following Information:
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element name | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Basic Gap Criteria | M | This IE is a choice of | | | | various criteria. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | ScfID | O | This IE contains the | | | | address of the gsmSCF which | | | | initiated the CallGapping. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | M Mandatory (The IE shall | | | | always be sent). | | | | | | | | O Optional (Service logic | | | | dependent). | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
Basic Gap Criteria contains one of the following (Choice):
* * *
Information element name Status Description Called Address O This parameter
contains a string of digits. At each call attempt, when the leading digits of
the dialled number match this specific value, the call gapping treatment shall
be applied to this call. Service O This parameter contains a service key
value. At each call attempt, when the service key matches this specific value,
the call gapping treatment shall be applied to this call. Called Address and
Service O This parameter contains a specific string of digits and a service
key value. At each call attempt, when the leading digits of the dialled number
and the service key of a call match these specific values, the call gapping
treatment shall be applied to this call. Calling Address and Service O This
parameter contains a specific string of digits and a service key value. At
each call attempt, when the leading digits of the calling party number and the
service key match these specific values, the call gapping treatment shall be
applied to this call. O Optional (Service logic dependent).
* * *
Gap Indicators contains the following information:
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element name | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Duration | M | Duration specifies the | | | | total time interval during | | | | which call gapping for the | | | | specified gap criteria will | | | | be active. | | | | | | | | A duration of 0 indicates | | | | that gapping is to be | | | | removed. | | | | | | | | A duration of -2 indicates | | | | a network specific | | | | duration. | | | | | | | | Other values indicate | | | | duration in seconds. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Interval | M | This parameter specifies | | | | the minimum time between | | | | calls being allowed | | | | through. | | | | | | | | An interval of 0 indicates | | | | that calls meeting the gap | | | | criteria are not to be | | | | rejected. | | | | | | | | An interval of -1 indicates | | | | that all calls meeting the | | | | gap criteria are to be | | | | rejected. | | | | | | | | Other values indicate | | | | interval in milliseconds. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | M Mandatory (The IE shall | | | | always be sent). | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
Gap Treatment contains one of the following (choice):
* * *
Information element name Status Description Information To Send O This
parameter indicates an announcement or a tone to be sent to the calling party.
At the end of information sending, the call shall be released. Release Cause O
If the call is to be released, this IE indicates a specific cause value to be
sent in the release message. See ETSI EN 300 356-1 [20] for the coding. O
Optional (Service logic dependent).
* * *
Information To Send contains one of the following (choice):
* * *
Information element name Status Description In-band Info O This parameter
specifies the in-band information to be sent. Tone O This parameter specifies
a tone to be sent to the end‑user. O Optional (Service logic dependent).
* * *
In-band Info contains the following information:
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element name | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Message Id | M | This parameter indicates | | | | the message(s) to be sent, | | | | it can be one of the | | | | following. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Message Duration | O | This parameter indicates | | | | the maximum time duration | | | | in seconds that the message | | | | shall be played/repeated. | | | | ZERO indicates endless | | | | repetition. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | M Mandatory (The IE shall | | | | always be sent). | | | | | | | | O Optional (Service logic | | | | dependent). | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
Message Id contains one of the following (choice):
* * *
Information element name Status Description Elementary Message Id O This
parameter indicates a single announcement. O Optional (Service logic
dependent).
* * *
#### 4.7.1.4 Call Information Report
##### 4.7.1.4.1 Description
This IF is used to send specific call information for a single call to the
gsmSCF as requested from the gsmSCF in a previous Call Information Request.
##### 4.7.1.4.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description Requested Information List M This
IE specifies a list of Requested information Values which are requested. Leg
ID M This IE indicates the party in the call for which information shall be
collected.
* * *
#### 4.7.1.5 Event Report BCSM
##### 4.71.5.1 Description
This IF is used to notify the gsmSCF of a call-related event (i.e. BCSM events
as answer and disconnect) previously requested by the gsmSCF in a Request
Report BCSM Event IF.
##### 4.7.1.5.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description Event type BCSM M This IE
specifies the type of event that is reported. Event Specific Information BCSM
C This IE indicates the call related information specific to the event. Leg ID
M This IE indicates the party in the call for which the event is reported.
Misc Call Info M This IE indicates the DP type.
* * *
If the Event Type BCSM IE contains either O_Answer or T_Answer, then the Event
Specific Information BCSM IE contains the following information elements:
+--------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element name | Status | Description | +--------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Destination address | M | This IE specifies the | | | | destination address for the | | | | call leg. | | | | | | | | The _NatureOfAddress | | | | indicator_ may contain a | | | | national-specific value. | | | | For some national-specific | | | | _NatureOfAddress indicator_ | | | | values the length of the | | | | digit part of destination | | | | address may be zero. | +--------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
If the Event Type BCSM IE contains one of Route_Select_Failure,
O_Called_Party_Busy, O_Disconnect, T_Busy, or T_Disconnect, then the Event
Specific Information BCSM IE contains the following information element:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Cause C This IE indicates the
cause.
* * *
If the Event Type BCSM IE contains O_No_Answer then the Event Specific
Information BCSM IE is not included.
#### 4.7.1.6 Initial DP
##### 4.7.1.6.1 Description
This IF is generated by the IM‑SSF when a trigger is detected at a DP in the
BCSM, to request instructions from the gsmSCF.
##### **4.7.1.6.2 Information Elements**
+----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Information element | IM_Orig | IM_Term | Description | | name | | | | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Media Type Info List | M | M | This IE indicates | | | | | the media types | | | | | associated with the | | | | | SIP call session. | | | | | This IE shall | | | | | contain the media | | | | | description(s) | | | | | received from the | | | | | S‑CSCF. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Called Party Number | C | C | This IE contains the | | | | | ISDN number used to | | | | | identify the called | | | | | party in the forward | | | | | direction. | | | | | | | | | | The ISDN called | | | | | party number is | | | | | received from the | | | | | gsmSCF due to the | | | | | previous CAMEL | | | | | processing or is | | | | | derived from the SIP | | | | | URL received from | | | | | the S‑CSCF for the | | | | | destination address. | | | | | | | | | | For all IM | | | | | terminating call | | | | | scenarios, at least | | | | | one of the following | | | | | IEs shall be | | | | | present: | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | CalledPartyNumber | | | | | | | | | | - CalledPartyURL | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Called Party URL | C | C | This IE contains the | | | | | SIP URL used to | | | | | identify the called | | | | | party in the forward | | | | | direction. | | | | | | | | | | For all IM | | | | | terminating call | | | | | scenarios, at least | | | | | one of the following | | | | | IEs shall be | | | | | present: | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | CalledPartyNumber | | | | | | | | | | - CalledPartyURL | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Calling Party Number | C | C | This IE carries the | | | | | ISDN calling party | | | | | number to identify | | | | | the calling party or | | | | | the origin of the | | | | | call. | | | | | | | | | | For all IM | | | | | originating call | | | | | scenarios, at least | | | | | one of the following | | | | | IEs shall be | | | | | present: | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | CallingPartyNumber | | | | | | | | | | - CallingPartyURL | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Calling Party URL | C | C | This IE contains the | | | | | SIP URL used to | | | | | identify the calling | | | | | party or the origin | | | | | of the call. | | | | | | | | | | For all IM | | | | | originating call | | | | | scenarios, at least | | | | | one of the following | | | | | IEs shall be | | | | | present: | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | CallingPartyNumber | | | | | | | | | | - CallingPartyURL | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Calling Party | C | C | Indicates the type | | Category | | | of calling party | | | | | (e.g., operator, pay | | | | | phone, ordinary | | | | | subscriber). | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | CallGap Encountered | C | C | This parameter | | | | | indicates the type | | | | | of gapping the | | | | | related call has | | | | | been subjected to. | | | | | | | | | | This parameter shall | | | | | be present only if a | | | | | call gapping context | | | | | is applicable to the | | | | | initialDP operation. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | SIP Call ID | M | M | This IE represents a | | | | | globally unique | | | | | identifier for the | | | | | SIP call. This IE | | | | | may be used by the | | | | | gsmSCF for inclusion | | | | | in a network | | | | | optional gsmSCF call | | | | | record. | | | | | | | | | | This IE is received | | | | | from the SIP request | | | | | message from S‑CSCF. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Cause | C | C | This IE indicates | | | | | the cause specific | | | | | to the armed BCSM DP | | | | | event. This IE is | | | | | applicable to DP | | | | | Ro | | | | | ute_Select_Failure | | | | | and DP T_Busy. The | | | | | cause may be used by | | | | | the SCF to decide | | | | | about the further | | | | | handling of the | | | | | call. | | | | | | | | | | For IM Termination | | | | | for an unregistered | | | | | subscriber, the | | | | | Cause IE shall be | | | | | set to indicate | | | | | Subscriber Absent. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Event Type BCSM | M | M | This IE indicates | | | | | the armed BCSM DP | | | | | event, resulting in | | | | | the Initial DP IF. | | | | | | | | | | This IE shall be set | | | | | to indicate DP | | | | | T_Busy if a not | | | | | reachable event is | | | | | detected (e.g. IM | | | | | termination to a | | | | | subscriber not | | | | | currently | | | | | registered). | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | IMSI | M | M | This IE identifies | | | | | the mobile | | | | | subscriber. | | | | | | | | | | This IE shall | | | | | contain the IMSI | | | | | value received from | | | | | the S‑CSCF during | | | | | notification of a | | | | | SIP registration. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | IP SSP Capabilities | C | C | This IE indicates | | | | | which MRFC resources | | | | | are supported within | | | | | the IM‑SSF and are | | | | | available. If this | | | | | IE is absent, this | | | | | indicates that no | | | | | MRFC is attached and | | | | | available. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | IM‑SSF Address | M | M | This IE represents | | | | | the E.164 address of | | | | | the IM‑SSF from | | | | | which the InitialDP | | | | | operation is sent | | | | | from. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Original Called | C | C | This contains the | | Party ID | | | ISDN number used to | | | | | identify the | | | | | original destination | | | | | number if the call | | | | | has been forwarded | | | | | on route to the | | | | | IM‑SSF or is | | | | | forwarded by the | | | | | gsmSCF due to the | | | | | previous CAMEL | | | | | processing. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Original Called | C | C | This IE contains the | | Party URL | | | SIP URL identifying | | | | | the original | | | | | destination number | | | | | if the call has been | | | | | forwarded on route | | | | | to the IM---SSF or | | | | | is forwarded by the | | | | | gsmSCF due to the | | | | | previous CAMEL | | | | | processing. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Redirecting Party ID | C | C | This IE indicates | | | | | the ISDN number | | | | | identifying the | | | | | directory number the | | | | | call was redirected | | | | | from. This IE shall | | | | | also be sent if it | | | | | was received from | | | | | the gsmSCF due to | | | | | the previous CAMEL | | | | | processing. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Redirecting Party | C | C | This IE indicates | | URL | | | the SIP URL | | | | | identifying the | | | | | directory number the | | | | | call was redirected | | | | | from. This IE shall | | | | | also be sent if it | | | | | was received from | | | | | the gsmSCF due to | | | | | the previous CAMEL | | | | | processing. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Redirection | C | C | This IE contains | | Information | | | forwarding related | | | | | information, such as | | | | | redirection reason. | | | | | This IE shall also | | | | | be sent if it was | | | | | received from the | | | | | gsmSCF due to the | | | | | previous CAMEL | | | | | processing. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Service Key | M | M | This IE indicates to | | | | | the gsmSCF the | | | | | requested CAMEL | | | | | Service. It is used | | | | | to address the | | | | | required | | | | | application/SLP | | | | | within the gsmSCF. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Subscriber State | - | C | This IE indicates | | | | | the status of the | | | | | IMS Subscriber. The | | | | | states are: | | | | | | | | | | - CAMELBusy: The | | | | | IMS subscriber is | | | | | engaged on a | | | | | transaction for an | | | | | originating or | | | | | terminating IM call | | | | | session. | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | NetworkDet | | | | | erminedNotReachable: | | | | | The network can | | | | | determine from its | | | | | internal data that | | | | | the IMS subscriber | | | | | is not reachable. | | | | | | | | | | - AssumedIdle: The | | | | | state of the IMS | | | | | subscriber is | | | | | neither | | | | | \"CAMELBusy\" | | | | | nor | | | | | \"NetworkDeter | | | | | minedNotReachable\". | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+ | Time And Timezone | M | M | This IE contains the | | | | | time that the IM‑SSF | | | | | was triggered, and | | | | | the time zone the | | | | | IM‑SSF resides in. | +----------------------+----------+----------+----------------------+
#### 4.7.1.7 Specialized Resource Report
##### 4.7.1.7.1 Description
This IF is used to response to a PlayAnnouncement IF when the announcement
complete indication is set.
##### 4.7.1.7.2 Information Elements
This IF contains no information elements.
### 4.7.2 gsmSCF to IM‑SSF information flows
#### 4.7.2.1 Activity Test
##### 4.7.2.1.1 Description
This IF is used to check for the continued existence of a relationship between
the gsmSCF and IM‑SSF. If the relationship is still in existence, then the
IM‑SSF will respond. If no reply is received, then the gsmSCF will assume that
the IM‑SSF has failed in some way and will take the appropriate action.
##### 4.7.2.1.2 Information Elements
This IF contains no information elements.
#### 4.7.2.2 Apply Charging
##### 4.7.2.2.1 Description
This IF is used for interacting from the gsmSCF with the IM‑SSF charging
mechanisms to control the call duration.
##### 4.7.2.2.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description ACh Billing Charging
Characteristics M This IE specifies the charging related information to be
provided by the IM‑SSF and the conditions on which this information has to be
provided back to the gsmSCF. Party To Charge M This IE shall be reflected in
the corresponding IE of the Apply Charging Report operation. This IE has no
effect on the charging procedures in the MSC.
* * *
ACh Billing Charging Characteristics contains the following information:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Time Duration Charging M This IE
is described in the next table.
* * *
Time Duration Charging contains the following information:
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element name | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Max Call Period Duration | M | This IE indicates the | | | | maximum call period | | | | duration timer. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Tariff Switch Interval | O | This IE indicates the | | | | tariff switch time until | | | | the next tariff switch | | | | applies. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Release If Duration | O | This IE indicates that the | | Exceeded | | call shall be released when | | | | the Max call Period | | | | Duration expires, with a | | | | warning tone if the Play | | | | Tone IE is present. The | | | | cause used in the release | | | | message shall be \"normal | | | | unspecified\". | | | | | | | | Default is to continue the | | | | call. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Play Tone | O | This IE is set if a tone | | | | has to be played to the | | | | party for whom the BCSM is | | | | operating. If present, this | | | | IE indicates that | | | | 30 seconds before the Max | | | | Call Period Duration timer | | | | expires, | | | | | | | | a triple tone of 900 Hz | | | | (200 milliseconds tone, 200 | | | | milliseconds pause) shall | | | | be played. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 4.7.2.3 Call Information Request
##### 4.7.2.3.1 Description
This IF is used to request the IM‑SSF to record specific information about a
single call and report it to the gsmSCF (with a CallInformationReport).
##### 4.7.2.3.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description Requested Information Type List M
This IE specifies a list of specific items of information which are requested.
Leg ID M This IE indicates the party in the call for which information shall
be collected.
* * *
Requested Information Type List contains the following information:
* * *
Information element name Status Description
Call Attempt Elapsed Time O This IE indicates that the Call Attempt Elapsed
Time is requested in the Call Information Report.\ Call Attempt Elapsed Time
is the duration between the end of the CAMEL processing initiating call setup
(Connect, Continue or Continue With Argument IF) and the received answer
indication from the called party side.\ For the Calling Party, the value of
Call Attempt Elapsed Time in the Call Information Report shall be set to 0.
Call Stop Time O This IE indicates that the Call Stop Time is requested in the
Call Information Report.\ Call Stop Time is the time stamp when the connection
is released.
Call Connected Elapsed Time O This IE indicates that the Call Connected
Elapsed Time is requested in the Call Information Report.\ Call Connected
Elapsed Time is the duration between the received answer indication from the
called party side and the release of the connection.\ For a Calling Party, it
indicates the duration between the sending of IDP and the release of that
party
Release Cause O This IE indicates that the Release Cause is requested in the
Call Information Report.\ Release Cause is the release cause for the call.
* * *
#### 4.7.2.4 Cancel
##### 4.7.2.4.1 Description
This IF is used by the gsmSCF to request the IM‑SSF to cancel all EDPs and
reports.
##### 4.7.2.4.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description All Requests M This IE indicates
that all active requests for EventReportBCSM, ApplyChargingReport and
CallInformationReport shall be cancelled.
* * *
#### 4.7.2.5 Connect
##### 4.7.2.5.1 Description
This IF is used to request the IM‑SSF to perform the call processing actions
to route a call to a specific destination. To do so, the IM‑SSF may use
destination information from the calling party and existing call set-up
information depending on the information provided by the gsmSCF.
##### 4.7.2.5.2 Information Elements
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element name | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Calling Party Category | O | This IE indicates the type | | | | of calling party (e.g., | | | | operator, pay phone, | | | | ordinary subscriber). | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Destination Routing Address | E1 | This IE contains the called | | | | party number towards which | | | | the call is to be routed | | | | using an ISDN value. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Destination Routing Address | E1 | This IE contains the called | | URL | | party number towards which | | | | the call is to be routed | | | | using a SIP URL. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Original Called Party ID | O,E2 | This contains the original | | | | destination number if the | | | | call has been forwarded on | | | | route to the IM‑SSF or is | | | | forwarded by the gsmSCF. | | | | | | | | This IE shall use an ISDN | | | | value to identify the | | | | original destination | | | | number. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Original Called Party URL | O,E2 | This contains the original | | | | destination number if the | | | | call has been forwarded on | | | | route to the IM‑SSF or is | | | | forwarded by the gsmSCF. | | | | | | | | This IE shall use a SIP URL | | | | to identify the original | | | | destination number. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Redirecting Party ID | O,E3 | This IE indicates the | | | | directory number the call | | | | was redirected from. This | | | | IE shall use an ISDN value | | | | to identify the redirecting | | | | party. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Redirecting Party URL | O,E3 | This IE indicates the | | | | directory number the call | | | | was redirected from. This | | | | IE shall use a SIP URL to | | | | identify the redirecting | | | | party. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 4.7.2.6 Connect To Resource
##### 4.7.2.6.1 Description
This IF is used to connect a call from the IM‑SSF to MRFC via S‑CSCF.
##### 4.7.2.6.2 Information Elements
This IF requires no information elements for IMS.
#### 4.7.2.7 Continue
##### 4.7.2.7.1 Description
This IF requests the IM‑SSF to proceed with call processing at the DP at which
it previously suspended call processing to await gsmSCF instructions. The
IM‑SSF completes DP processing, and continues basic call processing (i.e.
proceeds to the next point in call in the BCSM) without substituting new data
from the gsmSCF.
##### 4.7.2.7.2 Information Elements
This IF contains no information elements.
#### 4.7.2.8 Continue With Argument
##### 4.7.2.8.1 Description
This information flow requests the IM‑SSF to proceed the call processing with
modified information at the DP at which it previously suspended call
processing to await gsmSCF instructions. The IM‑SSF completes DP processing,
and continues basic call processing (i.e. proceeds to the next point in call
in the BCSM) with the modified call setup information as received from the
gsmSCF.
##### 4.7.2.8.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description Calling Party Category O This IE
indicates the type of calling party (e.g., operator, pay phone, ordinary
subscriber).
* * *
#### 4.7.2.9 Disconnect Forward Connection
##### 4.7.2.9.1 Description
This IF is used to disconnect a connection with a MRFC previously established
with a Connect To Resource IF.
##### 4.7.2.9.2 Information Elements
This IF contains no information elements.
#### 4.7.2.10 Furnish Charging Information
##### 4.7.2.10.1 Description
This IF is used to request the IM‑SSF to include call related information in
the CAMEL specific logical call record. The logical call record is created
when FCI is received and a logical call record for that leg does not exist.
For modelling purposes the logical call record is buffered in the IM‑SSF. The
IM‑SSF completes logical call records as defined in the SDLs. Once the logical
call record is completed, then its free format data is moved to the
corresponding CDR and the logical call record is deleted.
The CSE can send multiple concatenated FCIs per leg for completion. The total
maximum of free format data is 160 octets per leg. The 160 octets may be sent
in one or more FCI operations. If there is non-completed free format data and
new FCI operation(s) is/are received to overwrite the non-completed data, then
the non-completed data is discarded and the gsmSCF can send another 160 octets
per leg. The SDLs of 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4] define when Logical CDRs are
completed. After the completion the gsmSCF can send another 160 octets of free
format data in one or more FCI operations for the called leg.
##### 4.7.2.10.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description FCI Billing Charging
Characteristics M This IE is described in the next table.
* * *
FCI Billing Charging Characteristics contains the following information:
* * *
Information element name Status Description FCIBCCCAMEL Sequence 1 M This IE
is described in the next table.
* * *
FCIBCCCAMEL Sequence 1 contains the following information:
+--------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element name | Status | Description | +--------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Free Format Data | M | This IE is a free format | | | | data to be inserted in the | | | | CAMEL logical call record. | +--------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Party To Charge | M | This IE indicates the party | | | | for whom a CAMEL logical | | | | call record will be | | | | created. | +--------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Append Free Format Data | O | This IE indicates that the | | | | IM‑SSF shall append the | | | | free format data to the | | | | Logical call record. | | | | | | | | - If this IE is present | | | | and indicates \"Append\", | | | | the IM‑SSF shall append the | | | | free format data received | | | | in this IF to the free | | | | format data already present | | | | in the Logical call record | | | | for that leg of the call. | | | | | | | | - If this IE is absent or | | | | in value \"Overwrite\", | | | | then the IM‑SSF shall | | | | overwrite all free format | | | | data already present in the | | | | Logical call record for | | | | that leg of the call, by | | | | the free format data | | | | received in this IF. | | | | | | | | If no Logical call record | | | | exists yet for that leg of | | | | the call, then the IM‑SSF | | | | shall ignore this IE. | +--------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 4.7.2.11 Release Call
##### 4.7.2.11.1 Description
This IF is used to tear down by the gsmSCF an existing call at any phase of
the call for all parties involved in the call.
##### 4.7.2.11.2 Information Elements
The following information elements are required:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Release Cause M A number giving an
indication to the IM‑SSF about the reason of releasing this specific call.
This may be used by MSC/GMSC for generating specific tones to the different
parties in the call or to fill in the \"cause\" in the release message.
* * *
#### 4.7.2.12 Request Report BCSM Event
##### 4.7.2.12.1 Description
This IF is used to request the IM‑SSF to monitor for a call-related event,
then send a notification back to the gsmSCF when the event is detected (see
Event Report BCSM).
##### 4.7.2.12.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description BCSM Event M This IE specifies the
event or events of which a report is requested.
* * *
BCSM Event contains the following information:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Event type M This IE specifies the
type of event of which a report is requested. Leg ID C This IE indicates the
party in the call for which the event shall be reported. Monitor Mode M When
this IE is \"interrupted\", the event shall be reported as a request, if it is
\"notifyAndContinue\", the event shall be reported as a notification, if the
IE is \"transparent\", the event shall not be reported. DP Specific Criteria O
This IE is described in the next table.
* * *
DP Specific Criteria is defined as:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Application Timer O This IE
carries additional timer duration information (timer values for No Answer
event) required for arming No_Answer EDPs in the IM‑SSF. The TNRy timer (value
defined between 10 s and 40 s) shall be shorter than the network no answer
timer. NOTE If a Request Report BCSM Event information flow overwrites
previous Request Report BCSM Event information flow which contained
Application Timer IE for No_Answer DP, the behaviour of the IM‑SSF is
unpredictable.
* * *
#### 4.7.2.13 Reset Timer
##### 4.7.2.13.1 Description
This IF is used to refresh a timer.
##### 4.7.2.13.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description Timer Value M This IE specifies
the value to which the indicated timer shall be set. Timer ID O This IE
indicates which timer shall be reset. It shall be set to \"Tssf\".
* * *
### 4.7.3 gsmSCF -- IM‑SSF information flows for MRFC related operations
In an IMS Core Network, the Multimedia Resource Function Controller (MRFC) is
used for providing specialised resource functions like playing announcements
and tones. Requests from the gsmSCF that requires a specialised resource
function are sent to the MRFC via the IM‑SSF and S‑CSCF using SIP signalling
as specified in the functional requirements of the MRFC found in 3GPP TS
23.218 [5].
This subclause contains the information flows descriptions between the gsmSCF
and the IM‑SSF for MRFC-related operations.
#### 4.7.3.1 Cancel
##### 4.7.3.1.1 Description
This IF is used by the gsmSCF to request the IM‑SSF to cancel a correlated
previous operation in the MRFC.
##### 4.7.3.1.2 Information Elements
The following information elements are used:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Invoke ID M This IE specifies the
operation to be cancelled.
* * *
#### 4.7.3.2 Play Announcement
##### 4.7.3.2.1 Description
This IF is sent from the gsmSCF to the IM‑SSF and is used to specify
information for playing announcements or tones in the MRFC.
##### 4.7.3.2.2 Information Elements
The following information elements are required:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Information To Send M This IE
indicates an announcement or a tone to be sent to the end user by the MRFC.
Disconnect From IP Forbidden M This IE indicates whether or not the MRFC may
be disconnected from the user when all information has been sent. Request
Announcement Complete M This IE indicates whether or not a
SpecializedResourceReport shall be sent to the gsmSCF when all information has
been sent.
* * *
Information To Send contains the following information:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Inband Info C This IE indicates
the inband information to be sent. Tone C This IE indicates the tone to be
sent. The mapping from the code points of this IE to tones is a matter for
agreement between the gsmSCF operator and the MRFC operator.
* * *
Inband Info contains the following information:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Message ID M This IE is described
in the next table. Number Of Repetitions M This IE indicates the maximum
number of times the message shall be sent to the end-user. Duration O This IE
indicates the maximum duration time in seconds that the message shall be
played/repeated. Zero indicates endless repetition. Interval O This IE
indicates the time interval in seconds between two repetitions.
* * *
Message ID contains the following information:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Elementary Message ID C This IE
indicates a single announcement Text C This IE indicates a text to be sent.
The text shall be transformed to inband information (speech) by the MRFC.
Elementary Message IDs C This IE indicates a sequence of announcements
Variable Message C This IE indicates an announcement with one or more variable
parts.
* * *
Tone contains the following information:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Tone ID M This IE indicates the
tone to be sent. Duration O This IE indicates the maximum duration time in
seconds that the message shall be played/repeated. Zero indicates endless
repetition.
* * *
#### 4.7.3.3 Prompt And Collect User Information (received information)
##### 4.7.3.3.1 Description
This IF is sent from the gsmSCF to the IM‑SSF and is used to interact with a
call party in order to collect information.
##### 4.7.3.3.2 Information Elements
The following information elements are required:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Collected Info M This IE is
described in the next table. Information To Send O This IE indicates an
announcement or a tone to be sent to the end user by the MRFC. Disconnect From
IP Forbidden M This IE indicates whether the MRFC may be disconnected from the
user when all information has been sent.
* * *
Collected Info contains the following information:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Collected Digits M This IE is
described in the next table.
* * *
Collected Digits contains the following information:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Minimum Number Of Digits M This IE
indicates the minimum number of valid digits to be collected. Maximum Number
Of Digits M This IE specifies the maximum number of valid digits to be
collected End Of Reply Digit O This IE indicates the digit(s) used to signal
the end of input. Cancel Digit O If this IE is present, the cancel digit can
be entered by the user to request a possible retry Start Digit O If this IE is
present, the start digit(s) indicates the start of the valid digits to be
collected. First Digit Time Out O If this IE is present, the first digit shall
be received before the expiration of the first digit timer expiration Inter
Digit Time Out O If this IE is present, any subsequent valid or invalid digit
shall be received by the MRFC before the inter digit timer expires. Error
Treatment O This IE indicates what specific action shall be taken by the MRFC
in the event of error conditions occurring. Interruptable Ann Ind O If this IE
is set to TRUE (default value) the announcement is interrupted after the first
valid or invalid digit received by the MRFC. If this IE is present and
explicitly set to FALSE, the announcement will not be interrupted after the
first digit is received by the MRFC Voice Information O This IE is optional,
where the default value is specified being FALSE. If the VoiceInformation IE
is set to FALSE, all valid or invalid digits are entered by DTMF If this IE is
present and explicitly set to TRUE, calling user is required to provide all
valid or invalid information by speech Voice Back O This IE is optional, where
the default value is specified being FALSE. If the VoiceBack IE is set to
FALSE, no voice back information is given by the MRFC If this IE is present
and explicitly set to TRUE, the valid input digits received by the MRFC will
be announced back to the calling user immediately after the end of input is
received
* * *
InformationToSend is defined in subclause 4.7.3.2.2.
#### 4.7.3.4 Prompt And Collect User Information ack (received information)
##### 4.7.3.4.1 Description
This IF is used by the IM‑SSF to indicate the result a Prompt And Collect User
Information IF to the gsmSCF.
##### 4.7.3.4.2 Information Elements
The following information elements are required:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Digits Response C This IE
indicates the digit sequence received from the end user
* * *
#### 4.7.3.5 Specialized Resource Report
##### 4.7.3.5.1 Description
This IF is used by the IM‑SSF to response to a PlayAnnouncement IF when the
announcement complete indication is set.
##### 4.7.3.5.2 Information Elements
This IF contains no information elements.
### 4.7.4 IM‑SSF to HSS information flows
#### 4.7.4.1 Any Time Subscription Interrogation request
##### 4.7.4.1.1 Description
This IF is used by the IM‑SSF to request subscription information from the
HSS. For example, the IM‑SSF shall send this as a result of receiving a third
party SIP registration from the S‑CSCF (over the ISC interface). The IM‑SSF
shall also send the MAP ATSI request when a SIP INVITE message on a MT session
for an unregistered subscriber is received.
##### 4.7.4.1.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description
gsmSCF Address M This IE shall indicate the address of the interrogating
IM‑SSF. The address shall be in international E.164 format.
Requested Info M This IE indicates the type of subscriber information being
requested.\ This shall consist of the CAMEL Subscription Information; the
CAMEL Subscription Information is described in a table below.
Subscriber Identity M This IE identifies the subscriber for which the
information is requested. The identity shall be an IMSI.
* * *
CAMEL subscription information contains the following information elements:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Additional Requested CAMEL
Subscription Info M This IE shall contain one of the following:
O‑IM‑CSI/VT‑IM‑CSI/D‑IM‑CSI
* * *
#### 4.7.4.2 Notify Subscriber Data Change ack
##### 4.7.4.2.1 Description
This IF is used to respond to the HSS\'s notification of the change of
subscriber data.
##### 4.7.4.2.2 Information Elements
This IF contains no information elements.
### 4.7.5 HSS to IM‑SSF information flows
#### 4.7.5.1 Any Time Subscription Interrogation ack
##### 4.7.5.1.1 Description
This IF is used by the HSS to provide the requested subscriber\'s IM‑CSI data
to the IM‑SSF.
##### 4.7.5.1.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description CAMEL Subscription Information C
This IE shall be present if the subscriber is provisioned with a CAMEL
Subscription Information for IM CN. This IE is described in a table below.
* * *
CAMEL Subscription Information contains the following information elements:
* * *
Information element name Status Description O‑IM‑CSI C See subclause 4.4.1.1
D‑IM‑CSI C See subclause 4.4.1.2 VT‑IM‑CSI C See subclause 4.4.1.3
* * *
#### 4.7.5.2 Notify Subscriber Data Change
##### 4.7.5.2.1 Description
This IF is used by the HSS to notify to the IM‑SSF of the change of subscriber
IM CSI data. This IF is sent at each time subscriber IM CSI data is changed.
##### 4.7.5.2.2 Information Elements
* * *
Information element name Status Description IMSI M The IMSI is used to
identify the subscriber. MSISDN C This shall consist of the subscriber\'s
MSISDN if available. If no MSISDN is available, the parameter shall be set
with a dummy MSISDN value. CAMEL Subscription Information M The CAMEL
Subscription Information IE is used to indicate the modified or deleted CAMEL
Subscription Information data. This IE is described in a table below.
* * *
CAMEL Subscription Information Modified contains the following information
elements:
+---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element name | Status | Description | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | O‑IM‑CSI | S | See subclause 4.4.1.1. It | | | | shall be present if it was | | | | modified. | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | D‑IM‑CSI | S | See subclause 4.4.1.2. It | | | | shall be present if it was | | | | modified. | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | VT‑IM‑CSI | S | See subclause 4.4.1.3. It | | | | shall be present if it was | | | | modified. | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Specific CSI Deleted List | S | This IE indicates that one | | | | or more specific elements | | | | of IMS CAMEL Subscription | | | | Information have been | | | | deleted from the HSS. It | | | | shall indicate any of the | | | | following; | | | | | | | | - O‑IM‑CSI (with TDP | | | | criteria for O‑IM‑CSI); | | | | | | | | - D‑IM‑CSI; | | | | | | | | - VT‑IM‑CSI with TDP | | | | criteria for VT‑IM‑CSI; | | | | | | | | This IE shall be present if | | | | IM CSI is/are deleted. | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
# 5 Control and interrogation of subscription data
Support of the procedures described in this clause in CAMEL Phase 4 is a
network operator option.
## 5.1 Architecture
The architecture for the control and the interrogation of subscription data
described in the clause 10 in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4] for the HLR and the
gsmSCF also applies for the HSS and the gsmSCF.
## 5.2 Procedures for CAMEL
### 5.2.1 Any Time Subscription Interrogation
The following process in the HLR described in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4]
applies for the handling of Any Time Interrogation for Subscription
Information Retrieval in the HSS:
> \- CAMEL_ATSI_HLR.
### 5.2.2 Any Time Modification
The following process in the HLR described in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4]
applies for the handling of Any Time Modification in the HSS:
> \- CAMEL_ATM_HLR.
### 5.2.3 Notify Subscriber Data Change
The description of the procedure in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4] applies for the
handling of Notify Subscriber Data Change in the HSS.
## 5.3 Description of information flows
This subclause contains the detailed description of the information flows used
by CAMEL for control and interrogation of subscription data.
Each Information Element (IE) is marked as Mandatory (M), Conditional (C),
Specific conditions (S), mutually Exclusive (E) or Optional (O).
An \'M\' IE shall always be included. A \'C\' IE shall be included if the
sending entity has the necessary information to populate the IE. The
conditions for the inclusion of an \'S\' IE are shown in the \'Description\'
column of the definition table. An \'O\' IE may be included or omitted as
required by the service logic. This categorization is a functional
classification, i.e. it defines the requirements for the stage 2 information.
It is not a stage 3 classification to be used for the ASN.1 syntax of the
protocol.
The following principles apply for the handling of the IEs by the receiving
entity:
\- The gsmSCF may silently discard any IE which it does not functionally
support.
> \- The HSS shall return an error if it does not functionally support an IE
> which it receives.
Details of errors and exceptions to these rules are specified in 3GPP TS
29.002 [9].
### 5.3.1 gsmSCF to HSS information flows
#### 5.3.1.1 Any Time Modification Request
##### 5.3.1.1.1 Description
This IF is used to modify information in the HSS at any time. The IF from the
gsmSCF to the HLR is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4]. The IF is also
applied to the interface between the gsmSCF to the HSS.
#### 5.3.1.2 Any Time Subscription Interrogation Request
##### 5.3.1.2.1 Description
This IF is used to request subscription information from the HSS at any time.
The IF from the gsmSCF to the HLR is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4].
The IF is also applied to the interface between the gsmSCF to the HSS.
##### 5.3.1.2.2 Information Elements
Any Time Subscription Interrogation Request is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078
Rel‑99 [4]. Additionally the following IMS specific information elements are
required:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Requested Info M This IE may
indicate supported CAMEL phases in HSS.
* * *
+------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | Additional CAMEL | S,E | This IE may be one of the | | Subscription Info | | following elements: | | | | | | | | O‑IM‑CSI / VT‑IM‑CSI / | | | | D‑IM‑CSI. | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+
#### 5.3.1.3 Notify Subscriber Data Change response
##### 5.3.1.3.1 Description
This IF is used by the gsmSCF to respond to the HSS of the change of
subscriber data notify. The IF from the gsmSCF to the HLR is specified in 3GPP
TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4]. The IF is also applied to the interface between the
gsmSCF to the HSS.
### 5.3.2 HSS to gsmSCF information flows
#### 5.3.2.1 Any Time Modification ack
##### 5.3.2.1.1 Description
This IF is used by the HSS to provide the modified information to the gsmSCF.
The IF from the HLR to the gsmSCF is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4].
The IF is also applied to the interface between the gsmSCF to the HSS.
##### 5.3.2.1.2 Information Elements
Any Time Modification ack is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4].
Additionally the following IMS specific information elements are required:
* * *
Information element name Status Description O‑IM‑CSI S See subclause 4.4.1.1.
It shall be present if it was modified. VT‑IM‑CSI S See subclause 4.4.1.3. It
shall be present if it was modified. D‑IM‑CSI S See subclause 4.4.1.2. It
shall be present if it was modified.
* * *
#### 5.3.2.2 Any Time Subscription Interrogation ack
##### 5.3.2.2.1 Description
This IF is used by the HSS to provide the requested subscription information
to the gsmSCF. The IF from the HLR to the gsmSCF is specified in 3GPP TS
23.078 Rel‑99 [4]. The IF is also applied to the interface between the gsmSCF
to the HSS.
##### 5.3.2.2.2 Information Elements
Any Time Subscription Interrogation ack is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99
[4]. Additionally the following IMS specific information elements are
required:
* * *
Information element name Status Description Supported CAMEL Phases In HSS C
This IE indicates the CAMEL phase supported in the HSS. O‑IM‑CSI C See
subclause 4.4.1.1. VT‑IM‑CSI C See subclause 4.4.1.3. D‑IM‑CSI C See subclause
4.4.1.2.
* * *
#### 5.3.2.3 Notify Subscriber Data Change
##### 5.3.2.3.1 Description
This IF is used by the HSS to notify to the gsmSCF of the change of subscriber
data. This IF is sent at each time subscriber data is changed. The IF from the
HLR to the gsmSCF is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4]. The IF is also
applied to the interface between the gsmSCF to the HSS.
##### 5.3.2.3.2 Information Elements
Notify Subscriber Data Change is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4].
Additionally the following IMS specific information elements are required:
+---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element name | Status | Description | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Specific CSI Deleted List | S | This IE shall indicate any | | | | of the following; | | | | | | | | - O‑IM‑CSI (with TDP | | | | criteria for O‑IM‑CSI); ‑ | | | | | | | | - D‑IM‑CSI (with TDP | | | | criteria for D‑IM‑CSI); | | | | | | | | - VT‑IM‑CSI with TDP | | | | criteria for VT‑IM‑CSI; | +---------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
# 6 Subscriber Location and State retrieval
Support of the procedures described in this clause in CAMEL Phase 4 is a
network operator option.
## 6.1 Architecture
The architecture for the subscriber location and state retrieval described in
the clause 11 in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4] for the HLR and the gsmSCF applies
for the HSS and the gsmSCF.
## 6.2 Procedures for CAMEL
### 6.2.1 Any Time Interrogation
The description of the procedure in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4] applies for the
Any Time Interrogation in the HSS.
## 6.3 Description of information flows
This subclause contains the detailed description of the information flows used
by CAMEL for the retrieval of information about the location and state of a
subscriber.
Each Information Element (IE) is marked as Mandatory (M), Conditional (C),
Specific conditions (S), mutually Exclusive (E) or not applicable (-).
An \'M\' IE shall always be included. A \'C\' IE shall be included if the
sending entity has the necessary information to populate the IE. The
conditions for the inclusion of an \'S\' IE are shown in the \'Description\'
column of the definition table. When a set of \'E\' IEs is shown in the
definition of an Information Flow or compound IE, only one of those IEs may be
included. A \'‑\' IE shall always be omitted. This categorization is a
functional classification, i.e. it defines the requirements for the stage 2
information. It is not a stage 3 classification to be used for the ASN.1
syntax of the protocol.
The following principles apply for the handling of the IEs by the receiving
entity:
\- The gsmSCF may silently discard any IE which it does not functionally
support.
\- The GMLC shall return an error if it does not functionally support an IE
which it receives.
Details of errors and exceptions to these rules are specified in 3GPP TS
29.002 [9].
### 6.3.1 gsmSCF to HSS information flows
#### 6.3.1.1 Any Time Interrogation Request
##### 6.3.1.1.1 Description
This IF is used to request information (any one or more of subscriber state,
subscriber location, IMEI & software version, MS classmark information for the
CS domain and GPRS MS classmark information) from the HSS at any time. The IF
from the gsmSCF to the HLR is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4]. The IF
is also applied to the interface between the gsmSCF to the HSS.
### 6.3.2 HSS to gsmSCF information flows
#### 6.3.2.1 Any Time Interrogation ack
##### 6.3.2.1.1 Description
This IF is used by the HSS to provide the requested subscriber location and/or
subscriber state information to the gsmSCF. The IF from the HLR to the gsmSCF
is specified in 3GPP TS 23.078 Rel‑99 [4]. The IF is also applied to the
interface between the gsmSCF to the HSS.
#