# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document specifies the stage 2 system description for providing mobility
between 3GPP Wireless Local Area Network Interworking (I‑WLAN) and 3GPP
Systems. The I-WLAN feature defined in TS 23.234 [2] has been discontinued
since Release 13 and it is removed from this specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.234: _\"_ 3GPP Systems to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Interworking; System Description _\"_.
[3] Void.
[4] Void.
[5] Void.
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] Void.
[10] Void.
[11] Void.
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the definition given in TR 21.905
[1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
I‑WLAN Interworking WLAN
# 4 Void
# 5 Void
# 6 Void
###### ## Annex A (Informative): Void
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Void
#