# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document investigates possible enhancements to the Warning Status
Reporting mechanisms specified up to release 12 in 3GPP TS 23.041 [2].
The study will cover:
\- identification of requirements for Warning Status reporting;
\- identification and evaluation of alternatives for Warning Status reporting;
\- analysis on their potential interactions with the existing mechanisms; and
\- recommendations on the alternatives.
The result of this study will be used to identify the changes possibly
required in the 3GPP specifications to support enhanced Warning Status
reporting mechanisms.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
S1 AP S1 Application Protocol
TAI Tracking Area Identity
# 4 Requirements for Warning Status Reporting
Message originators (mobile network operators as well as government
authorities that want to broadcast Public Warning Messages) require knowing if
warning the population is likely to be successful, or if alternative means of
warning citizens need to be considered. Mobile operators require knowing if
they fulfil the service requirements and have actually broadcasted Warning
Messages to citizens.
The following requirements shall be considered for enhanced Warning Status
Reporting:
1\. It shall be possible for the CBC to report, for each cell in the Warning
Area, the number of broadcasts actually performed;
2\. It shall be possible for the CBC to report whether the cells in a Warning
Area are available or not available for PWS.
Editor's note: CT1 does not intend the above requirement to imply any
particular solution, and awaits RAN3 and CT4 feedback on solution feasibility.
Editor's note: Details on timing requirements for reporting are FFS.
# 5 Possible alternatives for Warning Status Reporting
Editor's Note: Alternatives may require reviewing by RAN3.
## 5.1 Alternative 1
### 5.1.1 Alternative overview, Existing Warning Status Reporting mechanisms
#### 5.1.1.1 Pre-release 12
Before release 12 the Write-Replace Warning Indication and the Stop Warning
Indication messages did not exist.
When the CBC sends a Write-Replace Warning Request message to the MME, the MME
immediately responds with a Write-Replace Warning Confirm message without
waiting for any responses from eNodeBs. The eNodeB subsequently returns a
Broadcast Completed Area List in the Write-Replace-Warning-Response over S1AP,
which indicates the cell IDs of the Warning Area for which the Write-Replace
Warning Request was successful, but this list is not propagated by the MME
towards the CBC. This means that the CBC is not aware if initiating of
broadcast in the Warning Area was successful.
When the CBC sends a Stop Warning Request message to the MME, the MME
immediately responds with a Stop Warning Confirm message without waiting for
any responses from eNodeBs. The eNodeB returns a Broadcast Cancelled Area List
in the Kill-Response over S1AP, which indicates the cell IDs of the Warning
Area for which the Kill Request was successful, but this list is not
propagated by the MME towards the CBC. This means that the CBC is not aware if
cancelling of broadcast in the Warning Areas was successful.
Pre-release-12 is not considered any further in the remainder of the present
document.
#### 5.1.1.2 Release 12
New Write-Replace Warning Indication and Stop-Warning Indication procedures
were specified in 3GPP TS 23.041 [2] in release 12.
The detailed specification of these messages is recalled in annex A.
These indication messages are sent by the MME to the CBC, if requested by the
CBC in the corresponding request, to propagate the Broadcast Completed Area
Lists or the Broadcast Cancelled Area Lists that the MME received from eNodeBs
(steps 5 and 10 in figure 5.1.1.2-1).
Figure 5.1.1.2-1: Write-Replace / Stop Warning Indication messages
The procedure to initiate broadcasting a warning message is as follows:
1\. The CBC sends a Write-Replace Warning Request message, containing, amongst
others, a Warning Area List to the MME and an (optional) request to the MME to
return Write-Replace Warning Indication message(s).
2\. The MME responds with a Write-Replace Warning Confirm message without
waiting for a response from any eNodeB.
3\. The MME forwards the Write-Replace Warning Request message to the eNodeBs
that serve a Tracking Area as listed in the List of TAIs.
4\. The eNodeB responds with a Write-Replace Warning Response message which
contains a Broadcast Completed Area list, which includes the Warning Area
where scheduling of broadcast was successful.
5\. The MME may aggregate the Broadcast Completed Area Lists it has received
from the eNodeBs. The MME forwards that in one or more Write-Replace Warning
Indication messages to the CBC which include a Broadcast Scheduled Area List.
If scheduling of broadcast was successful in all the cells in the Warning
Area, then the (aggregated) Broadcast Scheduled Area List matches the Warning
Area List, i.e. the CBC can derive that scheduling of broadcast was successful
in the entire Warning Area. If cells contained in the Warning Area List are
not included in the Broadcast Scheduled Area List then the CBC can derive that
scheduling of broadcast was not successful in those cells and the CBC can
possibly re-attempt the Write-Replace Warning Request procedure in the
unsuccessful cells.
The procedure to cancel broadcasting is as follows:
6\. The CBC sends a Stop Warning Request message, containing, amongst others,
a Warning Area List to the MME.
7\. The MME responds with a Stop Warning Confirm message without waiting for a
response from any eNodeB.
8\. The MME sends a Kill Request message to the eNodeBs that serve a Tracking
Area as listed in the List of TAIs.
9\. The eNodeB responds with a Kill Response message which contains a
Broadcast Cancelled Area list, which includes the Warning Area where
cancelling of broadcast was successful. If the warning message requested to be
stopped did not exist in the eNodeB, the eNodeB does not include the Broadcast
Cancelled Area List in the Kill Response.
10\. The MME may aggregate the Broadcast Cancelled Area Lists it has received
from the eNodeBs. The MME forwards that in one or more Stop Warning Indication
messages to the CBC which includes a Broadcast Cancelled Area List. If the
eNodeB did not include the Broadcast Cancelled Area List in the Kill Response,
the MME includes the corresponding eNodeB ID in the Broadcast Empty Area List
IE in the Stop Warning Indication message, which indicates to the CBC that the
warning message is not scheduled in that eNodeB.
If cancelling of broadcast was successful in all the cells in the Warning
Area, then the (aggregated) Broadcast Cancelled Area List matches the Warning
Area List, i.e. the CBC can derive that scheduling of broadcast was stopped
successfully in the entire Warning Area. If cells contained in the Warning
Area List are not included in the Broadcast Cancelled Area List and if the
corresponding eNodeB ID is not included in the Broadcast Empty Area List IE,
then the CBC can derive that cancelling of broadcast was not successful in
those cells.
### 5.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Since the Write-Replace Warning Indication and Stop-Warning Indication
procedures were specified in 3GPP TS 23.041 [2] in release 12 there is no
impact on existing nodes and functionality in release 13.
### 5.1.3 Alternative evaluation
The requirements in clause 4 are considered for enhanced Warning Status
reporting and evaluated below.
1) It shall be possible for the CBC to report, for each cell in the Warning
Area, the number of broadcasts actually performed;
The Broadcast Completed Area List IE included in the Write-Replace Warning
Response message over S1AP indicates whether the scheduling of the warning
message has been successful or unsuccessful for each cell of the Warning Area.
If the Broadcast Completed Area List IE is not included in the Write-Replace
Warning Response message, the broadcast shall be considered unsuccessful in
all the cells within the eNodeB.
The MME forwards the outcome from the eNodeBs by including the Broadcast
Scheduled Area list(s) in one or more Write-Replace Warning Indication
messages to the CBC.
By including a cell in the Broadcast Completed Area List, the eNodeB indicates
that it has reserved the necessary resources to perform the PWS broadcast in
that cell.
If the Write-Replace Warning Request message is repeated sometime during the
broadcast cycle, while the eNodeB has not yet completed all the requested
number of repetitions, the eNodeB will not start any new broadcast, but will
populate the Broadcast Completed Area List according to the ongoing broadcast.
This indicates to the CBC which cells are (still) broadcast capable, but will
not include the number of broadcasts that have occurred till the moment of
reporting. However, it will allow the CBC to calculate the number of
broadcasts for all the cells that are still broadcast capable.
Solution alternative 1 is evaluated in the following scenarios:
a) eNodeB restart:
In the rare case when there is a complete breakdown of the eNodeB, the eNodeB
will after the restart inform the CBC by the PWS Restart Indication procedure
that the PWS information for all cells of the eNodeB has been lost and ask for
reloading from the CBC if needed. If a complete breakdown of the eNodeB occurs
and the eNodeB does not restart before the end of the PWS broadcast this use
case will from a PWS point of view be perceived as an eNodeB failure without
recovery as described below at scenario.
The broadcasts scheduled for the period the eNodeB is unavailable do not
occur. Even if the broadcast is restored, the CBC cannot report the correct
number of broadcasts performed as it does not know the time when the eNodeB
stopped broadcasting.
b) eNodeB failure without recovery, or HeNodeB switched down:
A complete eNodeB breakdown without recovery is an exceptional event that is
supervised and reported via OAM. For the CBC to take such events into
consideration for PWS reporting, information from other sources would be
needed, e.g. interaction with OAM and the CBC cannot report the correct number
of broadcasts performed as it does not know the time when the HeNodeB
initiated its switch down.
HeNodeBs may also be switched down (e.g. end user switching down its femto),
preventing any further warning message delivery in the corresponding cell. It
is assumed that this case cannot be treated via OAM.
c) eNodeB partial failure:
E.g. a hardware or software failure affecting the Warning Message delivery in
the eNodeB.
When the eNodeB recovers its capability to broadcast warning messages in a
cell, the eNodeB can send a Restart Indication message to request the CBC to
reload on-going warning messages for that cell.
The broadcasts scheduled for the period the eNodeB is unavailable for PWS do
not occur. Even if the broadcast is restored, the CBC cannot report the
correct number of broadcasts performed as it does not know the time when the
eNodeB failed. Thus, even if the broadcast is restored, the CBC cannot report
the correct number of broadcasts performed.
d) cell barring/unbarring:
Most of time cells are barred only based on OAM action or when all S1 links
are down. The CBC could take such events into consideration for PWS reporting
if OAM barring/unbarring of cells is coordinated in the CBC.
Editor's Note: The dependencies between warning message broadcast and cell
barring needs RAN3 evaluation.
Besides, some features can lead to stop or restart services in cells without
OAM, e.g. energy saving feature (see subclause 22.4.4 of 3GPP TS 36.300 [4]).
Other telecom features may also in the future bar/unbar cells without OAM
coordination.
The broadcasts scheduled for the period the cell is barred do not occur (UEs
are not allowed to camp on a barred cell and thus cannot receive any PWS
service from that cell). Even if the broadcast is restored when the cell is
unbarred, the CBC may not be able to report the correct number of broadcasts
performed as it may not know the time when the cell was barred or switched
off.
For the CBC to take such events into consideration for PWS reporting,
interaction with OAM would be needed.
e) OAM driven cases:
Examples:
\- the Warning Message service is enabled/disabled at the eNodeB;
\- de-provisioning of a cell from an eNodeB;
\- on-line modification of an Emergency Area: e.g. if the operator
reconfigures the cell(s) of the eNodeB to make them part of a different
Emergency Area.
These use case normally require corresponding provisioning at the CBC. So it
could be assumed that the CBC is aware of these events, and thus also able to
report the correct number of broadcasts performed if the OAM actions are
synchronized in the eNodeB and CBC.
f) backwards compatibility:
Alternative 1 is not dependent on any update of the PWS system as specified in
3GPP TS 23.041 [2] in addition to what is specified for release 12. The
enhancements possibly needed for enhanced reporting impact the CBC only and
therefore no upgrades of eNodeBs and MMEs are needed.
The CBC that has provided the scheduling information to the eNodeBs can assume
in the successful case that the broadcast of the PWS information has been
performed for each cell. The CBC can also be informed about the unsuccessful
case either by cells that are not included in the Broadcast Scheduled Area
List, or by Restart Indication messages from the MME or by OAM coordination.
The existing functionality specified in 3GPP TS 23.041 [2] provides means, in
the normal case, to fulfil the requirement that it shall be possible for the
CBC to report, for each cell in the Warning Area, whether the broadcast of the
warning message broadcast was successful or not, but:
\- for certain scenarios, e.g. complete eNodeB failures without recovery, cell
barring/unbarring, functionality outside the scope of 3GPP TS 23.041 [2] would
be needed, requiring coordination between the RAN OAM and the CBC OAM, and
thus between OAM from possibly different providers; this coordinated OAM
functionality is not specified and may not even exist;
\- the CBC can calculate the number of warning message broadcasts, based on
the number of repetitions and the repetition period it requested, but the
accuracy can be significantly reduced in scenarios where the broadcast of the
warning message is stopped since the CBC does not know the exact time when the
failure occurs (e.g. time at which the eNodeB stopped broadcasting).In
scenarios where some cells fail in the middle of the broadcast, and do not get
restored before the alert expires, the CBC would report 100% success while
this is not the case. So the CBC metrics are not fully reliable and the CBC
cannot determine whether the metrics it reports are correct or not.
2) It shall be possible for the CBC to report whether the cells in a Warning
Area are available or not available for PWS.
The CBC can send a Write Replace Warning Message which includes a Message
Identifier that will prevent the message from being displayed to the general
public. Such an alert will test the end to end functionality including
broadcast over the radio. The eNodeB response will contain a Broadcast
Completed Area List indicating which cells have scheduled the message
successfully. Cells that are included in the Warning Area List, but are not
included in the Broadcast Completed Area List will not have scheduled the
message. Cause values with the reason for the failure are not provided.
Some reasons for cell "unavailability" may be handled by OAM. Some others may
not, e.g. barring of cell due to telecom reasons. For the CBC to be aware of
the cell availability, interaction with OAM system would be needed, but this
is not in the scope of 3GPP TS 23.041 [2].
NOTE: CBC-OAM details are FFS and might need to be captured as a separate
solution alternative.
## 5.2 Alternative 2
### 5.2.1 Alternative overview, New Warning Status Query and Warning Status
Report procedures
The reporting procedure in alternative 2 can be initiated by the CBC in two
ways:
1\. By initiating a Warning Status Query message which requests the eNodeB to
respond with a Warning Status Report message.
2\. By including a _Requested Number of Reports_ IE in the Write-Replace
Warning Request message which requests the eNodeB to respond with a Warning
Status Report message at a number of pre-determined moments during the
broadcast period.
The option to include the _Requested Number of Reports_ IE in the Write-
Replace Warning Request message allows to limit the amount of signalling
messages (i.e. avoid extra Warning Status Query messages from the CBC).
### 5.2.2 New Warning Status Report requested in Write-Replace Warning Request
#### 5.2.2.1 Message flow
The message flow for the Write-Replace Warning Request message which includes
the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE is shown in figure 5.2.2.1-1. All new
elements are shown in red.
Figure 5.2.2.1-1: Message flow for reports requested through Number of Reports
Requested IE
The procedure for the Write-Replace Warning Request message which includes the
_Number of Reports Requested_ IE is as follows:
1\. The CBC sends a Write-Replace Warning Request message, containing, amongst
others, a Warning Area List and the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE to the
MME.
2\. The MME responds with a Write-Replace Warning Confirm message without
waiting for a response from any eNodeB.
3\. The MME forwards the Write-Replace Warning Request message to the eNodeBs
that serve a Tracking Area as listed in the List of TAIs.
4\. The eNodeB responds with a Write-Replace Warning Response message which
may include a Broadcast Completed Area List.
5\. If the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE has a value equal, or higher than
2, the eNodeB shall send a Warning Status Report message, which includes a
Warning Status List, to the MME, after completing the first broadcast
repetition of the warning message in all the cells of the Warning Area
available for PWS.
> If the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE has a value equal, or higher than 1,
> the eNodeB shall send a Warning Status Report message, which includes a
> Warning Status List, to the MME, immediately after sending the Write-Replace
> Warning Response if the Write-Replace Warning Request did not result in
> message broadcast in any of the cells in the requested Warning Area.
6\. The MME may aggregate the Warning Status Lists it has received from the
eNodeBs in step 5. The MME forwards that in one or more Warning Status Report
Indication messages to the CBC.
7\. If the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE =N, where N is a value higher than
2, the eNodeB shall send additional N-2 Warning Status Report message(s) to
the MME, which includes a Warning Status List, after the first Warning Status
Report message (step 2), and before the last Warning Status Report (Step 9) by
evenly spreading N-2 reports during the broadcast period,.
8\. The MME may aggregate the Warning Status Lists it has received from the
eNodeBs in step(s) 7. The MME forwards that in one or more Warning Status
Report Indication messages to the CBC.
9\. If the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE has value equal, or higher than 1,
the eNodeB shall send a Warning Status Report message, which includes a
Warning Status List, to the MME after completing the last broadcast in all the
cells of the Warning Area available for PWS.
10\. The MME may aggregate the Warning Status Lists it has received from the
eNodeBs in step 9. The MME forwards that in one or more Warning Status Report
Indication messages to the CBC.
The procedure when a warning message is cancelled before it expires is shown
in figure 5.2.2.1-2. All new elements are shown in red.
Figure 5.2.2.1-2: Message flow if warning message is cancelled
The procedure for the Write-Replace Warning Request message which includes the
_Number of Reports Requested_ IE is as follows:
1\. The CBC sends a Stop Warning Request message, containing, amongst others,
a Warning Area List to the MME.
2\. The MME responds with a Stop Warning Confirm message without waiting for a
response from any eNodeB.
3\. The MME sends a Kill Request message to the eNodeBs that serve a Tracking
Area as listed in the List of TAIs.
4\. The eNodeB responds with a Kill Response message which includes a
Broadcast Cancelled Area List.
5\. If the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE was included in the Write-Replace
Warning Request message then the eNodeB shall send a Warning Status Report
message (regardless of whether the Kill Request stopped all broadcast of the
message or not), which includes a Warning Status List, to the MME.
6\. The MME may aggregate the Warning Status Lists it has received from the
eNodeBs in step 5. The MME forwards that in one or more Warning Status Report
Indication messages to the CBC.
#### 5.2.2.2 Message description
##### 5.2.2.2.1 Requested Number of Reports IE
The CBC may request the eNodeB to send a Warning Status Report message at a
number of pre-determined moments during the broadcast period by including a
_Requested Number of Reports_ IE in the Write-Replace Warning Request message:
\- If the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE is set to 1 then the Warning Status
Report message shall be sent to the CBC immediately after expiration or
cancellation of the warning message after all active cells (i.e. cells which
are available for PWS) in the Warning Area have ceased broadcasting the
warning message;
\- If the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE is set to 2 then the Warning Status
Report messages shall be sent to the CBC immediately after the start of the
warning message when each active cell in the Warning Area has completed at
least one broadcast repetition and immediately after broadcast of the warning
message has ceased in all the active cells of the Warning Area;
\- If the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE has a value higher than 2 then
Warning Status Report messages shall be sent to the CBC immediately after the
start of the warning message, immediately after the warning message has
expired and the remaining number of reports shall be spread evenly between the
start and the message expiration. E.g. if the CBC requests to broadcast a
warning message 100 times in a Warning Area and requests to receive 3 reports,
the eNodeB sends a Warning Status Report when all the active cells of the
Warning Area have broadcast the 1^st^ repetition, the 50^th^ and the last
repetition of the warning message;
\- If the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE is set to 1 or a value higher than
1 and the outcome of the Write-Replace Warning Request or the Kill Request was
unsuccessful for all the cells in the Warning Area, then the Warning Status
Report message shall be sent to the CBC immediately after sending the Write-
Replace Warning Response or the Kill Response message.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Report format
At the requested moments (derived from the _Requested Number of Reports_ IE in
the Write-Replace Warning Request message) the eNodeB will send a Warning
Status Report to the MME.
The Warning Status Report would contain the following IEs:
* * *
**PARAMETER** **PRESENCE** **COMMENT** Message Type M  
Global eNB ID M  
Report Number O Identifies the sequence in the Warning Status Report messages
Message Identifier O  
Serial-Number O  
Warning Status List O
* * *
The Warning Status List would contain the following IEs for each cell in the
Warning Area:
* * *
**PARAMETER** **PRESENCE** **COMMENT** Cell Identifier M  
Number of Broadcasts Completed O  
Cause E-UTRAN O Applicable if cell is unavailable for broadcast
* * *
If the Write-Replace Warning Request resulted in successful scheduling of the
message in at least one requested cell, then the Warning Status List, in any
of the Warning Status Reports from the eNodeB, would contain the _Number of
Broadcasts Completed_ IE so far for all cells in which the message was
broadcast and would contain a _Cause E-UTRAN_ IE for each unsuccessful cell
(i.e. cell for which the Write-Replace Warning Request was not successful or
cell for which the message could not be broadcast).
If the Write-Replace Warning Request did not result in a broadcast of the
message in any of the cells in the Warning Area of the eNodeB, then the eNodeB
would send a Warning Status Report containing a _Cause E-UTRAN_ IE for all the
cells in the Warning Area, but would not send any subsequent Warning Status
Reports anymore for this request.
If the Kill Request did not result in stopping broadcast of the message in any
of the cells in the Warning Area of the eNodeB (e.g. broadcasting had already
ceased), then the eNodeB would send a Warning Status Report containing a
_Cause E-UTRAN_ IE for all the related cells informing the CBC that the
warning message is not existing in these cells.
#### 5.2.2.3 Interaction with existing reporting mechanisms
The CBC may choose using either the Warning Status Lists or the Broadcast
Scheduled Area List:
\- If the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE is present in the Write-Replace
Warning Request, then the CBC receives the Warning Status Lists from the MME
in Warning Status Report Indication messages, which provide the list of cells
which the CBC may use to update the status of the cells itself or update the
status of the message broadcast in the cells, or
\- If the _Send Write-Replace Warning Indication_ IE is present in the Write-
Replace Warning Request, then the MME forwards the Broadcast Scheduled Area
List to the CBC which contains the list of cells where scheduling of broadcast
was successful.
It would not be allowed to use both mechanisms concurrently.
#### 5.2.2.4 Impacts
##### 5.2.2.4.1 CBC impacts
1\. Initiating reporting: the reporting mechanism can be initiated by the CBC
by including the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE in the Write-Replace Warning
Request message. The _Number of Reports Requested_ IE is a new optional IE.
2\. Receiving reports: supporting the new Warning Status Report message.
##### 5.2.2.4.2 MME impacts
1\. Distributing request messages: the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE may be
included in the Write-Replace Warning Request message and the MME shall
include this IE in the Write-Replace Warning Request messages it forwards to
eNodeBs.
2\. Receiving and optionally aggregating reports: the eNodeBs send their
Warning Status Reports, which include a Warning Status List, to the MME and
the MME shall forward the Warning Status Lists to the CBC. The MME may
aggregate multiple lists in order to reduce the signalling over the SBc
interface by appending Warning Status Lists to an already available list.
##### 5.2.2.4.3 eNodeB impacts
As per existing behaviour,
\- If the eNodeB receives a Write-Replace Warning Request message then the
eNodeB will first respond with a Write-Replace Warning Response message which
includes a Broadcast Completed Area List. The Broadcast Completed Area List
contains a list of cells which are available for broadcast at the time when
the eNodeB received the Write-Replace Warning Request message.
\- If a message is cancelled with a Kill Request message, the eNodeB responds
with a Kill Response message which includes a Broadcast Cancelled Area List.
The Broadcast Cancelled Area List contains a list of cells where cancelling
the message was successful and the number of broadcasts that have been
completed for each cell.
In addition:
1\. If the Write-Replace Warning Request message included the _Number of
Reports Requested_ IE then the eNodeB will also initiate a Warning Status
Report message:
\- after completion of the last broadcast (if _Number of Reports Requested =
1)_
\- after completion of the last and the first broadcast in all cells that are
available for PWS (if _Number of Reports Requested = 2)_ ;
\- after completion of the first and the last broadcast in all cells that are
available for PWS and during the broadcast period between the first and the
last broadcast (if _Number of Reports Requested > 2)._
> The Warning status Report includes a Warning Status List which contains a
> list of the cells of the Warning Area and will indicate the number of
> broadcasts that have been completed so far, or the cause of the failure in
> case the cell is not broadcasting the message.
2\. Following a Kill Request, if the Write-Replace Warning Request message
included the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE then the eNodeB shall send a
Warning Status Reports message after the message has ceased broadcasting in
all the cells in the Warning Area.
### 5.2.3 New Warning Status Query procedure
#### 5.2.3.1 Message flow
The message flow for the Warning Status Query message is shown in figure
5.2.3.1-1. All new elements are shown in red.
Figure 5.2.3.1-1: Message flow for Warning Status Query
The procedure for the Warning Status Query message is as follows:
1\. The CBC sends a Warning Status Query Request message, containing, amongst
others, a Warning Area List to the MME.
2\. The MME responds with a Warning Status Query Confirm message without
waiting for a response from any eNodeB.
3\. The MME forwards the Warning Status Query Request message to the eNodeBs
that serve a Tracking Area as listed in the List of TAIs.
4\. The eNodeB responds with a Warning Status Query Response message which
includes a Warning Status Report.
5\. The MME may aggregate the Warning Status Lists it has received from the
eNodeBs. The MME forwards that in one or more Warning Status Report Indication
messages to the CBC.
#### 5.2.3.2 Message description
The Warning Status Query is sent by the CBC and requests the eNodeB to respond
with a Warning Status Report message.
If the Serial Number and Message Identifier are included in the request
message, then the eNodeB is requested to report on the status of message
broadcast for the message identified by the Serial Number and Message
Identifier. If the Serial Number and Message Identifier are not included in
the request message, then the eNodeB is requested to report on the status of
broadcast readiness of its cells.
If the Warning Status Query includes a Serial Number and Message Identifier
but the warning message is no longer broadcasted in these cells, then the
eNodeB sends a Warning Status Report containing a _Cause E-UTRAN_ IE for all
the related cells telling the CBC that the warning message is not existing in
these cells.
#### 5.2.3.3 Interaction with existing reporting mechanisms
None. This is a new procedure that allows ad-hoc query by the CBC.
#### 5.2.3.4 Impacts
##### 5.2.3.4.1 CBC impacts
1\. Initiating reporting: the reporting mechanism can be initiated by the CBC
by initiating the Warning Status Query procedure. The Warning Status Query
procedure is a new procedure.
2\. Receiving reports: the Warning Status Lists, which are received by the CBC
from the MME, are identical to the Warning Status Lists which were initiated
by the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE which was included in the Write-
Replace Warning Request message (see subclause 5.2.2.3.1.2).
##### 5.2.3.4.2 MME impacts
1\. Distributing request messages: the Warning Status Query Request procedure
is a new procedure for the MME. The mechanism for distribution of a Warning
Status Query Request message is similar to the distribution of a Write-Replace
Warning Request message or a Stop Warning Request message.
2\. Receiving and optionally aggregating reports: the eNodeBs send their
Warning Status Reports, which include a Warning Status List, to the MME and
the MME shall forward the Warning Status Lists to the CBC. The MME may
aggregate multiple lists in order to reduce the signalling over the SBc
interface by appending Warning Status Lists to an already available list.
##### 5.2.3.4.3 eNodeB impacts
1\. When the eNodeB receives a Warning Status Query Request it shall
immediately return a response. The content of the response message is
identical to the content of the message which the eNodeB sends when requested
to do so through the _Number of Reports Requested_ IE which was included in
the Write-Replace Warning Request message (see subclause 5.2.2.2.2).
### 5.2.4 Alternative evaluation
The requirements in clause 4 are considered for enhanced Warning Status
reporting and evaluated below.
> 1) It shall be possible for the CBC to report, for each cell in the Warning
> Area, the number of broadcasts actually performed;
The Warning Status Report allows the eNodeB to report whether broadcast was
successful or not for each cell in the Warning Area, including the reason for
any failure, and how many times the warning message was broadcasted.
The CBC can request the eNodeB to generate such a report at a number of pre-
determined moments during the broadcasting cycle: at the start of a message to
determine if the message actually completed at least one broadcast repetition,
at the end of the message to establish a KPI for the alerting, at intermediate
times or ad-hoc moments.
Solution alternative 2 is evaluated in the following scenarios:
a) eNodeB restart:
In the rare case when there is a complete breakdown of the eNodeB, the eNodeB
will not generate Warning Status Reports for the warning messages which were
being broadcasted; the eNodeB will after the restart inform the CBC by the PWS
Restart Indication procedure that the PWS information for all cells of the
eNodeB has been lost and ask for reloading from the CBC if needed. If a
complete breakdown of the eNodeB occurs and the eNodeB does not restart before
the end of the PWS broadcast this use case will from a PWS point of view be
perceived as an eNodeB failure without recovery as described below at scenario
b.
The broadcasts scheduled for the period the eNodeB is unavailable do not
occur. All warning message data is deleted at eNodeB restart, so the eNodeB
cannot provide the CBC with information of the number of successful broadcasts
completed before the restart. The CBC cannot calculate the number of
successful broadcasts completed before the restart as it does not know the
time when the eNodeB stopped broadcasting. Thus, even if the broadcast is
restored, the CBC cannot report the correct number of broadcasts performed.
b) eNodeB failure without recovery, or HeNodeB switched down:
A complete eNodeB breakdown without recovery will lead to the CBC no longer
receiving any Warning Status Reports for the warning messages which were being
broadcasted. The CBC cannot calculate the number of successful broadcasts
completed before the failure as it does not know the time when the eNodeB
failed. Thus, the CBC cannot report the correct number of broadcasts
performed.
HeNodeBs may also be switched down (e.g. end user switching down its femto),
preventing any further warning message delivery in the corresponding cell. In
the case of a graceful switch down, a Warning Status Report can be sent when
the broadcast of the warning message is stopped, with a cause value indicating
that the warning message service is no longer available in the corresponding
cell. In case of a non-graceful switch down, the CBC will no longer receive
any Warning Status Reports for the warning messages which were being
broadcasted. The CBC cannot calculate the number of successful broadcasts
completed before the failure as it does not know the time when the HeNodeB was
shutdown. Thus, the CBC cannot report the correct number of broadcasts
performed.
c) eNodeB partial failure:
E.g. a hardware or software failure affecting the Warning Message delivery in
the eNodeB.
When the eNodeB recovers its capability to broadcast warning messages in a
cell, the eNodeB can send a Restart Indication message to request the CBC to
reload on-going warning messages for that cell.
The broadcasts scheduled for the period the eNodeB is unavailable for PWS do
not occur. The CBC cannot calculate the number of successful broadcasts
completed before the failure as it does not know the time when the eNodeB
failed. Thus, even if the broadcast is restored, the CBC cannot report the
correct number of broadcasts performed. However, the CBC is aware of this,
since it has received a Restart Indication message.
d) cell barring/unbarring:
When a cell is barred, the eNodeB can send a Warning Status Report with a
cause value indicating that the warning message service is no longer available
in the corresponding cells. When the cell is unbarred, the eNodeB can send a
Restart Indication message to request the CBC to reload on-going warning
messages for that cell.
The CBC can calculate the number of broadcasts that have not occurred based on
the time instant it has received the Warning Status Report and the time
instant for the reload of on-going warning messages for that cell.
When the cell is barred due to all S1 links being down, the CBC will not
receive any reporting from the eNodeB. The CBC cannot calculate the number of
successful broadcasts completed before the barring as it does not know the
time when the HeNodeB was barred. Thus, the CBC cannot report the correct
number of broadcasts performed.
Editor's Note: The dependencies between warning message broadcast and cell
barring needs RAN3 evaluation.
Besides some features can lead to stop or restart services in cells, e.g.
energy saving feature (see subclause 22.4.4 of 3GPP TS 36.300 [4]). Other
telecom features may also in the future bar/unbar cells. For alternative 2 to
report the correct number of broadcasts performed in these cases, Warning
Status Report and Restart Indication messages need to be sent.
Editor's Note: Whether the required enhancements of such features to report
the number of broadcasts performed upon cell barring are feasible needs RAN3
evaluation.
e) OAM driven cases:
> Examples:
\- the Warning Message service is enabled/disabled at the eNodeB;
\- de-provisioning of a cell from an eNodeB;
\- on-line modification of an Emergency Area: e.g. if the operator
reconfigures the cell(s) of the eNodeB to make them part of a different
Emergency Area.
> A Warning Status Report can be sent when the broadcast of the warning
> message is stopped, with a cause value indicating that the warning message
> service is no longer available in the corresponding cell.
f) backwards compatibility:
An eNodeB which has release 12 functionality implemented, but not the
functionality proposed in alternative 2, would not understand the _Number of
Reports Requested_ IE or the Warning Status Query and consequently not send
any Warning Status Report. The functionality of alternative 2 can only be used
by the CBC and MME with eNodeBs upgraded to support this functionality.
The CBC that has provided the scheduling information to the eNodeBs can assume
in the successful case that the requested reporting will be performed. The CBC
can also be informed about the unsuccessful case by Warning Status Report and
Restart Indication messages from the MME.
The proposed alternative 2 functionality provides means, in the normal case,
to fulfil the requirement that it shall be possible for the CBC to report, for
each cell in the Warning Area, whether the broadcast of the warning message
broadcast was successful or not, but:
\- for certain scenarios, e.g. complete eNodeB failures without recovery and
cell barring/unbarring (S1 failure), functionality outside the scope of 3GPP
TS 23.041 [2] would be needed, requiring coordination between the RAN OAM and
the CBC OAM, and thus between OAM from possibly different providers; this
coordinated OAM functionality is not specified and may not even exist;
\- the CBC can report the exact number of warning message broadcasts, based on
received reports from eNodeBs, but the accuracy of the number of broadcasts
can be significantly reduced in scenarios where the broadcast of the warning
message is stopped without Warning Status Report message since the CBC does
not know the exact time when the failure occurs (e.g. the time at which the
eNodeB stopped broadcasting). However, the CBC can determine which metrics are
exact or not (i.e. derived from reports from eNodeBs or not).
2) It shall be possible for the CBC to report whether the cells in a Warning
Area are available or not available for PWS.
The Warning Status Query Request procedure allows the CBC to determine, at any
desired moment, if cells are capable of broadcasting warning messages.
The Warning Status Report in the Status Query Response contains a cause value
for each cell in the Warning Area indicating if the cell is available for PWS
or not.
## 5.3 Alternative 3
### 5.3.1 Alternative overview, Failure Indication
#### 5.3.1.1 Release 12
The Restart Indication message from the eNodeB towards MME leads the MME to
send a Restart Indication message towards the CBC.
This message from the MME to the CBC contains the eNodeB ID and a restarted
cell list, among other parameters.
#### 5.3.1.2 Failure Indication
When the eNodeB detects a cell is operationally down, it reports the failure
towards the MME with the failed cell list in a Failure Indication message with
the failure reason. The MME shall in turn forward the Failure Indication
message towards the CBC. This is to enable CBC's awareness of failed cells
(i.e. cell status). This Failure Indication message is sent both during an
ongoing broadcast or when there is no broadcast scheduled.
The trigger for the Failure Indication is that one or more cells become
operationally down for some reason. The figure below illustrates how the
Failure Indication is reported by the eNodeB towards the CBC:
Figure 5.3.2.1-1: Failure indication
1\. The eNodeB sends a Failure Indication message to the MME after detecting
that one or more cells become unavailable for PWS. The trigger for the Failure
Indication can be also due to the cell barred or when some other OAM driven
trigger occurred. The message contains a Failed Area List. The message also
contains the failure reason per cell.
2\. The MME forwards the Failure Indication message towards the CBC (or more
CBCs).
When the CBC receives the Failure Indication it stores the list of failed
cells.
3\. When the previously failed cell(s) become available for PWS then the
eNodeB sends a Restart Indication listing the cell(s) that are again available
for broadcast of warning messages if necessary.
4\. The MME forwards the Restart Indication received from the eNodeB towards
the CBC.
The CBC clears the previously failed cell(s).
If the CBC has to report the status of cells in a Warning Area then the CBC
reports the cell status stored and maintained based on the received Failure
Indication and Restart Indication messages. If a certain cell is indicated as
unavailable for PWS (the cell is operationally down or for other reasons it
cannot broadcast warning message) with a Failure Indication message then the
CBC shall provide its status as unavailable for PWS until a Restart Indication
clears the PWS unavailable status for the corresponding cell.
### 5.3.4 Alternative evaluation
The requirements in clause 4 are considered for enhanced Warning Status
reporting and evaluated below.
1) It shall be possible for the CBC to report, for each cell in the Warning
Area, the number of broadcasts actually performed
The Failure Indication message in combination with the Restart Indication
message allows the CBC to provide a report if a cell is broadcast capable or
not. If the cell was broadcasting a message the CBC can calculate the number
of message broadcasts that were not performed during the time the cell was not
broadcast capable. As the CBC receives the Broadcast Scheduled Area List at
the beginning of the broadcast period the CBC can assume that until a Failure
Indication message or Restart Indication message is received the broadcast is
ongoing as scheduled.
Solution alternative 3 is evaluated in the following scenarios:
a) eNodeB restart:
In case there is a complete breakdown of the eNodeB, the eNodeB will after the
restart inform the CBC by the Restart Indication message that the PWS
information for all cells of the eNodeB has been lost and ask for reloading
from the CBC if needed. If a complete breakdown of the eNodeB occurs and the
eNodeB does not restart before the end of the PWS broadcast this use case will
from a PWS point of view be perceived as an eNodeB failure without recovery as
described below at scenario b[).]{.underline}
The broadcasts scheduled for the period the eNodeB is unavailable do not
occur. Even if the broadcast is restored, the CBC cannot report the correct
number of broadcasts performed as it does not know the time when the eNodeB
stopped broadcasting.
b) eNodeB failure without recovery, or HeNodeB switched down:
A complete eNodeB breakdown without recovery is an exceptional event and will
lead to the CBC not receiving a Failure Indication message or any subsequent
Restart Indication message The CBC cannot calculate the correct number of
successful broadcasts completed before the failure as it is not aware of the
eNodeB failure. Thus, the CBC cannot report the correct number of broadcasts
performed.
HeNodeBs may also be switched down (e.g. end user switching down its femto),
preventing any further warning message delivery in the corresponding cell. In
the case of a graceful switch down, a Failure Indication message can be sent
when the broadcast of the warning message is stopped, with a cause value
indicating that the warning message service is no longer available in the
corresponding cell. In case of a non-graceful switch down, the CBC will not
receive any Failure Indication from the HeNodeB. The CBC cannot calculate the
number of successful broadcasts completed before the failure as it does not
know the HeNodeB was shutdown. Thus, the CBC cannot report the correct number
of broadcasts performed.
c) eNodeB partial failure:
E.g. a hardware or software failure affecting the Warning Message delivery in
the eNodeB.
When the eNodeB fails its capability to broadcast warning messages in a cell,
the eNodeB sends a Failure Indication message with a cause value indicating
that the warning message service is no longer available in the corresponding
cells.
When the eNodeB recovers its capability to broadcast warning messages in a
cell, the eNodeB sends a Restart Indication message to request the CBC to
reload on-going warning messages for that cell.
The CBC can calculate the number of broadcasts that have not occurred based on
the time instant it has received the Failure Indication message and the time
instant for the reload of on-going warning messages for that cell.
d) cell barring/unbarring:
When a cell is barred, the eNodeB sends a Failure Indication message with a
cause value indicating that the warning message service is no longer available
in the corresponding cells. When the cell is unbarred, the eNodeB sends a
Restart Indication message to request the CBC to reload on-going warning
messages for that cell.
The CBC can calculate the number of broadcasts that have not occurred based on
the time instant it has received the Failure Indication message and the time
instant for the reload of on-going warning messages for that cell.
When the cell is barred due to all S1 links being down, the CBC will not
receive any messages from the eNodeB. The CBC cannot calculate the number of
successful broadcasts completed before the barring as it does not know the
time when the eNodeB was barred. Thus, the CBC cannot report the correct
number of broadcasts performed.
Editor's Note: The dependencies between warning message broadcast and cell
barring needs RAN3 evaluation.
Besides some features can lead to stop or restart services in cells, e.g.
energy saving feature (see subclause 22.4.4 of 3GPP TS 36.300 [4]). Other
telecom features may also in the future bar/unbar cells. For alternative 3 to
report the correct number of broadcasts performed in these cases, Failure
Indication messages and Restart Indication messages need to be sent.
Editor's Note: Whether the required enhancements of such features to report a
Failure Indication message upon cell barring are feasible needs RAN3
evaluation.
e) OAM driven cases:
> Examples:
\- the Warning Message service is enabled/disabled at the eNodeB;
\- de-provisioning of a cell from an eNodeB;
\- on-line modification of an Emergency Area: e.g. if the operator
reconfigures the cell(s) of the eNodeB to make them part of a different
Emergency Area.
The eNodeB sends a Failure Indication when services are stopped and a Restart
Indication when services are restarted in a cell.
The CBC can calculate the number of broadcasts that have not occurred based on
the time instant it has received the Failure Indication message and the time
instant for the reload of on-going warning messages for that cell.
f) backwards compatibility:
An eNodeB which has release 12 functionality implemented, but not the
functionality proposed in alternative 3, cannot send a Failure Indication. The
functionality of alternative 3 can only be used by the CBC with MMEs and
eNodeBs upgraded to support this functionality.
The CBC that has provided the scheduling information to the eNodeBs can assume
in the successful case that the requested reporting will be performed. The CBC
can also be informed about the unsuccessful case by Failure Indication
messages and Restart Indication messages from the MME.
The proposed alternative 3 functionality provides means, in the normal case,
to fulfil the requirement that it shall be possible for the CBC to report, for
each cell in the Warning Area, whether the broadcast of the warning message
broadcast was successful or not, but:
\- for certain scenarios, e.g. complete eNodeB failures without recovery and
cell barring/unbarring (S1 failure), functionality outside the scope of 3GPP
TS 23.041 [2] would be needed, requiring coordination between the RAN OAM and
the CBC OAM, and thus between OAM from possibly different providers; this
coordinated OAM functionality is not specified and may not even exist;
\- the CBC can calculate the number of warning message broadcasts, based on
the cell availability for PWS reported by eNodeBs, but the accuracy can be
significantly reduced in scenarios where the broadcast of the warning message
is stopped without Failure Indication message since the CBC does not know the
exact time when the failure occurs (e.g. time at which the eNodeB stopped
broadcasting). So the CBC metrics are not fully reliable and the CBC cannot
determine whether the metrics it reports are correct or not.
2) It shall be possible for the CBC to report whether the cells in a Warning
Area are available or not available for PWS.
The Failure Indication message, in combination with the Restart Indication
message allows the eNodeB to report to the CBC if a cell is broadcast capable
or not. The CBC receiving a Failure Indication from an (H)eNodeB stores the
status information and can report the related cell(s) status as not available
for PWS. When the CBC receives a Restart Indication then the CBC updates the
related cell status and can report the cell as available for PWS.
The CBC will not be aware of whether some cells are not available for PWS in
scenarios where the broadcast service is stopped in the (H)eNodeB without
Failure Indication message being sent to the CBC (e.g. complete eNodeB failure
or S1AP path failure).
The evaluation above shows that introducing the capability for eNodeB to
report Failure indication partly fulfils the existing requirements in clause 4
of the present document. For correct PWS availability reporting at failures
where no Failure Indication message is sent from eNodeB to CBC additional
functionality is required, e.g. OAM interaction or sending of a Write Replace
Warning Message which includes a Message Identifier that will prevent the
message from being displayed to the general public as described in alternative
1.
# 6 Conclusions and recommendations
## 6.1 Solution for enhanced Warning Status Reporting
### 6.1.1 General
Conclusions and recommendations are specified against the two requirements
specified in clause 4.
Further work will occur via normative CRs and there will be no further
additions, alignments or corrections to this technical report.
### 6.1.2 Requirement 1
Requirement 1: It shall be possible for the CBC to report, for each cell in
the Warning Area, the number of broadcasts actually performed.
Alternatives 1 and 2 would cause significant and undesirable extra signalling
within the EPS and additional load to MMEs, as
\- Alternative 1 would result in sending additional Write-Replace Warning
Request messages to every (H)eNBs in the warning area (possibly comprising up
to several hundreds of (H)eNBs) and corresponding Write-Replace Warning
Indications to be returned to the CBC;
\- Alternative 2 would result in every (H)eNBs in the warning area (possibly
comprising up to several hundreds of (H)eNBs) possibly sending several Warning
Status Report messages per warning message.
The greater the warning area or the required reliability of CBC reports, or
the longer the warning message is being broadcasted, the more signalling load
would be involved. These alternatives are therefore discouraged.
The alternative 3 is more signalling efficient by avoiding any extra
signalling other than for notifying rare eNB failures or shutdowns. The
Failure Indication message, in combination with the existing release 12
Restart Indication message, allows the eNodeB to report to the CBC if a cell
is available or not for PWS.
It is therefore recommended to standardize the alternative 3 within the
release 13 timeframe.
### 6.1.3 Requirement 2
Requirement 2: It shall be possible for the CBC to report whether the cells in
a Warning Area are available or not available for PWS.
The Failure Indication message, in combination with the Restart Indication
message allows the eNodeB to report to the CBC if a cell is broadcast capable
or not. Alternatively, availability of cells for PWS may be derived from OAM.
However, there is no standardized interface to the CBC from OAM to report cell
availability.
It is therefore recommended to standardize the alternative 3 within the
Release 13 timeframe.
## 6.2 Impact on existing 3GPP specifications
Table 6.2.1 identifies the specifications that require modification to support
the conclusions of subclause 6.1.
Table 6.2.1: Impacts to 3GPP specifications
* * *
Existing Specification Responsible WG Brief summary of impacts 3GPP TS 23.041
CT1 New Failure Indication procedure 3GPP TS 29.168 CT4 New Failure Indication
procedure 3GPP TS 36.300 RAN3 New Failure Indication procedure 3GPP TS 36.413
RAN3 New Failure Indication procedure NOTE: the exact list of the RAN
specifications will be determined by RAN3.
* * *
###### ### Annex A: Release 12 Write-Replace / Stop Warning Indication
messages
The present annex contains the relevant parts from the specification of the
Write-Replace Warning Indication and Stop Warning Indication messages in 3GPP
TS 23.041 [2].
# A.1 Write-Replace Warning Indication
The WRITE-REPLACE-WARNING-REQUEST message contains the optional _Send Write-
Replace-Warning-Indication_ IE. If this IE is present then the WRITE-REPLACE
WARNING INDICATION message is sent by the MME to report to the CBC the
Broadcast Scheduled Area List(s) the MME has received from the eNodeB(s) as
Broadcast Completed Area List (see subclause A.1.1). Multiple responses from
eNodeBs may be combined in a Broadcast Scheduled Area List.
The WRITE-REPLACE WARNING INDICATION message contains the following IEs:
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE Message Type M Message Identifier M Serial-Number M
Broadcast Scheduled Area List O
* * *
The _Broadcast Scheduled Area List_ IE is not included in the WRITE-REPLACE
WARNING INDICATION message when the broadcast is unsuccessful in all the cells
within the eNodeBs.
### A.1.1 Broadcast Completed Area List
_The Broadcast Completed Area List_ IE indicates the areas where broadcast was
performed successfully.
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and | | | | | Reference | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | CHOICE | | | | | _Broadcast | | | | | Completed Area_ | | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > _> Broadcast | | | | | > Completed | | | | | > Area_ | | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > **> >Cell ID | | _1 .. | | | > Broadcast**| | \ * | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > | M | | 9.2.1.38 in | | **>>>E-CGI**| | | [3] | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > _> TAI | | | | | > Broadcast_ | | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > **>>TAI | | _1 .. | | | > Broadcast_ _| | \ * | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > __> >>TAI_ _| M | | 9.2.3.16 in | | | | | [3] | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > * | | _1 .. | | | _> >>Completed | | \ Cell in TAI | | noofCellinTAI>_ | | | > List** | | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | >>>>E-CGI | M | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > _**>Emergency | | | | | > Area ID** _| | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > | | _1 .. | | | **>>Emergency | | \ Area ID | | ergencyAreaID>_| | | > Broadcast_ _| | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > | M | | 9.2.1.47 in | | >>>Emergency | | | [3] | | > Area ID | | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > * | | _1 .. | | | _> >>Completed | | \ Cell in | | noofCellinEAI>_ | | | > Emergency Area | | | | | > ID List** | | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | >>>>E-CGI | M | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofCellID Maximum no. of Cell ID subject for
warning message broadcast. Value is 65535. maxnoofTAIforWarning Maximum no. of
TAI subject for warning message broadcast. Value is 65535.
maxnoofEmergencyAreaID Maximum no. of Emergency Area ID subject for warning
message broadcast. Value is 65535. maxnoofCellinTAI Maximum no. of Cell ID
within a TAI. Value is 65535. maxnoofCellinEAI Maximum no. of Cell ID within
an Emergency Area. Value is 65535.
* * *
# A.2 Stop-Warning-Indication
This STOP-WARNING INDICATION message is sent by the MME to report to the CBC
the Broadcast Cancelled Area List the MME has received from the eNodeB in a
KILL RESPONSE. If the MME has received a KILL RESPONSE without a _Broadcast
Cancelled Area List_ IE, then the eNodeB ID shall be included in the Broadcast
Empty Area List instead. The MME may aggregate Broadcast Cancelled Area Lists
it receives from eNodeBs.
The STOP-WARNING INDICATION message contains the following IEs:
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE Message Type M Message Identifier M Serial-Number M
Broadcast Cancelled Area List O Broadcast Empty Area List O
* * *
The _Broadcast Cancelled Area List_ IE is included in the STOP-WARNING-
INDICATION when stopping the broadcast was successful in at least one of the
cells within the eNodeBs.
The _Broadcast Empty Area List_ IE shall be included in the STOP-WARNING-
INDICATION when the MME has received at least one KILL RESPONSE without
_Broadcast Cancelled Area List_ IE.
## A.2.1 Broadcast Cancelled Area List
_The Broadcast Cancelled Area List_ IE indicates the areas where broadcast was
stopped successfully.
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and | | | | | Reference | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | CHOICE | | | | | _Broadcast | | | | | Cancelled Area_ | | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > _> CID | | | | | > Cancelled_ | | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > **> >Cell ID | | *1 .. | | | > Cancelled** | | \_| | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > >>>E-CGI | M | | 9.2.1.38 in | | | | | [3] | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > >>>Number | M | | 9.2.1.71 in | | > of Broadcasts | | | [3] | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > _>TAI | | | | | > Cancelled _| | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > __> >TAI | | _1 .. | | | > Cancelled**| | \ * | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > >>>TAI | M | | 9.2.3.16 in | | | | | [3] | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > \ | | *1 .. | | | >>>**Cancelled | | \ Cell in TAI | | noofCellinTAI>_| | | > List_ _| | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | >>>>E-CGI | M | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | >>>>Number | M | | 9.2.1.71 in | | of Broadcasts | | | [3] | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > _>Emergency | | | | | > Area | | | | | > Cancelled _| | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > | | _1 .. | | | **> >Emergency | | \ Area ID | | ergencyAreaID>* | | | > Cancelled** | | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > * | M | | 9.2.1.47 in | | _> >>Emergency | | | [3] | | > Area ID_ _| | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | > \ | | _1 .. | | | >>>**Cancelled | | \ Cell in | | noofCellinEAI>* | | | > Emergency Area | | | | | > ID List** | | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | >>>>E-CGI | M | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | >>>>Number | M | | 9.2.1.71 in | | of Broadcasts | | | [3] | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofCellID Maximum no. of Cell ID subject for
warning message broadcast. Value is 65535. maxnoofTAIforWarning Maximum no. of
TAI subject for warning message broadcast. Value is 65535.
maxnoofEmergencyAreaID Maximum no. of Emergency Area ID subject for warning
message broadcast. Value is 65535. maxnoofCellinTAI Maximum no. of Cell ID
within a TAI. Value is 65535. maxnoofCellinEAI Maximum no. of Cell ID within
an Emergency Area. Value is 65535.
* * *
## A.2.2 Broadcast Empty Area List
The _Broadcast Empty Area List_ IE contains a list of the eNodeB IDs of
eNodeBs that have responded to the MME with a KILL RESPONSE message in which
the _Broadcast Cancelled Area List_ IE was not included (see 3GPP TS 36.413
[3]).
The MME may aggregate eNodeB IDs into the Broadcast Empty Area List.
#