# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
**The objective of this Technical Report is to study and specify potential
modifications to the MBMS/GCSE_LTE architectures and/or procedures as
specified in TS** **23.246** **[2] and** TS 23.468 [3] **to enable the
following improvements and enhancements:**
1\. to allow the establishment of MBMS bearers using target area information,
as distinct from using an MBMS Service Area;
2\. to MBMS congestion handling;
3\. if seen to be needed, to possible MBMS roaming scenarios;
4\. as required by the MCPTT application work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
> Architecture and functional description\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE
> (GCSE_LTE); Stage 2\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
> Protocols and codecs\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TS 36.444: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
> (E-UTRAN); M3 Application Protocol (M3AP)\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode".
>
> [7] 3GPP TR 36.868: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> Study on Group Communications for E-UTRA".
>
> [8] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
> and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
> description; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
GCSE_LTE Group Communication System Enablers for LTE
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network
MCPTT Mission Critical Push To Talk over LTE
SC-PTM Single Cell -- Point to Multipoint
# 4 Architectural Assumptions
> Editor's note: This clause will describe any architectural assumptions for
> the proposed MBMS enhancements.
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key Issue 1 - Establishment of MBMS bearers using a list of cell
identities or other area information
### 5.1.1 Description
In Release 12, the MB2 interface was specified and allows the GCS AS to
request an MBMS bearer based on a MBMS Service Area. The GCSE_LTE architecture
in TS 23.468 [3] indicates that the GCS AS may be associated with multiple
networks. Thus, in Release 12, the GCS AS needs to be aware of the MBMS
Service Area configurations of all networks that provide MBMS services to it.
This is a burden and can result in significant operational complexity in
maintaining correct MBMS Service Area configurations in all GCS AS using a
given network.
This key issue aims to study the implications to the MBMS Delivery
architecture (including MB2 interface) introduced by GCSE_LTE as specified in
TS 23.468 [3] and corresponding procedures when the GCS AS needs to request
MBMS Delivery in a specific area (e.g., a list of cells) for group
communication, and allows the GCS AS to request establishment of an MBMS
bearer based on a set of cells or other area information.
Within this key issue it has to be studied:
\- which kind of location or area information is available (e.g., cell
identities, Geo coordinates, MBSFN list) at the GCS AS for establishing MBMS
Delivery for group communication;
\- whether the GCS AS or BM-SC or any other entity in the network will
translate between cell identities or other area information and MBMS Service
Area Identities (SAI);
\- how the list of cell identities or other area information can be provided
to E-UTRAN during MBMS session establishment;
\- whether and how the list of cell identities or other area information can
and should be modified (enhanced or reduced) during MBMS session modification;
\- whether and how the MBMS Delivery request can and should be restricted to a
given list of cell identities or other areas, if this list is provided to
E-UTRAN.
### 5.1.2 Architectural Requirements
Following is a list of architectural requirements that have to be fulfilled:
\- Enhancements to MBMS session establishment in E-UTRAN due to this key issue
shall be able to co-exist with existing procedures.
\- Need for manual configuration in the GCS AS and network should be minimized
to allow for reducing overall complexity (e.g., operational complexity).
\- The GCS AS can become aware of cells (e.g., in form of ECGIs) the UEs,
involved in a group communication, are camping on. Whether the GCS AS is aware
of other area information and this can be used by the MBMS Delivery service
needs to be studied.
\- MBMS Delivery for Public Safety applications shall be able to co-exist with
MBMS Delivery for non-Public Safety applications over any areas within a
network.
## 5.2 Key Issue 2 - Identification of whether an increased flexibility of
MBMS congestion management is useful or necessary
### 5.2.1 Description
The current mechanism for congestion mitigation for GCS AS/ MBMS system, may
be worth complementing by a mechanism that does not rely on signalling
involving the 5.12s / 10.24 s latency of the MBMS signalling, which in some
circumstances may lead to suboptimal behaviour.
When congestion is detected by E-UTRAN, the key issue is to determine whether
some actions can be efficiently enabled end-to-end in the system with the
current Rel-12 mechanism, or whether some explicit optimisation would be
useful or necessary.
### 5.2.2 Architectural Requirements
The architecture shown in Figure 5.2.2-1 corresponds to RAN3's Solution 2bis
adopted and implemented for Rel-12.
The current architecture / functional split is maintained under this proposal.
Figure 5.2.2-1: Radio interfaces signalling path for congestion notification
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution 1: ECGI list is passed among GCS AS and MBMS nodes: BM-SC maps
ECGI list to SAI list
### 6.1.1 Description
This solution provides answers for Key Issue 1.
For better understanding of this solution, since this term is used also in TS
23.468 [3] but not defined, an MBMS broadcast area is the set of cells that
are transmitting the content of the MBMS bearer.
This solution is based on the concept that the GCS AS knows in which cells it
needs to broadcast an MBMS bearer. The knowledge of which cells are needed for
the MBMS bearer is either preconfigured in the GCS AS or is obtained from the
UEs that the GCS AS is serving. The GCS AS passes a list of ECGIs to the BM-SC
instead of, or in addition to a service area. The BM-SC maps those ECGIs to a
set of SAIs, subject to operator's policy and sends not only a list of SAIs to
the MBMS-GW, but also the list of ECGIs. The MBMS-GW sends the list of SAIs
and the list of ECGIs (if sent by the BM-SC) to the involved MMEs, which
follows a similar method and sends both SAIs and ECGIs to the MCE(s) involved
by those SAIs that it selects to handle the MBMS bearer request. The current
routing is unchanged.
The impact on the MBMS signalling is the addition of a list of ECGIs in the
MBMS Session Start and Session Update procedures (ref. TS 23.246 [2]).
Signalling routing decisions for the Session Start and Session Update
procedures are made by the BM-SC, MBMS-GW, and MME as is already done in
Release-12 MBMS.
#### 6.1.1.1 Procedures
The following procedures are necessary for this solution.
##### 6.1.1.1.1 MBMS bearer initiation using a list of ECGIs
The following flow describes the procedure for requesting an MBMS bearer using
the MBMS broadcast area determined from a list of ECGIs.
Figure 6.1.1.1.1-1: MBMS bearer initiation using a list of ECGIs
1\. When the GCS AS wishes to activate an MBMS bearer over MB2, the GCS AS
sends an Activate MBMS Bearer Request message to the BM-SC, including the TMGI
which represents the MBMS bearer to be started, FlowID, QoS, MBMS broadcast
area, and start time. The TMGI is optional. The FlowID may be included only if
the TMGI is included. If the FlowID is included in the request, the BM-SC
associates it to the TMGI in the request, for the MBMS broadcast area. The QoS
shall be mapped into appropriate QoS parameters of the MBMS bearer. The MBMS
broadcast area parameter shall carry a list of MBMS service areas, a list of
cell identifiers or both. If the MBMS broadcast area parameter carries a list
of cell identifiers, the BM-SC may map those cell identifiers into a set of
MBMS service areas, subject to operator's policy.
2\. The BM-SC maps the list of cell identifiers (ECGIs) onto a set of MBMS
service areas (SAIs) and determines the involved MBMS GW(s). If an error
occurs in the mapping by the BM-SC, this procedure is terminated with an error
response given to the GCS AS.
3\. The BM-SC shall send an Activate MBMS Bearer Response message to the GCS
AS, including the TMGI, the FlowID (allocated by BM-SC), service description,
BM-SC IP address and port number for the user-plane, and an expiration time.
The service description contains MBMS bearer related configuration information
as defined in TS 26.346 [4] (e.g. infoBinding element containing _serviceArea_
and _radiofrequency_). The expiration time is included only if the BM-SC has
allocated a TMGI as a result of this procedure.
4\. The BM-SC sends a Session Start message to the involved MBMS-GW(s)
containing existing release 12 parameters and the list of ECGIs from the GCS
AS.
5\. The MBMS-GW sends a Session Start response message to the BM-SC containing
existing release 12 parameters.
6\. The MBMS-GW sends a Session Start message to the involved MME(s)
containing existing release 12 parameters and the list of ECGIs from the GCS
AS.
7\. The MME sends a Session Start message to the involved MCE(s) containing
existing release 12 parameters and the list of ECGIs from the GCS AS.
8\. The MCE maps the SAI list to a list of MBSFNs and then removes unused
MBSFNs based on the ECGI list. The MCE allocates resources in the selected
MBSFNs for the MBMS bearer.
9\. The MCE sends a Session Start response message to the MME containing
existing release 12 parameters.
10\. The MME sends a Session Start response message to the MBMS-GW containing
existing release 12 parameters.
##### 6.1.1.1.2 MBMS bearer modification
The procedure to modify an MBMS bearer will use the existing MBMS Bearer
Modification procedure of TS 23.468 [3] and the existing Session Update
procedure of TS 23.246 [2] with the addition of the ECGI list sent downward
toward the MCE. Using this procedure, cells can be added to/deleted from an
MBMS bearer.
### 6.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
GCS AS:
\- If the GCS AS uses the MBMS services of multiple BM-SCs, the GCS AS should
maintain a mapping from ECGI to BM-SC in order to send its requests to the
correct MBMS system. The GCS AS already (in Rel-12) should know which BM-SC to
send the MB2 messages to, so this may actually be a minor impact in the GCS AS
to map the ECGI directly to the BM-SC.
BM-SC:
\- If the GCS AS sends a list of ECGIs in the MBMS bearer request, the BM-SC
must maintain a mapping from ECGIs to SAIs.
\- The BM-SC must send the list of ECGIs to the MBMS-GW.
MBMS-GW:
\- If the BM-SC sends a list of ECGIs in the MBMS bearer request, the MBMS-GW
must also send the list of ECGIs to the MME.
MME:
\- If the MBMS-GW sends a list of ECGIs in the MBMS bearer request, the MME
must also send the list of ECGIs to the MCE.
MCE:
\- If the MME sends a list of ECGIs in the MBMS bearer request, the MCE must
be able to use that list to optimize the allocation of radio resources for the
MBMS bearer.
### 6.1.3 Solution Evaluation
Solution 1 provides answers for Key Issue 1.
Existing procedures in MBMS continue to operate with and without the solution
1 implementation, providing backward compatibility.
Solution 1 provides the benefit that, in the case of multiple GCS ASs using
the same BM-SC, only the BM-SC must be updated with ECGI to SAI mapping
capabilities rather than multiple GCS ASs.
Using Solution 1, the GCS AS can specify in which cells it wants its content
broadcast. The MBMS system may choose to broadcast the content in additional
cells due to, e.g., MBSFN configuration. As a result, the GCS AS may not be
aware of the full set of cells actually broadcasting the content. When the UE
detects the TMGI in its cell, it should use \"make before break\" procedures
to move to reception of the content via MBMS before releasing reception of the
unicast traffic. Hence the GCS AS should be able to infer the set of cells
actually broadcasting the content from the information reported by the UEs to
the GCS AS.
The Release-12 GCS AS must be updated to send the list of cells to the BM-SC
instead of, or in addition to mapping the cells to SAIs and sending the list
of SAIs.
Solution 1 provides the ability to reduce the actual radio resources used for
an MBMS bearer to the smallest number of cells possible, given an operator's
configuration of MBSFNs.
When using this capability to broadcast in less than a full SAI, the result is
that a UE may detect that it is in the coverage area indicated by an SAI,
which is signalled by the GCS AS and possibly broadcast in SIB15, but the UE
cannot find the desired TMGI (MBMS bearer) because the UE's current cell was
not included in the request from the GCS AS. The UE may have moved frequency
layer in order to try to receive the desired MBMS service. However, as regards
service continuity, such a UE will still be able to continue to operate using
a unicast bearer for the desired content.
NOTE: This situation (a UE will detect that it is in the coverage area
indicated by an SAI, signalled by the GCS AS and possibly broadcast in SIB15,
but cannot find the desired TMGI (MBMS bearer)) may also occur in pre-
Release-13 systems, since the MBMS Service Suspension and Resumption Function
defined in TS 36.300 [8] allows that the content is not broadcast in a set of
cells for which an MBMS bearer is enabled.
Solution 1 requires in Release-13 additional (i.e. ECGI -> SAI mapping)
information to be configured in the BM-SC by OSS/OAM procedures. Cell and SAI
changes will result in updating the BM-SC via OSS/OAM procedures.
## 6.2 Solution 2: ECGI list is passed between GCS AS and MBMS nodes: BM-SC,
MBMS GW and MME pass an ECGI list downstream
### 6.2.1 Description
This solution provides answers for Key Issue 1.
This solution is based on the concept that the GCS AS knows in which cells it
needs to broadcast an MBMS bearer. The GCS AS passes a list of ECGIs to the
BM-SC instead of an MBMS service area. The BM-SC, MBMS-GW and MME pass an ECGI
list downstream in the Session Start message (instead of an MBMS service
area).
At M3 interface setup and re-configuration the MME is passed (in addition to
the list of supported MBMS SAIs) the following additional information:
a) a list of the ECGIs of the cells whose MBMS configuration is controlled by
the MCE; and
b) a list of the identities of all other MCEs which also support one or more
of the MBSFN areas supported by the MCE sending the M3 setup / re-
configuration request.
This additional information ((a) and (b) above) can be derived by the MCE from
information configured by O&M. Consistent O&AM configuration should ensure
that all MCEs whose identities appear in additional information (b) sent to an
MME will themselves send M3 setup information to the same MME.
When the MME receives a Session Start message containing the broadcast area
described by an ECGI list, the MME can use the ECGI information (additional
information (a) above) previously received in M3 setup/re-config messages to
identify the MCEs (primary MCEs) controlling the MBMS configuration of those
cells whose ECGIs were included in the broadcast area description.
If the distributed MCE architecture applies, the MME can use the MCE Identity
information (additional information (b) above) to identify all other MCEs
(secondary MCEs) that share control of one or more MBSFN areas with the MCEs
in the primary MCE list. If the centralised MCE architecture applies, the MCE
identity information (additional information (b) above) will be null and as a
result the secondary MCE list will always be empty.
The MME sends the Session Start message to all MCEs in the combination of the
primary and secondary MCE lists.
In option B ECGI=>SAI mapping information is also passed over M3 from the MCE
to MME.
The MCE, upon receiving a list of ECGIs, determines whether to use MBSFN (or
e.g. SC-PTM) and if using MBSFN then the set of MBSFNs necessary to cover the
list of ECGIs.
### 6.2.2 Procedures
#### 6.2.2.1 MBMS bearer initiation using a list of ECGIs
The following flow describes the procedure for requesting an MBMS bearer using
a list of ECGIs. The Session Start request messages passed from BM-SC to MBMS-
GW, to MME and thence to the MCEs may contain a list of ECGIs (required to
achieve the functionality of this solution) and for backwards compatibility an
SAI list.
The flow includes two options for the method of creating downstream routing
information in the BM-SC:
\- Option A depends upon OSS provisioning of the information; including ECGI
to SAI mapping table(s);
\- Option B shows a procedure whereby the mapping of ECGIs to SAIs is passed
upstream from the MCE(s) through the MME(s) and the MBMS-GW(s) to create an
SAI Context in the BM-SC. The BM-SC then uses this SAI Context information to
create an SAI list, from the ECGI list received from the GCS AS, in order to
perform downstream routing of Session Start messages.
Figure 6.2.1.1.1-1: MBMS bearer initiation using a list of ECGIs
Option A steps:
1(A). When the MCE sends configuration information to the MME it includes, in
addition to an SAI list, a list of cell identities (ECGIs) identifying the
cells whose MBMS resources it controls. If the distributed MCE architecture
applies, the MCE also includes a list of the identities of all other MCEs
which also support one or more of the MBSFN areas supported by the MCE sending
the M3 setup / re-configuration request.
Option B steps:
1(B). In addition to the MCE passing to the MME a list of SAIs, for each SAI
in the list the MCE passes to the MME a list of cell identities (ECGIs)
referred to by that SAI. If the distributed MCE architecture applies, the MCE
also includes a list of the identities of all other MCEs which also support
one or more of the MBSFN areas supported by the MCE sending the M3 setup / re-
configuration request.
2(B). A new message (SA Registration) is sent by the MME over the Sm
interface, to all configured MBMS-GW entities, passing the ECGI to SAI mapping
information received from the MCE.
3(B). The MBMS-GW notes the MME from which it received the SA Registration
message and forwards the ECGI to SAI mapping information to all configured BM-
SC entities together with the MME identity as a \"downstream control plane
node\" in a new message (SA Registration) over the SGmb interface. The BM-SC
stores the information in the received SA Registration in an SAI context. The
BM-SC also adds the MBMS-GW identity of the sending node to the SAI context in
a \"list of downstream nodes\".
Common steps:
4\. When the GCS AS wishes to activate an MBMS bearer over MB2, the GCS AS
sends an Activate MBMS Bearer Request message to the BM-SC, including the TMGI
which represents the MBMS bearer to be started, QoS, MBMS broadcast area, and
start time. The TMGI is optional. The QoS shall be mapped into appropriate QoS
parameters of the MBMS bearer. The MBMS broadcast area parameter shall carry
either a list of MBMS service area identities or a list of cell identities. In
this example the MBMS broadcast area is represented by an ECGI list.
5\. Using the SAI contexts stored in the BM-SC from step 3, or from ECGI->SAI
mapping table(s) provisioned in the BM-SC by OAM procedures, the BM-SC can map
each ECGI in the list received from the GCS AS to an SAI to generate an SAI
list:
\- The BM-SC knows to which MBMS-GW(s), known as the \"list of downstream
nodes\", to route Session Start messages based upon the SAIs in the generated
SAI list.
\- The BM-SC knows to which MME(s) the MBMS-GW(s) need to route Session Start
messages, known as the \"list of control plane nodes\", based upon the SAIs in
the generated SAI list. The BM-SC provides the \"list of control plane nodes\"
to the MBMS-GW in the Session Start message.
6\. The BM-SC validates the request and sends an Activate MBMS Bearer response
to the GCS AS containing existing release 12 parameters, the service
description includes the SAI list generated in step 5.
7\. The BM-SC sends a Session Start message to the MBMS-GW(s) containing
existing release 12 parameters and the list of ECGIs describing the required
broadcast area.
NOTE 1: For option A the routing of downstream Session Start messages is based
upon information provisioned by the OSS using procedures not specified by
3GPP. This approach is similar to the approach of Rel-12 except that the
provisioned information identifies either a fixed list of downstream nodes to
be used or the downstream nodes are selected by the BM-SC dependent upon the
OAM provisioned ECGI->SAI mapping table(s) (step 5).
NOTE 2: For option B the routing of downstream Session Start messages is based
upon information generated in step 5 from information passed up from the RAN
in SA Registration messages (step 1(B) - step 3(B)).
8\. The MBMS-GW validates the request and sends a Session Start response to
the BM-SC.
9\. The MBMS-GW sends a Session Start message to the involved MME(s), based
upon the downstream routing information described in step 7 above, containing
existing release 12 parameters and the list of ECGIs.
10\. For each cell identity in the list received from the MBMS-GW the MME
refers to the information received from the MCEs (step 1) to determine which
MCE(s) need to be sent a Session Start request. The MME sends a Session Start
message, to both the primary MCE(s) and the secondary MCEs (see clause 6.2.1)
containing existing release 12 parameters and the list of ECGIs.
NOTE 3: The Session Start request (from MME to MCE) contains either an SAI
list (as per the existing procedure in TS 36.444 [5]) or an ECGI list (if that
was received from the MBMS-GW as per the current procedure).
11\. The MCE sends a Session Start response message to the MME containing
existing release 12 parameters
12\. The MME sends a Session Start response message to the MBMS-GW containing
existing release 12 parameters.
13\. The MCE(s) configure(s) the necessary RAN resources according to the
MBSFN areas selected to broadcast the MBMS bearer.
14\. The GCS AS sends user plane data to the MBMS GW.
15\. The MBMS-GW distributes the data to the required downstream user plane
RAN nodes.
#### 6.2.2.2 MBMS bearer modification
The procedure to modify an MBMS bearer will use the existing MBMS Bearer
Modification procedure of TS 23.468 [3] and the existing Session Update
procedure TS 23.246 [2] with the addition of the ECGI list as an alternative
to the SAI list. Using this procedure, cells can be added to/deleted from an
MBMS bearer.
### 6.2.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
GCS AS:
\- If the GCS AS uses the MBMS services of multiple BM-SCs, the GCS AS must
maintain a mapping from ECGI to BM-SC in order to send its requests to the
correct MBMS system.
BM-SC:
\- If the GCS AS sends a list of ECGIs in the MBMS bearer request, the BM-SC
must send the list of ECGIs to the MBMS-GW and be able to receive a list of
ECGIs from the MBMS-GW.
\- For option B the BM-SC must be able to accept downstream Session Start
message routing information identified by ECGI or SAI.
MBMS-GW:
\- If the BM-SC sends a list of ECGIs in the Session Start request, the MBMS-
GW must also send the list of ECGIs to the MME.
\- For option B the MBMS-GW must be able to receive ECGI=>SAI mapping
information from the MME and send this to the BM-SC in a new message.
MME:
\- The MME must be able to receive a list of ECGIs from the MCE in
configuration information.
\- If the E-UTRAN MBMS architecture is based upon the distributed MCE
architecture the MME must also be able to receive a list of the identities of
all other MCEs which also support one or more of the MBSFN areas supported by
the MCE sending an M3 setup / re-configuration request.
\- For option B the MME must be able to receive ECGI=>SAI mapping information
and send this to the MBMS-GW in a new message.
\- If the MBMS-GW sends a list of ECGIs in the Session Start request, the MME
must be able to map each ECGI to an MCE based upon the lists received from
each MCEs in the M3 configuration messages.
\- If the MME receives an ECGI list from the MBMS-GW the MME must send the
list of ECGIs to the MCE.
MCE:
\- The MCE must be able to send a list of ECGIs to the MME, in configuration
information, identifying the cells whose MBMS resources it controls.
\- If the E-UTRAN MBMS architecture is based upon the distributed MCE
architecture the MCE must also be able to send a list of the identities of all
other MCEs which also support one or more of the MBSFN areas supported by the
MCE sending the M3 setup / re-configuration request.
\- For option B the MCE must be able to send ECGI=>SAI mapping information to
the MME.
### 6.2.4 Solution Evaluation
Solution 2 describes an approach that is significantly less dependent upon
non-standardised O&M procedures. The benefits are likely to include greater
independence of the MBMS entities improving the possibility to mix/multi-
source network components.
Solution 2A begins with the benefits of Solution 1 and provides the additional
benefits of automatically configuring knowledge in the MME of (1) the ECGIs of
cells under the MBMS control of each MCE; also (2) for each MCE the identities
of associated MCEs (that is, in a distributed MCE deployment the other MCEs
that need to also receive the Session control messages sent to this MCE), and
then use of that knowledge to reduce the signalling from MME to MCEs. These
additional benefits require updates to setup and re-configuration messages
sent across the M3 interface and for these to be implemented by all affected
MCE and MME entities
Solution 2A provides backward compatibility to Release-12 systems and to
Solution 1, since in a distributed MCE deployment the MME cannot reduce
existing M3 signalling until it knows that all attached MCEs are upgraded,
i.e., that all attached MCEs have reported whether they have any associated
MCEs. However, once the upgraded MME knows that all attached MCEs have been
upgraded, the upgraded MME can immediately begin to operate using Solution 2A.
Solution 2B begins with the benefits of Solution 2A and provides the
additional benefits of automatically configuring cell to SAI mapping
information in the BM-SC. Solution 2B requires, beyond the requirements of
Solution 2A, the ability for the MMEs to pass ECGI to SAI correlation
information up to the BM-SC via the MBMS-GW.
In Solution 2B, the concept of automatic provisioning of the ECGI  SAI
mapping table standardises such provisioning in order to better facilitate
multi-vendor deployment. However, all subtending MCEs, MMEs, MBMS-GWs, and the
BM-SC must be updated before the BM-SC can build the correct mapping table.
The BM-SC will need to continue to be provisioned by OAM procedures with the
ECGI  SAI mapping table until all subtending MBMS nodes are upgraded and the
BM-SC can be configured to use the dynamic mapping table provided by Solution
2B.
For Solution 2B, if the ECGI  SAI mapping table in the BM-SC is lost or a new
BM-SC is taken into use in the network, restoration procedure(s) (e.g., as in
TS 23.007) will be needed to restore the ECGI  SAI mapping data in the BM-SC.
If Solution 2B is not implemented such restoration procedures will need to be
carried out by OAM to restore a lost mapping table or for provisioning a
mapping table to the new BM-SC.
Implementation of Solution 2A does not preclude addition of the further
aspects of Solution 2B in a later release.
Solutions 2A and 2B do affect a number of MBMS system entities, therefore the
benefits of each Solution need to be assessed with this in mind.
## 6.3 Solution 3: Route MBMS Session Start using SAI derived from TAI;
describe broadcast area with ECGIs
### 6.3.1 Description
This solution provides answers for Key Issue 1.
There are two aspects to this solution. The first relates to the routeing of
the MBMS Session related signalling from the BMSC to the RAN, the second
relates to how to position Public Safety UEs on the correct frequency layer
for MBMS.
**Aspect 1**
This solution is based on the concept that (e.g. from information sent by the
UE across GC1) the GCS AS knows in which cell(s) it needs to broadcast an MBMS
bearer, and the TAI(s) of the cell(s).
Tracking Areas are typically large collections of cells. Each of the TAI(s)
could be mapped (one to one) onto a "MBMS Service Area ID for MBMS signalling
routeing" using information pre-configured in the GCS AS. The number of
Tracking Areas in a PLMN is generally not a huge number, so this pre-
configuration need not be onerous. An alternative simple 'rule based' approach
may also be possible (e.g. if the PLMN uses a non-contiguous set of 300 TACs
which are limited to the range 0-1023, they could be mapped "by a rule" onto
MBMS SAIs 64512 to 65535).
Allocating one "MBMS SAI for MBMS signalling routeing" per TAI (in the GCS AS)
would also limit the size of the "MBMS SAI to downstream node" routeing table
in the BM-SCs/MBMS GWs. (This is irrespective of the PLMN size: in a larger
PLMN the number of TAIs would be larger, but the number of SAIs needed for
localised public safety broadcasts would be much larger).
The list of SAI-TAI relations is assumed to be static and provided "offline"
from the E-UTRAN operator to the GCS AS operator for static configuration in
the GCS AS, and is used by the BM-SC to determine down-stream routing in the
CN.
At M3 interface setup and re-configuration the MME is passed a list of ECGIs
and a list, per SAI, of the identities of all other MCEs which also support
that SAI.
The MME stores this information.
To avoid broadcast of content in areas where the UEs are not concentrated, the
MBMS SAI that is linked to the TAI is NOT passed from the MCE to the MME at M3
Setup. This can be achieved by NOT configuring that SAI on the eNB/MCE.
Therefore the "MBMS SAI for MBMS signalling routeing" used by the GCS AS is
NOT broadcast in System Information Block Type 15, and does not impact service
continuity and does NOT restrict the Service Area configuration (for non-
Public Safety MBMS bearers) in the E-UTRAN, except that this results in less
(by a worst case of 1024 values) MBMS SAI values available to be configured by
E-UTRAN.
At MBMS Session Start (or modification), the GCS AS passes a list of ECGIs to
the BM-SC to describe the area in which the broadcast should occur, along with
the MBMS Service Area that is derived from the TAI that is used for routing
purposes. The BM-SC and MBMS-GW pass the ECGI list downstream to the MME in
the Session Start message. The Session Start message is routed according to
Release 12 principles i.e. using the MBMS Service Area ID. However,
configuration in the GCS AS, BM-SC and MBMS-GW is simplified by deriving that
MBMS SAI from the TAI.
When the MME receives the MBMS Session Start (or modification) message, it
uses the SAI derived from the TAI to determine which MCEs should receive the
MBMS Session Start message. However, as the SAI derived from the TAI was not
sent in the M3 Setup from the MCE, no match is ever detected from that SAI by
the MME, and the MME then matches the list of ECGIs received in the M3 setup
against the list of ECGIs received from the MBMS GW to determine which MCEs
should receive the MBMS Session Start message. In case 1 this would be a
single MCE. In case 2 this would be more than one MCE.
The MCE (one or more), upon receiving the MBMS Session Start message, checks
the SAI (which is the SAI that was received by the MME from the MBMS GW), and
(like the MME) detects that it does not match any SAI stored in the MCE. The
MCE then uses the received list of ECGIs to determine whether to use MBSFN (or
e.g. SC-PTM) and if using MBSFN then the set of MBSFNs necessary to cover the
list of ECGIs. In the case of distributed MCEs, this decision may be
coordinated across all MCEs covering a single MBSFN area in a manner that is
not defined by 3GPP.
NOTE: As an alternative the GCS AS could forward the list of ECGIs and the TAI
received from the UE to the BM-SC, and the BM-SC could derive the MBMS Service
Area from the TAI, with every other part of the process remaining as stated in
this section.
**Aspect 2**
Public Safety work groups have diverse sizes both in terms of number of users
in them, and their geographic spread. When broadcasting data to a group with a
limited geographic spread, it is important (for radio efficiency reasons) to
not broadcast that group's data over a much larger area. Then with multiple
work groups overlapping geographically, the need for exactly the same data to
be sent within an MBSFN area can be expected to result in the use of quite
small MBSFN areas/MBMS Service Areas. Hence a Public Safety work group may
need to be able to use MBMS in a huge number of SAIs. It is important that the
UE knows the relevant SAIs in order that the "MBMS Service Continuity"
procedure works (c.f. getting the UE to stay on the frequency that will be
used for Public Safety Broadcasts).
A solution to this is to nominate one (or a few -- e.g. one for police and one
for fire & ambulance) SAIs as the "Public Safety user frequency SAI".
Prior to activation of the MBMS bearer, GC1 signalling can provide the UE with
the TMGI(s) that its work group(s) will use. Associated with the TMGI, this
GC1 signalling can also contain a "Public Safety user frequency SAI". This SAI
is broadcast in SIB 15 by the RAN, but is not sent from the MCE (to the MME)
in the M3 Setup message. This "Public Safety user frequency SAI" is also not
sent from the GCS-AS to the BMSC in the Activate MBMS Bearer procedure.
The UE will then monitor the MCCH and 'lock' on to the frequency that may be
used by future Public Safety broadcasts. When its TMGI is not on the MCCH, the
UE does not monitor the MSI.
### 6.3.2 Procedures
#### 6.3.2.1 MBMS bearer initiation in a list of ECGIs
The following flow describes the procedure for aspect 1 for requesting an MBMS
bearer using a list of ECGIs, while routing the request based on an MBMS SAI
derived from the TAI.
Figure 6.3.2.1-1: MBMS bearer initiation using a list of ECGIs
#### 6.3.2.2 MBMS bearer modification
The procedure to modify an MBMS bearer will use the existing MBMS Bearer
Modification procedure of TS 23.468 [3] and the existing Session Update
procedure TS 23.246 [2] with the addition of the ECGI list as a means to
describe the broadcast area.
The MBMS Bearer Modification is routed to all BMSCs and MMEs that received the
MBMS Session Start.
Using this procedure, cells can be added to/deleted from an MBMS bearer.
### 6.3.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
GCS AS:
\- The GCS AS needs to maintain a mapping from TAI to SAI. This is a different
SAI than the SAI sent to the UE by the GCS AS.
\- If the GCS AS uses the MBMS services of multiple BM-SCs, the GCS AS must
maintain a mapping from TAI/SAI to BM-SC in order to send its requests to the
correct MBMS system.
BM-SC:
\- If the GCS AS sends a list of ECGIs in the MBMS bearer request, the BM-SC
must send the list of ECGIs to the MBMS-GW
MBMS-GW:
\- If the BM-SC sends a list of ECGIs in the Session Start request, the MBMS-
GW must send the list of ECGIs to the MME.
MME:
\- The MME must be able to receive a list of ECGIs from the MCE in
configuration information.
\- If the MBMS-GW sends a list of ECGIs in the Session Start request, the MME
must be able to map each ECGI to an MCE based upon the lists of ECGIs received
from each MCE in the M3 configuration messages.
\- If the MME receives an ECGI list from the MBMS-GW the MME must send the
list of ECGIs to the MCE.
MCE:
\- The MCE must be able to send a list of ECGIs to the MME, in configuration
information, identifying the cells whose MBMS resources it controls, and
identifying all cells of all other MCEs for which it shared one or more MBSFN
areas.
\- The MCE must be able to be configured to send the nominal Public Safety
SAIs in SIB15 but the MCE shall not send these SAIs to the MME in the M3 Setup
messages.
UE:
\- None, but consistent service continuity in the UE relies on the SAI
allocated for user service being configured consistently in GCS AS, BM-SC and
E-UTRAN, and not confused with the SAI mapped to TAI.
### 6.3.4 Solution Evaluation
This solution solves Key Issue 1, but without requiring the RAN operator to
notify the BM-SC/GCS AS operator every time it changes ECGI configurations
within its network which, due to the more complex configuration, has a larger
probability of leading to a communication error and severe service failure.
Aspect 1 requires all MCEs and the GCS-AS, BM-SC, MBMS GWs and MBMS enabled
MMEs that are used for Public Safety users to be updated before it can be
fully used.
Aspect 2 requires only MCE and GCS AS to be updated.
The two aspects in this solution are independent and complementary to other
aspects of the other solutions proposed. It is assumed that the SAIs used for
MBMS service continuity are largely independent of the ECGI configuration.
Aspect 1 and Aspect 2 have impact on the allocation of SAI by the radio
network.
## 6.4 Solution 4: Use of MBSFN Area Ids and/or ECGI lists for requesting MBMS
service
### 6.4.1 Description
#### 6.4.1.1 Summary of capabilities
This solution provides answers for Key Issue 1.
In this Solution, the network operator uses MBSFN Areas defined and targeted
for Public Safety use and then sets each such MBSFN Area as an SAI. Therefore
each such MBSFN Area corresponds one-to-one to an SAI and the 8 least
significant bits of the SAI id are set to the MBSFN Area Id of the
corresponding MBSFN Area. The most significant 8 bits of the 16-bit SAI id are
set to a value that identifies the larger area composed of the individual
MBSFN Areas. For example, the two different MBSFN Areas of SAI1 = '00000000
_10101010_ ' and SAI2 = '11111111 _10101010_ ' will end up having the same
MBSFN Area Id ='_10101010_ ' broadcast in SIB13. The same Public Safety
SAIs/MBSFN Area Ids are broadcast in SIB 13 and SIB15 (according to their
respective formats). Non-Public Safety SAIs and MBSFN Areas are also broadcast
in SIB13 and SIB15, but there is no relationship between their ids, nor is
there any requirement for a one-to-one correspondence. Only the Public Safety
targeted SAIs are used to pre-configure the GCS AS (there is no need to
explicitly pre-configure the MBSFN Area ids, as each id can be directly
derived from the corresponding SAI id). The GCS AS is configured only with the
Public Safety SAIs for its area of responsibility (e.g. its jurisdiction),
while the BM-SC can be configured with all SAIs for the entire PLMN. The SAIs
are used to do the routing down through the MBMS system as in Rel-12. The
network operator can configure a limit value within the GCS AS and the BM-SC:
SAIs (with ids seen as unsigned integers) of ids lower than the limit are
consider Public Safety related and can be used to map cell ids provided by the
GCSE AS. SAIs of higher value than the configured limit, if encountered, will
always be ignored by the GCS AS, but can be used by the BM-SC for non-Public
Safety purposes.
Solution 4 prescribes, that the Application / GCS AS has the option to
explicitly request broadcast of content via MBMS in specific MBSFN areas. The
Application/GCS AS specifies the exact area of distribution of the MBMS
bearer.
\- When a request for MBMS bearer activation occurs, the GCS AS indicates the
MBSFN Area Id(s) where MBMS broadcast has to take place.
\- To request transparent service, the GCS AS may indicate both a MBSFN Area
Id and the ECGI list.
\- Pre-configuration of MBSFN Areas (= SAIs,) in the GCS AS is proposed.
\- The UE can report relevant parameters associated to the serving cell (e.g.
the ECGI, the list of MBSFN Areas to which the cell belongs) from SIBs. This
information can be used in case new cells are deployed after pre-
configuration, to avoid the need for reconfiguration in most cases.
#### 6.4.1.2 Procedures
##### 6.4.1.2.1 Procedure using MBSFN Area Id only
Other than changes to the broadcast area parameter and updates provided by the
UE on GC1, there are no changes (from Rel-12) to the messages on the MB2-C,
SGmb, Sm and M3 interfaces. M1 and M2 interfaces are not affected. The
impacted procedures are Activate MBMS Bearer and Modify MBMS Bearer. The
impact is the same on both of them, namely the change in the broadcast area
parameter carried by the messages. As a prerequisite of this solution, MBSFN
areas map one-to-one to service areas, i.e. service areas are the same as
MBSFN areas.
Figure 6.4.1.2.1-1: MBMS bearer initiation using MBSFN Area Id
1\. In Rel-12, the MCE(s) report(s) the list of SAIs to the MMEs. In this
proposal, the list of MBSFN Area Ids served by the MCE(s) is reported instead
and treated by MCE as SAIs.
2\. As UEs move in the cell or power on in specific cells and acquire the
specific system information, the UE will report to the serving GCS AS via GC1
information from the SIB e.g. the identity of the serving cell (from SIB1) and
of the MBSFN areas to which the cell belongs (from SIB13), configuration from
SIB2, SAIs from SIB15, if needed.
3\. Optionally, the information reported by the UE can be used by the GCS AS
to update the MBSFN Areas pre-configured at the GCS AS, in case a new cell is
added.
4\. The GCS AS chooses the entire and exact area of distribution for the MBMS
bearer by identifying (one or more) SAI(s) corresponding exactly to MBSFN Area
Id and sending an Activate MBMS Bearer Request with the broadcast parameter
set to the chosen SAI(s).
5\. The BM-SC starts the sequence of messages with the Session Start Request
message, with the MBSFN Area Id = SAI as broadcast area parameter. The
messages are routed as in Rel-12, based on same type of pointers used for
SAIs, but now corresponding to the MBSFN Area Id.
6\. The BM-SC responds to the GCS AS with a Session Start Response message
7\. The GCS AS starts transmitting user plane traffic on the newly activated
MBMS bearer.
The MBMS Bearer Modification procedure works similarly (the GCS AS sends the
new MBSFN Area Id to the BM-SC) except that it uses the Session Update
procedure of TS 23.246 [2] in lieu of the Session Start procedure.
##### 6.4.1.2.2 Procedures using MBSFN Area Id and ECGI list together for
transparent mode
It is the responsibility of the GCS AS to map the cells reported by the UEs on
GC1 to a MBSFN Area Id. Both the MBSFN Area Id and the ECGI list are sent as
broadcast parameters. Then the messages are routed based on MBSFN Area Id. The
information flow in Figure 6.4.1.2.1-1 applies, with the "bcast area"
parameter set to both MBSFN Area Id and the ECGI list. The MCE decides how to
allocate optimal MBMS bearer resources based on MBSFN Area or the cells
specified in the ECGI list.
### 6.4.2 Impacts on existing nodes
GCS AS:
\- The GCS AS needs to be configured with the definitions of the MBSFN Areas =
SAIs for each MBMS system (i.e. per BM-SC).
BM-SC:
\- The BM-SC is configured with the definitions of the MBSFN Area Ids derived
SAIs rather than with just arbitrary SAIs. Since the ECGI to SAI mapping
occurs at the GCS AS, Solution 4 does not require (but allows) that the SAIs
with which the BM-SC is configured include the list of cell ids in the SAIs.
If BM-SC is configured with SAIs as in Rel-12, the BM-SC does not care that
those SAIs correspond to MBSFN Area Ids and there are no changes.
MBMS-GW:
\- None identified.
MME/MCE:
\- The M3 Setup message will carry the MBSFN Areas = SAIs, in lieu of just
SAIs. An MBSFN Area derived SAI can be treated just as a SAI, which is covered
in Rel-12, thus no functional impact. This is the same procedure as in Rel-12,
only the SAIs may be different.
NOTE: For each cell, the MCE configures exactly the same number of MBSFN areas
to the number of MBMS SAIs (except for MBMS SAI 0) that the eNB has sent via
the M2 Setup Request and eNB Configuration Update messages, This means that
the maximum number of SAIs (excluding SAI 0) a cell can belong to is 8.
eNB:
\- Broadcasts the SAIs = MBSFNs in the SIB.
\- The M2 Setup Request and eNB Configuration update messages do not include
MBMS SAI 0.
UE:
\- UE reports location information e.g. ECGI, MBMS SAI from SIBs to GCS AS.
There is no impact to MBMS service continuity for this solution, as the SAIs
broadcast in SIB15 and the MBSFN broadcast in SIB13 are used without changes.
UEs that are in RRC IDLE state will proceed as described in clause 5.2.4.1 of
TS 36.304 [6], for the selection of the frequency layer and cell reselection.
Afterwards, the UEs will temporarily connect to the GCS AS on GC1, to receive
an update and further instructions as described in 5.2.3.1 of TR 36.868 [7].
UEs that are in RRC CONNECTED state are supposed to have registered with the
network their TMGIs of interest and the preference to prioritize unicast over
MBMS. Subsequent to a handover they too will proceed as described in 5.2.3.1
of TR 36.868 [7].
### 6.4.3 Solution evaluation
This solution is optimized for Mission Critical and Public Safety systems, but
can be also used for non-Public Safety applications. The solution is targeted
towards network operators who have not yet configured and assigned ids to
MBSFN Areas and to SAIs, or who do not mind having to perform these tasks
anew, if necessary. The solution preserves the Rel-12 architectural and
functional choice: the decision on the MBMS area of service continues to be
made by the GCS AS.
The solution enables Local Control of the application in the sense that the
exact MBMS areas of service are selected by the application prior to the
activation of the bearer and known exactly afterwards.
When the UE reports its current serving cell, the GCS AS can update its pre-
configured data, thus avoiding the need for re-configurations in many cases
when new cells are added.
The eNB must be carefully configured with the MBMS SAIs taking into account
the configuration of MBSFN area which may or may not be the same as the
practical service distribution areas. The configuration of a fix SAI to MBSFN
Area Id mapping may require awareness of the content of the SIB13 and
reproducible behaviour for the MCE when restarted, in case the MBSFN Area Id
values are generated internally by the MCE.
To use Solution 4, already deployed and configured MBMS systems may have to
change their SAI configuration, which may result in a renumbering of the MBSFN
Areas. This also may have potential implications on some existing applications
that use those MBMS systems.
Solution 4 provides the ability to reduce the actual radio resources used for
an MBMS bearer to the smallest number of cells possible, given an operator's
configuration of MBSFNs.
Use of the MBSFN areas allows for the minimum processing in matching the areas
to a given list of cells and a minimal amount of routing.
## 6.5 Solution 5: Congestion signalling - informative only, as an example
### 6.5.1 Description
Editor\'s Note: Describe the solutions. Sub-clause(s) may be added to capture
details, procedural flow etc.
The following Figure 6.5.1-1 provides an illustrative example of a possible
example solution for key issue 2, further evolution is FFS.
Figure 6.5.1-1: Example flow of congestion signalling, illustrative purposes
### 6.5.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The following standard interfaces are impacted:
\- GC1 (between GCS AS and UE)
\- Uu (between eNB and UE)
There are no identified impacts to other standard interfaces.
### 6.5.3 Solution Evaluation
The proposed solution is out of scope of this study item, as there are no
identified impacts to interfaces for which SA2 is responsible.
# 7 Overall Evaluation
## 7.1 Evaluation for Key Issue 1
There were 5 solutions proposed, designated as 1, 2A, 2B, 3 and 4. Detailed
evaluations of each solution are in clause 6.
Solution 1 is the best suited for standardization, because it has all of the
following characteristics:
\- General applicability and backward compatibility;
\- Minimum development and deployment impacts;
\- No dependency on a particular way of configuring the system; and
\- Extensibility.
## 7.2 Overall Evaluation of Solutions for Key issue 2
In light of expressed concerns and lack of agreement on the problem itself, no
overall evaluation was performed and the key issue is considered closed for
now.
# 8 Conclusions
## 8.1 Conclusion for Key Issue 1
It is recommended that Solution 1 in clause 6.1 is adopted as the basis for
the normative work in Release 13.
## 8.2 Conclusions for Key issue 2
No further work on this topic will be performed by SA WG2 in Rel-13.
#