# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the core network and NAS impacts in UE of
extending DRX cycle for both idle mode and connected mode, solutions in the
core network to support it, and interactions between GERAN/RAN and Core
Network. Also, basic assumptions may be done for each solution on GERAN/RAN
aspects of extending DRX cycle.
The main goal is to identify which open issues remained from the Rel‑12 study
for extended Idle and Connected mode DRX as described in TR 23.887 [4] (as
documented in clause 7.1.3.1 and 7.1.3.6 of TR 23.887), document potential
solutions and conclude on which feasible solutions would be adopted in core
network (pending work in RAN regarding extension of DRX cycle).
No connected mode mobility enhancements for extended C-DRX are considered in
this work, i.e., if a UE using extended C-DRX moves to a different cell,
current connected mode mobility procedures apply.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles \".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Functional stage 2 description of Location Services
(LCS)\".
[4] 3GPP TR 23.887: \"Study on Machine-Type Communications (MTC) and other
mobile data applications communications enhancements)\".
[5] 3GPP TR 23.709: \"Study on Optimizations to Support High Latency
Communications\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
[9] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control (RRC) protocol\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 22.101 [2], apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply.
# 4 Issues
## 4.1 Issues for Idle Mode DRX
Issue 1:
\- Support NAS-protocol extensions to enable extended DRX cycle. There needs
to be coordination between UE and Core Network (SGSN/MME) for use of extended
DRX.
Issue 2:
\- Paging strategy in CN that fits the needs of the extended DRX cycle and
normal DRX cycle.
Issue 3:
\- Handling of MT SMS, e.g. avoiding retransmissions for long DRX cycles.
Issue 4:
\- Impact in S/P-GW retransmissions when handling Network originated control
plane procedure.
Issue 5:
\- Handling MME restart
NOTE: Solutions for this issue are not covered in this Technical Report and
will be resolved in CT WG4.
Issue 6:
\- Interaction between eDRX and PSM (Power Saving Mode).
Issue 7:
\- MT Location services support
\- Since the UE is not reachable while it is in Idle mode eDRX state the issue
of how to successfully complete Mobile Terminated Location procedures exists.
Without a solution, the procedures will fail and cause unnecessary
unsuccessful attempts by the GMLC to retry to retrieve the UE location from
the MME/SGSN.
Issue 8:
\- Handling of Mobile Terminated Data.
NOTE: Solutions for this issue are not covered in this Technical Report and it
is resolved as concluded in TR 23.709 [5] and implemented under HLcom.
## 4.2 Issues for Connected Mode DRX
Editor\'s note: This clause will list open issues for Connected Mode DRX cycle
extension from Core Network perspective.
Issue 1:
\- How SGSN/MME authorizes the use of extended C-DRX and how the SGSN/MME is
aware of GERAN/RAN enabling extended C-DRX, particularly for long DRX values.
NOTE 1: This is strictly not an issue by itself, but it is assumed to be
needed as a starting point for the other issues listed in this clause.
Issue 2:
\- Handling NAS retransmissions timers for DRX values longer than the
currently specified values.
NOTE 2: A solution is only required in case C-DRX values are extended beyond
NAS re-transmission values.
Issue 3:
\- Handling of MT SMS and MT location services, e.g. avoiding retransmissions
for long DRX cycles.
NOTE 3: A solution is only required in case C-DRX values are extended beyond
LCS and SMS re-transmission values.
Issue 4:
\- Impact in S/P-GW retransmissions when handling Network originated control
plane procedure.
NOTE 4: A solution is only required in case C-DRX values are extended beyond
re-transmission values used in S/P-GW.
## 4.3 Issues for RAN/GERAN
Issue 1:
\- Given a maximum response time desired by UE/applications, how to derive the
extended DRX value taking RAN/GERAN aspects into account (e.g. possible paging
misses due to lack of SFN or frame timing alignment between cells, etc.).
Issue 2:
\- How to maintain level of reliability for UE being able to receive the
paging at its paging occasion similar to paging reliability for normal DRX,
even when UE has performed cell reselection.
Issue 3:
\- Impact on idle mode UE measurement and cell reselection.
Issue 4:
\- Whether a paging area with different extended DRX capabilities in the RAN
is supported.
Issue 5:
\- How MT data for extended C-DRX is handled at RAN.
# 5 Solutions for Idle Mode DRX
## 5.1 Solutions to Idle Mode DRX Open Issue #1: Support NAS-protocol
extensions to enable extended DRX cycle.
### 5.1.1 Solution #1: Extended DRX value assignment using NAS MM messages
#### 5.1.1.1 Description
Extended DRX cycles are enabled by providing the parameters for extended DRX
in NAS. Legacy DRX parameters provided by the UE to the network as defined in
clause 10.5.5.6 of TS 24.008 [7] are supplemented with extended DRX
information in a backward compatible way to ensure that UEs and networks not
supporting extended DRX, are not impacted.
This solution works even if the RAN/GERAN does not broadcast the maximum
extended DRX cycle value via system information, since the UE requests the
extended DRX value in GMM/EMM request messages and the MME/SGSN provides the
extended DRX value to use in the GMM/EMM Accept message.
NOTE 1: Whether System Information contains extended DRX information is to be
determined RAN WGs.
{width="6.495833333333334in" height="6.819444444444445in"}
Figure 5.1.1.1.-1: Procedure of extended DRX determination in E-UTRAN
Dependent on the solution the value of the maximum extended DRX cycle applied
in the RAN/GERAN nodes could be informed to the MME/SGSN by using S1/Iu/Gb
signalling, OA&M method, or manual configuration. If supported, the UE can
indicate the desire to use the extended DRX cycle at any time, by using a NAS
procedure such as Attach or TA/RA update. When the UE moves between
registration areas, it should perform TA/RA update to report its desire to use
the extended DRX in the new TA/RA.
Dependent on solution, the MME/SGSN indicates to the RAN/GERAN the UE\'s
desire to use extended DRX cycle in the Paging message.
After the UE determines the extended DRX value is supported by the network (as
a result of the completed NAS procedure), the UE uses the extended DRX value.
If the extended DRX value is longer than the Length of System Frame, then the
UE and the network should be synchronised so that the UE is aware of the
paging occasions.
NOTE 2: The extended DRX parameters to be negotiated between the UE and the
network over the NAS signalling will depend on the agreed solution for paging
coordination between the UE and network.
#### 5.1.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Impacts on SGSN/MME/MSC:
\- Support NAS-protocol extensions for use of extended DRX cycle and adding
the used extended DRX cycle value in the EMM/GMM Accept message.
\- SGSN/MME may need to adapt the TA list based on the extended DRX
capabilities of the RAN, depending on the solution adopted by RAN WGs
Impacts on SGW/PGW:
\- No impacts for this issue.
Impacts on UE:
\- Support NAS-protocol extensions to enable extended DRX cycles. Support for
coding of parameters for the extended DRX and sending it in a dedicated NAS
message to the MME/SGSN and receiving the eDRX value to use in the EMM/GMM
Accept message.
Impacts on E-UTRAN/UTRAN/GERAN:
\- Dependent on solution, RAN/GERAN indicate its support for extended DRX to
the core network nodes.
\- Dependent on solution, the MME/SGSN indicates the extended DRX cycle to the
RAN/GERAN in the Paging message.
#### 5.1.1.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution enables the SGSN/MME to decide the DRX value to use per UE which
is beneficial as:
\- The CN support for extended DRX may be dependent on the dedicated network
nodes used (e.g. APN or selected network with DÉCOR)
\- The application response time wanted may be provided via the UE or via an
AS to the CN, i.e. if provided via AS to CN
\- The buffer capacity and paging strategy is CN dependent
\- The solution has no or minimal impact to RAN/GERAN (i.e. dependent on
solution to indicate RAN/GERAN support of extended DRX to CN).
### 5.2 Solutions to Idle Mode DRX Open Issue #2: Paging strategy in CN that
fits the needs of the extended DRX cycle and normal DRX cycle
Editor\'s note: This clause will contain solutions to Open issue #2 for Idle
Mode DRX cycle extension from Core Network perspective as described in clause
4.1.
### 5.2.1 Solution1: Paging coordination between CN and UE
#### 5.2.1.1 Description
MME/SGSN is aware of the paging timing for a given UE within the context of
each eDRX cycle.
Editor\'s note: The realization of the awareness of the paging opportunity
timing per eDRX cycle is FFS.
Paging triggers are buffered in the SGSN/MME and Paging messages are sent to
the radio access nodes over relevant interfaces shortly before paging
opportunity occurs for the paged UE within each set of cells comprising the
paging area.
#### 5.2.1.1a Solution details for UTRAN and LTE
##### 5.2.1.1a.1 General
In this solution an I-DRX cycle using extended I-DRX value negotiated between
the UE and the CN as described in clause 5.1.1 is referred to as extended
I-DRX cycle.
The solution relies on the existing DRX cycle mechanism for determination of
Paging Occasions (POs) in conjunction with a new TeDRX timer and means to
synchronize the start of the TeDRX timer, the start of the TeDRX timer
referred to here as Tref. The TeDRX timer is set with the extended I-DRX time
value negotiated earlier on NAS level, see clause 5.1.1. At the expiration of
the TeDRX, i.e. when the extended I-DRX cycle elapses the UE monitors the
network for paging using normal DRX parameters.
Two options are described for how the start of the TeDRX timer is synchronized
between the UE and the CN, see clauses 5.2.1.1a.2 and 5.2.1.1a.3.
In order to improve paging reliability e.g. to avoid paging misses due to cell
reselection or due to imperfect synchronization of the extended I-DRX cycle
starting point, a measure to improve the paging reception robustness is
needed. This is achieved by introducing a Paging Transmission Window Time
(PTW) with duration TPTW during which the UE monitors the network for paging
when the extended I-DRX cycle based on the extended I-DRX value expires.
During the PTW there may be multiple opportunities to page the UE which
monitors the network for paging using normal DRX parameters.
{width="5.851388888888889in" height="1.2819444444444446in"}
Figure 5.2.1.1a.1-1 Clarifying the usage of PTW and independence of the eDRX
cycle from UE state
In reference to Figure 5.2.1.1a.1-1, upon expiry of the TeDRX timer in the UE,
the UE monitors the network for paging for TPTW seconds. TDRX is the duration
of the normal DRX cycle. The number of POs in the PTW (NDRX) that may take
place for the duration of the PTW by using the existing formula for
calculation of the PO occurrences in the example shown in Figure 5.2.1.1a.1-1
is equal to 3.
The conditions for the UE to stop monitoring (if any changes compared to
legacy behaviour) for paging will be specified by RAN groups, e.g. to avoid
the UE listening for paging during the whole PTW while there is no page for
the UE. The necessary information for applying the PTW is provided to the UE
over NAS when extended I-DRX is negotiated, see clause 5.1.1. When paging the
UE the CN provides the information for the PTW as new information in the
relevant paging S1/Iu paging message to RAN. RAN repeats the paging during the
PTW in multiple paging occasions determined by normal DRX parameters.
NOTE: It is a Stage 3 decision whether the PTW information signalled to the UE
and the RAN is expressed as T~PTW~ or N~DRX~.
In case of a paging trigger received in the CN for a UE in ECM Idle state, the
CN forwards the paging message towards relevant RAN when the T~eDRX~ expires
next time in a timely manner taking possible imperfections in the
synchronization between the CN and the UE into account.
{width="5.336111111111111in" height="1.3569444444444445in"}
Figure 5.2.1.1a.1-2 CN handling of paging trigger
Step 1: MME receives a Downlink Data Notification at any arbitrary point in
time and stores it.
Step 2: Based on the T~eDRX~ value and when the UE and CN synchronized the
T~eDRX~ time the MME determines that the UE monitors the network for paging.
Step 3: MME sends S1 Paging message to the relevant eNB including PTW
information.
Step 3: eNB pages the UE using the available normal DRX parameters taking the
PTW information into consideration.
Step 4: eNB pages the UE using the available normal DRX parameters taking the
PTW information into consideration i.e. more than one paging message can be
sent to the UE within the PTW window.
##### 5.2.1.1a.2 Option 1: Synchronization with EMM/GMM Accept messages
CN and UE start the extended T~eDRX~ timer at transmission respectively
reception of the Attach Accept or TAU/RAU Accept message where potentially the
relevant DRX parameters are provided. In other words, in this option T~ref~
corresponds to the instant when the Attach procedure or TAU/RAU Update
procedure is considered complete. The T~eDRX~ timer is maintained and used
only when the Attach/TAU/RAU procedure was successfully executed and
independent of UE ECM state, i.e. Idle/Connected transitions do not stop/reset
the T~eDRX~ timer.
{width="6.601388888888889in" height="9.301388888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.1.1a.2-1 Start of the extended I-DRX cycle in the UE and in the CN
during Attach procedure
Figure 5.2.1.1a.2-1 shows the existing Attach procedure, see TS 23.401 [6].
The following changes are introduced to enable a pseudo-synchronized start of
the T~eDRX~ timer in the MME and the UE (only significant steps are
mentioned):
Step 17: At the transmission of the Attach Accept message the MME starts a
T~eDRX~ timer set with the relevant extended I-DRX parameters. T~ref~ in the
MME corresponds to the instant when the Attach Accept message was sent.
Step 18: At reception of the Attach Accept message the UE starts the T~eDRX~
timer using the received extended I-DRX parameters. T~ref~ in the UE
corresponds to the instant when the Attach Accept message was received.
Similar changes are applicable to the TAU/RAU procedures.
NOTE: The realization of the extended I-DRX cycle awareness in the CN, e.g. by
means of a new timer, is not further specified.
To cater for possible clock drift due to long inactivity periods and thus
potential impacts to the synchronization between the UE and the CN, the UE and
CN shall resynchronize the extended I-DRX cycle at each subsequent successful
procedure requiring UE/CN NAS layer communication. The resynchronization is
achieved through a reset of the T~ref~ in the UE and CN upon a completed
EMM/GMM procedure.
##### 5.2.1.1a.3 Option 2: Synchronization with an absolute clock reference
In this option the time reference T~ref~ is an absolute time reference that
can be based on Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). It is assumed that UE
receives the absolute time reference from the System Information in RAN (e.g.
SIB16 in E-UTRAN). The MME uses the same time reference source as the eNB.
In the absence of a time reference provided by the RAN, Option 1 may be used
as a fallback.
#### 5.2.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
\- MME/SGSN: support buffering of paging triggers, negotiation of eDRX
parameters. Support for calculation of the UE availability for paging using
T~eDRX~ and information according to option 1 or option 2. In option 2,
synchronization of the MME with the eNBs.
\- UE: Negotiation of eDRX parameters. Support for calculation of the paging
monitoring timing using T~eDRX~ and PTW information, as well as the T~Ref~
(according to option 1 or option 2) during PTW.
\- eNB: Optionally, support for reception of PTW information in paging message
and repetition of the paging on radio interface. In option 2 and given SIB16
is optional, support for signalling of an absolute time reference in System
Information
\- BSC: FFS
\- RNC: Optionally, support for reception of PTW information in paging message
and repetition of the paging on radio interface. In option 2, support for
signalling of an absolute time reference in System Information.
#### 5.2.1.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution enables paging coordination between UE and CN required to
efficient provide support for extended DRX in Idle and has the following
characteristics:
\- It works with cells with heterogeneous eDRX capability.
\- It works with TAs with heterogeneous eDRX capability.
\- It provides a resource efficient solution not impacting RAN buffering
capacity.
\- There is no increased risk to page wrong UEs due to outdated temporary
identities (S/P-TMSI).
\- The CN is aware of the timing of the POs and therefore it is compatible
with the MONTE based HLCom solutions.
For option 1, the UE-CN synchronization required to coordinate the paging
timing is event driven, i.e. no additional timing source is required. The
event that synchronizes UE/CN is the Attach, RAU/TAU Accept messages.
Specific to option 2:
\- It requires that the UE, RAN and MME/SGSN are synchronized, but then allows
for efficient support of MT data by exporting the extended I-DRX cycle to 3rd
party AS/SCS. Due to the periodicity of the extended I-DRX cycle and its being
locked on an absolute time reference, the AS/SCS needs to be notified only
once. After being notified of the extended I-DRX cycle, the SCS/AS always
knows when to initiate sending of MT data, while minimising the delay of MT
data delivery as well as the extended buffering in the SGW.
\- The use of a RAN-provided time reference (e.g. via SIB16) allows to UE to
keep in sync with the CN without having to connect to the CN.
There is a minor impact on the RAN to repeat paging over a Paging Transmission
Window that is provided by the CN in the S1 paging message.
### 5.2.2 Solution 2: Paging Strategy Left to MME/SGSN Implementation
#### 5.2.2.1 Description
The solution allows the MME/SGSN to decide the paging strategy to use when an
extended DRX cycle is involved.
Since I-DRX and extended I-DRX cycles are signalled over NAS, the SGSN/MME is
aware whether a UE idle mode is using I-DRX, extended I-DRX.
When an SGSN/MME needs to page a UE using extended I-DRX, it sends the first
paging request without any wait.
For paging retransmissions, the MME/SGSN determines the paging retransmission
strategy for extended I-DRX situations similar as it already does for I-DRX.
An additional information to take into account for deciding on a paging
retransmission strategy is the value of the extended I-DRX cycle.
This solution assumes that the RAN and UE behaviour in extended I-DRX is such
that the reliability of the UE being able to receive the paging at its paging
occasion is similar to the reliability for normal DRX.
NOTE: How to achieve such paging reliability for extended I-DRX is left to RAN
WGs as captured in clause 4.3.
#### 5.2.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
In MME/SGSN:
\- Adjust paging retransmission strategy when an extended I-DRX cycle is
involved.
In UE/RAN node:
\- Impact on maintaining paging reliability is FFS in RAN/GERAN..
#### 5.2.2.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution provides a minimal impact method to determine the paging strategy
to use when an extended DRX cycle is involved. Only the MME/SGSN is impacted,
and normative changes to core network specifications are not required. Impact
on RAN/GERAN need to be evaluated by RAN/GERAN.
## 5.3 Solutions to Idle Mode DRX Open Issue #3: Handling of MT SMS and MT
location services, e.g. avoiding retransmissions for long DRX cycles
### 5.3.1 Solution #1: MME temporarily declare UE unreachable if MT SMS
received
#### 5.3.1.1 Description
For MT SMS, if the MME has adapted to a longer paging re-transmission for the
UE (due to long DRX cycle applied), based on the extended DRX value and local
configuration, the MME (SMS in MME) may decide to indicate towards the SMS
Infrastructure that the UE is unreachable and set the URRP flag (this will
avoid any need to adapt re-transmission timers towards SMS Infrastructure).
For MT SMS using SMS over SGs, the MME is transparently handling the SGs unit
data and the MSC is handling the SMS interactions. Based on the extended DRX
value and local configuration, the MME may decide to indicate towards the MSC
that the UE is unreachable (independent if the SGs unit data is for SMS or any
other data). The MSC uses the SGs Non-EPS Alert procedure for being notified
of any UE signalling activity.
Subsequently the MME proceeds with paging the UE. The UE would then be
reachable when it next time invokes some activity e.g. page response, MO data
initiation or a periodic TA update (i.e. the UE activity interval may then set
the latency requirement for MT communication).
In addition, to avoid CP-layer re-transmissions of CP-DATA, the RAN could keep
UEs configured for using long DRX in idle mode in RRC connected mode long
enough to allow a network stored MT SMS to be received by the UE. As an
optimization, when the URRP flag is set the MME could provide an indication to
the eNB (via S1) that the eNB should keep the UE long enough in RRC connected
mode to allow a network stored MT SMS to be received by the UE.
#### 5.3.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Impacts on MME:
\- Identify that UE is using long DRX value, and decide to declare UE
unreachable towards SMS infrastructure, even when proceeding with paging
procedure.
\- (Optional) Indicate to RAN to keep UE in connected mode for a period of
time long enough for a network stored MT SMS to be received by UE.
Impacts on UE:
\- None
Impacts on E-UTRAN/UTRAN:
\- (Optional) Keep UE in RRC connected mode long enough under MME request.
#### 5.3.1.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution provides minimal core network impacts as it affects only the MME
implementation. It also minimizes the SMS retransmissions as the SMS
infrastructure will only retransmit when the UE becomes reachable again.
## 5.4 Solutions to Idle Mode DRX Open Issue #4: Impact in S/P-GW
retransmissions when handling Network originated control plane procedure
Editor\'s note: This clause will contain solutions to Open issue #4 for Idle
Mode DRX cycle extension from Core Network perspective as described in clause
4.1.
### 5.4.1 Solution 1: Cause code dependent solution for GTP-C re-transmissions
#### 5.4.1.1 Description
The following flow shows a PGW (PCRF) initiated dedicated bearer activation
procedure for a UE in idle mode. Similar flow would apply for UTRAN/GERAN.
{width="6.596527777777778in" height="4.449305555555555in"}
Figure 5.4.1.1-1: Dedicated Bearer Activation towards UE with long DRX in idle
mode
1-5. Following current procedures with the following additions:
1-2. PCRF provides an indication that the session is delay tolerant
3-4. PGW and SGW indicates that the session is delay tolerant.
6a. The MME may apply a timeout for the MT Service Request procedure taking
into account the GTP re-transmission timer and the eDRX value.
6b. If UE doesn\'t reply before timeout, then the MME sends a Create Bearer
Response with a new reject cause indicating the procedure is temporary failed
due to eDRX.
6c. The SGW forwards the Create Bearer Response.
7\. The PGW uses the reject cause and indication earlier received from PCRF to
decide whether to contact PCRF (to indicate that the procedure failed) or
wait.
8-9. Dependent on step 7, e.g. it may indicate that procedure failed.
10\. UE replies to paging according to normal procedure, or the UE initiates a
Service Request for Mobile Originating service.
11\. If the PGW/SGW previously indicated that the session is delay tolerant,
the MME Creates a Modify Bearer Request adding an indication that the UE is
now available.
12\. The SGW forwards the Modify Bearer Request based on the new flag.
13-20. The PGW receives the Modify Bearer Request and dependent on step 7 the
PGW re-sends the Create Bearer Request (step 15-19) or the PGW informs the
PCRF that the UE is now available (step 13) and the PCRF re-initiates the
procedure (step 14-20). Either the PCRF is in control of re-sending the
request (e.g. implied by the indication that the session is delay tolerant in
step 1), or the PGW is in control of re-sending the request.
So when UE is in idle with an extended DRX value and the MME receives Create
Bearer Request/Update Bearer Request as part of Dedicated bearer activation
procedure and bearer modification procedure, the MME reject the request after
a timeout (taking into account the GTP re-transmission timer and the eDRX
value) with a cause cause indicating the procedure is temporary failed due to
eDRX is enabled and PDN-GW should wait to re-try the same procedure until the
PDN-GW or GGSN receives another indication (in the step 11) from the MME
indicating it is time to re-try the same procedure which failed previously.
When receiving a reject the PGW uses the reject cause and optionally an
indication on Gx to decide whether to re-attempt the procedure or whether to
regard the procedure as failed.
#### 5.4.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Impacts on SGSN/MME/PGW/SGW:
\- Support GTP-protocol extensions i.e. new reject cause, and to create a new
flag in the Modify Bearer Request over S11/S4/S5/S8/Gn/Gp indicating to the
PGW/GGSN that the UE is available for the pending change which was rejected
previously.
Impacts on PGW/PCRF:
\- Optionally support Gx protocol extensions i.e. new capability and
indication.
Impacts on UE:
\- None.
Impacts on E-UTRAN/UTRAN:
\- None.
Impacts on GERAN:
\- None
#### 5.4.1.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution enables the possibility of PGW originated procedures when the UE
uses eDRX in idle mode with the impacts as outlined above with the following
considerations:
\- It does not increase signalling if the eDRX value is changed, i.e.
signalling is increased only in case there is a PGW originated procedure which
the UE does not reply to within an optionally applied time in the MME/SGSN;
\- It avoids changing the GTP-C re-transmission timers (T3-RESPONSE &
N3-REQUESTS) and avoids making them per UE dependent.
### 5.4.2 Solution 2: Adjust GTP-C re-transmission timer according to eDRX
#### 5.4.2.1 Description
The GTP-C re-transmission timer is adjusted according to eDRX info, to avoid
unnecessary re-transmission and path failure detection.
{width="6.21875in" height="4.065972222222222in"}
Figure 5.4.2.1-1 attach procedure
1\. During the attach procedure, if the MME decides to apply an eDRX for the
UE, the MME will include eDRX info.
2\. After receiving the eDRX info, the S-GW adjusts the T3-REQUEST timer
(GTP-C re-transmission timer, see TS 23.007) according to local policy, to
make the T3-REQUEST timer longer than the eDRX duration.
NOTE 1: Stage 3 will figure out the details of eDRX info, e.g. eDRX
indication, or eDRX value, and how to adjust the T3-REQUEST timer, e.g. a pre-
configured T3-REQUEST timer longer than all possible eDRX value used by the
UE, or based on the eDRX value indicated from MME.
3\. The S-GW includes the eDRX info in the Create Session Request which is
sent to the P-GW.
4\. After receiving the eDRX info, the P-GW adjusts the T3-REQUEST timer
according to local policy, to make the T3-REQUEST timer longer than the eDRX
duration.
The following step is same the existing attach procedure specified in figure
5.3.2.1 of TS 23.401 [6].
NOTE 2: During the Network-Initiated IP-CAN Session Modification procedure,
the PGW will send the Diameter Ack message to PCRF immediately, rather than
after receiving the GTP response message from the SGW/MME, see the clause
4.3.1 in TS 29.213. Therefore, a long internal between the GTP request and
response will not cause the Diameter request message re-transmission in Gx and
Rx interface.
NOTE 3: The UE may change its eDRX status and trigger TAU. In this case, the
MME shall update the eDRX info in the Modify Bearer Request message to notify
the SGW/PGW adjust the T3 REQUEST timer.
#### 5.4.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Impact is on the:
MME/SGSN:
\- Signalling impact in Create Session Request/Create PDP Context Request.
SGW/PGW/GGSN:
\- Adjust the GTP-C re-transmission timer (longer GTP-C transactions).
\- Signalling impact in Create Session Request/Create PDP Context Request.
#### 5.4.2.3 Solution Evaluation
\- reuse the existing signalling to transfer the new indication to SGW/PGW.
\- SGW/PGW reuses the existing logic to handle the GTP-C retransmission with
adjusted T3-REQUEST timer.
\- available for the MME restart case, i.e. the SGW may enable/disable service
restoration procedure based on the eDRX info.
\- for the case that UE may dynamically disable/enable the eDRX, increase the
signalling to update the eDRX info to SGW/PGW.
## 5.5 Void
## 5.6 Solutions to Idle Mode DRX Open Issue #6: Interaction between eDRX and
PSM (Power Saving Mode)
### 5.6.1 Solution 1: SGSN/MME decision on whether to enable both extended
I-DRX and PSM or not
#### 5.6.1.1 Description
If a UE requests via NAS both to enable PSM (requesting an active time and
possibly a periodic TAU timer) and extended I-DRX (with a specific extended
I-DRX cycle value), it is up to the SGSN/MME to decide whether to:
1\. Enable only PSM, i.e. not accept the request for extended I-DRX.
2\. Enable only extended I-DRX, i.e. not accept the request for an active
time.
3\. Enable both PSM (i.e. provide an active time) and extended I-DRX (i.e.
provide an extended I-DRX cycle value).
The decision between the 3 above, and which active time, periodic TAU timer
and/or extended I-DRX cycle value to provide to the UE, are implementation
dependent, based on local configuration, and possibly other information
available in the SGSN/MME. The method selected is then used until the next
Attach or RAU/TAU procedure is initiated, when a new decision may be made.
There are two possible scenarios when the UE may request parameters for both
PSM (active time, and periodic TAU/RAU) and extended I-DRX:
\- Scenario 1: The UE requests both as alternatives for the network to decide:
\- The UE may not know which power saving solution is supported in the
network, and therefore may request parameters for both PSM and extended DRX.
\- This scenario may be detected by the SGSN/MME by comparing the parameters
requested by the UE: If the periodic TAU/RAU is comparable to the extended
I-DRX cycle, or if the active time is shorter than the extended I-DRX cycle.
\- If this scenario is detected in the SGSN/MME, the SGSN/MME should enable
only one of PSM and extended I-DRX.
\- Scenario 2: The UE requests both PSM and extended I-DRX with the intention
to use them together, i.e., extended I-DRX to apply while active timer is
running.
\- The UE may need to be available during a certain period, e.g. requesting an
active time of few minutes, but still need to save battery during active time,
by using extended I-DRX of e.g. 30 seconds.
\- This scenario may be detected by the SGSN/MME by comparing the parameters
requested by the UE: If the periodic TAU/RAU is much longer than the extended
I-DRX cycle, and if the active time is longer than the extended I-DRX cycle.
\- The SGSN/MME may decide to enable both PSM and extended I-DRX if this
scenario is detected. If both extended I-DRX and PSM are enabled, the extended
I-DRX cycle should be set in order to have multiple paging occasions while the
active timer is running.
#### 5.6.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
In MME:
\- If both extended I-DRX and PSM are requested by a UE, decide whether to
enable only extended I-DRX, only PSM, or both.
In UE:
\- Decide whether to request PSM, extended I-DRX or both.
#### 5.6.1.3 Solution Evaluation
Feasible solution with minimal impact on behaviour of MME and UE, and no
signalling impact.
## 5.7 Solutions to Idle Mode DRX Open Issue #7: MT location services
### 5.7.1 Solution 1: Delayed location reporting
#### 5.7.1.1 Description
{width="6.199305555555555in" height="2.8in"}
Figure 5.7.1.1-1
NOTE: For simplicity, the E-SMLC interactions between the MME and E-SMLC are
not described in the figure (although existent as per clauses 9.1.15 and
9.1.17 of TS 23.271 [3]).
1) The GMLC indicates to the SGSN/MME it supports delayed location reporting
for UEs transiently not reachable in the PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REQUEST
message.
2) When a MME/SSGN receives a PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REQUEST for a UE
using eDRX, and the UE is in Idle mode, it shall immediately return a PROVIDE
SUBSCRIBER LOCATION RESPONSE including a \"UE transiently not reachable\"
indication, and including the UE\'s last known location.
2a) The MME/SGSN attempts to page the UE.
2b) The eNB/RNC waits for the next paging occurrence according to the UE eDRX
cycle.
2c) The eNB/RNC pages the UE on its paging occurrence.
3) The UE enters Connected mode.
4) When the UE location is obtained, the MME/SGSN shall issue a SUBSCRIBER
LOCATION REPORT to the GMLC with the current subscriber location (as if this
was an EPC network induced Location Request, see TS 23.271 [3] clause 9.1.17).
5) The GMLC returns a SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REPORT ACK back to the UE.
If the UE moves to another MME/SGSN prior to reporting the location to the
GMLC, the old MME/SGSN sends a Subscriber Location Report to the GMLC with the
indication that it cannot proceed with the request as a result of UE mobility.
The GMLC may reiterate then its request towards the new MME/SGSN.
#### 5.7.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
GMLC: delayed Location reporting support
MME: delayed Location reporting support
#### 5.7.1.3 Solution Evaluation
Provides an efficient means to notify GMLC that the UE location report may be
sent with some delay.
# 6 Solutions for Connected Mode DRX
## 6.1 Solutions to Connected Mode DRX Open Issue #1: How SGSN/MME is aware of
GERAN/RAN enabling extended C-DRX, particularly for long DRX values
### 6.1.1 Solution 1: Configuration of extended C-DRX via Core Network
#### 6.1.1.1 Description
Extended DRX cycles for Connected mode are enabled by providing the parameters
for extended C-DRX in NAS. The UE provides new extended DRX information for
Connected mode in a backward compatible way to ensure that UEs and networks
not supporting extended DRX in Connected mode are not impacted.
This solution assumes that the UE requests the extended C-DRX value in GMM/EMM
request messages sent to the MME/SGSN. The GMM/EMM Accept messages don\'t
include the extended C-DRX value accepted by the MME/SGSN.
{width="6.495833333333334in" height="6.819444444444445in"}
Figure 6.1.1.1-1: Procedure of extended DRX determination in E-UTRAN
NOTE: The above flow is for E-UTRAN, but corresponding flow for UTRAN is
achieved by replacing relevant messages and network entities.
During the setup of the Iu/S1 interface at UE transition from Idle to
Connected mode the MME/SGSN informs the RAN about support for extended C-DRX
and provides in this procedure the value it decided to use taking the value
received earlier via NAS from the UE into account. This extended C-DRX value
provides the upper limit that can be applied by the RAN assuming that it is
set according to the reachability requirements.
The RAN configures the device via RRC, and it may configure the device for
extended C-DRX via RRC Configuration/Reconfiguration.
The RAN provides an indication to the MME/SGSN that RAN has configured the UE
to use extended C-DRX.
#### 6.1.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Impacts on SGSN/MME:
\- Support for NAS-protocol extensions for reception of extended C-DRX in the
dedicated NAS messages. The extended C-DRX value is provided as a separate IE.
\- Support protocol extensions on the Iu/S1 interface.
Impacts on UE:
\- Support for NAS-protocol extensions to enable extended C-DRX cycles.
Support for coding of parameters for the extended C-DRX and sending it in a
dedicated NAS message to the MME/SGSN. The extended C-DRX value is provided as
a separate IE.
Impacts on E-UTRAN/UTRAN:
\- Support of the protocol extensions on the Iu/S1 interface.
#### 6.1.1.3 Solution Evaluation
Successfully achieves the possibility of UE to request needed extended C-DRX
value, Core Network authorization and RAN decision to enable extended C-DRX
with indication to Core Network.
## 6.2 Solutions to Connected Mode DRX Open Issue #2: Handling NAS
retransmissions timers for DRX values longer than the currently specified
values
Editor\'s note: This clause will contain solutions to Open issue #2 for
Connected Mode DRX cycle extension from Core Network perspective as described
in clause 4.2.
### 6.2.1 Solution 1: NAS retransmission timer adjustment by C-DRX
#### 6.2.1.1 Description
SGSN/MME is aware of the value and support of the extended C-DRX for an UE in
EMM Connected mode as described in clause 6.1.1 Configuration of extended
C-DRX via CN.
In case of NAS message transfer the MME/SGSN takes the extended C-DRX value
into account when setting the relevant retransmission timer.
#### 6.2.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Impacts on SGSN/MME:
\- Support for dynamic setting of the NAS retransmission timers taking the
extended C-DRX value in consideration.
#### 6.2.1.3 Solution Evaluation
Editor\'s note: Use this clause for evaluation at solution level. Evaluation
at key issue level is done in a separate clause.
### 6.2.2 Solution 2: New ECM Connected substate while the UE is in long
extended C-DRX
#### 6.2.2.1 Description
Currently NAS retransmission timers are normally between 8 and 10 seconds. For
long values of extended C-DRX, with the current NAS procedures the NAS
retransmissions timers would expire, potentially multiple times, even causing
the network originated procedure to fail if the NAS retransmission timer
expires 5 times (e.g. for long eC-DRX cycle values of 50 seconds or more).
This issue does not exist in idle mode, as the MME first pages the device, and
once the UE is in ECM connected mode, the MME starts the NAS procedure.
This solution proposes to follow a similar behaviour as for idle mode case,
i.e., when the eNB indicates to the MME that a UE is in long extended C-DRX,
the MME enters a substate of ECM connected mode \"Temporarily Unavailable\".
When a network initiates a NAS procedure, the MME behaves as shown in Figure
6.2.2.1-1.
Figure 6.2.2.1-1: NW originated NAS procedure when UE is in long eC-DRX
0-2: The eNB indicates that extended C-DRX has been configured in the UE,
using steps as in 6.1.2.1.
3\. If the extended C-DRX cycle is long, the MME enters state ECM Connected-
Temporarily Unavailable substate.
4\. When the NW originates a control plane procedure, the MME does not start
the corresponding NAS procedure, and does not start the NAS retransmission
timer for that procedure.
NOTE 1: This solution needs to be used together with a solution for GTP-C
retransmission as covered in clause 6.4.
5\. The MME sends a new S1-AP message \"Leave Extended C-DRX\" to the eNB.
6\. The eNB requests the UE to temporarily leave extended C-DRX mode.
NOTE 2: How the eNB requests this is dependent RAN WGs work. One possibility
is that this is performed via MAC signalling.
7\. The eNB confirms that the UE has left extended C-DRX.
8\. The MME enters normal ECM Connected state and starts the NAS procedure.
The MME needs to enter ECM Connected \"Temporarily Unavailable\" substate
after the procedure is completed. There are some alternatives to do that:
\- The MME enters ECM Connected \"Temporarily Unavailable\" immediately after
the NAS procedure is completed.
\- The eNB provides in the \"Leave Extended C-DRX ACK\" message the time the
UE will remain not in extended C-DRX after the procedure is completed. When
the NAS procedure is completed, the MME starts a timer with the value given by
the eNB, and when it expires the MME enters ECM Connected \"Temporarily
Unavailable\".
The MME leaves ECM Connected-Temporarily Unavailable state.in case of RAN/UE
originated procedure that triggers an S1 message from RAN to core network,
e.g. handover procedure, UE initiated NAS procedures, MO SMS.
With this approach, there is no need to modify the currently standardized NAS
retransmission timers.
#### 6.2.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
In the eNB:
\- Support of S1-AP message from MME to eNB to request that UE leaves extended
C-DRX and corresponding eNB behaviour.
In the MME:
\- Support of new NAS state ECM Connected-Temporarily Unavailable and triggers
to enter/exit it as described above.
\- Support of S1-AP message from MME to eNB to request that UE leaves extended
C-DRX.
#### 6.2.2.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution has the benefit that NAS retransmission timers are not changed
when the UE is in normal ECM connected state. Paired with 6.3.1 provides the
same solution for both handling of NAS procedures and MT SMS.
Drawback of the solution is some additional delay from the fact that the UE
needs to first we awoken and then the NAS procedure starts.
It also requires new S1 signalling.
## 6.3 Solutions to Connected Mode DRX Open Issue #3: Handling of MT SMS and
MT location services, e.g. avoiding retransmissions for long DRX cycles
Editor\'s note: This clause will contain solutions to Open issue #3 for
Connected Mode DRX cycle extension from Core Network perspective as described
in clause 4.2.
### 6.3.1 Solution 1: MME temporarily declares UE unreachable if MT SMS
received
#### 6.3.1.1 Description
For MT SMS, if the MME knows the UE is in long extended C-DRX, i.e. by being
in state ECM Connected - Temporarily unavailable as defined in clause 6.2.2,
the MME may decide to indicate towards the SMS Infrastructure that the UE is
unreachable.
Subsequently the MME proceeds with sending an S1-AP message message \"Leave
Extended C-DRX Request\" to the eNB.
When the eNB receives the message \"Leave Extended C-DRX ACK\", it follows the
behaviour defined in clause 6.2.2, i.e. it requests the UE to temporarily
leave the extended C-DRX mode. When the MME receives the confirmation from
eNB, the MME moves to normal ECM Connected state and sends UE-Activity-
Notification to HSS indicating that the UE is reachable.
The HSS will then indicate to SMS infrastructure that UE is reachable.
#### 6.3.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
In MME:
\- Support declaring UE unreachable to SMS Infrastructure when UE is
configured for long eC-DRX.
In eNB:
\- Same impact as clause 6.2.2, no additional impact due to clause 6.3.1.1.
#### 6.3.1.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution solves the issue in the same way that is done for MT SMS of idle
mode as far as the SMS infrastructure is concerned, and does not require the
need of SMS layer to handle possible repeated SMS messages, or possible
handling of unexpected CP ACKs in the network (MSC is case of SMS over SGs).
The solution requires new S1 signalling.
### 6.3.2 Solution 2: MME/SGSN temporarily declares UE unreachable if MT SMS
received - without RAN impacts
#### 6.3.2.1 Description
For MT SMS, if the MME (for SMS in MME)/SGSN knows that the UE may be in long
extended C-DRX, i.e. by RAN has indicated extended C-DRX during S1/Iu setup,
the MME/SGSN forwards the CP DATA message towards the UE and may decide to
indicate towards the SMS Infrastructure that the UE is unreachable either
directly upon receiving a CP-DATA message or after a timeout. The timer could
be set to avoid CP layer retransmissions. If the MME/SGSN indicated that the
UE is unreachable, the MME/SGSN sends a UE-Activity-Notification to the HSS
when the UE replies with a CP ACK message (the MME/SGSN deletes the CP ACK
message). The HSS will then indicate to the SMS infrastructure that UE is
reachable, and the SMS infrastructure re-sends the SMS.
NOTE 1: The CP DATA message corresponding to the re-sent SMS will be sent to
the UE while RAN does not apply an extended C-DRX value as extended C-DRX is
not applied until enough time has passed between UE activities.
For MT SMS using SMS over SGs, the MME is transparently handling the SGs
unitdata and the MSC is handling the SMS interactions. Based on the extended
DRX value and local configuration, the MME may decide to indicate towards the
MSC that the UE is unreachable (independent if the SGs unitdata is for SMS or
any other data) either directly upon receiving a CP-DATA message or after a
timeout. The timer could be set to avoid retransmissions from the MSC. The MSC
uses the SGs Non-EPS Alert procedure for being notified of any UE signalling
activity. The MME sends an SGsAP-ALERT-ACK message to the MSC when the UE
replies with a CP ACK message (or due to other activity seen by the MME). The
MSC will then re-send the CP DATA Message.
NOTE 2: The MSC might receive a CP ACK message which has no outstanding CP
Message, but it is expected that the CP layer is able to ignore it.
#### 6.3.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
In SGSN:
\- Support logic to indicate that the UE is unreachable to SMS Infrastructure
when UE is configured for extended C-DRX, and delete CP ACK message received
from the UE when the SGSN already indicated UE being unreachable.
In MME:
\- For SMS in MME:
\- Support logic to indicate that the UE is unreachable to SMS Infrastructure
when UE is configured for extended C-DRX, and delete CP ACK message received
from the UE when the MME already indicated UE being unreachable.
\- For SMS over SGs:
\- Support logic to handle unreachable UE, when UE is configured for extended
C-DRX, independent of SGs unitdata.
In MSC
\- No impact, but it is expected that the MSC is able to receive a CP ACK
message which has no outstanding CP Message,
In RAN:
\- No impact
In UE:
\- No impact, but it is expected that the UE is able to handle a repeated CP
data message
In SMS infrastructure:
\- No impact
#### 6.3.2.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution avoids CP layer re-transmissions with minimal impacts, but with
some additional signalling by using the UE Activity Notification or Non-EPS
Alert procedure in case the UE does not reply with a CP ACK before a timer in
the MME/SGSN has expired.
For SMS over SGs it is expected that the MSC is able to receive a CP ACK
message which has no outstanding CP Message.
## 6.4 Solutions to Connected Mode DRX Open Issue #4: Impact in S/P-GW
retransmissions when handling Network originated control plane procedure
Editor\'s note: This clause will contain solutions to Open issue #4 for
Connected Mode DRX cycle extension from Core Network perspective as described
in clause 4.2.
### 6.4.1 Solution 1: Cause code dependent solution for GTP-C re-transmissions
#### 6.4.1.1 Description
The following flow shows a PGW (PCRF) initiated dedicated bearer activation
procedure for a UE in connected mode. Similar flow would apply for UTRAN.
Figure 6.4.1.1-1: Dedicated Bearer Activation towards UE with long DRX in
connected mode
1-5. Following current procedures with the following additions:
1-2. PCRF provides an indication that the session is delay tolerant
3-4. PGW and SGW indicates that the session is delay tolerant.
5\. MME may issue another message towards the UE than the one received from
the PGW/SGW e.g. an Identity Request.
6a. The MME may apply a timeout taking into account the GTP re-transmission
timer and the maximum eDRX value in connected mode.
NOTE: It is assumed that the agreed solution for issue 1 \"How SGSN/MME is
aware of GERAN/RAN enabling extended C-DRX, particularly for long DRX values\"
makes MME/SGSN aware of the maximum extended C-DRX value possibly applied by
the RAN.
6b. If the UE doesn\'t reply before timeout, then the MME sends a Create
Bearer Response with a new reject cause indicating the procedure is temporary
failed due to eDRX.
6c. The SGW forwards the Create Bearer Response.
7\. The PGW uses the reject cause and indication earlier received from PCRF to
decide whether to contact PCRF (to indicate that the procedure failed) or
wait.
8-9. Dependent on step 7 e.g. it may indicate that procedure failed.
10\. UE replies to Session Management request, or to e.g. the Identity Request
if that was used by the MME, according to normal procedure or the UE initiates
a Mobile Originating NAS procedure.
11\. If the PGW/SGW previously indicated that the session is delay tolerant,
the MME Creates a Modify Bearer Request adding an indication that the UE is
now available
12\. The SGW forwards the Modify Bearer Request based on the new flag.
13-20. The PGW receives the Modify Bearer Request and dependent on step 7 the
PGW re-sends the Create Bearer Request (step 15-19) or the PGW informs the
PCRF that the UE is now available (step 13) and the PCRF re-initiates the
procedure (step 14-20). Either the PCRF is in control of re-sending the
request (e.g. implied by the indication that the session is delay tolerant in
step 1), or the PGW is in control of re-sending the request.
So when UE is in connected mode with an extended DRX value and the MME
receives Create Bearer Request/Update Bearer Request as part of Dedicated
bearer activation procedure and bearer modification procedure, the MME reject
the request after a timeout (taking into account the GTP re-transmission timer
and the eDRX value) with a cause code indicating the procedure is temporary
failed due to eDRX is enabled and PDN-GW should wait to re-try the same
procedure until the PDN-GW or GGSN receives another indication (in the step
11) from the MME indicating it is time to re-try the same procedure which was
failed previously. When receiving a reject the PGW uses the reject cause and
optionally an indication on Gx to decide whether to re-attempt the procedure
or whether to regard the procedure as failed.
#### 6.4.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
UE: None
Impacts on SGSN/MME/PGW/SGW:
\- Support GTP-protocol extensions i.e. new reject cause, and to create a new
flag in the Modify Bearer Request over S11/S4/S5/S8/Gn/Gp indicating to the
PGW/GGSN that the UE is available for the pending change which was rejected
previously.
Impacts on PGW/PCRF:
\- Optionally support Gx protocol extensions i.e. new capability and
indication.
eNB/RNC: None.
#### 6.4.1.3 Solution Evaluation
Editor\'s note: Use this clause for evaluation at solution level. Evaluation
at key issue level is done in a separate clause.
The solution enables the possibility of PGW originated procedures when the UE
uses eDRX in connected mode with the impacts as outlined above with the
following considerations:
\- It relies upon a solution for issue 1 \"How SGSN/MME is aware of GERAN/RAN
enabling extended C-DRX, particularly for long DRX values\" makes MME/SGSN
aware of the maximum extended C-DRX value possibly applied by the RAN.
\- It does not increase signalling if the eDRX value is changed, i.e.
signalling is increased only in case there is a PGW originated procedure which
the UE does not reply to within an optionally applied time in the MME/SGSN.
\- It avoids changing the GTP-C re-transmission timers (T3-RESPONSE &
N3-REQUESTS) and avoids making them per UE dependent.
### 6.4.2 Solution 2: Adjust GTP-C re-transmission timer according to eDRX
#### 6.4.2.1 Description
The GTP-C re-transmission timer is adjusted according to the eDRX info, to
avoid unnecessary re-transmission and path failure detection.
The solution is same to the one for Idle Mode DRX in clause 5.4.2
#### 6.4.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Impact is on the:
MME/SGSN:
Signalling impact in Create Session Request/Create PDP Context Request.
SGW/PGW/GGSN:
Adjust the GTP-C re-transmission timer (longer GTP-C transactions).
Signalling impact in Create Session Request/Create PDP Context Request.
#### 6.4.2.3 Solution Evaluation
Editor\'s note: Use this clause for evaluation at solution level. Evaluation
at key issue level is done in a separate clause.
# 7 Overall Evaluation
## 7.1 Overall Evaluation for Idle Mode DRX
The following issues identified in this TR in clause 4.1 have been solved with
one solution:
Table 7.1-1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue | Solution | Comments | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue 1: | 5.1.1 Solution #1: | Solution to issue | | | Extended DRX value | always required when | | Support NAS-protocol | assignment using NAS | extended I-DRX is | | extensions to enable | MM messages | used. | | extended DRX cycle. | | | | There needs to be | | Successfully solves | | coordination between | | the identified | | UE and Core Network | | issue. | | (SGSN/MME) for use | | | | of extended DRX. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue 3: | 5.3.1 Solution #1: | Solution to issue | | | MME temporarily | required when | | Handling of MT SMS, | declare UE | extended I-DRX cycle | | e.g. avoiding | unreachable if MT | value is larger than | | retransmissions for | SMS received. | retransmission timer | | long DRX cycles. | | in SMS | | | | infrastructure. | | | | | | | | Successfully solves | | | | the identified | | | | issue. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue 6: | 5.6.1 Solution 1: | Solution to issue | | | SGSN/MME decision on | required in a | | Interaction between | whether to enable | network that | | eDRX and PSM (Power | both extended I-DRX | supports both PSM | | Saving Mode). | and PSM or not | and extended I-DRX. | | | | | | | | Successfully solves | | | | the identified | | | | issue. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue 7: | 5.7.1 Solution 1: | Solution to issue | | | Delayed location | required for | | MT Location services | reporting | extended I-DRX cycle | | support | | values larger than | | | | retransmission | | | | timers in GMLC. | | | | | | | | Successfully solves | | | | the identified | | | | issue. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
For Issue 2: Paging strategy in CN that fits the needs of the extended DRX
cycle and normal DRX cycle, two possible solutions have been captured in this
document:
\- 5.2.1 Solution1: Paging coordination between CN and UE
\- 5.2.2 Solution 2: Paging Strategy Left to MME/SGSN Implementation
Individual implementation impacts and evaluations are captured in Sections
5.2.1.2/5.2.1.3 and 5.2.2.2/5.2.2.3 respectively. Comparative evaluation
requires feedback from RAN WGs, and will be performed during normative work
based on RAN WGs feedback.
Evaluation of solutions for issue 4:
Table 7.1-2
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Aspect | Solution 1: | Solution 2: | Comments: | | | Cause code | Adjust GTP-C | | | | dependent | r | | | | solution | e-transmission | | | | | timer | | | | | according to | | | | | eDRX | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Impacted | SG | SG | Unclear how | | entities | SN/MME/PGW/SGW | SN/MME/PGW/SGW | PCC works with | | | | | solution 2 | | | Optionally | | | | | PCRF | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Type of | New | Transfer of | | | impacts | indication. | eDRX values | | | | | | | | | MME/SGSN may | Nodes need to | | | | trigger | retain | | | | Modification | separate | | | | procedure in | r | | | | case of delay | e-transmission | | | | tolerant | timers per | | | | sessions | session | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Signalling | Additional | Additional | | | | signalling for | signalling if | | | | a PGW/PCRF | there is a | | | | initiated | change in eDRX | | | | session that | value | | | | is delay | | | | | tolerant and | | | | | the UE does | | | | | not reply | | | | | within an | | | | | optionally | | | | | applied | | | | | timeout in the | | | | | MME/SGSN | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Capacity | Minor impact | Impacting GW | | | | for the option | capacity due | | | | when not | to GTP-C | | | | indicating | transactions | | | | that the | are prolonged | | | | session is | | | | | delay | | | | | tolerant. | | | | | | | | | | Impacting GW | | | | | memory | | | | | capacity for | | | | | the option | | | | | indicating | | | | | that session | | | | | is delay | | | | | tolerant due | | | | | to state is | | | | | kept that PGW | | | | | initiated | | | | | procedure is | | | | | to be re-sent | | | | | (but no GTP-C | | | | | transaction | | | | | open). | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 7.2 Overall Evaluation for Connected Mode DRX
The following issue identified in this document in section 4.2 have been
solved with one solution:
Table 7.2-1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Issue | Solution | Applies | Comments | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Issue 1: | 6.1.1 Solution | This solution | Only solution | | | 1: | is required if | considered in | | How SGSN/MME | Configuration | extended C-DRX | this document. | | authorizes the | of extended | cycle value is | | | use of | C-DRX via Core | larger than | | | extended C-DRX | Network | 10.24s. | | | and how the | | | | | SGSN/MME is | | | | | aware of | | | | | GERAN/RAN | | | | | enabling | | | | | extended | | | | | C-DRX, | | | | | particularly | | | | | for long DRX | | | | | values | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The following issues identified in this document in section 4.2 have two
alternative solutions proposed:
Table 7.2-2
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Issue | Issue Applies | Proposed | Comments | | | | Solutions | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Issue 2: | A solution to | 6.2.1 Solution | benefits: | | | this issue | 1: NAS | | | Handling NAS | would be | retransmission | - No need for | | r | required if | timer | new S1 | | etransmissions | extended C-DRX | adjustment by | signalling | | timers for DRX | cycle value | C-DRX | | | values longer | increases the | | - No | | than the | chances of NAS | | additional | | currently | r | | delay | | specified | etransmissions | | appearing in | | values. | and the | | Solution 2. | | | probability of | | | | | NAS procedure | | drawbacks: | | | failure. | | | | | | | - Need to | | | For | | make all NAS | | | E-UTRAN/LTE, | | retransmission | | | the issue | | timers, which | | | would not | | are currently | | | apply for | | fixed and | | | extended C-DRX | | standard | | | cycle values | | values, | | | up to 10.24 | | adjustable | | | seconds. | | based on DRX | | | | | value and per | | | | | UE. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 6.2.2 Solution | benefits: | | | | 2: New ECM | | | | | Connected | - No need to | | | | substate while | change NAS | | | | the UE is in | retransmission | | | | long extended | timers | | | | C-DRX | | | | | | drawbacks: | | | | | | | | | | - New S1 | | | | | signalling | | | | | needed | | | | | | | | | | - Additional | | | | | delay compared | | | | | to Solution 1. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Issue 3: | A solution to | 6.3.1 Solution | benefits: | | | this issue | 1: MME | | | Handling of MT | would be | temporarily | - Avoids | | SMS and MT | required if | declares UE | repeated MT | | location | extended C-DRX | unreachable if | SMS received | | services, e.g. | cycle value is | MT SMS | in UE. | | avoiding | larger than | received | | | r | the | | - Avoids | | etransmissions | retransmission | | unexpected | | for long DRX | timer | | arrival of CP | | cycles. | configured in | | ACK in the | | | the SMS | | core network | | | i | | (particularly | | | nfrastructure. | | for SMS over | | | | | SGs). | | | | | | | | | | drawbacks: | | | | | | | | | | - Requires | | | | | new S1 | | | | | signalling | | | | | (same as | | | | | solution 6.2.2 | | | | | for Issue 2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 6.3.2 Solution | Benefits: | | | | 2: MME/SGSN | | | | | temporarily | - No impact | | | | declares UE | to S1 | | | | unreachable if | signalling | | | | MT SMS | | | | | received with | Notes: | | | | extended with | | | | | no RAN impacts | - UE will | | | | | receive | | | | | repeated SMS | | | | | message It is | | | | | assumed UE can | | | | | detect SMS | | | | | message | | | | | repetition. | | | | | | | | | | - MSC will | | | | | receive an | | | | | unaccounted | | | | | for CP ACK. It | | | | | is assumed the | | | | | MTC can handle | | | | | such scenario. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
For extended idle mode DRX (extended I-DRX) , this document provides
alternative feasible solutions to the following identified issues:
Table 7.2-3
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue | Feasible Solutions | Comments | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue 2: | 5.2.1 Solution1: | A solution to this | | | Paging coordination | issue is required | | Paging strategy in | between CN and UE | for extended I-DRX. | | CN that fits the | | | | needs of the | | Selection of | | extended DRX cycle | | solution requires | | and normal DRX | | GERAN/RAN WGs | | cycle. | | feedback, and will | | | | be performed during | | | | normative phase. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 5.2.2 Solution 2: | | | | Paging Strategy Left | | | | to MME/SGSN | | | | Implementation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue 4: | 5.4.1 Solution 1: | A solution to this | | | Cause code dependent | issue is required | | Impact in S/P-GW | solution for GTP-C | for extended I-DRX | | retransmissions when | re-transmissions | cycle values larger | | handling Network | | than the | | originated control | | retransmission timer | | plane procedure. | | configured in the | | | | SMS infrastructure. | | | | | | | | Both solutions are | | | | feasible, selection | | | | of solution will be | | | | performed during | | | | normative phase. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 5.4.2 Solution 2: | | | | Adjust GTP-C | | | | re-transmission | | | | timer according to | | | | eDRX | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
It is concluded that extended I-DRX with DRX cycles beyond 10.24 seconds will
be adopted for normative work. For each issue with alternative solutions, a
final decision of which solution to be adopted will be performed during
normative phase based on feedback from corresponding working groups.
For evaluation of solutions for issue 4, see evaluation of issue 4 for Idle
Mode DRX in clause 7.1.
# 8 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: This clause is intended to list conclusions that have been
agreed during the course of the work item activities. This should also capture
the guiding principles and documentation approach for creating CRs to
normative specifications within the responsibility of SA WG2.
For idle mode extended DRX the following solutions are to be adopted for
normative work if issue is required to be solved:
Table 8-1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue | Solution | Comments | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue 1: | 5.1.1 Solution #1: | Solution to issue | | | Extended DRX value | always required when | | Support NAS-protocol | assignment using NAS | extended I-DRX is | | extensions to enable | MM messages | used. | | extended DRX cycle. | | | | There needs to be | | | | coordination between | | | | UE and Core Network | | | | (SGSN/MME) for use | | | | of extended DRX. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue 3: | 5.3.1 Solution #1: | Solution to issue | | | MME temporarily | required when | | Handling of MT SMS, | declare UE | extended I-DRX cycle | | e.g. avoiding | unreachable if MT | value is larger than | | retransmissions for | SMS received. | retransmission timer | | long DRX cycles. | | in SMS | | | | infrastructure. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue 6: | 5.6.1 Solution 1: | Solution to issue | | | SGSN/MME decision on | required in a | | Interaction between | whether to enable | network that | | eDRX and PSM (Power | both extended I-DRX | supports both PSM | | Saving Mode). | and PSM or not | and extended I-DRX. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue 7: | 5.7.1 Solution 1: | Solution to issue | | | Delayed location | required for | | MT Location services | reporting | extended I-DRX cycle | | support | | values larger than | | | | retransmission | | | | timers in GMLC. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
For extended idle mode DRX (extended I-DRX) , this document provides
alternative feasible solutions to the following identified issues:
Table 8-2
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue | Feasible Solutions | Comments | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue 2: | 5.2.1 Solution1: | A solution to this | | | Paging coordination | issue is required | | Paging strategy in | between CN and UE | for extended I-DRX. | | CN that fits the | | | | needs of the | | Selection of | | extended DRX cycle | | solution requires | | and normal DRX | | GERAN/RAN WGs | | cycle. | | feedback, and will | | | | be performed during | | | | normative phase. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 5.2.2 Solution 2: | | | | Paging Strategy Left | | | | to MME/SGSN | | | | Implementation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Issue 4: | 5.4.1 Solution 1: | A solution to this | | | Cause code dependent | issue is required | | Impact in S/P-GW | solution for GTP-C | for extended I-DRX | | retransmissions when | re-transmissions | cycle values larger | | handling Network | | than the | | originated control | | retransmission timer | | plane procedure. | | configured in the | | | | SMS infrastructure. | | | | | | | | Both solutions are | | | | feasible, selection | | | | of solution will be | | | | performed during | | | | normative phase. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 5.4.2 Solution 2: | | | | Adjust GTP-C | | | | re-transmission | | | | timer according to | | | | eDRX | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
It is concluded that extended I-DRX with DRX cycles beyond 10.24 seconds will
be adopted for normative work. For each issue with alternative solutions, a
final decision of which solution to be adopted will be performed during
normative phase based on feedback from corresponding working groups.
It is concluded that no normative work will be done in the core network for
extended connected mode DRX (extended C-DRX) in Rel‑13. If extended C-DRX with
core network impacts is considered in later releases, the issues and solutions
described in this technical report should be used as baseline. Any work in RAN
working groups for extended C-DRX in Rel‑13 should be aware of the limitations
imposed by the core network, and the issues described in clause 4.2.
For E-UTRAN, extended C-DRX up to 10.24 seconds as planned by RAN WG2 in
Rel‑13, can be supported with no core network impacts. RAN design should avoid
the UE entering extended C-DRX while a NAS procedure, e.g. attach/TAU
procedure, is ongoing.
For UTRAN, it is advised that the maximum C-DRX value should take into account
the fact that some NW originated NAS procedures fail after 30 seconds.
Therefore, the maximum C-DRX cycle length adopted for Rel‑13 should be
sufficiently smaller than 30 seconds, and should consider possible delays due
to lower layer errors recovery in a way that NW originated NAS procedure
failure rate is not affected by introducing extended C-DRX.
###### ### Annex A: Baseline from Rel-12
# A.1 Solution: Extended DRX in idle mode (TR 23.887 [4], clause 7.1.3.1)
## A.1.1 General
The solution described in this clause addresses the Key issue \"UE Power
Consumption Optimizations\".
The characteristics of the solution is that the Maximum DRX cycles in idle
mode are possibly extended with longer values allowing the UE to save battery
as waking up and listening for a potential paging message is one major power
consuming functionality. When this solution is used, paging transmission
period is also adjusted based on the extended DRX cycle applied to the UE.
Extended DRX cycles are enabled in UTRAN/E-UTRAN by providing the parameters
for extended DRX in NAS. The current DRX parameters from UE to network in
clause 10.5.5.6 of TS 24.008 [7] are extended in a backward compatible way to
ensure that normal UE(s), i.e. UEs not requiring low power consumption, are
not impacted. For enabling the extended DRX cycle in UTRAN/E-UTRAN:
\- (option A) on one hand the eNB would broadcast the default extended DRX
cycle value via system information to indicate the network capability of
supporting extended DRX, on the other hand UE should inform the network its
desire using of extended DRX by the explicit indicator and its expected
specific extended DRX cycle value if necessary.
\- (option B) the UE should inform the network its desire using of extended
DRX by including its preferred extended DRX cycle value.
In this procedure, the availability of extended DRX for the UE should be
decided in consideration of the UE\'s capability, the network condition (e.g.,
ISR activation), as well as the support of extended DRX of the RAN nodes
within an area served by the core network node (e.g. TAs or MME pool area).
This is because the UE can travel through several RAN nodes without performing
location update, even when some part of RAN nodes do not support the extended
DRX (e.g., legacy E-UTRAN nodes in TA or legacy UTRAN nodes in the ISR
activated case).
(option A) If UE moves to a new cell in a new TA and does not receive the
extended DRX cycle value in system information, it knows the new cell/TA
cannot support the extended DRX. (option B) If UE moves to a new cell in a new
TA and does not receive the extended DRX in the TAU accept, it knows the TA
(at least one cell within the TA) cannot support the extended DRX. Even though
this UE that has the capability of the extended DRX it will only use the
normal DRX cycle.
The value of the default extended DRX cycle applied in the RAN nodes could be
informed to the MME by using S1/Iu signalling, OA&M method, or manual
configuration. If supported, the UE can indicate the desire to use the
extended DRX cycle at any time, by using a NAS procedure such as Attach or TA
update. When the UE moves, it should perform TA update to report its desire to
use the extended long DRX in the new TA. For option A the UE does this only if
the eNBs in the new TA have the capability to support extended long DRX (known
by broadcasted system information.
If the DRX cycle is longer than the System Frame, then the UE and the network
should be synchronised so that the UE can differentiate between the System
Frames with no paging occasion (dormant System Frames) and the ones with
paging occasion (active System Frames).
NOTE 1: If the DRX cycles are to be extended longer than the System Frame
Number currently allows then 3GPP RAN WGs would need to look into extensions
of the time allowed by the SFN.
For E-UTRAN, the MME needs to indicate to the eNB the UE\'s desire to use
extended DRX cycle in the S1AP Paging message. (option A) If the received UE
specific extended DRX value from UE is less than the default extended DRX
value, the MME should also include the UE specific extended DRX value in the
paging message. When MME initiates the paging procedure it determines which
paging parameters to send to eNBs since it knows the eNBs\' capability and the
UE desire. (option A) The MME sends paging to the eNB supporting longer DRX
with UE desire indication and the UE specific longer DRX if necessary. (option
B) The MME includes the extended DRX value that is stored in the context for
this UE.
The MME may need a longer paging retransmission timer for the extended longer
DRX paging messages.
After the UE determines the extended DRX value is supported, the UE ignores
the default normal DRX value broadcasted in the system information. (option A)
The eNB and UE both use the smaller one of the UE specific extended DRX value
and a default extended DRX value broadcast in system information for paging
monitoring. (option B) The eNB and UE both use the extended DRX value provided
by the MME as described above.
The Figure A.1.1-1 illustrates the basic procedure in E-UTRAN.
Figure A.1-1: Procedure of extended DRX determination in E-UTRAN
In GERAN longer paging transmission periods are enabled by in extending the
parameter \"BS-PA-MFRMS\" (see TS 44.018 [9], clause 10.5.2.11). The extension
could be done e.g. by multiplying the BS-PA-MFRMS parameter with a given value
used as a paging multiplier factor. This factor should then be communicated
between UE and CN and then from CN to GERAN e.g. by adding the multiplier
factor to the paging message.
Paging timers and paging repetition in MSC/SGSN/MME are accommodated to cater
for the extended DRX cycle.
In addition, network could notify that the UE should alternate the extended
DRX cycle (value specified in the NAS parameter for extended DRX) with one or
several normal DRX cycle(s) (value of the DRX parameter multiplied by \"1\").
Such notification could be sent to the UE in a NAS message e.g. the Attach
Accept / TAU Accept.
NOTE 2: The need for alternating the DRX cycle would depend on 3GPP RAN WGs
analysis of how to limit the risk of UE missing a paging due to the DRX cycle
been extended to a long value.
Paging re-transmission timers in the MSC/SGSN/MME should be adapted to fit in
the needs of the extended DRX cycle and normal DRX cycle.
The used DRX value needs to be known by the UE, RAN and MME/SGSN.
NOTE 3: 3GPP RAN WGs need to evaluate how the UE wakes up from extended DRX
cycle and ensure that paging loss is minimized.
Considering that the CN may be impacted it is reasonable that CN should be
able to override UE provided DRX values that are longer then currently
supported values.
NOTE 4: The decision for UE initiating low power consumption mode may be based
on the UE configuration by the network or UE implementation.
Without adjusting the re-transmission timers on higher layers, longer DRX
cycle maximum up to several minutes may impact the reachability of the UE that
would bring unnecessary overhead to the network, e.g., paging and GTP message
retransmission, abnormal case handling without the feedback response in the
expected time duration.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS which maximum/reasonable DRX value that should be
possible to select.
When a long DRX cycle is used, then re-transmission on higher layers needs to
be considered and minimized. Normally network initiated NAS messages are sent
while UE is in connected mode and therefore there is for the far most cases no
need to adapt any NAS re-transmission timers in the CN (except for paging
repetition). However, in case there is a need to page the UE to initiate a NAS
procedure e.g. GUTI or P-TMSI Reallocation procedure then the NAS
retransmission timers for network initiated (E)MM procedures and (E)SM
procedures are adjusted based on DRX value for values larger than the
currently defined value in TS 24.008 [7]/TS 24.301 [8].
The adjustment should be performed for each NAS retransmission timer value as:
\- If DRX value is larger than the default value, then the NAS retransmission
timer value is adjusted to the DRX value.
NOTE 5: Which re-transmission value to use would be a stage 3 decision.
For GTP-C messages initiated by the PGW, if the procedure requires the MME to
page the UE, the MME may request one eNB to return the time for the next
paging occurrence if paging is delayed. If the MME receives a time for next
paging occurrence, the MME may use it to decide whether to reject the GTP-C
message towards the PGW indicating that the UE is not reachable. As an
alternative, if long DRX cycle is applied for the UE, the MME may immediately
reject the GTP-C message indicating the UE is not reachable. The PGW action
would then be dependent on the procedure initiated, but it would be same
action as currently done after it has been determined that the UE is not
reachable.
NOTE 6: RAN need to evaluate whether it is possible to support the function
for having the MME to request for the next paging occurrence as it would
require some time synchronization of cells.
To be able to handle DL UP data, it is also recommended to make use of an
adapted application which is able to handle high latency communication and to
use IP/UDP instead of TCP.
For MT SMS, if the MME has adapted to a longer paging re-transmission for the
UE (due to long DRX cycle applied) the MME may request the eNB to return the
time for the next paging occurrence if paging is delayed. If the MME receives
a time for next paging occurrence, the MME may use it to decide whether to
indicate towards the SMS Infrastructure that the UE is unreachable and set the
URRP flag (this will avoid any need to adapt re-transmission timers towards
SMS Infrastructure). The UE would then be reachable when it next time invokes
some activity e.g. initiates MO data or performs a periodic TA update (i.e.
the UE activity interval may then set the latency requirement for MT
communication). In addition, to avoid CP-layer re-transmissions of CP-DATA,
the RAN could keep UEs configured for using long DRX in idle mode in RRC
connected mode long enough to allow a network stored MT SMS to be received by
the UE. As an optimization, when the URRP flag is set the MME could provide an
indication to the eNB (via S1) that the eNB should keep the UE long enough in
RRC connected mode to allow a network stored MT SMS to be received by the UE.
## A.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Impacts on SGSN/MME/MSC:
\- Support NAS-protocol extensions to enable extended DRX cycles.
\- (Option B) Support for coding of parameters for the extended DRX and
sending it in a dedicated NAS message to the UE.
\- Paging re-transmission timer in the MSC/SGSN/MME should be adapted to fit
in the needs of the extended DRX cycle and normal DRX cycle.
\- (Option A) Support indicating to the eNB the UE\'s desire to use extended
DRX cycle on Paging.
\- Support notifying the UE that it should alternate the extended DRX cycle
with 1 or more normal DRX cycles.
\- The SGW buffer size is not proposed to be impacted, i.e. additional DL
packets beyond the buffer size would be dropped. Though, it should not be any
problem as it is not expected that large number of DL packets would be
received without any UL packets sent from the UE as long as the DRX value is
set to a value which limits any re-transmissions from higher layers. In
addition, the SGW keep a DL packet until the user plane bearer has been
established or until the MME has replied to the Downlink Data Notification
message with a Downlink Data Notification Reject.- For MT SMS, when the URRP
flag is set the CN potentially provides an indication to the RAN that the RAN
should keep the UE slightly longer in RRC connected mode.
Impacts on UE:
\- Support RAT- protocol extensions to enable negotiation of extended DRX
cycles
\- Support NAS-protocol extensions to enable extended DRX cycles. Support for
coding of parameters for the extended DRX and sending it in a dedicated NAS
message to the UE.
\- Support alternating the extended DRX cycle with the normal DRX cycles.
Impacts on E-UTRAN/UTRAN:
\- Support RAT- protocol extensions to enable negotiation of extended DRX
cycles
\- Modified handling of paging requests to accommodate the extended DRX cycle
along with the normal DRX cycle. Also it may need to contain expanded buffers
in order to buffer the paging requests received from the core network during
the extended DRX cycle period.
\- Support indicating its support for extended DRX to the core network nodes.
\- Keeps UEs configured for using long DRX in idle mode in RRC connected mode
long enough to allow a network stored MT SMS (potentially dependent on CN
indication) to be received by the UE.
\- (Option A) Support indicating its capability for extended DRX in the air
interface.
Impacts on GERAN:
\- Support GERAN protocol extensions to enable negotiation of extended paging
cycles
NOTE: Which parameters are required to determine DRX e.g. broadcast and/or NAS
and/or network parameters for this solution is dependent on RAN input.
# A.2 Solution: Long DRX cycles in connected mode (TR 23.887 [4], clause
7.1.3.6)
## A.2.1 General
The solution described in this clause addresses the key issue \"UE Power
Consumption Optimizations\".
Allowing for longer DRX cycles in connected mode allows the terminal to switch
off its radio transmitter and receiver for longer periods of time, and thus
reduce its power consumption. This is especially useful for MTC use cases
where the terminal has only infrequent data to send or receive and it is
silent in between, e.g. for sensor types of devices. From AS point of view it
is possible to define connected mode DRX periods as long as several minutes.
The caused impacts on NAS layer, other services and user plane need separate
consideration. Also 3GPP offered services like location interrogation or
mobile terminated SMS likely experience protocol time-outs before any
successful service operation. For many application and transport protocols a
maximum of very few tens of seconds may be assumed as otherwise those
protocols may start already with repetitions and error handling for any
downlink initiated actions due to the high latency caused by a long DRX
cycles. From application level perspective such long DRX cycle (longer than a
few tens of seconds) are mainly suitable for applications with only mobile
originated transactions or for applications that have been adapted to be delay
tolerant. The handling of any NAS and other 3GPP services requires specific
adjustments, which are FFS.
Long DRX cycles in connected mode are enabled in UTRAN/E-UTRAN by providing
new values and/or parameters for long DRX cycles in RRC/MAC in a backwards
compatible way. That is, UEs not requiring low power consumption are not
impacted.
This solution assumes the long DRX cycle value is selected locally in the
UTRAN/E-UTRAN, but RAN would need to evaluate whether there is a need to
standardise some additional means as outlined in solutions described in clause
7.1.3.7.
When applying a longer DRX cycle value, the inactivity timer for releasing the
RRC connection should be adjusted accordingly.
NOTE 1: The need for modifying mobility measurement procedures and core
network mobility handling during long connected mode DRX cycles would depend
on 3GPP RAN WGs analysis on the topic.
NOTE 2: There can be also other RAN level mechanisms, which allow the UEs to
switch off reception for a longer time, while they are in the connected mode,
e.g., by extending the paging cycle length in UTRAN URA/CELL_PCH (or a in a
similar new state in E-UTRAN). The impacts on the core network, presented in
this clause, are applicable also to these alternatives.
Editor\'s note: How to achieve overload control when applying long DRX cycles
in connected mode is FFS e.g. RAN barring mechanisms are only applied in idle
mode.
Without adjusting the re-transmission timers on higher layers, Longer DRX
cycle maximum up to several minutes may impact the reachability of the UE that
would bring unnecessary overhead to the network, e.g., NAS and GTP message
retransmission, abnormal case handling without the feedback response in the
expected time duration.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS which maximum/reasonable DRX value that should be
possible to select, e.g. aspects like re-transmission timers on higher layers
needs to be considered.
## A.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The system impact is focused on the RAN (i.e. including the UE on Access
Stratum layer), e.g. RAN need to ensure that UE gets aware of SIB changes etc.
The CN impacts may be:
\- depending on which mechanisms to use in configuring the long DRX setting
e.g. for certain types of UEs.
\- if connected mode DRX periods should become longer than NAS and 3GPP
feature procedure timers then NAS protocols, 3GPP feature specific protocol
(e.g. location query) and also SMS related protocols need to be changed.
\- a high user plane latency is introduced for downlink initiated transfers.
\- In case the solution is applied to mobile UEs the amount of S1 error
handling or NAS recovery procedures will increase.
The RAN impacts may be:
\- depending on which mechanisms to use it requires some signalling of long
DRX settings e.g. for certain types of UEs.
\- the number of UEs that are kept in connected mode increases, the eNB has to
keep more contexts.
\- a longer time-to-live for downlink UP and CP data units in RAN may require
adjustments for buffer handling; specific actions may be required for
interaction with NAS or other higher layer procedures (e.g. the eNB may have
to release the S1 connection at time-to-live expiry to inform the CN that the
UE is not reachable and the CN can fall back to idle mode handling), the
specific handling is FFS.
\- In case the solution is applied to mobile UEs the amount of S1 error
handling or NAS recovery procedures will increase.
The 3GPP RAN WGs would need to evaluate the current procedures to see if there
is impact on core network.
#