# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report contains the results of the Stage 2 study and evaluation
of possible 3GPP technical system solutions for architectural enhancements
needed to support Isolated E-UTRAN operation for public safety based on the
Stage 1 requirements in TS 22.346 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.346: \"Isolated Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN) operation for public safety; Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**IOPS-capable eNB** : an eNB that has the capability of IOPS mode operation,
which provides a local IP connectivity and public safety services to the UEs
via a Local EPC when the eNB has lost backhaul to the Macro EPC or it has no
backhaul to the Macro EPC.
**IOPS network** : an IOPS network consists of one or more eNBs operating in
IOPS mode and connected to a Local EPC.
**Local EPC** : the Local EPC is an entity which provides functionality that
eNBs in IOPS mode of operation use, instead of the Macro EPC, in order to
support public safety services**.**
**Local IP connectivity** : IP address assignment and local routing provided
in the IOPS network.
**Macro EPC** : the EPC which serves an eNB in normal mode of operation.
**Nomadic EPS** : deployable system which has the capability to provide radio
access (via deployable IOPS-capable eNB(s)), local IP connectivity and public
safety services to the UEs in absence of normal EPS infrastructure
availability.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
IOPS Isolated E-UTRAN operation for public safety
# 4 Assumptions and architectural requirements
## 4.1 Assumptions
No assumptions were identified during the study.
## 4.2 Architectural requirements
For the scenario that an eNB has no backhaul to the Macro EPC, the general
IOPS architectural requirements include:
a) When an UE accesses the eNB in IOPS mode of operation, a local IP
connectivity and transport public safety service shall be provided to the UE
by the Local EPC connected to the eNB, if authorized.
b) An eNB that supports IOPS may enter IOPS mode of operation after it detects
lack of S1 connectivity to the Macro EPC. The decision by an eNB to enter IOPS
mode of operation shall be made in accordance with the local policies of the
RAN operator.
# 5 Key issues
It was not considered necessary to describe key issues during this study.
# 6 Candidate solutions
## 6.1 Solution 1: Solution based on Local EPC for No Backhaul case and
nomadic EPS case
### 6.1.1 Functional description
#### 6.1.1.1 General Description
This solution assumes that the eNB is co-sited with, or can reach, a Local EPC
instance (including at least the MME, SGW/PGW and means to locally deliver
security/access control as required by SA WG3) which is used in IOPS mode
(e.g. when there is no S1 connectivity to the macro EPC). This allows it to
replicate the behaviour of a Nomadic EPS isolated from the Macro network, and
it can be based largely on existing specifications.
Support of application services over the IOPS network will be based upon the
LTE-Uu radio interface and EPS bearer services supported by the Local EPC. An
IOPS network will provide local IP connectivity services.
In situations when the backhaul to the Macro EPC is lost and the eNB can start
IOPS mode of operation based on local policies, the following is expected:
\- If the eNB can reach a Local EPC for IOPS mode of operation, the eNB shall
use the Local EPC.
\- If the eNB cannot reach a Local EPC instance, then it should enter a state
where UEs do not attempt to select the cells under its control.
A Nomadic EPS (also known as a deployable system, including a transportable
Local EPC and eNB(s)) assists public safety services in areas where there is
no coverage by an IOPS network using a Local EPC or by eNB(s) serving a Macro
EPC. The solution described in this clause is also applicable for a Nomadic
EPS.
This approach allows addition of the IOPS capability with minimum
standardization effort.
In IOPS mode, the eNB starts advertising a PLMN-Id dedicated to IOPS. Only
authorized UEs can access this PLMN. UEs should be configured to treat this
PLMN-Id with lower preference (for EUTRAN access) so that in automatic PLMN
selection other PLMNs of the Macro EPC are selected with precedence. The user
can perform a manual PLMN selection at any time.
NOTE 1: The UE can display information on IOPS networks to the user, making it
easier to perform manual selection.
The dedicated IOPS PLMN needs to be configured in a dedicated USIM application
as an HPLMN along with the Access Class status of 11 or 15. The eNB shall in
IOPS mode of operation, indicate/broadcast the IOPS PLMN cell(s) as \"Not
Barred\" & \"reserved\" for operator use for the IOPS PLMN as defined in TS
36.304 [6]. This \"Cell reserved for operator use\" feature will allow the
public safety UEs to get access to the IOPS network while barring other users
in the same area. The dedicated IOPS USIM application is restricted to be used
only for IOPS mode of operation.
NOTE 2: The usage of \"cell reserved for operator use\" with AC 11 & 15 per
HPLMN for public safety UEs requires feedback from SA WG1. If this usage is
deemed by SA WG1 not to be acceptable, the consequence is that other UEs
(those not intended to be able to access the IOPS network) may try to access
this IOPS cell once. Such UEs receive a NAS reject cause (PLMN not allowed) so
they do not try this PLMN again. Another related consequence is the additional
signalling/processing loads on the IOPS network for handling these unintended
UEs.
When an authorized PS UE selects the IOPS-mode cell, it attaches to the
dedicated PLMN and is authenticated using security procedures to be identified
by SA WG3.
NOTE 3: The Local EPC needs to provide necessary HSS functions to support
UE\'s access to the Local EPC via subscription data & authorisation to use the
IOPS network. In addition, dependent upon decisions by SA WG3, appropriate AuC
functions will be needed for security/authentication.
If the scope of service of a Local EPC is a single eNB, then all cells served
by the eNB shall share the same TAI (assigned for used in IOPS mode) and
neighbouring eNBs that are also operating in IOPS mode with the same dedicated
PLMN-Id are assigned different TAIs so a TAU attempt is triggered upon
mobility. The UE attaches via the new eNB to its co-sited EPC (see clause
6.1.1.3 for further consideration of UE mobility procedures).
However, if multiple eNBs are configured to be served by a single Local EPC,
configuration of TAIs for IOPS can be done according to local operator
policies, in such a way that a reselection to a cell operating a PLMN in
normal mode shall always trigger an attach request (see clause 6.1.1.2 for
further consideration of IOPS network configuration). Allowed EUTRAN PLMNs
operating in Normal Mode are configured in the UE as higher priority than the
IOPS PLMN.
If sharing the same PLMN-Id it is assumed the TAI assigned to cells in a
Nomadic EPS also would be different from the TAIs assigned to eNBs operating
in IOPS mode, so as to trigger a TAU between these systems.
During the attachment procedure to the local EPC a local IP address is
assigned to the UE as per the usual procedure when attaching to a Macro EPC.
The Local EPC acts as an IP router among the UEs locally attached to the same
IOPS network.
NOTE 4: eMBMS can be supported in the IOPS network depending on the operator
policy.
When a backhaul to the Macro EPC is re-established, the S1 connections to the
Local EPC are released according to the local IOPS network policies, to move
the UEs to Idle mode, and IOPS mode of operation is turned off. The regular
PLMN-Id of the Macro EPC is announced by the eNB so that UEs reselect the
normal PLMN and attach afresh to the Macro EPC.
#### 6.1.1.2 IOPS network configuration/establishment
An IOPS network can comprise either:
\- a Local EPC instance and a single isolated eNB, which may be co-located; or
\- a Local EPC instance and two or more eNBs, one of which may be co-located
with the Local EPC instance.
Existing procedures described in TS 36.300 [4] can be used to achieve dynamic
configuration of the S1-MME interface. An eNB capable of IOPS operation can be
pre-provisioned with IP endpoint information, relating to the MMEs of one or
more candidate Local EPC instances. For each local MME in turn the eNB can try
to initialize a SCTP association. Once SCTP connectivity has been established,
the eNB and local MME exchange application level configuration data over the
S1-MME application protocol with the S1 Setup Procedure (see TS 36.413 [5]).
In line with local operator policies the eNB can be provisioned with the IP
endpoint of a preferred Local EPC MME instance and the IP endpoints of one or
more alternative Local EPC MME instances. The alternative Local EPC instances
will be used if an S1-MME path cannot be established with the local MME of the
preferred Local EPC instance.
The decision by an eNB to enter IOPS mode of operation shall be made in
accordance with the local policies of the RAN operator. Such policies may be
affected by any RAN sharing agreements that may be in place.
In this release of the specification IOPS networks will be established by the
independent actions of each eNB entering IOPS mode of operation. An IOPS
network comprising two or more eNBs will be established as a result of
multiple eNBs entering IOPS mode of operation and establishing S1-MME paths to
the local MME of the same Local EPC instance.
All Local EPC instances deployed by a public safety authority / operator shall
assume the same PLMN-Id. In order to achieve the broadcast of different TAIs
on separate IOPS networks the TACs broadcast by the cells of eNBs connected to
different Local EPCs must be distinct to ensure the required UE mobility
behaviour (see clause 6.1.1.3). Therefore, the TAC broadcast by the cells of
an eNB operating in IOPS mode will be dependent upon the Local EPC to which
the eNB has established an S1-MME connection.
The support of S1-flex by IOPS network entities shall be up to local operator
policy and configuration.
#### 6.1.1.3 UE mobility
A number of distinct UE mobility scenarios may be identified given the
following assumptions:
\- that multiple eNBs may be configured to be served by a single Local EPC;
\- that a single dedicated PLMN-Id will be advertised by all eNBs operating in
IOPS mode (of a given public safety authority/operator);
\- that all cells served by an IOPS-eNB share the same TAI and the TAIs
broadcast by cells (eNBs) served by different Local EPCs will be different.
The mobility scenarios that may be distinguished are:
1\. UE transitions from a cell controlled by the normal macro EPC to a cell
operating in IOPS mode;
2\. UE transitions from a cell operating in IOPS mode to a cell controlled by
the normal macro EPC;
3\. UE transitions from a cell operating in IOPS mode whose eNB is served by
one Local EPC to a cell also operating in IOPS mode whose eNB is served by a
different Local EPC (Inter-IOPS network cell transition);
4\. UE transitions between cells operating in IOPS mode whose eNB(s) are
served by the same Local EPC (Intra-IOPS network cell transition).
The expected mobility behaviour in each of these scenarios is summarised in
Table 6.1.1.3-1.
Table 6.1.1.3-1: UE mobility behaviour
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ECM STATE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MOBILITY | IDLE MODE | CONNECTED MODE | | | | | | TRANSITION | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Normal mode cell to | Cell re-selection | Radio link failure | | IOPS mode cell | followed by TAU | followed by cell | | | Reject: | re-selection: | | (see note) | | | | | - UE performs cell | - UE performs radio | | | re-selection based | measurements but | | | upon radio | source and target | | | measurements. | cells are on | | | | different networks | | | - UE enters | so HO not possible. | | | De-registered state | | | | and initiates Attach | - Radio link | | | procedure towards | failure occurs and | | | Local/Normal EPC. | UE returns to Idle | | | | mode. | | | | | | | | - UE performs cell | | | | selection based upon | | | | radio measurements. | | | | | | | | - UE proceeds as | | | | per behaviour for | | | | Idle Mode. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IOPS mode cell to | | | | Normal mode cell | | | | | | | | (see note) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-IOPS network | | | | cell transition | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Intra-IOPS network | Idle Mode mobility | Connected Mode | | cell transition | as per normal: | mobility as per | | | | normal: | | | - UE performs cell | | | | re-selection based | - E-UTRAN initiated | | | upon radio | HO based upon radio | | | measurements. | measurements. | | | | | | | - TAI of new cell | - TAI of new cell | | | is the same as in | is the same as in | | | the old cell or is | the old cell or is | | | in TAI list. | in TAI list. | | | | | | | - UE camps on new | - Handover of | | | cell. | active bearers. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE: The UE behaviour upon transition to/from an IOPS mode cell is dependent
upon the IOPS security solution defined by SA WG3 (e.g. if a dual USIM
security solution is specified by SA WG3 then the UE may need to perform a
USIM switch followed by PLMN selection).
### 6.1.2 Procedures
#### 6.1.2.1 High level procedures
The following procedure steps are executed:
Figure 6.1.2.1-1: Operation of \"Local EPC\"- based IOPS
1) The Backhaul is detected to be lost by the eNB.
2) The eNB supporting IOPS mode transitions to IOPS mode by (a) preventing any
UEs from selecting the cell, using a suitable mechanism such as cell barring,
until step 2b and step 2c are completed; (b) activating a Local EPC; and (c)
establishing the S1 link to the Local EPC.
NOTE: Steps 1 and 2 are not necessary for the Nomadic EPS case.
3) The eNB advertises the PLMN-Id for IOPS operation with Local EPC. The
announced TAI is from a pool of TAIs allocated for IOPS and nomadic systems.
These should be reused only by eNBs which are not expected to connect to the
same Local EPC.
4) The UE detects the IOPS PLMN-Id in the cell and it first attempts to
reselect to another suitable cell serving the Macro EPC. Dependent upon user
preferences, e.g. to maintain a group communication, the user can switch to
manual PLMN selection mode and select the IOPS PLMN if available, even if a
cell operating in normal mode is available for selection.
5) The UE cannot find another suitable cell serving the Macro EPC or the user
manually selects the IOPS PLMN, the UE uses the dedicated USIM application for
IOPS so the UE attaches to the Local EPC and obtains a local IP address, if
authorised.
6) Public Safety services supported by the IOPS network can be initiated at
this time.
7) At any time, the eNB could detect that the backhaul to the Macro EPC is
restored.
8) S1 connections to the Local EPC are released according to the IOPS network
policies to move the UEs to idle mode, and the eNB stops its IOPS mode of
operation. The PLMN-Id of the Macro EPC is announced and the normal TAIs of
the Macro EPC are advertised by the eNB so that UEs reselect this normal PLMN.
9) The UE attaches as normal to the Macro EPC, if authorised. The UE uses a
USIM application other than the one dedicated for IOPS whenever the normal
PLMN is selected.
### 6.1.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
IOPS network configuration requirements:
\- All local EPC instances in an administrative region use the same PLMN-Id
for IOPS. TACs broadcast by the cells of eNBs connected to different Local
EPCs must be distinct to trigger TAU between these systems.
\- See clauses 6.1.1.1 and 6.1.1.2 for more information.
eNB:
\- Advertisement of IOPS PLMN-Id upon backhaul loss detection
\- Resumption of normal operation upon detection of backhaul restoration
\- S1 link to a local EPC used in IOPS mode
\- Ability to activate and deactivate the Local EPC, including the triggering
of users to detach.
Local EPC:
\- Configuration to allow IOPS eNB to be connected via S1.
\- Each Local EPC uses the same PLMN-Id for IOPS operation.
\- Perform security and authentication handling as required by the SA WG3
security study.
HSS/AuC:
\- The Local EPC needs to provide necessary HSS functions to support UE\'s
access to the Local EPC via subscription data & authorisation to use the IOPS
network.
\- Dependent upon decisions by SA WG3, appropriate AuC functions will be
needed for security/authentication
UE:
\- Dedicated USIM application containing the IOPS PLMN with AC of 11 or 15
(note: AC 11 or 15 TBD by feedback from SA WG1). This IOPS PLMN has lower
priority than the normal PLMN which is contained in the other USIM application
for use with the normal Macro network. (Note: the use of two USIM applications
is TBD by SA WG3)
\- Perform security and authentication handling as required by the SA WG3
security study.
### 6.1.4 Solution evaluation
Refer to clause 7.
# 7 Evaluation
Solution 1 in clause 6.1 addresses the use case of \"Local EPC for No Backhaul
case and nomadic EPS case\". The impacts on existing nodes and network
configuration requirements are documented in clause 6.1.3.
Two open issues waiting for SA WG1 and SA WG3 are:
\- SA WG2 have specified a means of preventing UEs which are not operated by
the Public Safety agencies from accessing an IOPS network. This solution
depended upon all Public Safety UEs being allocated AC 11 or 15 for the IOPS
PLMN. An LS has been sent to SA WG1 asking whether this is an acceptable
solution. If this usage is deemed by SA WG1 not to be acceptable, the
consequence is that other UEs (those not intended to be able to access the
IOPS network) may try to access this IOPS cell once. Such UEs receive a NAS
reject cause (PLMN not allowed) so they do not try this PLMN again. This
behaviour is not optimal but is still acceptable for Rel‑13.
\- SA WG3 are independently studying possible security solutions for IOPS. The
present TR defers to the SA WG3 study of possible security solutions and
acknowledges that the solution chosen by SA WG3 may possibly require alignment
of the architecture enhancements recommended in this TR.
Solution 1 (clause 6.1) will not be updated further in this TR for Rel-13. Any
necessary update to Solution 1 will be addressed as part of the normative
work.
# 8 Conclusions
Only one solution proposal (clause 6.1) has been documented for the use case
of \"Local EPC for No Backhaul case and nomadic EPS case\". It is recommended
to document this proposal in the relevant specification for Rel-13.
#