# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the Representational State Transfer (REST)
reference point, which is used to exchange application level session
information between the Protocol Converter (PC) and the Application Function
(AF). REST shall be used as an architectural style as appropriate.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 29.817: \"Study on XML based access of AF to the PCRF\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.213: \"Policy and Charging Control signalling flows and Quality
of Service (QoS) parameter mapping\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.214: \"Policy and Charging Control over Rx reference point\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and Charging Control architecture\".
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] IETF RFC 793: \"Transmission Control Protocol\".
[9] IETF RFC 2616: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1\".
[10] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[11] IETF RFC 1035: \"Domain Names -- Implementation and Specification\".
[12] IETF RFC 2131: \"Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol\".
[13] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[14] IETF RFC 2818: \"HTTP Over TLS\".
[15] IETF RFC 1786: \"Uniform Resource Locators (URL)\".
[16] Void.
[17] IETF RFC 6733: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Application Function (AF):** element offering application(s) that use IP
bearer resources.
**Protocol Converter (PC):** element that converts the RESTful/XML based Rx
reference point to the Diameter based Rx reference point.
**Representation** : is a view of a resource state, it is encoded in one or
more transferable formats, such as XML, JSON, plain text or other formats.
**RESTful HTTP:** is an architectural style consisting of a coordinated set of
architectural constraints applied to components, connectors, and data
elements, within a distributed hypermedia system applied to the development of
web services.
**REST-Rx:** term that is used to indicate the Rx interface based on RESTful
HTTP between the AF and the PC.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AAA Authentication, Authorization, Accounting
AF Application Function
API Application Programming Interface
BBERF Bearer Binding and Event Reporting Function
DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
DNS Domain Name System
DRA Diameter Routing Agent
DRMP Diameter Routing Message Priority
DSCP Differentiated Services Code Point
HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol
HTTPS Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
IP‑CAN IP Connectivity Access Network
PC Protocol Converter
PCC Policy and Charging Control
PCEF Policy and Charging Enforcement Function
PCRF Policy and Charging Rules Function
PDN Packet Data Network
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
QoS Quality of Service
REST Representational State Transfer
SPR Subscription Profile Repository
UDR User Data Repository
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
URL Uniform Resource Locator
UE User Equipment
XML Extensible Markup Language
# 4 Representational State Transfer (REST) reference point based on Protocol
Converter (PC) architecture
## 4.1 Overview
The Representational State Transfer (REST) reference point resides between the
AF and the Protocol Converter (PC). The PC converts application level
information received from the AF to Diameter session information and
communicates with the PCRF via the Diameter based Rx reference point (3GPP TS
29.214 [4]).
## 4.2 Reference model
The Rx reference point, which is based on Diameter, is defined between the
PCRF and the AF in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4]. If the AF supports RESTful HTTP and XML
a Protocol Converter (PC) is needed. In this specification the interface
between the AF and the PC is named REST-Rx. The REST-Rx interface shall be
used in non-IMS scenarios only.
The PC converts the information, received over the REST-Rx interface, into
information that can be used on the Diameter based Rx interface in order to
get an access to the PCC architecture and vice versa. The PC manages RESTful
resources, which are an integral part of the REST-Rx interface. As defined in
the stage 2 specifications (3GPP TS 23.203 [5]), information from the AF is
part of the input used by the PCRF for Policy and Charging Control (PCC)
decisions. Signalling flows are specified in Annex A.
The overall PCC architecture is depicted in subclause 3a of 3GPP TS 29.213[3].
The relationships between the different functional entities involved are
depicted in figure 4.2.1.
Figure 4.2.1: The REST-Rx reference model
NOTE: The PCRF and PC are both together either located in the VPLMN or HPLMN.
The AF is either in the same PLMN as the PC, or it is in a third part network
attached to that PLMN.
Figure 4.2.2: Void
Figure 4.2.3: Void
Figure 4.2.4: Void
Figure 4.2.5: Void
Figure 4.2.6: Void
## 4.3 Functional elements
### 4.3.1 Application function
The AF is an element offering applications that require the Policy and
Charging Control of traffic plane resources (e.g. UMTS PS domain/GPRS domain
resources). The AF shall use the Rx reference point to provide session
information to the PCRF.
NOTE: The AFs may be deployed by the same operator offering the IP-CAN or may
be provided by external third party service provider.
### 4.3.2 Protocol converter
If the AF only supports RESTful HTTP and XML a protocol converter is needed
between the AF and the PCRF.
The Protocol converter (PC) is an element converting information carried over
RESTful HTTP and XML to information carried over Diameter in order to get an
access to the PCC architecture.
## 4.4 Location of the PC within the PLMN
### 4.4.1 General
The protocol converter can be located:
(1) In the PLMN but outside of the PCRF realm;
(2) In the PCRF realm.
There is only one logical protocol converter in both above cases.
### 4.4.2 Protocol converter located in the PLMN but outside of the PCRF realm
**In this** **scenario the protocol converter is** in the PLMN but outside of
the PCRF realm, **as shown in figure** 4.4.2.1.
NOTE: A DRA is needed if more than one PCRF is present in a Diameter (PCRF)
realm.
Figure 4.4.2.1: Protocol converter placed within PLMN but outside of the
Diameter (PCRF) realm
### 4.4.3 Protocol converter located in the PCRF realm
**In this scenario the protocol converter is** in the PCRF realm, **as shown
in figure** 4.4.3.1.
Figure 4.4.3.1: Protocol converter placed within the Diameter (PCRF) realm
NOTE: A DRA is needed if more than one PCRF is present in a Diameter (PCRF)
realm.
## 4.5 PCC Procedures over the RESTful reference point
### 4.5.1 General
PCC procedures which can be operated at the REST-Rx interface are described in
the following subclauses.
### 4.5.2 Initial Provisioning of Session Information
When a new AF session is being established and media information for this AF
session is available at the AF and the related media require PCC supervision,
the AF shall open an RESTful Rx session with the PC for the AF session using
an HTTP POST message that addresses the resource responsible for resource
creation, unless an Rx session has already been established for the AF
session. If the RESTful Rx session already exists for the AF session, the AF
uses the existing RESTful Rx session and shall use the HTTP PUT message
including the AF Session ID in the path element to address the existing
resource. The AF shall provide the full IP address of the UE using either UEIP
element or UEIPv6 element, and the corresponding Service Information within
MCD group(s). The AF shall not include circuit-switched bearer related media
in the service information sent to the PC. The AF shall indicate to the PC as
part of the MCD element whether the media IP flow(s) should be enabled or
disabled with the FlowStatus element.
The AF may include the AFAppId element into the AF session establishment
representation in order to indicate the particular service that the AF session
belongs to. This element can be provided at both AF session level, and media
component description level. When provided at both levels, the AFAppId element
provided within the MCD group will have precedence.
The AF may include the AFChargingId element into the AF session establishment
representation for charging correlation purposes. The AF may also include the
SpecificAction element to request notification for certain user plane events,
e.g. bearer termination.
The AF may include the SvcURN element in order to indicate that the new AF
session relates to emergency traffic.
The AF may include the MPSId element in order to indicate that the new AF
session relates to an MPS session.
If the AF provides service information that has been fully negotiated, the AF
may include the SvcInfoStatus element set to FINAL_SERVICE_INFORMATION as
specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4].
The AF may additionally provide preliminary service information not fully
negotiated yet at an earlier stage. To do so, the AF shall include the
SvcInfoStatus element with the value set to PRELIMINARY SERVICE INFORMATION as
specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4].
For sponsored data connectivity and if SponsoredConnectivity is supported, the
AF shall provide the application service provider identity and the sponsor
identity to the PCRF via the PC by including the ASPId element and the SponsId
element in the SpConnData group in the AF session establishment
representation. Additionally if SponsorChange is supported the AF shall
provide an indication whether to enable or not enable sponsored data
connectivity to the PCRF by including the SponsAct element set to the
applicable value.
NOTE 1: The relationship between AF and sponsor is out of scope of this
specification. A single AF can serve multiple sponsors.
To support the usage monitoring of sponsored data connectivity, the AF may
also include the GSU group in the SpConnData group and the SpecificAction
element set to the value USAGE_REPORT as specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4] to
request notification when the usage threshold has been reached.
NOTE 2: If the AF is in the user plane, the AF can handle the usage monitoring
and therefore it is not required to provide a usage threshold to the PCRF as
part of the sponsored data connectivity information.
If the PCRF includes the Retry-Interval AVP within the AA-Answer command to
the PC, the PC shall provide the same value of retry interval in the
RetryInterval element in the AF session establishment representation. The AF
shall not send the same service information to the PCRF (via the PC) again
(for the same IP-CAN session) until the retry interval has elapsed.
To allow the PCRF and PCEF to perform PCC rule authorization and bearer
binding for the described service IP flows, the AF may supply both source and
destination IP addresses and port numbers within the FlowDesc element, if such
information is available.
The AF may specify the TTC element for the described service data flows
together with the FlowDesc element.
NOTE 3: The TTC element can be useful when another packet filter attribute is
needed to differentiate between flows. For example, (when EPS bearers are used
for group communication services) flows encapsulated and encrypted by a
tunneling protocol and thus having their IP five-tuple attributes obscured can
be differentiated by the Type of Service (or Traffic Class) value of the outer
header.
NOTE 4: The use of TTC element by the AF assumes that no DSCP re-marking is
applied from the application to the PGW.
The AF may specify the ResPrio element at request level in the AF session
establishment representation in order to assign a priority to the AF session
as well as specify the ResPrio element at the media component description
level to assign a priority to the IP flow. The presence of the ResPrio in both
levels does not constitute a conflict as they each represent different types
of priority. Specifically the ResPrio at the AF session establishment
representation level provides the relative priority for a session while the
ResPrio at the media component description level provides the relative
priority for an IP flow within a session. If the ResPrio element is not
specified the requested priority is DEFAULT (0) as specified in 3GPP TS 29.214
[4].
The AF may request notifications of specific IP-CAN session events through the
usage of the SpecificAction element in the AF session establishment
representation. The HTTP POST message, which is used to establishment of a new
session, shall include the notification URL in the representation.
The AF may include the ReqType element set to INITIAL_REQUEST as specified in
3GPP TS 29.214 [4].
To allow the PCRF to derive the PCC rules for the background data transfer
according to the transfer policy stored in the SPR, the AF may supply the
reference id of transfer policy in the RefId element.
When the PC receives the SuppFeatures element from the AF, it shall only
include in the corresponding Diameter Supported-Features AVP sent to the PCRF
the intersection of the AF advertised features and the features supported by
the PC.
The behaviour when the AF does not receive the HTTP 201 CREATED response, or
when it arrives after the internal timer waiting for it has expired, is out of
scope of this specification and based on operator policy.
### 4.5.3 Modification of Session Information
The AF may modify the session information at any time (e.g. due to an AF
session modification or internal AF trigger) by sending an HTTP PUT message to
PC including the AF session ID as an URL address and the MCD group(s) with the
updated Service Information in the HTTP body. The AF shall send an AF session
modification request representation to the PCRF via the PC, only after the
previous AF session modification request has been acknowledged.
If the AF provides service information that has been fully negotiated, the AF
may include the SvcInfoStatus element set to FINAL_SERVICE_INFORMATION as
specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4].
The AF may additionally provide preliminary service information not fully
negotiated yet at an earlier stage. To do so, the AF shall include the
SvcInfoStatus element with the value set to PRELIMINARY SERVICE INFORMATION as
specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4].
The AF may include the ReqType element set to UPDATE_REQUEST as specified in
3GPP TS 29.214 [4] in the AF SESSION MODIFICATION REQUEST.
The AF may include the MPSId element in order to indicate that the modified AF
session relates to an MPS session.
For sponsored data connectivity and if Sponsored Connectivity is supported,
the AF shall provide the application service provider identity and the sponsor
identity to the PCRF via the PC by including the ASPId element and the SponsId
element in the SpConnData group in the AF session modification representation.
If SponsorChange is supported and the AF requests to enable sponsored data
connectivity the AF shall provide the application service provider identity,
the sponsor identity and an indication to enable sponsored data connectivity
to the PCRF via the PC by including ASPId element, the SponsId element and the
SponsAct element set to the value ENABLE_SPONSORING (1) in the SpConnData
group in the AF session modification representation.
If the AF requests to disable sponsored data connectivity the AF shall provide
an indication to disable sponsored data connectivity to the PCRF via the PC by
including the SponsAct element set to the value DISABLE_SPONSORING (0) in the
SpConnData group in the AF session modification representation.
To support the usage monitoring of sponsored data connectivity, the AF may
also include the GSU group in the SpConnData group in the AF session
modification representation.
NOTE: If the AF is in the user plane, the AF can handle the usage monitoring
and therefore it is not required to provide a usage threshold to the PCRF via
the PC as part of the sponsored data connectivity information.
To allow the PCRF to derive the PCC rules for the background data transfer
according to the transfer policy stored in the SPR, the AF may supply the
reference id of transfer policy in the RefId element.
If the PCRF includes the Retry-Interval AVP within the AA-Answer command to
the PC, the PC shall provide the same value of retry interval in the
RetryInterval element in the AF session modification representation. The AF
shall not send the same service information to the PCRF (via the PC) again
(for the same IP-CAN session) until the retry interval has elapsed.
### 4.5.4 AF Session Termination
When an AF session is terminated, the AF shall send an HTTP DELETE message
including the AF Session ID as an URL address to the PC.
If the AF requires access network information at this step, the AF shall
include the ReqAccInfo element within the AF session termination
representation, indicating the required information.
### 4.5.5 Gate Related Procedures
Depending on the application, in the Service Information provision, the AF may
instruct the PCRF via the PC by sending an HTTP PUT message when the IP
flow(s) are to be enabled or disabled to pass through the IP-CAN. The AF does
this by sending the gate status request message representation containing the
MCD group(s) that contains the flow status information (in the FlowStatus
element) for the flows to be enabled or disabled.
The behaviour when the AF does not receive the gate status response from the
PC, or when it arrives after the internal timer waiting for it has expired, or
when it arrives with an indication different than SUCCESS, are outside the
scope of this specification and based on operator policy.
### 4.5.6 Subscription to Notification of Signalling Path Status
An AF may subscribe to notifications of the status of the AF signalling
transmission path. To do so, the AF shall send an HTTP POST message to
establish an AF session with the PC (as per sub-clause 5.3.4). The HTTP POST
message shall provide a URL which shall be used as a notification URL by the
PC. The AF shall provide the UE\'s IP address (using either the UEIP element
or the UEIPv6 element) and the SpecificAction element requesting the
subscription to \"INDICATION_OF_LOSS_OF BEARER\" and/or
\"INDICATION_OF_RELEASE_OF_BEARER\" in the representation. The AF shall
additionally provide an MCD group including a single MSC group with the
FlowUsage element set to the value \"AF_SIGNALLING\" within the
representation. The MCD group shall contain the MCN element set to "0".
If the AF Session is only used for subscription to Notification of Signalling
Path Status, the AF may cancel the subscription to notifications of the status
of the AF Signalling transmission path. In that case, the AF shall send an
HTTP DELETE message to the PC, which shall be acknowledged with an HTTP 200 OK
response.
NOTE: The Rx session created for the AF signalling can also be used when the
AF requests notifications of IP-CAN type change and/or when the AF provisions
AF Signalling Flow Information.
### 4.5.7 Traffic Plane Events
If the PC receives a Diameter RAR command for traffic plane events reporting
as defined in subclause 4.4.6 of 3GPP TS 29.214 [4], the PC includes the
content translated from the RAR command as a representation into an HTTP PUT
message to indicate to the AF the traffic plane events. After the PC receives
the HTTP 200 OK response from the AF, the PC converts the representation of
the response to a Diameter RAA command and sends the Diameter RAA command to
the PCRF as specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4].
If the PC receives a Diameter ASR command for IP-CAN session termination as
defined in subclause 4.4.6.1 and 4.4.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.214 [4], the PC
includes the content translated from the ASR command as a representation into
an HTTP PUT message to indicate to the AF the IP-CAN session termination.
After the PC receives the HTTP response from the AF and the response includes
a representation of an ASA, the PC converts the the representation of the
response to a Diameter ASA command and sends the Diameter ASA command to the
PCRF as specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4]. The AF initiates the session
termination procedure as defined in subclause 4.5.4.
NOTE: The definition of error cases are out of scope of the present
specification.
# 5 Protocol
## 5.1 Introduction
The following layers of the protocol stack for the Rx reference point between
AF and PC are described in sub-clauses:
  * TCP [8] provides the communication service at the transport layer.
  * An optional communication security layer can be added between the transport and the application delivery layer (see sub-clause 7).
  * The application delivery layer provides the transport of the specific application communication data using HTTP [9].
  * The specific application communication layer constitutes the transport of the XML documents. The XML schema describes the data structure, which is accepted by the Rx software applications.
Figure 5.1.1 illustrates the protocol stack of the RESTful Rx reference point.
Figure 5.1.1: Protocol stack of the RESTful Rx reference point
## 5.2 Transport layer
HTTP is layered over TCP, which provides a reliable transport.
PC and the AF act as HTTP client and HTTP server both. As a result the PC and
the AF establish a TCP connection for each direction. This permits
bidirectional communication.
AF and PC shall use persistent connections. If the AF or PC has not already
initiated a persistent TCP connection at the time sending an HTTP message, AF
or PC shall initiate a TCP connection before sending the HTTP message;
otherwise the AF or PC shall use the persistent connection.
## 5.3 Application delivery layer
The application delivery layer shall use RESTful HTTP.
The application delivery layer provides the following services:
\- session establishment including creation of resources, which are
addressable in the path element of an URL, and setup of notification URLs
\- session modification, termination and gate related procedures by HTTP
request/response dialogs
\- subscription to notifications
\- notification dialog by HTTP request/response messages
\- transport of the specific application communication included in the HTTP
message body
Creation of resources shall be a part of the AF session establishment. The AF
session ID shall be assigned by the PC and shall be used to identify the
session resource at the PC. This also sets-up the notification URL, which
shall be used to address the resource for notifications from the PC to the AF.
NOTE: The AF session ID is allocated by the PC. In the session dialogue the AF
session ID will be used to address a resource. If it is allocated by the PC,
the client will be informed about the AF session ID within the HTTP response
201 Created. This means that the session related URI (see sub-clause 5.3.4
...sessions/afsessionid) is dynamically discovered and not defined by the
client.
The AF session ID is defined in subclause 5.3.5.
The Rx application requires that the PC can notify the AF about traffic plane
events. The AF normally acts as the HTTP client, but the requirement for
notifications result in a reversal role of the client and server. Therefore,
PC and AF may act as HTTP client and HTTP server both.
If the AF establishes an AF session (i.e. initiates the initial provisioning
of session information), the AF shall send an HTTP POST message to the PC
including all session information required. The AF shall include the URL,
which shall be used by the PC when the PC will report traffic plane events
corresponding to the AF session. The PC shall allocate a new AF session ID for
the AF session and shall establish an Rx Diameter session with a new Rx
Diameter session ID. The PC shall keep the mapping between the AF session ID
and the URL and the mapping between the AF session ID and the Rx Diameter
session ID. The PC shall send an HTTP 201 CREATED response to the AF including
the allocated AF session ID once it receives a response from the PCRF.
If the AF modifies an AF session (i.e. initiates modification of session
information), the AF shall send an HTTP PUT message, which includes the AF
session ID as a path element of the URI. The PC shall send an HTTP 200 OK
response to the AF after update of the corresponding Rx Diameter session.
If the AF terminates an AF session, the AF shall send an HTTP DELETE message
including the AF session ID as a path element of the URI. The PC shall send an
HTTP 200 OK response to the AF after termination of the corresponding Rx
Diameter session.
If the AF initializes a gate related procedure, the AF shall send an HTTP PUT
to the PC including all information required. The PC shall send an HTTP
response to the AF after update of the corresponding Rx Diameter session.
If the AF subscribes to notifications of the status of the signalling
transmission path, the AF shall send an HTTP POST to the PC including event
information for the subscription. The subscription to notifications is
performed as a separate session. The PC shall send an HTTP 201 CREATED
response to the AF after update of the corresponding Rx Diameter session.
When the PC reports traffic plane events corresponding to the AF session, the
PC shall send an HTTP PUT to the AF using the notification URL. The request
includes the AF session ID as a path element of the notification URL. The AF
may use the information for appropriate actions and will send an HTTP 200 OK
response to the PC.
Every HTTP message contains the specific communication information required
for this case in its body.
Annex A provides call flows for all procedures.
### 5.3.1 Methods
Methods indicate to the server what action has to be performed. Every HTTP
request message has a method. The following HTTP methods can be used [9]:
  * POST: Used to create a resource state. The URI defines the address responsible for the creation of the resource.
  * PUT: Used to modify a resource state. The URI defines the resource which will be modified.
  * DELETE: Used to delete a resource state.
Every HTTP request results in a response message that comes back with a status
code and further information in its body, if required. The AF waits for this
response before initiating a further request for the same AF session.
### 5.3.2 Void
### 5.3.3 Resources and URI design
REST claims that the session state is held by the client or it is transferred
into a resource state by the server, in order to allow a stateless
communication. The concept of the resource state avoids the transfer of the
complete resource state to the client. Therefore, resources shall be an
integral part of the REST-Rx interface. Resources are identifiable and have
state representation.
NOTE 1: Stateless communication reduces the coupling of client and server.
E.g., two requests that follow each other may not be processed by the same
server instance.
NOTE 2: Resources may have one or more representations. JSON may be another
representation (3GPP TR 29.817 [2]). It is possible to use different
representations of resources for different requirements. In this release XML
will be used as a representation only.
Resources shall be identified by URIs. The URI design shall be based on the
structure defined in IETF RFC 3986 [10]:
scheme \":\" hier-part [ \"?\" query ] [ \"#\" fragment ]\ hier-part = \"//\"
authority path-abempty\ / path-absolute\ / path-rootless\ / path-empty
The URI design for the REST-Rx interface shall be based on the characteristics
and requirements of the reference point between AF and PC and shall have a
hierarchical structure.
The scheme may be HTTP or HTTPS for the REST-Rx interface. Within a scheme the
definition of names shall follow the rules of HTTP URIs. Host and port are the
main parts of the authority. The path element identifies the resources. The
URIs, which are allowed on the REST-Rx interface and build out of the
obligatory parts, shall have the structure:
Scheme://Host/Mainapplication/Mainresources
The obligatory parts have the meaning:
  * Scheme: The application delivery layer protocol HTTP or HTTPS.
  * Host: This part of the URI represents the server address including > the port.
  * Main application: The application which shall be accessed by the > request. This release shall only provide the Rx application.
NOTE 3: The main application level makes possible defining different
applications as resources at the same entity. This release only provides the
Rx application.
  * Main resources: Sessions are the core concepts of the REST-Rx > interface and can be defined as the main resources by URIs. Main > resources may be split into sub-resources further (e.g. individual > sessions may be identified by AF session IDs).
The URI addressing of the main resource sessions can look like:
\- http://pcserver/rxapplication/sessions
### 5.3.4 HTTP request/response dialogues
The HTTP request/response dialogue may consist out of different dialogues
providing the functionalities for session establishment, modification,
termination, gate related procedures, subscription to notifications and
notifications. These dialogues shall include the required content translated
from the Diameter messages as defined in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4] and represented by
the specific application communication language as defined in sub-clause 5.4.
Sessions are addressed as resources in the path of the URI.
The HTTP request message, which is related to a session establishment
procedure, shall use the POST method and shall include the notification URL in
addition to the required content of an AAR message XML representation. The
message addresses a resource, which is responsible for resource creation and
session establishment, and has the general structure:
HTTP POST https://pcserver/rxapplication/sessions
\
\https://afresponsehost/path\
\
\
\
\========================\
\Rx specific information/xs:documentation>
\========================\
\
\
This HTTP POST message instructs the PC to create a resource state with a
notification URL and to establish an AF session between the PC and the PCRF.
An AAA message, received by the PC, will result in a 201 Created response,
which shall include the required content to be translated from the Diameter
AAA answer message as a representation of the AAA message. The response
message shall include one resource in the Location header field, which
represents the AF session ID and will be used as a resource address by the AF.
The HTTP request message, which is related to a session with an AF session ID,
shall have the general structure:
HTTP METHOD https://pcserver/rxapplication/sessions/afsessionid
\ \
\
\=============================\
\Rx specific information/xs:documentation>
\=============================\
\
\
It is answered by an HTTP response message that includes the correct content
translated from a Diameter answer message as a representation as defined in
Annex B.2. The HTTP response message shall have the general structure:
HTTP STATUS_CODE REASON_PHRASE
\ \
\
\=============================\
\Rx specific answer messages \
\=============================\
\
\
The definition of sessions as resources makes it possible to use HTTP methods
to retrieve information about the sessions and control their state.
Table 5.3.4.1: Rx methods and their result
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Method | Result | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | POST .../sessions | Creates a resource for a session | | | and initiates an AF session | | | establishment procedure | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | PUT ...sessions/afsessionid | Modifies a session/resource | | | state or initates a gate related | | | procedure. | | | | | | "afsessionid" is the AF session | | | resource id that was previously | | | created by the PC and returned | | | in the Location header within | | | the answer to the POST message. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | PUT | Notifies the AF about traffic | | | plane events associated with an | | ...\/\ | | | | The "notificationbaseurl" is set | | | to the received | | | NotificationBaseURL value in the | | | original POST message that | | | created the corresponding AF | | | session resource. | | | | | | The "afsessionid" is the AF | | | session resource id that was | | | previously created by the PC and | | | returned in the Location header | | | within the answer to the POST | | | message. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DELETE | Deletes a session/resource | | ...sessions/\ | state. | | | | | | The "afsessionid" is the AF | | | session resource id that was | | | previously created by the PC and | | | returned within the answer to | | | the POST message. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.3.5 AF Session ID
The Diameter session between the PC and PCRF is mapped to a resource on the
REST-Rx interface. The AF uses the AF session ID allocated by the PC, in the
path element of an HTTP method to address the PC resource, which is used as an
address for events corresponding to a particular activity. When the PC reports
traffic plane events corresponding to the AF session, the PC adds the AF
session ID as a path element to the notification URL.
The syntax of the Session ID defined for IETF RFC 6733 [17] can be mapped to
the AF Session ID. The format of the AF session ID shall follow the
implementation-specific syntax standardized for path elements of URLs [15].
The delimiter \";\", which is used in the Diameter Session ID definition, need
not be percent-encoded since there will be no conflict with a reserved
character of the URI component.
NOTE: Characters in the reserved set are protected from normalization and are
therefore safe to be used by scheme-specific and producer-specific algorithms
for delimiting data subcomponents within a URI [15].
## 5.4 Specific application communication
### 5.4.0 General
Specific application communication represents the presentation of application
data structures by transforming data into the form that the application
accepts. It establishes the context between application-layer entities.
Note: This release only supports the content type XML.
### 5.4.1 Content type XML
The content type of the RESTful HTTP message shall be XML.
#### 5.4.1.1 XML schema
The XML schema is given in annex B.
#### 5.4.1.2 Data types and mapping between XML elements
The mapping between the Diameter value types or other parameter types used in
this specification and the XML simple types is defined in table 5.4.1.2.1.
Table 5.4.1.2.1: Mapping between Diameter AVPs, other types and XML types
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Diameter Value Type | XML Simple Type | Remark | | or other type | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Enumerated | > unsignedInt, | In XML enumerations | | | > integer | constrain the value | | | | space to a specified | | | | set of values | | | | defined in | | | | TS 29.214 [4]. | | | | Integer or | | | | unsignedInt is | | | | selected as the XML | | | | type. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IPFilterRule | > string | The Diameter | | | | IPFilterRule is | | | | derived from | | | | OctetString. The | | | | IPFilterRule uses | | | | the ASCII charset. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | OctetString | > hexBinary | OctetStrings contain | | | | arbitrary data of | | | | variable length. | | | | They are used to | | | | process arrays of | | | | byte values. The | | | | data type is not | | | | limited to string | | | | values but can store | | | | any byte based data | | | | type (including | | | | binary data). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Time | > unsignedLong | The time format is | | | | derived from the | | | | OctetString AVP Base | | | | Format. The string | | | | must contain four | | | | octets, in the same | | | | format as the first | | | | four bytes of the | | | | NTP timestamp | | | | format. The 64-bit | | | | timestamp format is | | | | used on the REST-Rx | | | | interface. It | | | | includes a 32-bit | | | | unsigned seconds | | | | field spanning 136 | | | | years and a 32-bit | | | | fraction field | | | | resolving 232 | | | | picoseconds. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Unsigned32 | > unsignedInt | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Unsigned64 | > unsignedLong | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UTF8String | > string | The UTF8String is | | | | derived from the | | | | OctetString the base | | | | format. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Binary data | > hexBinary | hexBinary represents | | | | arbitrary | | | | hex-encoded binary | | | | data. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Integer (used as | > unsignedInt | The unsigned integer | | enumeration | | can be used as | | indication) | | enumeration value. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE: AVPs which are defined in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4] but not defined in the XML
schema (see Annex B.1) as representations of AVPs cannot be supported on the
specific application communication layer of the REST-Rx interface respectively
cannot be supported for the Diameter message representation (see Annex B.2).
#### 5.4.1.3 Mapping between Diameter AVPs and XML elements and groups
The mapping between the Diameter AVP names and XML element and group names is
defined in table 5.4.1.3.1.
Table 5.4.1.3.1: Mapping between Diameter AVPs and XML elements or groups
* * *
Diameter AVP [4] REST-Rx abbreviation Type 3GPP-MS-TimeZone MSTimeZone Complex
element 3GPP-SGSN-MCC-MNC SgsnMccMnc Complex element 3GPP-User-Location-Info
ULI Complex element AN-GW-Address ANGWAddr Simple element AN-Trusted ANTrusted
Simple element Abort-Cause AbortCause Simple element Acceptable-Service-Info
AcceptableSvcInfo Group Access-Network-Charging-Address ANCAddr Simple element
Access-Network-Charging-Identifier ANCID Group Access-Network-Charging-
Identifier-Value ANCIDVal Simple element AF-Application-Identifier AFAppId
Simple element AF-Charging-Identifier AFChargingId Simple element Application-
Service-Provider-Identity ASPId Simple element Called-Station-ID APN Simple
element CC-Input-Octets CCIO Simple element CC-Output-Octets CCOO Simple
element CC-Total-Octets CCTO Simple element Codec-Data CodecData Simple
element DRMP DiaPri Simple element Experimental-Result ExperiRes Group
Experimental-Result-Code ExperiResCode Simple element Extended-Max-Requested-
BW-DL ExtMaxBwDL Simple element Extended-Max-Requested-BW-UL ExtMaxBwUL Simple
element Extended-Min-Requested-BW-DL ExtMinBWDL Simple element Extended-Min-
Requested-BW-UL ExtMinBWUL Simple element Feature-List FeatList Simple element
Feature-List-ID FeatListId Simple element Final-Unit-Action FinUnitAct Simple
element Flow-Description FlowDesc Simple element Flow-Number FlowNum Simple
element Flow-Status FlowStatus Simple element Flow-Usage FlowUsage Simple
element Flows Flows Group Framed-IP-Address UEIP Simple element Framed-
IPv6-Prefix UEIPv6 Simple element Granted-Service-Unit GSU Group IP-CAN-Type
IPCANType Simple element IP-Domain-ID IPDomainId Simple element Max-Requested-
Bandwidth-DL MaxBwDL Simple element Max-Requested-Bandwidth-UL MaxBwUL Simple
element Media-Component-Number MCN Simple element Media-Component-Description
MCD Group Media-Sub-Component MSC Group Media-Type MediaType Simple element
Min-Requested-Bandwidth-DL MinBWDL Simple element Min-Requested-Bandwidth-UL
MinBWUL Simple element MPS-Identifier MPSId Simple element NetLoc-Access-
Support NETLocAccSupp Simple element Origin-State-ID OrigStateId Simple
element RAN-NAS-Release-Cause RANNASRelCause Complex element RAT-Type RATType
Simple element Reference-Id RefId Simple element Required-Access-Info
ReqAccInfo Simple element Reservation-Priority ResPrio Simple element Result-
Code ResCode Simple element Retry-Interval RetryInterval Simple element RR-
Bandwidth RRBw Simple element RS-Bandwidth RSBw Simple element Rx-Request-Type
ReqType Simple element Service-Info-Status SvcInfoStatus Simple element
Service-URN SvcURN Simple element Specific-Action SpecificAction Simple
element Sponsoring-Action SponsAct Simple element Sponsor-Identity SponsId
Simple element Sponsored-Connectivity-Data SpConnData Group Subscription-ID
SubId Group Subscription-ID-Data SubIdVal Simple element Subscription-ID-Type
SubIdType Simple element Supported-Features SuppFeatures Group TCP-Source-Port
TCPSrcPort Simple element Termination-Cause TermCause Simple element TWAN-
Identifier TWANId Simple element ToS‑Traffic‑Class TTC Simple element UDP-
Source-Port UDPSrcPort Simple element UE-Local-IP-Address UELocalIP Simple
element Used-Service-Unit USU Group User-Location-Info-Time ULITime Simple
element Vendor-ID VenID Simple element
* * *
NOTE 1: Diameter AVPs which are listed in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4] but not listed in
table 5.4.1.3.1 will not be supported on the specific application
communication layer of the REST-Rx interface.
NOTE 2: When the Diameter message transports the Result Code AVP or an
Experimental Result Code AVP, for example, the PC need not inspect these AVPs
and need not map these AVPs to HTTP status codes. The AVPs shall be included
into HTTP commands as representations and will be transported between the
endpoints (PCRF and AF), which are responsible to take this information into
account.
## 5.5 PC discovery
The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) [12] and Domain Name System
(DNS) [11] interfaces are typically not included in architecture diagrams or
described as reference points. For the PC discovery, DHCP and DNS interactions
can take place between the AF and the PC. If the AF does not have PC address
information (i.e. provided by preconfiguration or other protocol configuration
options), DHCP and DNS queries can be carried out before the creation of
resources by the AF. The input parameters could be the UE IP address, User
identity, IP domain Id and PDN Id.
# 6 Routing
## 6.1 PC located in the PLMN but outside of the PCRF realm
The AF may have following parameters: UE IP address (i.e. IPv4 or IPv6
address), PDN information, user identity and domain Identity.
The AF may use above parameters to construct the HTTP request URL to the
protocol converter.
The above available parameters shall also be included in the AF session
establishment requests to the protocol converter.
For the routing between the protocol converter and PCRF, if the PC can extract
the realm information from the user identification and/or other information
from the AF, the PC can send the Diameter message to the correct PCRF realm.
Otherwise, if the PC can't extract the realm information from the user
identification and/or other information from the AF, the PC may use pre-
configured information to find the PCRF realm. The parameters provided by the
PC may include the UE's IPv4 address, the UE's IPv6 address, PDN information,
user identity and domain identity.
NOTE: The DRA procedure for the PC to find the PCRF is defined in subclause
7.3.2 of 3GPP TS 29.213 [3].
## 6.2 PC located in the PCRF realm
The AF may have following parameters: UE IP address (i.e. IPv4 or IPv6
address), PDN information, user identity and domain Identity.
The AF may use above parameters to construct the HTTP request URL to the
protocol converter.
The above available parameters shall also be included in the AF session
establishment requests to the protocol converter.
For the routing between the protocol converter and PCRF, the protocol
converter shall provide the PCRF or the DRA of the PCRF realm with the
parameters translated from the HTTP request. The parameters provided by the PC
may include the UE's IPv4 address, the UE's IPv6 address, PDN information,
user identity and domain identity.
NOTE: The DRA procedure for the PC to find the PCRF is defined in subclause
7.3.2 of 3GPP TS 29.213 [3].
# 7 Secure communication
3GPP TS 33.310 [13] provides a highly scalable entity authentication framework
for 3GPP network nodes.
The unsecured HTTP protocol may be combined with TLS [14] in order to provide
confidentiality and integrity protection. HTTP/TLS is differentiated from HTTP
URIs by using the \"HTTPS\" scheme in place of the \"HTTP\" scheme. Mutual
authentication shall be enabled in TLS for authenticating and allowing only an
authorized 3^rd^ party AF to access the PC
NOTE: In case a client knows the application level protocol (HTTP) and the
format of the representation (XML), it is able to communicate with every
resource around the world, for which a representation is retrievable in this
format. Since HTTP and XML are extensively used in the internet community it
is highly desirable to use the option for secure communication.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Call Flows
# A.1 General
This annex describes the procedures which use the two TCP connections to
implement the interactions between the AF and the PC. The AF in the annex A.2,
A.3, A.4, A.5 and A.6 uses one TCP connection initiated by the AF to send the
HTTP request message and the PC in the annex A.7 uses one TCP connection
initiated by the PC to send the HTTP request message.
# A.2 AF session establishment
This sub-clause describes the signalling flow for the AF session establishment
procedure through the PC.
Figure A.2.1: Initial AF session request
1\. The AF sends the HTTP POST to the PC to initiate the creation of a
resource state, to inform the PC about the notification URL and to initiate an
AF session establishment including the parameters defined in sub-clause 4.5.2.
2\. The PC converts the request to a Diameter AAR command. The PC provides the
Service Information to the PCRF by sending a Diameter AAR command as specified
in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4] for a new Rx Diameter session.
> 3\. The PCRF sends a Diameter AAA command to the PC as specified in 3GPP TS
> 29.214 [4].
4\. The PC converts the required content of the Diameter AAA command and
provides it in the HTTP 201 CREATED response to the AF including the
parameters defined in sub-clause 4.5.2. The response message includes one
resource in the Location header field, which represent the AF session ID.
# A.3 AF Session Modification Initiated by AF
This sub-clause describes the signalling flow for the AF session modification
procedure through PC.
Figure A.3.1: AF session modification initiated by AF
1\. The AF sends the HTTP PUT to the PC to initiate the AF session
modification procedure including the parameters defined in sub-clause 4.5.3.
2\. The PC converts the AF session modification request to a Diameter AAR
command and sends the Diameter AAR command to the PCRF as specified in 3GPP TS
29.214 [4].
3\. The PCRF sends a Diameter AAA command to the PC as specified in 3GPP TS
29.214 [4].
4\. The PC converts the required content of the Diameter AAA command and
provides it in the HTTP 200 OK to the AF including the parameters defined in
sub-clause 4.5.3.
# A.4 AF Session Termination
This sub-clause describes the signalling flow for the AF session termination
procedures through PC.
Figure A.4.1: AF session termination Procedures
1\. The AF sends the HTTP DELETE to the PC to initiate the AF session
termination procedure including the parameters defined in sub-clause 4.5.4.
2\. The PC converts the AF session termination request to a Diameter STR
command and sends the Diameter STR command to the PCRF as specified in 3GPP TS
29.214 [4].
3\. The PCRF sends a Diameter STA command to the PC as specified in 3GPP TS
29.214 [4].
4\. The PC converts the Diameter STA command and provides the HTTP 200 OK to
the AF including the parameters defined in sub-clause 4.5.4.
# A.5 Gate Related Procedures
This sub-clause describes the signalling flow for the gate related procedures
through PC.
Figure A.5.1: Gate Related Procedures
1\. The AF sends the HTTP PUT to the PC to indicate gate status including the
parameters defined in sub-clause 4.5.5.
2\. The PC converts the gate status request to Diameter AAR command and sends
the Diameter AAR command to the PCRF as specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4].
3\. The PCRF sends a Diameter AAA command to the PC as specified in 3GPP TS
29.214 [4].
4\. The PC converts the Diameter AAA command and provides the HTTP 200 OK to
the AF including the parameters defined in sub-clause 4.5.5.
# A.6 Subscription to Notification of Signalling Path Status
This sub-clause describes the signalling flow for the subscription to
notification of signalling path status through PC.
Figure A.6.1: Subscription to Notification of Signalling Path Status
1\. The AF sends the HTTP POST to the PC to subscribe to notification of
signalling path status including the parameters defined in sub-clause 4.5.6.
2\. The PC converts the subscription request to Diameter AAR command and sends
the Diameter AAR command to the PCRF as specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4].
3\. The PCRF sends a Diameter AAA command to the PC as specified in 3GPP TS
29.214 [4].
4\. The PC converts the Diameter AAA command and provides the HTTP 201 CREATED
to the AF including the parameters defined in sub-clause 4.5.6.
# A.7 Notification of Traffic Plane Events
This sub-clause describes the signalling flow for the notification of traffic
plane events through the PC.
## A.7.1 Traffic plane event reporting
This subclause describes the signalling flow for traffic plane event reporting
through the PC.
Figure A.7.1.1: Traffic plane events reporting
1\. The PCRF detects the occurrence of the traffic plane events.
2\. When the traffic plane events occur, the PCRF notifies the corresponding
events to the PC via a Diameter RAR command as specified in 3GPP TS 29.214
[4].
3\. The PC converts the Diameter RAR command to HTTP PUT to indicate the
traffic plane events including the parameters defined in sub-clause 4.5.7.
4\. The AF sends the HTTP 200 OK to the PC including the parameters defined in
sub-clause 4.5.7.
5\. The PC converts the HTTP 200 OK to Diameter RAA command and sends the
Diameter RAA command to the PCRF as specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4].
NOTE: The signalling for traffic plane event reporting, when all service data
flows within the AF session are affected, is described in subclause A.7.2.
## A.7.2 Service data flow deactivation when all service data flows are
affected
This subclause describes the signalling flow when all the service data flows
within the AF session are affected through the PC.
Figure A.7.2.1: Service data flow deactivation when all service data flows are
affected
  1. The PCRF detects that all service data flows are terminated within the AF session.
  2. The PCRF sends the ASR command to the PC;
  3. The PC converts the Diameter ASR command to HTTP PUT including the parameters defined in subclause 4.5.7.
  4. The AF sends the HTTP 200 OK to the PC including the parameters defined in subclause 4.5.7.
  5. The PC converts the HTTP 200 OK to Diameter ASA command including the parameters defined in subclause 4.5.7.
  6. Step 1 to step 4 defined in Figure A.4.1 are performed.
## A.7.3 IP-CAN Session Termination
This subclause describes the signalling flow for the IP-CAN session
termination through the PC.
Figure A.7.3.1: IP-CAN Session Termination
  1. The PCRF detects the IP-CAN session is terminated and determines the AF session needs to be terminated.
  2. The PCRF sends the ASR command to the PC;
  3. The PC converts the Diameter ASR command to HTTP PUT to indicate the IP-CAN session termination including the parameters defined in subclause 4.5.7.
  4. The AF sends the HTTP 200 OK to the PC including the parameters defined in subclause 4.5.7.
  5. The PC converts the HTTP 200 OK to Diameter ASA command including the parameters defined in subclause 4.5.7.
  6. Step 1 to step 4 defined in Figure A.4.1 are performed.
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML Schema
# B.1 XML elements and groups
This annex defines the XML structure of simple elements and groups, which
shall be used as HTTP message content (see subsclause B.2). The structure is
based on the AVP definition in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4].
\
\======================\
\Definition of Elements\
\======================\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\===========================\
\Definition of Complex Types\
\===========================\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\====================\
\Definition of Groups\
\====================\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
# B.2 Diameter message representation
This annex defines the XML structure of Diameter message representations,
which shall be transported as content of HTTP methods. The structure is based
on the message definition in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4] and the definition of the XML
elements and groups (see subclause B.1).
\
\=============================================\
\Definition of Diameter message
representation\
\=============================================\
\
\
\=========================\
\AA-Request Representation\
\=========================\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\========================\
\AA-Answer Representation\
\========================\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\=========================\
\RA-Request Representation\
\=========================\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\=========================\
\RA-Answer Representation\
\=========================\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\=========================\
\ST-Request Representation\
\=========================\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\========================\
\ST-Answer Representation\
\========================\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\=========================\
\AS-Request Representation\
\=========================\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\========================\
\AS-Answer Representation\
\========================\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
NOTE: Rx message content which is defined in 3GPP TS 29.214 [4] but not
defined in this XML schema as representation of the message content cannot be
supported on the specific application communication layer of the REST-Rx
interface as HTTP message content.
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc493237292 .anchor}Annex C (informative):\ Change history
* * *