# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the possible protocol architectures for transport
of SS7 signalling protocols in Core Network.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
## 2.1 Normative references
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation Q.701: \"Functional description of the message
transfer part (MTP) of signalling system No. 7\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation Q.702: \"Signalling data link\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation Q.703: \"Signalling link\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation Q.704: \"Signalling network functions and messages\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation Q.705: \"Signalling network structure\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation Q.706: \"Message transfer part signalling
performance\".
[8] RFC 2960: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation G.804: \"ATM cell mapping into Plesiochronous Digital
Hierarchy (PDH)\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation I.112: \"Vocabulary of terms for ISDNs\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation I.361: \"B-ISDN ATM layer specification\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation I.363.5: \"B-ISDN ATM Adaptation Layer
specification: Type 5 AAL\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2110: \"B-ISDN ATM adaptation layer - Service
specific connection oriented protocol (SSCOP)\".
[14] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2140: \"B-ISDN ATM adaptation layer - Service
specific coordination function for signalling at the network node interface
(SSCF at NNI)\".
[15] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2210: \"Message transfer part level 3 functions
and messages using the services of ITU-T Recommendation Q.2140\".
[17] RFC 3309: \"SCTP Checksum Change\".
[18] RFC 4666:Signaling System 7 (SS7) Message Transfer Part 3 (MTP3) \- User
Adaptation Layer (M3UA)\".
> [19] RFC 4165: Signaling System 7 (SS7) Message Transfer Part 2 (MTP2) -User
> Peer-to-Peer Adaptation Layer (M2PA)\".
## 2.2 Informative references
[16] RFC 2719: \"Framework Architecture for Signalling Transport\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
(no further terms defined)
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AAL5 ATM Adaptation Layer type 5
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
IP Internet Protocol
MTP Message Transfer Part
MTP1 Message Transfer Part layer 1
MTP2 Message Transfer Part layer 2
MTP3 Message Transfer Part layer 3
M2PA Message Transfer Part 2 -User Peer-to-Peer Adaptation Layer
M3UA MTP3-User Adaptation
PDH Plesiochronous Digital Hierarchy
SSCF Service Specific Coordination Function
SSCOP Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
SCCP Signalling Connection Control Part
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy
TCAP Transaction Capabilities Application Part
# 4 Introduction
The Core Network enables the transport of SS7 signalling protocols between two
entities by means of different underlying networks (e.g. MTP-based, IP-based
or ATM-based).
The transport of SS7 signalling protocol messages of any protocol layer that
is identified by the MTP level 3 layer, in SS7 terms, as a user part
(MTP3-user) shall be accomplished in accordance with the protocol architecture
defined in the following sub-clauses. The list of these protocol layers
includes, but is not limited to, Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP).
The transport of protocols which can be identified as SCCP-users, like for
example TCAP, and in turn the transport of TCAP-users like MAP and CAP, shall
also be accomplished in accordance with the defined protocol architectures,
since their protocol messages are transferred as SCCP payload.
# 5 Protocol architectures
## 5.1 Protocol architecture in the case of MTP-based SS7 signalling transport
network
The transport of an MTP3-user signalling messages shall be accomplished in
accordance with the relevant ITU-T Recommendations [2], [3], [4], [5], [6],
[7].
The protocol architecture applicable in the case of MTP-based SS7 signalling
transport network is shown in Figure 5.1/1
* * *
MTP3-User MTP3 MTP2 MTP1
* * *
Figure 5.1/1: Protocol architecture in the case of MTP-based SS7 signalling
transport network
## 5.2 Protocol architecture in the case of IP-based SS7 signalling transport
network
### 5.2.1 M3UA
The transport of an MTP3-user signalling messages shall be accomplished in
accordance with the architecture defined by the \"Framework Architecture for
Signalling Transport\" [16], by \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\"[8]
and by the IETF document available in Annex A. An implementation of SCTP to
this document shall use the checksum method specified in RFC 3309 [17] instead
of the method specified in RFC 2960 [8].
The M3UA protocol architecture applicable in the case of IP-based SS7
signalling transport network is shown in Figure 5.2/1
* * *
MTP3-User M3UA SCTP IP
* * *
Figure 5.2/1: M3UA architecture in the case of IP-based SS7 signalling
transport network
The definition of the use of M3UA in 3GPP core network is provided in Annex A
to this specification.
### 5.2.2 MTP3-M2PA
An MTP3 signalling message can also be transported by M2PA, which shall be
accomplished in accordance with IETF RFC 4165[19].
The M2PA protocol architecture applicable in the case of IP-based SS7
signalling transport network is shown in Figure 5.2/2
* * *
MTP3 M2PA SCTP IP
* * *
Figure 5.2/2: M2PA architecture in the case of IP-based SS7 signalling
transport network
The definition of the use of M2PA in 3GPP core network is provided in Annex B
to this specification.
## 5.3 Protocol architecture in the case of ATM-based SS7 signalling transport
network
The transport of an MTP3-user signalling messages shall be accomplished in
accordance with the relevant ITU-T Recommendations [9], [10], [11], [12],
[13], [14], [15]
The protocol architectures applicable in the case of ATM-based SS7 signalling
transport network are shown in Figure 5.3/1.
ATM over SDH
* * *
MTP3-User MTP3 B SSCF SSCOP AAL5 ATM
* * *
ATM over PDH
* * *
MTP3-User MTP3 B SSCF SSCOP AAL5 G.804
* * *
Figure 5.3/1: Protocol architectures in the case of\ ATM-based SS7 signalling
transport network
###### ## Annex A (Normative): The use of M3UA in 3GPP networks
# A.1 Scope
This annex defines the application of M3UA in 3GPP core networks. The purpose
of the Annex is to ensure the interoperability of different implementations of
M3UAs used by different operators and vendors. This is achieved by:
\- Clarifying certain concepts which are used in RFC 4666;
\- Defining those features in RFC 4666 for which support is mandatory;
\- Defining those features in the RFC 4666 for which support is optional;
\- Defining those features in RFC 4666 which shall not be used;
The specification is intended for interfaces between network domains, however,
it can also be used inside one network domain, and constitutes a minimum set
of M3UA requirements to be supported between IP nodes and between IP nodes and
SGW nodes in a 3GPP network.
# A.2 Introduction
M3UA may be used on a number of interfaces in a 3GPP core network. The annex
is intended for the interface called A and C in figure 1. A is the Interface
between two IP nodes that are equipped with SCTP, M3UA and a M3UA user.
Examples of M3UA user are BICC, H.248, SCCP and ISUP. The interface can be
used inside one network domain but also to interconnect network domains.
Interface B can be used between network domains and inside network domains.
Interface B is not in the scope for this annex, however, use of Q.701-Q.705 or
Q.2210 on interface B is already standardised; in addition, M2PA is also
endorsed for interface B in accordance with Annex B. Interface C is the
interface between a node including SCTP, M3UA and a M3UA user and a node
including SCTP, M3UA and M3UAsignalling gateway functions.. This interface is
inside one network domain.
Interfaces A and C are similar. The main difference is that interface C shall
also allow for interworking with the SS 7 network and therefore provides
functions for the interworking.
The signalling gateways in this picture are pure MTP3/3B-M3UA signaling
gateways. They do not include any M3UA users. Still there could be a node
including an M3UA user (e.g. SCCP functions) and a M3UA signalling gateway
functions. In that case, the node will support all the interfaces A, B and C.
{width="6.001388888888889in" height="4.283333333333333in"}
Figure 1: Use of M3UA in 3GPP core network
# A.3 Protocol conformance to RFC 4666
A minimum implementation shall support sections marked mandatory in the table
below. It shall be possible to configure all implementations to interoperate
(no error messages returned) with the minimum set.
The table below makes comment to the sections in RFC 4666. In the comment
column the following terms are used:
\- Mandatory: When support of text in a section is marked mandatory:
\- On an information element, message or message class, it means that a
receiver shall understand the information element, message or message class
and carry out the requested action.
\- For a procedure, it means that the procedure is mandatory to be carried out
by the involved network elements.
\- Optional: When support of the text in a section is marked optional the
feature involved is only guaranteed to work between peer entities which are
subject to a bilateral agreement between operators of those entities. If one
end uses an optional message or information element and the other does not
support it, then either a silent discard takes place of an information element
as a part of the message or the message is discarded and an error message is
returned. This is described as part of the handling of the optionality in the
table.
\- Excluded: This means that the feature shall not be used in a 3GPP
environment
Descriptive text means that the section does not include any requirements for
this specification.
Note: The word \"heading\" means that the section consists only of subordinate
sections.
The comments column also defines the behaviour of a minimum implementation if
it does not support a message or an information element in a mandatory
message.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Section number in M3UA RFC | Comments | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Abstract | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.Introduction | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.1 Scope | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.2 Terminology | Descriptive text. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.3 M3UA overview | Descriptive text. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.4 Functional area | Descriptive text. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.5 Sample Configurations | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.6 Definition of M3UA | Descriptive text | | Boundaries | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2 Conventions | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3. M3UA Protocol Elements | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.1 Common message header | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.1.1 M3UA Protocol Version: | The version number field shall | | | be set to 1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.1.2 Message classes and types | The values are classified as | | | follow | | | | | | 0-4 Mandatory | | | | | | 5-8 Excluded | | | | | | 9 Optional (Routing Key | | | Management (RKM) Messages) | | | | | | 10 to 255 Excluded | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.1.2 (Management (MGMT) | The values are classified as | | message) | follow | | | | | | 0 Mandatory | | | | | | 1 Optional (Notify). When | | | received and not supported the | | | message maybe silently | | | discarded. | | | | | | 2-255 Excluded | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.1.2 (Transfer messages) | The values are classified as | | | follow | | | | | | 0 Excluded | | | | | | 1 Mandatory | | | | | | 2 to 255 Excluded | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.1.2 (Signalling network | The values are classified as | | management (SSNM) messages) | follow | | | | | | 0 Excluded | | | | | | 1-6 Mandatory | | | | | | 7- 255 Excluded. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.1.2 (ASP State Maintenance | The values are classified as | | (ASPSM) Messages) | follow | | | | | | 0 Excluded | | | | | | 1-6 Mandatory | | | | | | 7-255 Excluded | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.1.2 (ASP Traffic Maintenance | The values are classified as | | (ASPTM) Messages) | follow | | | | | | 0 Excluded | | | | | | 1-4 Mandatory | | | | | | 5 to 255 Excluded | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.1.2 (Routing key management | Optional | | (RKM)) messages | | | | If any of these messages is | | | received and not supported an | | | error message with the error | | | code 0x04 (Unsupported message | | | type) shall be sent | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.1.3 Reserved | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.1.4 Message length | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.2 Variable Length Parameter | The values are classified as | | Format Common Parameters: | follows | | | | | | 0x0000-- 0x0003, 0x0005, | | | 0x0008, 0x000a, 0x000e, 0x000f, | | | 0x0010 0x0014---0x01ff Excluded | | | | | | 0x0007, 0x0009, 0x000c and | | | 0x0012 Mandatory | | | | | | 0x0004 optional (INFO String) if | | | received and not supported the | | | message is processed but the | | | optional information element is | | | silently discarded, | | | | | | 0x0006 optional (Routing Context | | | if received and not supported | | | the message is processed but the | | | optional information element is | | | silently discarded, | | | | | | 0x000b optional (Traffic Mode | | | Type) if received and not | | | supported the message is | | | processed but the optional | | | information element is silently | | | discarded, | | | | | | 0x0011 (ASP Identifier) if | | | received and not supported the | | | message is processed but the | | | optional information element is | | | silently discarded, | | | | | | 0x0012 Affected point code is | | | mandatory. The support of value | | | 0 in the mask field is | | | mandatory. All other values is | | | outside the scope of this annex. | | | | | | 0x0013 (Correlation ID) if | | | received and not supported the | | | message is processed but the | | | optional information element is | | | silently discarded, | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.2 Variable Length Parameter | The values are classified as | | Format M3UA Specific Parameters | follows | | | | | | 0x0201, 0x0202, 0x0203, 0x0211, | | | 0x020d and 0x0214 to 0xffff | | | Excluded | | | | | | 0x0204--0x0205, 0x0210 | | | Mandatory | | | | | | 0x0200 optional (Network | | | Appearance) if received and not | | | supported the message is | | | processed but the optional | | | information element is silently | | | discarded, | | | | | | 0x0206 Optinal (Concerned | | | Destination). If received and | | | not supported the message is | | | processed but the optional | | | information element is silently | | | discarded. | | | | | | 0x0207 (Routing Key), 0x0208 | | | (Registration Result), 0x0209 | | | (Deregistration Result) 0x020a | | | (Local Routing Key Identifier), | | | 0x020b (Destination Point Code), | | | 0x020c (Service Indicators) | | | 0x020d (Subsystem Numbers), | | | 0x020e (Originating Point Code | | | List), 0x020f (Circuit Range), | | | 0x0212 (Registration Status), | | | 0x0213 (Deregistration Status) | | | are parameters in optional | | | message, and therefore no action | | | is specified. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.3 Transfer messages | These messages are mandatory at | | | the interfaces A and C. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.3.1 Payload Data Message | The parameters Network | | (DATA) | Appearance, Routing Context, | | | Correlation ID are optional | | | | | | The parameter Protocol data is | | | mandatory. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.4 SS7 signalling network | Heading | | management messages | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.4.1 Destination Unavailable | The message is mandatory at the | | (DUNA) | interface C. | | | | | | The parameters Network | | | Appearance, Routing Context, and | | | INFO String are optional | | | | | | The parameter Affected Point | | | Code is mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.4.2 Destination Available | The message is mandatory at the | | (DAVA) | interface C | | | | | | The parameters Network | | | Appearance, Routing Context, and | | | INFO String are optional. | | | | | | The parameter Affected Point | | | Code is mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.4.3 Destination State Audit | The message is mandatory at the | | (DAUD) | interface C | | | | | | The parameters Network | | | Appearance, Routing Context, and | | | INFO String are optional. | | | | | | The parameter Affected Point | | | Code is mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.4.4 Signalling Congestion | The message is mandatory at the | | (SCON) | interface C | | | | | | The parameters Network | | | Appearance, Routing Context, | | | Congestion Indications and INFO | | | String are optional | | | | | | The parameter Affected point | | | code is mandatory. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.4.5 Destination User Part | The message is mandatory at the | | Unavailable (DUPU) | interfaces A and C. | | | | | | The parameters Network | | | Appearance, Routing Context, and | | | INFO String are optional. | | | | | | The parameters Affected point | | | code and User/Cause are | | | mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.4.6 Destination Restricted | This message is mandatory. | | (DRST) message | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.5 ASP State Main­tenance | These messages are mandatory at | | (ASPSM) Mes­sages | the interfaces A and C. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.5.1 ASP Up message | The ASP Identifier and Info | | | String parameters are optional | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.5.2 ASP Up Acknowledgement | The Info String parameter is | | | optional. | | Message | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.5.3 ASP Down message | The Info String parameter is | | | optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.5.4 ASP Down Acknowledgement | The Info String parameter is | | message | optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.5.5 Heartbeat message | The message is mandatory. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.5.6 Heartbeat Acknowledgement | The message is mandatory | | message | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.6 Routing Key Management | These messages are optional at | | messages | the interfaces A and C. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.7 ASP Traffic Maintenance | These messages are mandatory at | | (ASPTM) Messages | the interfaces A and C. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.7.1 ASP Active message | The parameters Traffic Mode | | | Type, Routing Context and INFO | | | String are optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.7.2 ASP Ac­ti­ve | The Traffic Mode Type, Routing | | Acknowledgement message | Context and INFO String are | | | optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.7.3 ASP inactive message | The parameters Routing Context | | | and INFO String are optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.7.4 ASP Inactive | The parameters Routing Context | | Acknowledgement | INFO String are optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.8 Management (MGMT) Messages | Heading | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.8.1 Error message | The message is mandatory at the | | | interfaces A and C | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.8.2 Notify message | The message is optional at the | | | interfaces A and C | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4 Procedure | The application of a particular | | | procedure at a certain interface | | | is detailed in the following | | | sections | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1 Procedures to Support the | Heading | | M3UA-User | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1.1 Receipt of Primitives from | The procedure is mandatory at | | the M3UA-User | the interfaces A and C. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1.2 Receipt of Primitives from | This section is outside the | | the Layer Management | scope of this annex. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.2 Procedures to Support the | The procedures are mandatory at | | Management of SCTP Associations | the interfaces A and C | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.2.1 Receipt of M3UA Peer | The two first paragraphs are | | Management Messages | outside the scope of this annex. | | | | | | Last paragraph is mandatory. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3 AS and ASP State Maintenance | The procedure is mandatory at | | | the interfaces A and C. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.1 ASP States | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.2 AS States | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.3 M3UA Management Procedures | This section is outside the | | for Primitives | scope of this annex. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.4 ASPM Procedures for | Heading | | Peer-to-Peer Messages | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.4.1 ASP Up Procedure | This procedure is mandatory at | | | the interface C and is a subset | | | of the procedure used at | | | interface A. See also 4.3.4.1.2. | | | | | | Note: The registration procedure | | | is optional. | | | | | | A received ASP Up must be | | | acknowledged by an ASP Up Ack | | | message, if no restriction | | | applies e.g. maintenance. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.4.1.1 M3UA Version Control | This procedure is mandatory at | | | the interfaces A and C. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.4.1.2 IPSP Considerations | This procedure is mandatory at | | | the interface A. | | (Asp Up) | | | | All comments applicable for | | | section 4.3.4.1 and 4.3.4.2 are | | | also applicable for this | | | section. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.4.2 ASP-Down Procedure | This procedure is mandatory at | | | the interface C and is a subset | | | of the procedure used at | | | interface A. See also 4.3.4.1.2. | | | | | | A received ASP Down message must | | | be acknowledged by an ASP Down | | | Ack message, if no restriction | | | applies eg maintenance reason. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.4.3 ASP Active Procedure | This procedure is mandatory at | | | interface C and is a subset of | | | the procedure used at interface | | | A. See also 4.3.4.3.1. | | | | | | Configuration data define which | | | AS an ASP is a member of. The | | | ASP Active message does not | | | contain a Routing Context | | | parameter. Consequently, the ASP | | | Active Ack message does not | | | include any Routing Context(s) | | | parameter. | | | | | | The traffic state an ASP has, is | | | configured within the associated | | | Application Server. If more than | | | one physical entity (ASPs, SGPs | | | or IPSPs) implements a logical | | | entity (SG, AS) then loadshare | | | with 1+k is the mandatory | | | traffic mode. | | | | | | A received ASP Active must be | | | acknowledged by an ASP Active | | | Ack message, if no restriction | | | applies e.g. maintenance reason. | | | | | | If a Routing Context parameter | | | is included in the ASP Active | | | message it is not needed to | | | include the Routing Context | | | parameter in the ASP Active Ack | | | message. | | | | | | Note: This is a deviation to RFC | | | 4666. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.4.3.1 IPSP Considerations | This procedure is mandatory at | | (ASP Active) | the interface A. | | | | | | All comments applicable for | | | section 4.3.4.3 are also | | | applicable for this section. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.4.4 ASP Inactive Procedures | This procedure is mandatory at | | | the interface C and is a subset | | | of the procedure used at | | | interface A. See also 4.3.4.4.1. | | | | | | Configuration data defines which | | | AS an ASP is a member of. | | | | | | It is optional to send several | | | ASP Active Ack messages in | | | response to a single ASP Active | | | message. | | | | | | A received ASP Inactive must be | | | acknowledged by an ASP Inactive | | | Ack message, if no restriction | | | applies e.g. maintenance. | | | | | | The sending of Notify message is | | | mandatory if the As state is | | | changed. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.4.4.1 IPSP Considerations | This procedure is mandatory at | | (ASP Inactive) | the interface A. | | | | | | All comments applicable for | | | section 4.3.4.4 are also | | | applicable for this section. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.4.5 Notify Procedures | The procedure is mandatory at | | | the interfaces A and C to | | | reflect an AS state change. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.4.6 Heartbeat Procedures | The procedure is optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.4 Routing Key management | The procedure is optional. | | procedure | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.5 Procedures to Support the | Heading | | Availability or Congestion | | | Status of SS7 | | | | | | Destination | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.5.1 At an SGP | Note: The use of Transfer | | | restricted message is a national | | | option and is about the scope of | | | this specification. | | | | | | If the SG knows that the ASP | | | support s DRST, then SG shall | | | | | | Send a DRST message, if the SG | | | does not know whether the ASP | | | supports the DRST message the | | | SGW shall send a DAVA message if | | | the destination earlier was | | | unavailable. If the destination | | | was available then no action is | | | required. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.5.2 At an ASP | Heading | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.5.2.1 Single SG Configurations | It is mandatory for an ASP to | | | interoperate with one Signaling | | | Gateway. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.5.2.2 Multiple SG | It shall be possible to | | Configurations | configure an ASP to handle at | | | least a configuration consisting | | | of two Signalling Gateways. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.5.3 ASP Auditing | Only the part related to | | | international use in Q.704 is | | | inside the scope of this annex. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.6 MTP 3 restart | The procedure is mandatory. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5. Examples of M3UA Procedures | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.1. Establishment of | Note The procedures defined in | | Association and Traffic between | the sub-sections to 5.1 are a | | SGPs and ASPs | subset of the procedures defined | | | in section 5.5. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.1.1 Single ASP in an | Descriptive text | | Application Server (\"1+0\" | | | sparing | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.1.1.1 Single ASP in an | The use of RCn is optional. | | Application Server (\"1+0\" | | | sparing), No Registration | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.1.1.2 Single ASP in | The use of dynamic registration | | Application Server (\"1+0\" | is optional. | | sparing), Dynamic Registration | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.1.1.3 Single ASP in Multiple | The use of dynamic registration | | Application Servers (each with | is optional. | | \"1+0\" sparing), Dynamic | | | Registration (Case 1 - Multiple | | | Registration Requests) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.1.1.4 Single ASP in Multiple | The use of dynamic registration | | Application Servers (each with | is optional. | | \"1+0\" sparing), Dynamic | | | Registration (Case 2 - Single | | | Registration Request) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.1.2 Two ASPs in Application | This procedure is optional. | | Server (\"1+1\" sparing) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.1.3 Two ASPs in an Application | The traffic mode parameter is | | Server (\"1+1\" sparing, | optional in ASP-Active message | | loadsharing case). | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.1.4 Three ASPs in an | The procedure is optional. | | Application Server (\"n+k\" | | | sparing, loadsharing case) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.2 ASP Traffic Failover | Heading | | Examples | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.2.1 (1+1 Sparing, Withdrawal | The use of the procedure | | of ASP, Backup Override) | \"backup override\" is optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.2.2 (1+1 Sparing, Backup | The use of the procedure | | Override) | \"backup override\" is optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.2.3 (n+k Sparing, Loadsharing | The procedure is optional | | case, Withdrawal of ASP) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.3 Normal Withdrawal of an ASP | The registration procedure is | | from an Application Server and | optional. Routing Contexts (RC) | | Teardown of an Association | is optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.3.X Normal Withdrawal of the | {width="2.7604166666666665in" | | (1+1 sparing) loadsharing and | height="2.5631944444444446in"} | | Teardown of Association | | | | The figure is added for | | | clarification. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.4. Auditing Examples | Heading | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.4.1. SG State: | Descriptive text. | | Uncongested/Available | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.4.2. SG State: Congested | Descriptive text. | | (Congestion Level=2) /Available | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.4.3. SG State: | Descriptive text. | | Unknown/Available | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.4.4. SG State: Unavailable | Descriptive text. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5 M3UA/MTP3-User Boundary | Heading | | Examples | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.1 At an ASP | Heading | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.1.1 Support for MTP-TRANSFER | Heading | | Primitives at the ASP | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.1.1.1 Support for | The procedure is mandatory at | | MTP-TRANSFER Request Primitive | the interface A and C. | | | | | | This description is also | | | applicable for an IPSP, so | | | replace the abbreviation ASP | | | with ASP/IPSP and SGP with | | | SGP/IPSP | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.1.1.2 Support for the | The support is mandatory at the | | MTP-TRANSFER Indication | interface A and C. | | Primitive | | | | This description is also | | | applicable for an IPSP, so | | | replace the abbreviation ASP | | | with ASP/IPSP and SGP with | | | SGP/IPSP. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.1.1.3 Support for ASP | This procedure is mandatory at | | Querying of SS7 Destination | the interface C. | | States | | | | The quering of congestion states | | | is an optional national | | | procedure and outside the scope | | | of this annex. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.2 At an SGP | Heading | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.2.1 Support for MTP-TRANSFER | The procedure is mandatory at | | Request Primitive at the SGP | the interface C. | | | | | | Network Appearance is optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.2.2 Support for MTP-TRANSFER | The procedure is mandatory at | | Indication Primitive at the SGP | the interface C | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.2.3 Support for MTP-PAUSE, | Heading | | MTP-RESUME, MTP-STATUS | | | Indication Primitives | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.2.3.1 Destination | The procedure is mandatory at | | Unavailable | the interface C | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.2.3.2 Destination Available | The procedure is mandatory at | | | the interface C | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.2.3.3 SS7 Network Congestion | The procedure is mandatory at | | | the interface C | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5.2.3.4 Destination User Part | The procedure is mandatory at | | Unavailable | the interface C and optional at | | | the interface A. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.6 Examples for IPSP | Descriptive text. | | communication. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
###### ## Annex B (Informative): The use of M2PA in 3GPP networks
# B.1 Scope
This annex defines the application of M2PA in 3GPP core networks as an option
on interface B. The purpose of the Annex is to ensure the interoperability of
different implementations of M2PA as used by different operators and vendors.
This is achieved by:
\- Clarifying certain concepts which are used in RFC 4165;
\- Defining those features in RFC 4165 for which support is mandatory;
\- Defining those features in the RFC 4165 for which support is optional;
\- Defining those features in RFC 4165 which shall not be used;
This specification is intended for interfaces between network domains.
However, it can also be used inside one network domain, and constitutes, in
that case, a minimum set of M2PA requirements to be supported between IP nodes
and between SRP nodes in a 3GPP network.
# B.2 Introduction
M2PA may be used between SRPs, i.e. interface B (refer to Figure 1 of Annex
A).
Figure 2 recommends how M2PA is used in a 3GPP IP based signalling network.
{width="6.240277777777778in" height="2.2916666666666665in"}
Figure B2.1: Use of M2PA in 3GPP core networks
# B.3 Protocol conformance to RFC 4165
A minimum implementation shall support sections marked mandatory in the table
below. It shall be possible to configure all implementations to interoperate
(no error messages returned) with the minimum set.
The table below makes comment to the sections in RFC 4165. In the comment
column the following terms are used:
\- Mandatory: When support of text in a section is marked mandatory:
\- On an information element, message or message class, it means that a
receiver shall understand the information element, message or message class
and carry out the requested action.
\- For a procedure, it means that the procedure is mandatory to be carried out
by the involved network elements.
\- Optional: When support of the text in a section is marked optional the
feature involved is only guaranteed to work between peer entities which are
subject to a bilateral agreement between operators of those entities. If one
end uses an optional information element and the other does not support it,
then a silent discard takes place of an information element as a part of the
message. This is described as part of the handling of the optionality in the
table.
\- Excluded: This means that the feature shall not be used in a 3GPP
environment
Descriptive text means that the section does not include any requirements for
this specification.
Note: The word \"heading\" means that the section consists only of subordinate
sections.
The comments column also defines the behaviour of a minimum implementation if
it does not support a message or an information element in a mandatory
message.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Section number in M2PA RFC | Comments | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Abstract | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.Introduction | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.1 Scope | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.2 Terminology | Descriptive text. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.3 Abbreviations | Descriptive text. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.4 Conventions | Descriptive text. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.5. Signaling Transport | Descriptive text | | Architecture | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.5.1 Point Code Representation | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.6 Services Provided by M2PA | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.6.1 Support for MTP Level 2 / | Mandatory | | MTP Level 3 Interface Boundary | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.6.2 Support for Peer-to-Peer | Mandatory | | Communication | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.7. Functions Provided by M2PA | Heading | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.7.1 MTP2 Functionality | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.7.2 Mapping of SS7 and IP | Mandatory | | Entities | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.7.3 SCTP Association | Mandatory | | Management | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.7.4 Retention of MTP3 in the | Descriptive text | | SS7 Network | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.8. Definition of the M2PA | Heading | | Boundaries | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.8.1 Definition of the M2PA/MTP | Descriptive text | | Level3 Boundaries | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.8.2 Definition of the Lower | Descriptive text | | Layer Boundary between M2PA and | | | SCTP | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1.9. Differences Between M2PA | Descriptive text | | and M2UA | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2. Protocol Elements | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.1 Common message header | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.1.1 Version: | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.1.2 Spare | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.1.3 Message class | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.1.4 Message Type | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.1.5 Message Length | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.2 M2PA Header | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.2.1 Backward Sequence Number | Mandatory | | (BSN) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.2.2 Forward Sequence Number | Mandatory | | (FSN) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.3 M2PA Messages | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.3.1 User Data | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.3.2 Link Status | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2.3.2.1 Link Status Proving | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3 State Control | Heading | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.1 SCTP Association State | Descriptive text | | Control | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3.2 M2PA Link State Control | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4 Procedures | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1 Procedures to Support MTP2 | Heading | | Feature | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1.1 Signal Unit Format, | Descriptive text | | Delimitation, Acceptance | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1.2 MTP and SCTP Entities | The content about how M2PA | | | relates MTP and SCTP entities is | | | Descriptive text. | | | | | | The relationship between the | | | streams of SCTP and M2PA | | | Messages is mandatory. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1.3 Link Alignment | The procedure is Mandatory. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1.4 Processor Outage | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1.5 Level 2 Flow Control | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1.6 Link Out of Service | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1.7 SCTP Association Problems | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1.8 Transmission and Reception | Mandatory | | Priorities | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.1.9 M2PA Version Control | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.2. Procedures to Support the | Heading | | MTP3/MTP2 Interface | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.2.1 Sending and Receiving | Mandatory | | Messages | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.2.2 MTP3 Signaling Link | Mandatory | | Congestion | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.2.3 Changeover | Mandatory | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.2.3.1 Multiple User Data | Descriptive text | | Streams and Changeover | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3 SCTP Considerations | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4.3.1 SCTP Slow Start | Descriptive text | | | | | | Avoiding the negative effects of | | | slow start is Mandatory. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5 Examples of M2PA Procedures | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.1 Link Initialization | Descriptive text | | (Alignment) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.2 Message Transmission and | Descriptive text | | Reception | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.3 Link Status Indication | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.4 Link Status Message | Descriptive text | | (Processor Outage) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5 Level 2 Flow Control | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.6 MTP3 Signaling Link | Descriptive text | | Congestion | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.7. Link Deactivation | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.8 Link Changeover | Descriptive text | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#