# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The common functional architecture for support of Mission Critical (MC)
services is specified in 3GPP TS 23.280 [21].
The functional architecture for support of Mission Critical Push To Talk
(MCPTT) services is specified in 3GPP TS 23.379 [18].
The functional architecture for support of Mission Critical Video (MCVideo)
services is specified in 3GPP TS 23.281 [19].
The functional architecture for support of Mission Critical Data (MCData)
services is specified in 3GPP TS 23.282 [20].
This 3GPP Technical Specification (TS) specifies:
1\. The interactions between the MC Service User Database and the MC Service
Server:
\- This interface between the MCPTT User Database and the MCPTT Server is
referred to as the MCPTT-2 reference point, as specified in 3GPP TS 23.379
[18].
\- This interface between the MCVideo User Database and the MCVideo Server is
referred to as the MCVideo-2 reference point, as specified in 3GPP TS 23.281
[19].
\- This interface between the MCData User Database and the MCData Server is
referred to as the MCData-2 reference point, as specified in 3GPP TS 23.282
[20].
\- This interface between the MCData User Database and the MCData Server is
referred to as the MCVideo-2 reference point, as specified in 3GPP TS 23.282
[20].
2\. The interactions between the MC Service User Database and the
Configuration Management Server. This interface is referred to as the CSC-13
reference point.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Void.
[3] Void.
[4] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[5] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx interfaces based on the Diameter protocol;
Protocol details\".
[7] IETF RFC 5234:\"Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF\".
[8] IETF RFC 7944: \"Diameter Routing Message Priority\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh interface based on the Diameter protocol; Protocol
details\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.336: \"Home Subscriber Server (HSS) diameter interfaces for
interworking with packet data networks and applications\".
[11] IETF RFC 7683: \"Diameter Overload Indication Conveyance\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx Interfaces;
Signalling flows and message contents\".
[15] IETF RFC 3986:\"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[16] Void.
[17] IETF RFC 8583: \"Diameter Load Information Conveyance\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.379: \"Functional architecture and information flows to
support Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Stage 2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.281: \"Functional architecture and information flows to
support Mission Critical Video (MCVideo); Stage 2\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.282: \"Functional architecture and information flows to
support Mission Critical Data (MCData); Stage 2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services; Stage 2\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.484: \"Mission Critical Services (MCS) configuration
management; Protocol specification\".
[23] IETF RFC 6733: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1], in 3GPP TS 23.281 [19], in 3GPP TS 23.282 [20], in 3GPP TS
23.280 [21], in 3GPP TS 23.379 [18] and the following apply, if any.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], in 3GPP TS 23.281 [19], in 3GPP TS 23.282 [20], in 3GPP TS 23.280
[21], in 3GPP TS 23.379 [18] and the following apply, if any. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Main Concept
## 4.1 Introduction
The MCPTT-2 reference point (between the MCPTT Server and the MCPTT User
Database) is defined in the 3GPP TS 23.379 [18].
The MCVideo-2 reference point (between the MCVideo Server and the MCVideo User
Database) is defined in the 3GPP TS 23.281 [19].
The MCData-2 reference point (between the MCData Server and the MCData User
Database) is defined in the 3GPP TS 23.282 [20].
The CSC-13 reference point (between the Configuration Management and the MC
Service User Database) is defined in the 3GPP TS 23.280 [21].
This document describes the Diameter-based related procedures, message
parameters and protocol specification for MCPTT-2, MDVideo-2, MCData-2 and
CSC-13 reference points.
This document specifies the Diameter Management Application used as protocol
over the MCPTT-2, MDVideo-2, MCData-2 and CSC-13 reference points.
# 5 MC Service General Architecture
## 5.1 Introduction
This clause further specifies the architectural assumptions associated with
the MCPTT-2, MDVideo-2, MCData-2 and CSC-13 reference points, building on
respectively 3GPP TS 23.379 [18], 3GPP TS 23.281 [19], 3GPP TS 23.282 [20] and
3GPP TS 23.280 [21].
## 5.2 Functional requirements of network entities
### 5.2.1 Functional Requirements of the MC Service Server
Depending on the MC Service, the MC Server is:
\- the MCPTT Server for MCPTT services, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.379 [18],
\- the MCVideo Server for MCVideo services, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.281 [19],
\- and the MCData Server for MCData services, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.282
[20].
The MC Service Server may communicate with the MC Service User Database over:
\- the MCPTT-2 interface between the MCPTT Server and the MCPTT User Database;
\- the MCVideo-2 interface between the MCVideo Server and the MCVideo User
Database;
\- the MCData-2 interface between the MCData Server and the MCPTT User
Database.
For more details on the functionality of the MC Service Server, refer to 3GPP
TS 23.379 [18], 3GPP TS 23.281 [19] and 3GPP TS 23.282 [20], depending on the
MC Service.
### 5.2.2 Functional Requirements of the Configuration Management Server
The Configuration Management Server may communicate with the MC Service User
Database over the CSC-13 interface.
For more details on the functionality of the Configuration Management Server,
refer to 3GPP TS 23.280 [21].
### 5.2.3 Functional requirements of MCPTT User Database
Depending on the MC Service, the MC Service User Database is:
\- the MCPTT user database for MCPTT services, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.379
[18],
\- the MCVideo user database for MCVideo services, as defined in 3GPP TS
23.281 [19],
\- and the MCData user database for MCData services, as defined in 3GPP TS
23.282 [20].
These MC service user databases can be co-located.
The MCPTT User Database may communicate with the MCPTT Server over the MCPTT-2
interface.
The MCVideo User Database may communicate with the MCVideo Server over the
MCVideo-2 interface.
The MCData User Database may communicate with the MCData Server over the
MCData-2 interface.
Any MC Service User Database may communicate with the Configuration Management
Server over the CSC-13 interface.
For more details on the functionality of the MC Service User Database, refer
to 3GPP TS 23.280 [21], 3GPP TS 23.379 [18], 3GPP TS 23.281 [19] and 3GPP TS
23.282 [20] depending on the MC Service.
## 5.3 Functional classification of MC Service Server to MC Service User
Database related interface procedures
MC Service Server to MC Service User Database interfaces are:
\- The MCPTT-2 interface between the MCPTT User Database and the MCPTT Server;
\- The MCVideo-2 interface between the MCVideo User Database and the MCVideo
Server;
\- The MCData-2 interface between the MCData User Database and the MCData
Server.
Operations on the MC Service Server to MC Service User Database interfaces are
classified in functional groups:
1\. Data handling procedures
\- The download of data from the MC Service User Database to an MC Service
Server.
\- The subscription to notifications from the MC Service User Database when
particular information about a specific MC Service User is updated.
\- The MC Service User Database can notify an MC Service Server of changes in
data for which the MC Service Server previously had subscribed.
## 5.4 Functional classification of CSC-13 interface procedures
Operations on the CSC-13 interface are classified in functional groups:
1\. Data handling procedures
\- The download of data from the MC Service User Database to a Configuration
Management Server.
\- The update of data in the MC Service User Database.
\- The subscription to notifications from the MC Service User Database when
particular information about a specific MC Service User is updated.
\- The MC Service User Database can notify a Configuration Management Server
of changes in data for which the Configuration Management Server previously
had subscribed.
# 6 Procedure Descriptions for MC Services
## 6.1 Introduction
This clause describes the procedures invoked between MC Service Server(s) and
the MC Service User Database(s), i.e.:
\- between the MCPTT Server and the MCPTT User Database over the MCPTT-2
reference point;
\- between the MCVideo Server and the MCVideo User Database over the MCVideo-2
reference point;
\- between the MCData Server and the MCData User Database over the MCData-2
reference point.
This clause describes the procedures invoked between the Configuration
Management Server and the MC Service User Database over the CSC-13 reference
point.
In the tables that describe the Information Elements transported by each
command, each Information Element is marked as (M) Mandatory, (C) Conditional
or (O) Optional in the \"Cat.\" column. For the correct handling of the
Information Element according to the category type, see the description
detailed in clause 6 of the 3GPP TS 29.228 [14].
## 6.2 MC Service User data handling procedures
### 6.2.1 Data Pull
#### 6.2.1.1 General
This procedure is used between the MC Service Server or the Configuration
Management Server and the MC Service User Database.
The procedure is invoked by the MC Service Server or the Configuration
Management Server and is used:
\- To obtain information for a specific MC Service ID from the MC Service User
Database;
\- To subscribe to notifications from the MC Service User Database for when
particular information associated with a specific MC Service ID is updated.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Data-Pull-Request/Answer in the
Diameter application specified in clause 7.2.3/7.2.4. The tables 6.2.1-1 and
6.2.1-2 detail the involved information elements.
Table 6.2.1-1: Data Pull Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +===================+===================+======+===================+ | MC Service ID | User-Identifier | M | This information | | | | | element contains | | | (See 7.3.8) | | the MC Service ID | | | | | of the MC Service | | | | | user for whom the | | | | | data is required. | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.280 [21]. | | | | | | | | | | See clause 7.3.8 | | | | | for the content | | | | | of this AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Requested Data | Da | M | This information | | | ta-Identification | | element indicates | | | | | the requested | | | (See 7.3.3) | | information. The | | | | | set of valid | | | | | values are | | | | | defined in clause | | | | | 7.3.3. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DPR Flags | DPR-Flags | O | This information | | | | | element contains | | | (See 7.3.13) | | one or several | | | | | flags that define | | | | | different command | | | | | behaviours. The | | | | | set of valid | | | | | values are | | | | | defined in clause | | | | | 7.3.13. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User Data ID | User-Data-Id | O | This information | | | | | element contain | | | | | the unique | | | | | identifier of a | | | | | given MC Service | | | | | User Profile | | | | | defined for an MC | | | | | Service User. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 6.2.1-2: Data Pull Response
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +===================+===================+======+===================+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | Result of the | | | Exp | | request. | | | erimental_Result | | | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | (See 7.4) | | shall be used for | | | | | errors defined in | | | | | the Diameter base | | | | | protocol (see | | | | | IETF | | | | | RFC 6733 [23]). | | | | | | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for Data | | | | | Management | | | | | application | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Returned Data | Data | C | This information | | | | | element shall | | | (See 7.3.22) | | contain the | | | | | requested data | | | | | that is | | | | | successfully | | | | | returned. | | | | | | | | | | This information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present when all | | | | | requested data | | | | | exist in the MC | | | | | Service User | | | | | Database, the | | | | | requesting entity | | | | | has permissions | | | | | to read them and | | | | | they are all | | | | | successfully | | | | | read. Otherwise, | | | | | it shall be | | | | | absent. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Failed Requested | Da | C | This information | | Data | ta-Identification | | element indicates | | | | | the requested | | | (See 7.3.3) | | data that cannot | | | | | be retrieved by | | | | | the requesting | | | | | entity, when the | | | | | corresponding | | | | | error only | | | | | applies to some | | | | | of the requested | | | | | data. The set of | | | | | valid values are | | | | | defined in 7.3.3. | | | | | | | | | | This information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present when the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP is set to | | | | | \"DIAMETER_ERR | | | | | OR_USER_DATA_C | | | | | ANNOT_BE_READ\" | | | | | or | | | | | \"DIAMETER_ERROR | | | | | _UNKNOWN_DATA\" | | | | | and more than one | | | | | data was | | | | | requested. | | | | | Otherwise, it may | | | | | be absent. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DPA Flags | DPA-Flags | O | This information | | | | | element contains | | | (See 7.3.14) | | one or several | | | | | flags that define | | | | | different command | | | | | behaviours. The | | | | | set of valid | | | | | values are | | | | | defined in clause | | | | | 7.3.14. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
#### 6.2.1.2 Detailed behaviour of the requesting entity
The MC Service Server or the Configuration Management Server shall make use of
this procedure to retrieve from the MC Service User Database the MC Service
User Profile associated with an MC Service ID i.e. the user ID of a MC user
within a specific MC Service. The request shall include the MC Service ID
(e.g. MCPTT ID for MCPTT service) and the requested data. The MC Service
Server or the Configuration Management Server may set the \"Subscription to
notifications\" flag in the DPR-Flags to subscribe to the service of
notifications for any change for the requested data is requested. Otherwise,
the \"Subscription to notifications\" flag in the DPR-Flags shall be cleared.
The MC Service Server or the Configuration Management Server may make use of
this procedure to unsubscribe to the notifications service for a given MC user
within a specific MC Service. The request shall include the MC Service ID
identifying the MC user within a specific MC Service. The \"Subscription to
notifications\" flag shall be cleared in the DPR-Flags to unsubscribe to the
service of notifications for any change for the requested data.
When receiving the Data Pull response with the Result Code set to
\"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" with the requested MC Service User data, the MC Service
Server or the Configuration Management Server should store the received data
if the subscription to the notifications service was requested and the
\"Notifications service status\" flag is set by the MC Service User Database
in the DPA-Flags AVP.
#### 6.2.1.3 Detailed behaviour of the MC Service User Database
The MC Service User Database may prioritise the received request message
according to priority level received within the DRMP AVP.
Upon reception of the Data Pull Request, the MC Service User Database shall
check whether the MC Service ID for whom data is asked exists in the MC
Service User Database. If not, Experimental-Result-Code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN\" in the Data Pull Response.
The MC Service User Database shall check whether the requested data exist. If
one or more requested data are not recognized or supported by the MC Service
User Database, the MC Service User Database shall set the Experimental-Result-
Code to \"DIAMETER_ERROR_UNKNOWN_DATA\" in the Data Pull Response and the
Failed Requested Data information element shall be included, indicating the
requested data that are not recognized or supported by the MC Service User
Database, if more than one data was requested.
The MC Service User Database shall check the Requesting Node permissions list
(see clause 6.3) to determine whether the requested data are allowed to be
retrieved by the requesting node by checking the combination of the identity
of the node sending the request (identified by the Origin-Host AVP included in
the request) and the supplied requested data. If one or more requested data
are not allowed to be retrieved, Experimental-Result-Code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_DATA_CANNOT_BE_READ\" in the Data Pull Response and the
Failed Requested Data information element shall be included, indicating the
requested data that are not allowed to be read, if more than one data was
requested.
The MC Service User Database shall check whether the requested data are
currently being updated by another entity. If there is an update of the data
in progress, the MC Service User Database may delay the Data Pull Response
until the update has been completed. The MC Service User Database shall ensure
that the data returned is not corrupted due to the race condition. If the MC
Service User Database is not able to delay the Data Pull Response (e.g. due to
timeout), the Experimental-Result-Code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_USER_DATA_NOT_AVAILABLE\" in the Data Pull Response.
If the \"Subscription to notifications\" flag in the DPR-Flags was set in the
request to subscribe to the service of notifications for any change in the
requested data associated with the MC Service ID, the MC Service User Database
shall check the Requesting Node permissions list (see clause 6.3) to determine
whether the requested data are allowed to be subscribed to notifications by
the requesting node by checking the combination of the identity of the node
sending the request (identified by the Origin-Host AVP included in the
request) and the supplied requested data. If one or more requested data are
not allowed to be subscribed to notifications, the \"Notifications service
status\" flag in the DPA-Flags AVP in the Data Pull Response shall be clear.
Otherwise, the MC Service User Database shall associate the requesting node
identity (identified by the Origin-Host AVP included in the Data Pull Request)
with the list of entities that need to be notified when the data requested in
the request are modified and the \"Notifications service status\" flag shall
be set in the DPA-Flags AVP in the Data Pull Response.
If the \"Subscription to notifications\" flag in the DPR-Flags was cleared in
the request and a subscription for the data exist in the MCPTT User Database,
the MC Service User Database shall remove the requesting node identity
(identified by the Origin-Host AVP included in the Data Pull Request) from the
list of entities that need to be notified for the requested data indicated in
the request and shall clear the \"Notifications service status\" flag in the
DPA-Flags AVP in the Data Pull Response.
If there is an error in any of the above steps then the MC Service User
Database shall stop processing and shall return the error code specified in
the respective step. Or if the MC Service User Database cannot fulfil the
received request for reasons not stated in the above steps, e.g. due to a
database error, it shall stop processing the request and set Result-Code to
\"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\". Otherwise, the MC Service User Database shall
set the Result-Code to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the Data Pull Response and
shall include the requested data.
### 6.2.2 Data Update
#### 6.2.2.1 General
This procedure is used between the Configuration Management Server and the MC
Service User Database. The procedure is invoked by the Configuration
Management Server and is used:
\- To update information for a specific MC Service ID stored into the MC
Service User Database.
NOTE: This procedure cannot be used to create or delete an MC Service ID
contained in the MC Service User Database. An MC Service user shall be created
with at least one MC Service User Profile.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Data-Update-Request/Answer in the
Diameter application specified in the clause 7.2.5 and 7.2.6. The tables
6.2.2-1 and 6.2.2-2 detail the involved information elements.
Table 6.2.2-1: Data Update Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +===================+===================+======+===================+ | MC Service ID | User-Identifier | M | This information | | | | | element contains | | | (See 7.3.8) | | the MC Service ID | | | | | of the MC service | | | | | user for whom the | | | | | data is required. | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.280 [21]. | | | | | | | | | | See clause 7.3.8 | | | | | for the content | | | | | of this AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Data To Update | Data | M | This information | | | | | element shall | | | (See 7.3.22) | | contain the data | | | | | to be updated. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DUR Flags | DUR-Flags | O | This information | | | | | element contains | | | (See 7.3.15) | | one or several | | | | | flags that define | | | | | different command | | | | | behaviours. The | | | | | set of valid | | | | | values are | | | | | defined in clause | | | | | 7.3.15. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 6.2.2-2: Data Update Response
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +===================+===================+======+===================+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | Result of the | | | Ex | | update of data in | | | perimental-Result | | the MC Service | | | | | User Database. | | | (See 7.4) | | | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | | | shall be used for | | | | | errors defined in | | | | | the Diameter base | | | | | protocol (see | | | | | IETF | | | | | RFC 6733 [23]). | | | | | | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for Data | | | | | Management | | | | | application | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MC Service User | MC-Service- | C | This information | | Profile Data | User-Profile-Data | | shall contain the | | | | | User-Data-Id | | | (See 7.3.20) | | associated with | | | | | an MC Service | | | | | User Profile that | | | | | has not been | | | | | successfully | | | | | updated if more | | | | | than one MC | | | | | Service User | | | | | Profile is | | | | | associated with | | | | | the same MC | | | | | Service User. | | | | | This information | | | | | may also include | | | | | the Sequence | | | | | number associated | | | | | with this MC | | | | | Service User | | | | | Profile Data. | | | | | | | | | | This information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present if data | | | | | requested to be | | | | | updated are MC | | | | | Service User | | | | | Profile data and | | | | | the Result-Code | | | | | AVP is set to | | | | | \"DIAMETER_L | | | | | IMITED_SUCCESS\" | | | | | or the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP is set to | | | | | \ | | | | | "DIAMETER_ERROR\ | | | | | _UNKNOWN_DATA\", | | | | | \" | | | | | DIAMETER_ERROR_ | | | | | USER_DATA_CANNO | | | | | T_BE_MODIFIED\" | | | | | or | | | | | \"DIAMETER_ERR | | | | | OR_PRIOR_UPDATE | | | | | _IN_PROGRESS\". | | | | | Otherwise, it | | | | | shall be absent. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Failed Requested | Da | C | This information | | Data | ta-Identification | | element indicates | | | | | the data that | | | (See 7.3.3) | | have not been | | | | | successfully | | | | | updated. The set | | | | | of valid values | | | | | are defined in | | | | | 7.3.3. | | | | | | | | | | This information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present if the | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | | | is set to | | | | | \"DIAMETER_L | | | | | IMITED_SUCCESS\" | | | | | or the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP is set to | | | | | \ | | | | | "DIAMETER_ERROR\ | | | | | _UNKNOWN_DATA\", | | | | | \" | | | | | DIAMETER_ERROR_ | | | | | USER_DATA_CANNO | | | | | T_BE_MODIFIED\" | | | | | or | | | | | \"DIAMETER_ERR | | | | | OR_PRIOR_UPDATE | | | | | _IN_PROGRESS\". | | | | | Otherwise, it may | | | | | be absent. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | DUA Flags | DUA-Flags | O | This information | | | | | element contains | | | (See 7.3.16) | | one or several | | | | | flags that define | | | | | different command | | | | | behaviours. The | | | | | set of valid | | | | | values are | | | | | defined in clause | | | | | 7.3.16. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
#### 6.2.2.2 Detailed behaviour of the Configuration Management Server
The Configuration Management Server shall make use of this procedure to update
data associated to an MC Service ID (i.e. the user ID of a MC user within a
specific MC Service) stored into the MC Service User Database. The request
shall include the MC Service ID identifying the MC user within a specific MC
Service (e.g. MCPTT ID for MCPTT service) and the data requested to be
updated.
When data requested to be updated are the MC Service User Profile data, the
request shall include the MC Service User Profile data and the Sequence Number
associated with the MC Service User Profile. The request may also include the
User Data Id if more than one MC Service User Profile is associated with the
same MC Service User. Multiple MC Service User Profiles for the same MC
Service can be updated and, in this case, each MC Service User Profile data
shall contain a Sequence Number and the User Data Id. Each updated MC Service
User Profile data shall be associated with a Sequence Number of n+1 where n is
the original Sequence Number associated with the MC Service User Profile
before modification. If n was equal to 65535, the new associated Sequence
Number shall be equal to 1.
When more than one data is requested to be updated, the Configuration
Management Server may set the \"Atomicity\" flag in the DUR-Flags to indicate
that all the requested data shall be updated by the MC Service User Database
or none of them shall be updated if at least one data element cannot be
updated.
When receiving \"DIAMETER_LIMITED_SUCCESS\" in the Data Update Response,
including the indication of the requested data that have not been successfully
updated, the Configuration Management Server may reattempt to update the
affected data.
When receiving \"DIAMETER_ERROR_DATA_OUT_OF_SYNC\" in the Data Update Response
when attempting to update an MC Service User Profile, the Configuration
Management Server may attempt to resolve the inconsistency between the version
of the MC Service User Profile that it holds and the version stored at the MC
Service User Database. It may execute a Data Pull to retrieve the current
version of the data from the MCPTT User Database or it may wait to receive a
subsequent Notification request from the MC Service User Database for the
affected MC Service User Profile.
When receiving \"DIAMETER_ERROR_PRIOR_UPDATE_IN_PROGRESS\" in the Data Update
Response, the configuration Management Server may wait to receive a subsequent
Notification request from the MC Service User Database for the affected MC
Service User Profile or it may reattempt to update the data.
#### 6.2.2.3 Detailed behaviour of the MC Service User Database
The MC Service User Database may prioritise the received request message
according to priority level received within the DRMP AVP.
Upon reception of the Data Update Request, the MC Service User Database shall
check whether the MC Service ID for whom data is asked exists in the MC
Service User Database. If not, Experimental-Result-Code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN\" in the Data Update Response.
The MC Service User Database shall check whether the requested data exist. If
any of the requested data is not available into the MC Service User Database,
the MCPTT User Database shall set the Experimental-Result-Code to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_UNKNOWN_DATA\" in the Data Update Response and the Failed
Requested Data information element shall be included, indicating the requested
data that are unknown to the MC Service User Database, if more than one data
was requested.
The MC Service User Database shall check the Requesting Node permissions list
(see clause 6.3) to determine whether the requested user data is allowed to be
updated by this requesting node by checking the combination of the identity of
the node sending the request (identified by the Origin-Host AVP included in
the request) and the supplied requested data. If any of the requested data is
not allowed to be updated, Experimental-Result-Code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_DATA_CANNOT_BE_MODIFIED\" in the Data Update Response
and the Failed Requested Data information element shall be included,
indicating the requested data that are not allowed to be modified, if more
than one data was requested.
The MC Service User Database shall check whether the data that is requested to
be updated by the requesting node is currently being updated by another
entity. If there is an update of any requested data in progress, Experimental-
Result-Code shall be set to \"DIAMETER_ERROR_PRIOR_UPDATE_IN_PROGRESS\" in the
Data Update Response and the Failed Requested Data information element shall
be included, indicating the requested data that are being updated by another
entity, if more than one data was requested.
If the updated data are MC Service User Profile data, the MC Service User
Database shall identify the MC Service User Profile to update using the User
Data Id (if multiple MC Service User Profiles exist for the same MC Service)
and check the Sequence Number contained in the MC Service User Profile data
included in the request. If either:
\- the Sequence Number is equal to 0;
\- or (Sequence_Number_in_Data_Update - 1) is not equal to
(Sequence_Number_In_MC_Service_User_Database modulo 65535);
then, the Experimental-Result-Code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_DATA_OUT_OF_SYNC\" in the Data Update Response.
If there is more data than the MCPTT User Database is prepared to accept then
Experimental-Result-Code shall be set to \"DIAMETER_ERROR_TOO_MUCH_DATA\" and
the new data shall be discarded.
If the data requested to be updated are the MC Service User Profile data and
if the MC Service User Profile and/or the Sequence Number and/or the User Data
Id (if multiple MC Service User Profiles exist for the same MC Service) is not
present in the request, then Experimental-Result-Code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_REQUIRED_KEY_NOT_PROVIDED\", the Failed Requested Data
information element shall be included indicating the requested data that
causes the error (if more than one data was requested) and the operation shall
be ignored by the MC Service User Database.
If multiple data have to be updated, the steps above shall be repeated for
each data element. The MC Service User Database shall check if the
\"Atomicity\" flag in set in the DUR-Flags:
\- If set and the MC Service User Database does not support atomic operation,
the MC Service User Database shall set the Result-Code to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_ATOMICITY_NOT_SUPPORTED\" in the Data Update Response and no
data shall be updated.
\- If set and the MC Service User Database supports atomic update operation,
if one of the updates fails, the MC Service User Database shall keep or
restore all the stored data as they were before receiving the Data Update
request and the MC Service User Database shall send the Data Update Response
with the Result-Code or Experimental-Result set to value appropriate to the
encountered error case. Otherwise, if all updated are successful, the
requested operation shall take place and the MC Service User Database shall
return the Result-Code AVP set to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the Data Update
Response
\- If not set, the Data Update may be partially successful if it is successful
for the update of only a part of the data instances in the request. In such a
case, the MC Service User Database shall set the Result-Code to
\"DIAMETER_LIMITED_SUCCESS\" in the Data Update Response. This Data Update
Response indicates the data that have not been successfully updated. If the
requested update was for more than one MC Service User Profile, the MC Service
User Database shall include in the Data Update Response the User-Data-Id of
the MC Service User Profile(s) that has/have not been successfully updated.
The successfully updated data stored at the MC Service User Database shall
trigger the sending of notifications to any other entities that are subscribed
to Notifications for updates to the modified data for that MC Service ID (see
6.2.3).
If the updated data are MC Service User Profile, the Sequence Number received
in the Data Update request shall be associated with the updated MC Service
User Profile data, optionally identified by the User-Data-Id in the request.
If there is an error in any of the above steps then the MC Service User
Database shall stop processing and shall return the error code specified in
the respective step (see clause 7.4 for an explanation of the error codes).
If the MC Service User Database cannot fulfil the received request for reasons
not stated in the above steps, e.g. due to database error, it shall stop
processing the request and set Result-Code to \"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\" in
the Data Update Response.
### 6.2.3 Data Notification
#### 6.2.3.1 General
This procedure is used between the MC Service User Database and the MC Service
Server or the Configuration Management Server. The procedure is invoked by the
MC Service User Database and is used:
\- To inform the MC Service Server or the Configuration Management Server of
changes in particular information associated with an MC Service ID stored in
the MC Service User Database to which the MC Service Server or the
Configuration Management Server has previously subscribed to receive
Notifications for, using the Data Pull request (see 6.2.1).
This procedure is mapped to the commands Notification-Data-Request/Answer in
the Diameter application specified in the clause 7.2.7 and 7.2.8. The tables
6.2.3-1 and 6.2.3-2 detail the involved information elements.
Table 6.2.3-1: Data Notification Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +===================+===================+======+===================+ | MC Service ID | User-Identifier | M | This information | | | | | element contains | | | (See 7.3.8) | | the MC Service ID | | | | | of the MC Service | | | | | user for whom the | | | | | data is required. | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.280 [21]. | | | | | | | | | | See clause 7.3.8 | | | | | for the content | | | | | of this AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Returned Data | Data | M | This information | | | | | element shall | | | (See 7.3.22) | | contain the data | | | | | to which the | | | | | requesting entity | | | | | is subscribed to | | | | | notification of | | | | | change. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | NDR Flags | NDR-Flags | O | This information | | | | | element contains | | | (See 7.3.17) | | one or several | | | | | flags that define | | | | | different command | | | | | behaviours. The | | | | | set of valid | | | | | values are | | | | | defined in clause | | | | | 7.3.13. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 6.2.3-2: Data Notification Response
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +===================+===================+======+===================+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | Result of the | | | Ex | | request. | | | perimental-Result | | | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | (See 7.4) | | shall be used for | | | | | errors defined in | | | | | the Diameter base | | | | | protocol (see | | | | | IETF | | | | | RFC 6733 [23]). | | | | | | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for Data | | | | | Management | | | | | application | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Failed Requested | Da | C | This information | | Data | ta-Identification | | element indicates | | | | | the requested | | | (See 7.3.3) | | information that | | | | | the receiving | | | | | entity is not | | | | | able to process. | | | | | The set of valid | | | | | values are | | | | | defined in 7.3.3. | | | | | | | | | | This information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present when the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP is set to | | | | | \"DIAMETER_ER | | | | | ROR_NO_SUBSCRIP | | | | | TION_TO_DATA\", | | | | | or | | | | | \"DIAMETER_ERR | | | | | OR_USER_DATA_N | | | | | OT_RECOGNIZED\". | | | | | Otherwise, it may | | | | | be absent. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | NDA Flags | NDA-Flags | O | This information | | | | | element contains | | | (See 7.3.18) | | one or several | | | | | flags that define | | | | | different command | | | | | behaviours. The | | | | | set of valid | | | | | values are | | | | | defined in clause | | | | | 7.3.18. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
#### 6.2.3.2 Detailed behaviour of the MCPTT User Database
The MC Service User Database shall make use of this procedure to update
information associated with an MC Service ID for which a MC Service Server or
a Configuration Management Server has previously subscribed to receive
Notifications for. The request shall include the MC Service ID identifying the
MC user within a specific MC Service (e.g. MCPTT ID for MCPTT service) and the
modified data.
If the notification is sent to modify an MC Service User Profile, the request
shall include the MC Service User Profile data, including the Sequence number
and the User Data Id (required if more than one MC Service User Profile exists
for the same MC Service).
When receiving the Notification response with the Experimental-Result-Code set
to \"DIAMETER_ERROR_NO_SUBSCRIPTION_TO_DATA\",
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN\", \"DIAMETER_ERROR_TOO_MUCH_DATA\" or
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_DATA_NOT_RECOGNIZED\", the MCPTT User Database shall
remove the responding entity from the list of entities that need to be
notified of any change in information associated with the MC Service ID
included in the request.
#### 6.2.3.3 Detailed behaviour of the receiving entity
The MC Service Server or the Configuration Management Server may prioritise
the received request message according to priority level received within the
DRMP AVP.
Upon reception of the Notification Request, the receiving entity shall check
whether the MC Service ID for which the Notification Request is received is
served by the receiving entity. If not, the Experimental-Result-Code shall be
set to \"DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN\" in the Notification Data Response.
The receiving entity shall check whether the modified data are recognized or
supported by the receiving entity. If not, the Experimental-Result-Code shall
be set to \"DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_DATA_NOT_RECOGNIZED\" in the Notification
Response. This Notification Data Response shall indicate the data that are not
recognized or supported by the receiving entity, if more than one data was
requested.
The receiving entity shall check whether it has subscribed to notifications
for the modified data that are received. If not, the Experimental-Result-Code
shall be set to \"DIAMETER_ERROR_NO_SUBSCRIPTION_TO_DATA\" in the Notification
Data Response. This Notification Data Response shall indicate the data for
which the notification service has not been subscribed, if more than one data
was requested.
If there is more data than the receiving entity is prepared to accept then
Experimental-Result-Code shall be set to \"DIAMETER_ERROR_TOO_MUCH_DATA\" and
the new data shall be discarded. This Notification Data Response may indicate
the data that have not been successfully updated
If the notification includes multiple data that are modified, the steps above
shall be repeated for each data element. If an error occurs, the receiving
entity shall stop processing and shall return the Result-Code or Experimental-
Result-Code set to value specified in the respective step (see clause 7.4 for
an explanation of the error codes). The Notification Data Response may
indicate the requested data that have not been successfully processed.
Otherwise, the requested operation shall take place and the receiving entity
shall return the Result-Code AVP set to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the
Notification Response. If the receiving entity locally stores the data for
which it has received the notification, the received data shall be updated. In
this case, if the modified data are MC Service User Profile data, each
modified MC Service User Profile shall be associated with the corresponding
Sequence Number received in the Notification request.
## 6.3 Requesting entity permissions list
### 6.3.1 General
Some of the individual elements identified by the Requested Data information
element may be requested by the MC Service Server or the Configuration
Management Server from the MC Service User Database using the Data Pull
operation (see clause 6.2.1) or may be updated at the MC Service User Database
by the Configuration Management Server using the Data Update operation (see
clause 6.2.2). The MC Service Server or the Configuration Management Server
may also request the MC Service User Database to be notified of changes to
specific elements identified by Requested Data information element using the
\"Subscription to notifications\" flag in the DPR-Flags of the Data Pull
operation (see clause 6.2.1). The MC Service User Database will only allow
these operations to take place if the Requested Data information element is
permitted to be included in the specific command requested by the MC Service
Server or the Configuration Management Server.
To manage whether an MC Service Server or a Configuration Management Server
may request each requested data element with a specific operation, the MC
Service User Database shall maintain a list of Requesting Entity permissions
(the \"Requesting Entity Permissions List\"). Requesting entity permissions
are identified by the requesting entity identity and the requested data with
the possible permissions associated with each requested data for Data Pull and
Data Update operations or any combination of these permissions. The
permissions shall apply to all MC Service Users served by the MC Service User
Database. When an MC Service Server or a Configuration Management Server
requests Data Pull or Data Update, the MC Service User Database shall check
permissions and return an error result if the MC Service Server or the
Configuration Management Server does not have the required permission. If the
Requesting Entity permissions change in a later stage, the MC Service User
Database shall update the \"Requesting Entity Permission List\" accordingly.
Table 6.3-1, Table 6.3-2 and Table 6.3-3 define the requested data, access key
and requesting entity permissions for the operation(s) on data accessible via
the MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2, MCData-2 or CSC-13 interface, i.e. the listed
operation(s) in the Operations column are the only ones allowed to be used
with this requested data value. It is a matter of operator policy to further
restrict the requesting entity permission rights defined in table 6.3-1, table
6.3-2 or table 6.3-3.
An access key between square brackets is considered as optional, while when
more than one access key is separated by logical OR and included between
brackets, it means that one (and only one) of these access keys is mandatory.
Table 6.3.1-1: Data accessible via MCPTT-2 or CSC-13 interface
+-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+ | Bit. | Data | Defined in | Access key | Operations | | | element | | | | +-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0 | MCPTT User | 7.3.3 | Requested | Data Pull | | | Profile | | Data + | (Read) | | | | | MCPTT ID | | | | | | | Data Pull | | | | | | (S | | | | | | ubscription | | | | | | to | | | | | | No | | | | | | tification) | +-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | MCPTT ID | Data Update | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: In | | | | | | this | | | | | | release, | | | | | | Data update | | | | | | operations | | | | | | are only | | | | | | allowed for | | | | | | Co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | Management | | | | | | Servers | | | | | +-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 6.3.1-2: Data accessible via MCVideo-2 or CSC-13 interface
+-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+ | Bit. | Data | Defined in | Access key | Operations | | | element | | | | +=============+=============+============+=============+=============+ | 1 | MCVideo | 7.3.3 | Requested | Data Pull | | | User | | Data + | (Read) | | | Profile | | MCVideo ID | | | | | | | Data Pull | | | | | | (S | | | | | | ubscription | | | | | | to | | | | | | No | | | | | | tification) | +-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | MCVideo ID | Data Update | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: In | | | | | | this | | | | | | release, | | | | | | Data update | | | | | | operations | | | | | | are only | | | | | | allowed for | | | | | | Co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | Management | | | | | | Servers | | | | | +-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 6.3.1-3: Data accessible via MCData-2 or CSC-13 interface
+-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+ | Bit. | Data | Defined in | Access key | Operations | | | element | | | | +=============+=============+============+=============+=============+ | 2 | MCData User | 7.3.3 | Requested | Data Pull | | | Profile | | Data + | (Read) | | | | | MCData ID | | | | | | | Data Pull | | | | | | (S | | | | | | ubscription | | | | | | to | | | | | | No | | | | | | tification) | +-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | MCData ID | Data Update | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: In | | | | | | this | | | | | | release, | | | | | | Data update | | | | | | operations | | | | | | are only | | | | | | allowed for | | | | | | Co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | Management | | | | | | Servers | | | | | +-------------+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+
# 7 Protocol Specification and Implementation for MC Service
## 7.1 General
### 7.1.1 Use of Diameter base protocol
The Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as specified in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures (including error
handling and unrecognised information handling) shall be used unmodified.
### 7.1.2 Securing Diameter Messages
For secure transport of Diameter messages, see 3GPP TS 33.210 [4].
### 7.1.3 Accounting functionality
Accounting functionality (Accounting Session State Machine, related command
codes and AVPs) shall not be used on the MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2, MCData-2 and
CSC-13 interfaces.
### 7.1.4 Use of sessions
Between an MC Service Server and the corresponding MC Service User Database or
between the Configuration Management Server and the MC Services User
Database(s), Diameter sessions shall be implicitly terminated. An implicitly
terminated session is one for which the server does not maintain state
information. The client shall not send any re-authorization or session
termination requests to the server.
The Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23] includes the
Auth-Session-State AVP as the mechanism for the implementation of implicitly
terminated sessions.
The client (server) shall include in its requests (responses) the Auth-
Session-State AVP set to the value NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1), as described in
IETF RFC 6733 [23]. As a consequence, the server shall not maintain any state
information about this session and the client shall not send any session
termination request. Neither the Authorization-Lifetime AVP nor the Session-
Timeout AVP shall be present in requests or responses.
### 7.1.5 Transport protocol
Diameter messages over the MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2, MCData-2 and CSC-13 interfaces
shall make use of SCTP IETF RFC 4960 [5].
### 7.1.6 Routing considerations
This clause specifies the use of the Diameter routing AVPs Destination-Realm
and Destination-Host.
The Destination-Realm AVP shall contain the network domain name of the MC
Service provider\'s domain. The network domain name is either known by the
sending MC Service Server or the Configuration Management Server or is derived
from information received at the signalling layer.
If an MC Service Server or the Configuration Management Server knows the
address/name of the MC Service User Database in charge of a given MC Service
User, both the Destination-Realm and Destination-Host AVPs shall be present in
the request.
If an MC Service Server or the Configuration Management Server knows only the
network domain name, the Destination-Realm AVP shall be present and the
command shall be routed to the next Diameter node. When multiple and
separately addressable MC Service User Databases have been deployed by the MC
service provider/network operator, the next Diameter node is either a Diameter
Proxy Agent or a Diameter Redirect Agent responsible for the determination of
the destination MC Service User Database (as described in clause 7.1.10). When
the next Diameter node is a Diameter Agent Proxy, the Diameter Proxy Agent,
based on the result of this determination, shall modify the Destination-Realm
AVP and Destination-Host AVP of the request appropriately. The Diameter Proxy
Agent shall then append a Route-Record AVP to the request and shall send the
request to the destination MC Service User Database. Consequently, the
Destination-Host AVP is declared as optional in the ABNF for all requests
initiated by an MC Service User Database.
When the response is routed back to a Diameter Proxy Agent, the Diameter Proxy
Agent shall send the response back to the MC Service Server or the
Configuration Management Server without modifying the Origin-Realm AVP and
Origin-Host AVP. The response shall contain the Origin-Realm AVP set to the
realm and the Origin-Host AVP set to the FQDN of the MC Service User Database
that have sent the response. The MC Service Server shall then store the MC
Service User Database realm and identity for each MC Service ID for sending
further requests for the same MC Service User.
Requests initiated by the MC Service User Database towards an MC Service
Server shall include both Destination-Host and Destination-Realm AVPs. The MC
Service User Database obtains the Destination-Host AVP to use in requests
towards an MC Service Server or the Configuration Management Server, from the
Origin-Host AVP received in previous requests from the MC Service Server or
the Configuration Management Server.
Consequently, the Destination-Realm AVP and Destination-Host AVP are declared
as mandatory in the ABNF for all requests initiated by the MC Service User
Database.
Consequently, the Destination-Realm AVP is declared as mandatory and the
Destination-Host AVP is declared as optional in the ABNF for all requests
initiated by an MC Service Server.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID AVP is received in any of the commands
defined in this specification, it shall be ignored by the receiving node, and
it shall not be used for routing purposes.
### 7.1.7 Advertising Application Support
The MC Service User Database and the MC Service Server or the Configuration
Management Server shall advertise support of the Diameter Data Management
Application by including the value of the application identifier in the Auth-
Application-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id grouped AVP of
the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The vendor identifier value of 3GPP (10415) shall be included in the
Supported-Vendor-Id AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands, and in the Vendor-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The Vendor-Id AVP included in Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands that is not included in the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id AVPs as described above shall indicate the manufacturer of the
Diameter node as per IETF RFC 6733 [23].
### 7.1.8 Diameter Application Identifier
The Diameter Data Management application protocol shall be defined as an IETF
vendor specific Diameter application, where the vendor is 3GPP. The vendor
identifier assigned by IANA to 3GPP
(http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers) is 10415.
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the Diameter Data Management
application is 16777351 (allocated by IANA).
### 7.1.9 Use of the Supported-Features AVP
When new functionality is introduced on the MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2, MCData-2 or
CSC-13 interfaces, it should be defined as optional. If backwards incompatible
changes cannot be avoided, the new functionality shall be introduced as a new
feature and support advertised with the Supported-Features AVP. The usage of
the Supported-Features AVP on the MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2, MCData-2 and CSC-13
interfaces is consistent with the procedures for the dynamic discovery of
supported features as defined in clause 7.2 of 3GPP TS 29.229 [6].
When extending the application by adding new AVPs for a feature, the new AVPs
shall have the M bit cleared and the AVP shall not be defined mandatory in the
command ABNF.
As defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [6], the Supported-Features AVP is of type
grouped and contains the Vendor-Id, Feature-List-ID and Feature-List AVPs. On
the all reference points as specified in this specification, the Supported-
Features AVP is used to identify features that have been defined by 3GPP and
hence, for features defined in this document, the Vendor-Id AVP shall contain
the vendor ID of 3GPP (10415). If there are multiple feature lists defined for
the reference point, the Feature-List-ID AVP shall differentiate those lists
from one another.
### 7.1.10 MC Service ID to MC Service User Database resolution
The MC Service ID to MC Service User Database resolution mechanism enables an
MC Service Server or the Configuration Management Server to find the identity
of the MC Service User Database that holds the MC Service related data for a
given MC Service ID when multiple and separately addressable MC Service User
Databases have been deployed by the MC service provider/network operator. The
resolution mechanism is not required in networks that utilise a single MC
Service User Database per MC Service or when an MC Service Server is
configured to use pre-defined MC Service User Database.
The resolution mechanism shall use a Diameter Proxy Agent or a Diameter
Redirect Agent.
The Diameter Proxy Agent or Diameter Redirect Agent shall be used to determine
the MC Service User Database identity.
In networks where the use of the MC Service ID to MCPTT User Database
resolution mechanism is required and the MC Server Server is not configured to
use a predefined MC Service User Database, each MC Service Server shall be
configured with the pre-configured address/name of a Diameter Proxy Agent or
Diameter Redirect Agent to enable use of these resolution mechanisms.
To get the MC Service User Database identity, the MC Service Server or the
Configuration Management Server shall send the Data Management Application
request normally destined to the MC Service User Database to the pre-
configured Diameter Proxy Agent or Diameter Redirect Agent.
The Diameter Proxy Agent shall determine the MC Service User Database identity
based on the provided user identity and - if the Diameter load control
mechanism is supported (see IETF RFC 8583 [17]) - optionally also based on
previously received load values from Load AVPs of type HOST. The Diameter
Proxy Agent shall then forward the Data Management Application request
directly to the determined MC Service User Database. The MC Service Server
shall determine the MC Service User Database identity from the response to the
Data Management Application request received from the MC Service User
Database. The MC Service Server and the Configuration Management Server should
store the MC Service User Database identity/name/Realm and shall use it in
further Data Management Application requests associated to the same MC Service
ID.
The Diameter Redirect Agent shall determine the MC Service User Database
address and shall send to the MC Service Server or the Configuration
Management Server a notification of redirection towards the MC Service User
Database, in response to the request. Multiple MC Service User Database
identities may be included in the response, as specified in IETF RFC 6733
[23]. In such a case, the MC Service Server or the Configuration Management
Server shall send the Request to the first MC Service User Database identity
in the ordered list received in the Response from the Diameter Redirect Agent.
If the MC Service Server or the Configuration Management Server does not
receive a successful response to the Request, the MC Service Server or the
Configuration Management Server shall send a Request to the next MC Service
User Database identity in the ordered list. This procedure shall be repeated
until a successful response from an MC Service User Database is received.
## 7.2 Commands
### 7.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the Command code values and related ABNF for each command
described in this specification.
### 7.2.2 Command-Code values
This clause defines Command-Code values for the Diameter Data Management
application used over the MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2, MCData-2 and CSC-13 interfaces
as allocated by IANA.
Every command is defined by means of the ABNF syntax IETF RFC 5234 [7],
according to the Command Code Format (CCF) specification defined in IETF RFC
6733 [23]. In the case, the definition and use of an AVP is not specified in
this document, the guidelines in IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall apply.
The Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP shall not be included in any command
sent by Diameter nodes supporting applications defined in this specification.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP is received in any of the commands
defined in this specification, it shall be ignored by the receiving node.
> NOTE: The Vendor-Specific-Application-Id is included as an optional AVP in
> all Command Code Format specifications defined in this specification in
> order to overcome potential interoperability issues with intermediate
> Diameter agents non-compliant with IETF RFC 6733 [23].
The following Command Codes are defined in this specification:
Table 7.2.2-1: Command-Code values
* * *
Command-Name Abbreviation Code Clause Data-Pull-Request DPR 8388728 7.2.3
Data-Pull-Answer DPA 8388728 7.2.4 Data-Update-Request DUR 8388729 7.2.5 Data-
Update-Answer DUA 8388729 7.2.6 Notification-Data-Request NDR 8388730 7.2.7
notification-Data-Answer NDA 8388730 7.2.8
* * *
### 7.2.3 Data-Pull-Request (DPR) Command
The Data-Pull-Request (DPR) command, indicated by the Command-Code field set
to 8388728 and the \'R\' bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent by a
Diameter client to a Diameter server in order to request user data.
Message Format
> \ ::= \
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> **[ User-Identifier ]**
>
> ***[ Data-Identification ]**
>
> [ DPR-Flags ]
>
> [ User-Data-Id ]
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 7.2.4 Data-Pull-Answer (DPA) Command
The Data-Pull-Answer (DPA) command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to
8388728 and the \'R\' bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent by a
server in response to the Data-Pull-Request command. The Experimental-Result
AVP may contain one of the values defined in clause 7.4.
Message Format
> \ ::= \
>
> \
>
> DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> ***[ Data ]**
>
> ***[ Data-Identification ]**
>
> **[ DPA-Flags]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> [ Route-Record ]
### 7.2.5 Data-Update-Request (DUR) Command
The Data-Update-Request (DUR) command, indicated by the Command-Code field set
to 8388729 and the \'R\' bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent by a
Diameter client to a Diameter server in order to update user data in the
server.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> **[ User-Identifier ]**
>
> [ Data ]
>
> [ DUR-Flags ]
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 7.2.6 Data-Update-Answer (DUA) Command
The Data-Update-Answer (DUA) command, indicated by the Command-Code field set
to 8388729 and the \'R\' bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent by a
server in response to the Data-Update-Request command. The Experimental-Result
AVP may contain one of the values defined in clause 7.4.
Message Format
> \ ::=\
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[** Data-Identification **]**
>
> *[ MC-Service-User-Profile-Data ]
>
> [ DUA-Flags ]
>
> *[ Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 7.2.7 Notification-Data-Request (PDR) Command
The Notification-Data-Request (PDR) command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388730 and the \'R\' bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent
by a Diameter server to a Diameter client in order to notify changes in the
user data stored in the server.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777351 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> { Destination-Host }
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> **[ User-Identifier ]**
>
> [ Data ]
>
> [ NDR-Flags ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 7.2.8 Notification-Data-Answer (PDA) Command
The Notification-Data-Answer (PDA) command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388730 and the \'R\' bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is
sent by a client in response to the Push-Data-Request command. The
Experimental-Result AVP may contain one of the values defined in clause 7.4.
Message Format
> \ ::=\ >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> *[ Data-Identification ]
>
> [ NDA-Flags ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
## 7.3 AVPs
### 7.3.1 General
The following table (table 7.3.1-1) specifies the Diameter AVPs defined for
the MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2, MCData-2 and CSC-13 interfaces, their AVP Code values,
types, possible flag values and whether or not the AVP may be encrypted. The
Vendor-ID header of all AVPs defined in this specification shall be set to
3GPP (10415).
For all AVPs which contain bit masks and are of the type Unsigned32 e.g., DPR-
Flags, bit 0 shall be the least significant bit. For example, to get the value
of bit 0, a bit mask of 0x0001 shall be used.
Table 7.3.1-1: MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2, MCData-2 and CSC-13 specific Diameter AVPs
+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | Flag | | | | | | | | | | rules | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Attr | AVP | C | Value | Must | May | S | Must | May | | ibute | Code | lause | Type | | | hould | not | Encr. | | Name | | | | | | not | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MCP | 4500 | 7.3.2 | UTF8S | M, V | | | | No | | TT-ID | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Data | 4501 | 7.3.3 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | -Iden | | | ouped | | | | | | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | D | 4502 | 7 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | ata-I | | .3.11 | ned32 | | | | | | | denti | | | | | | | | | | ficat | | | | | | | | | | ion-P | | | | | | | | | | refix | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Data- | 4503 | 7 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Ident | | .3.12 | ned64 | | | | | | | ifica | | | | | | | | | | tion- | | | | | | | | | | Flags | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | DPR- | 4504 | 7 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Flags | | .3.13 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | DPA- | 4505 | 7 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Flags | | .3.14 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | DUR- | 4506 | 7 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Flags | | .3.15 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | DUA- | 4507 | 7 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Flags | | .3.16 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NDR- | 4508 | 7 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Flags | | .3.17 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NDA- | 4509 | 7 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Flags | | .3.18 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Us | 4510 | 7 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | er-Da | | .3.19 | ned32 | | | | | | | ta-Id | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MC- | 4511 | 7 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | Servi | | .3.20 | ouped | | | | | | | ce-Us | | | | | | | | | | er-Pr | | | | | | | | | | ofile | | | | | | | | | | -Data | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Seque | 4512 | 7 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | nce-N | | .3.21 | ned32 | | | | | | | umber | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Data | 4513 | 7 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | | | .3.22 | ouped | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MCVid | 4514 | 7 | UTF8S | V | | | M | No | | eo-ID | | .3.24 | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MCDa | 4515 | 7 | UTF8S | V | | | M | No | | ta-ID | | .3.25 | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | "M\", | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | | | ired. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"V\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | opt | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | Vend | | | | | | | | | | or-ID | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | | ader. | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | | det | | | | | | | | | | ails, | | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | | ETF R | | | | | | | | | | FC 67 | | | | | | | | | | 33 [ | | | | | | | | | | 23]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | | | | stand | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | match | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | able, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | gnore | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | | -bit. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+
The following table (table 7.3.1-2) specifies the Diameter AVPs re-used by the
MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2, MCData-2 and CSC-13 interfaces from existing Diameter
Applications, including a reference to their respective specifications and
when needed, a short description of their use within MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2,
MCData-2 and CSC-13 interfaces.
Any other AVPs from existing Diameter Applications, except for the AVPs from
Diameter base protocol defined in IETF RFC 6733 [23], do not need to be
supported. The AVPs from Diameter base protocol defined in IETF RFC 6733 [23]
are not included in table 7.3.1-2.
Table 7.3.1-2: MCPTT-2 and CSC-13 re-used Diameter AVPs
+----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Attribute Name | Reference | Comments | M-bit | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Supp | 3GPP T | | | | orted-Features | S 29.229 [6] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | DRMP | IETF | | Must set | | | RFC 7844[8] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | F | 3GPP T | | | | eature-List-ID | S 29.229 [6] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Feature-List | 3GPP T | See clause | | | | S 29.229 [6] | 7.3.10 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Feature-Id | 3GPP T | | | | | S 29.229 [6] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | User-Data | 3GPP T | | | | | S 29.329 [9] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | U | 3GPP TS | See clause | | | ser-Identifier | 29.336 [10] | 7.3.8 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | OC-Supp | IETF RFC 7683 | See clause | Must set | | orted-Features | [11] | 7.3.6 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | OC-OLR | IETF RFC 7683 | See clause | Must set | | | [11] | 7.3.5 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Load | IETF RFC 8583 | See clause | Must not set | | | [17] | 7.3.23 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | M-bit settings | | | | | for re-used | | | | | AVPs override | | | | | those of the | | | | | defining | | | | | specifications | | | | | that are | | | | | referenced. | | | | | Values | | | | | include: | | | | | \"Must set\", | | | | | \"Must not | | | | | set\". If the | | | | | M-bit setting | | | | | is blank, then | | | | | the defining | | | | | specification | | | | | applies. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If the | | | | | M-bit is set | | | | | for an AVP and | | | | | the receiver | | | | | does not | | | | | understand the | | | | | AVP, it shall | | | | | return a | | | | | rejection. If | | | | | the M-bit is | | | | | not set for an | | | | | AVP, the | | | | | receiver shall | | | | | not return a | | | | | rejection, | | | | | whether or not | | | | | it understands | | | | | the AVP. If | | | | | the receiver | | | | | understands | | | | | the AVP but | | | | | the M-bit | | | | | value does not | | | | | match with the | | | | | definition in | | | | | this table, | | | | | the receiver | | | | | shall ignore | | | | | the M-bit. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+
### 7.3.2 MCPTT-ID
The MCPTT-ID AVP is of type UTF8String, and it shall contain an URI as defined
in IETF RFC 3986 [15]. For more information see 3GPP TS 23.379 [18].
### 7.3.3 Data-Identification
The Data-Identification AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain the Data-
Identification-Prefix AVP and the Data-Identification-Flags AVP. AVP format
> Data-Identification ::= \
>
> { Data-Identification-Prefix}
>
> { Data-Identification-Flags }
>
> *[AVP]
### 7.3.4 DRMP
The DRMP AVP is of type Enumerated and it is defined in IETF RFC 7944 [8].
This AVP allows the MC Service User Database and the MC Service Server to
indicate the relative priority of Diameter messages. The DRMP AVP may be used
to set the DSCP marking for transport of the associated Diameter message.
### 7.3.5 OC-OLR
The OC-OLR AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC 7683 [11].
This AVP is used to support Diameter overload control mechanism.
### 7.3.6 OC-Supported-Features
The OC-Supported-Features AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC
7683 [11]. This AVP is used to support Diameter overload control mechanism.
### 7.3.7 User-Data
The User-Data AVP is of type OctetString and it contains an XML document. This
AVP is defined in the 3GPP TS 29.329 [9].
When the requested data managed by the MC Service User Database is an MCPTT
User Profile, this AVP contains an XML document conformant to the XML schema
defined in clause 8.3 in the 3GPP TS 24.484 [22]. This XML schema describes
the MCPTT User Profile data exchanged between the MC Service User Database and
the MCPTT Server in the DPR/DPA and NDR/NDA and between the MCPTT User
Database and the Configuration Management Server in DPR/DPA, NDR/NDA and
DUR/DUA operations.
When the requested data managed by the MC Service User Database is an MCVideo
User Profile, this AVP contains an XML document conformant to the XML schema
defined in clause 9.3 in the 3GPP TS 24.484 [22]. This XML schema describes
the MCVideo User Profile data exchanged between the MCVideo User Database and
the MCVideo Server in the DPR/DPA and NDR/NDA and between the MCVideo User
Database and the Configuration Management Server in DPR/DPA, NDR/NDA and
DUR/DUA operations.
When the requested data managed by the MC Service User Database is an MCData
User Profile, this AVP contains an XML document conformant to the XML schema
defined in clause 10.3 in the 3GPP TS 24.484 [22]. This XML schema describes
the MCData User Profile data exchanged between the MCData User Database and
the MCData Server in the DPR/DPA and NDR/NDA and between the MCData User
Database and the Configuration Management Server in DPR/DPA, NDR/NDA and
DUR/DUA operations.
### 7.3.8 User-Identifier
The User-Identifier AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain the identifier
used to identify the MC Service User in the MC Service User Database. This AVP
is defined in the 3GPP TS 29.336 [10] and is extended to contain either an
MCPTT ID, an MCVideo ID or an MCData ID.
AVP format:
> User-Identifier ::= \
>
> [ MCPTT-ID ]
>
> [ MCVideo-ID ]
>
> [ MCData-ID ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 7.3.9 Feature-List-ID AVP
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. For this release,
the Feature-List-ID AVP value shall be set to 1.
### 7.3.10 Feature-List AVP
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [6]. A null value
indicates that there is no feature used by the application.
NOTE: There is no feature defined for this release.
### 7.3.11 Data-Identification-Prefix
The Data-Identification-Prefix AVP is of type Unsigned32 and identifies a
unique set of data identification flags, in order to ensure further
extensibility when all Data-Identification-Flags are assigned.
Each Data-Identification-Flags defined is assigned a unique Data-
Identification-Prefix AVP value.
### 7.3.12 Data-Identification-Flags
The Data-Identification-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned64 and it contains a bit
mask.
The meaning of the bits when the Data-Identification-Prefix value is 1 is
defined in table 7.3.12-1:
Table 7.3.12-1: Data-Identification-Flags
bit name Description
* * *
0 MCPTT User Profile This bit, when set, indicates that the requested data are
MCPTT User Profile data. 1 MCVideo User Profile This bit, when set, indicates
that the requested data are MCVideo User Profile data. 2 MCData User Profile
This bit, when set, indicates that the requested data are MCData User Profile
data. NOTE: Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by the sending
entity and discarded by the receiving entity.
### 7.3.13 DPR-Flags
The DPR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 7.3.13-1:
Table 7.3.13-1: DPR-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 Subscription to notifications This bit, when set,
indicates that the requesting node subscribes to the notifications service for
any change in the requested data. NOTE: Bits not defined in this table shall
be cleared by the sending entity and discarded by the receiving entity.
* * *
### 7.3.14 DPA-Flags
The DPA-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 7.3.14-1:
Table 7.3.14-1: DPA-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 Notification service status This bit, when set,
indicates that the service of notifications is active. NOTE: Bits not defined
in this table shall be cleared by the sending entity and discarded by the
receiving entity.
* * *
### 7.3.15 DUR-Flags
The DUR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 7.3.15-1:
Table 7.3.15-1: DUR-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 Atomicity This bit, when set, indicates that atomicity
is required for operations on multiple data. NOTE: Bits not defined in this
table shall be cleared by the sending entity and discarded by the receiving
entity.
* * *
### 7.3.16 DUA-Flags
The DUA-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 7.3.16-1:
Table 7.3.16-1: DUA-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0  
NOTE: Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by the sending entity
and discarded by the receiving entity.
* * *
NOTE: There is no bit defined for this release.
### 7.3.17 NDR-Flags
The NDR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 7.3.17-1:
Table 7.3.17-1: NDR-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0  
NOTE: Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by the sending entity
and discarded by the receiving entity.
* * *
NOTE: There is no bit defined for this release.
### 7.3.18 NDA-Flags
The NDA-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 7.3.18-1:
Table 7.3.18-1: NDA-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0  
NOTE: Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by the sending entity
and discarded by the receiving entity.
* * *
NOTE: There is no bit defined for this release.
### 7.3.19 User-Data-Id
The User-Data-Id AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain the unique
identifier of a given MC Service User Profile defined for an MC Service User.
### 7.3.20 MC-Service-User-Profile-Data
The MC-Service-User-Profile-Data AVP is of type Grouped. It may contain an MC
Service User Profile data, a Sequence Number and a User Data Id identifying a
specific XML document.
AVP format:
> MC-Service-User-Profile-Data ::= \
>
> [ User-Data ]
>
> [ Sequence-Number ]
>
> [ User-Data-Id ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 7.3.21 Sequence-Number
The Sequence-Number AVP is of type Unsigned32. This AVP contains a number
associated to an MC Service User Profile. This AVP is defined in the 3GPP TS
29.329 [9].
### 7.3.22 Data
The Data AVP is of type Grouped. It contains one or several AVPs containing
the data to be returned.
AVP format:
> Data ::= \
>
> *[ MC-Service-User-Profile-Data ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
### 7.3.23 Load
The Load AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC 8583 [17]. This
AVP is used to support the Diameter load control mechanism.
### 7.3.24 MCVideo-ID
The MCVideo-ID AVP is of type UTF8String, and it shall contain an URI as
defined in IETF RFC 3986 [15]. For more information see 3GPP TS 23.281 [19].
### 7.3.25 MCData-ID
The MCData-ID AVP is of type UTF8String, and it shall contain an URI as
defined in IETF RFC 3986 [15]. For more information see 3GPP TS 23.282 [20].
## 7.4 Result-Code and Experimental-Result-Code Values
### 7.4.1 Introduction
This clause defines Result-Code and Experimental-Result-Code values that shall
be supported by all Diameter implementations that conform to this
specification.
### 7.4.2 Success
#### 7.4.2.1 General
Result codes that fall within the Success category shall be used to inform a
peer that a request has been successfully completed. The Result-Code AVP
values defined in Diameter base protocol IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall be applied.
### 7.4.3 Permanent Failures
#### 7.4.3.1 General
Errors that fall within the Permanent Failures category shall be used to
inform the peer that the request has failed, and should not be attempted
again. The Result-Code AVP values defined in Diameter base protocol IETF RFC
6733 [23] shall be applied. When one of the result codes defined here is
included in a response, it shall be inside an Experimental-Result-Code AVP and
the Result-Code AVP shall be absent.
#### 7.4.3.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN (5001)
This result code shall be sent by the MC Service User Database to indicate
that the MC Service User identified by the User Identifier received in the
request is unknown. This error code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [6].
#### 7.4.3.3 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_DATA_NOT_RECOGNIZED (5100)
The data received by the MC Service Server or the Configuration Management
Server is not supported or recognized. This error code is defined in 3GPP TS
29.329 [9].
#### 7.4.3.4 DIAMETER_ERROR_OPERATION_NOT_ALLOWED (5101)
The requested operation is not allowed for the user. This error code is
defined in 3GPP TS 29.329 [9].
#### 7.4.3.5 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_DATA_CANNOT_BE_READ (5102)
The requested user data is not allowed to be read. This error code is defined
in 3GPP TS 29.329 [9].
#### 7.4.3.6 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_DATA_CANNOT_BE_MODIFIED (5103)
The requested user data is not allowed to be modified. This error code is
defined in 3GPP TS 29.329 [9].
#### 7.4.3.7 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_DATA_CANNOT_BE_NOTIFIED (5104)
The requested user data is not allowed to be notified on changes. This error
code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.329 [9].
#### 7.4.3.8 DIAMETER_ERROR_TOO_MUCH_DATA (5008)
The size of the data pushed to the receiving entity exceeds its capacity. This
error code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [6].
#### 7.4.3.9 DIAMETER_ERROR_DATA OUT_OF_SYNC (5105)
The request to update the user profile at the MC Service User Database could
not be completed because the requested update is based on an out-of-date
version of the user profile i.e. the Sequence Number in the Data Update
Request message does not match with the immediate successor of the associated
Sequence Number stored for that user profile at the MC Service User Database.
This error code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.329 [9].
#### 7.4.3.10 DIAMETER_ERROR_FEATURE_UNSUPPORTED (5011)
A request application message was received indicating that the origin host
requests that the command pair would be handled using a feature which is not
supported by the destination host. This error code is defined in 3GPP TS
29.229 [6].
#### 7.4.3.11 DIAMETER_ERROR_NO_SUBSCRIPTION_TO_DATA (5107)
The MCPTT Server received a notification of changes of some information to
which it is not subscribed. This error code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.329 [9].
#### 7.4.3.12 DIAMETER_ERROR_ UNKNOWN _DATA (5670)
The requested data received by the MC Service User Database does not exist.
#### 7.4.3.13 DIAMETER_ERROR_REQUIRED_KEY_NOT_PROVIDED (5671)
One or more access keys are missing in the request to be able to update the
requested data.
### 7.4.4 Transient Failures
#### 7.4.4.1 General
Errors that fall within the transient failures category are those used to
inform a peer that the request could not be satisfied at the time that it was
received. The request may be able to be satisfied in the future.
#### 7.4.4.2 DIAMETER_USER_DATA_NOT_AVAILABLE (4100)
The requested user data is not available at this time to satisfy the requested
operation. This error code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.329 [9].
#### 7.4.4.3 DIAMETER_PRIOR_UPDATE_IN_PROGRESS (4101)
The request to update the repository data at the MC Service User Database
could not be completed because the related repository data is currently being
updated by another entity. This error code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.329 [9].
###### ## Annex A (normative): Diameter overload control mechanism
# A.1 General
Diameter overload control mechanism is an optional feature.
IETF RFC 7683 [11] specifies a Diameter overload control mechanism which
includes the definition and the transfer of related AVPs between Diameter
nodes.
It is recommended to make use of IETF RFC 7683 [11] on the MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2,
MCData-2 and CSC-13 interfaces where, when applied, the MC Service Server and
the Configuration Management Server shall behave as a reacting node and the MC
Service User Database as a reporting node.
Depending on regional/national requirements and network operator policy,
priority traffic (e.g. MCPTT emergency call) shall be exempted from throttling
due to Diameter overload control up to the point where requested traffic
reduction cannot be achieved without throttling the priority traffic.
# A.2 MC Service User Database behaviour
The MC Service User Database requests traffic reduction from the MC Service
Server when the MC Service User Database is in an overload situation,
including OC-OLR AVP in answer commands as described in IETF RFC 7683 [11].
The MC Service User Database identifies that it is in an overload situation by
implementation specific means. For example, the MC Service User Database may
take into account the traffic over the MC Service Server to MC Service User
Database interfaces (e.g. MCPTT-2) or other interfaces, the level of usage of
internal resources (CPU, memory), the access to external resources, etc.
The MC Service User Database determines the specific contents of OC-OLR AVP in
overload reports and the MC Service User Database decides when to send OC-OLR
AVPs by implementation specific means.
# A.3 MC Service Server and Configuration Management Server behaviour
The MC Service Server and the Configuration Management Server apply required
traffic reduction received in answer commands to subsequent applicable
requests, as per IETF RFC 7683 [11].
The MC Service Server and the Configuration Management Server achieve
requested traffic reduction by implementation specific means. For example, the
MC Service Server or the Configuration Management Server may implement message
throttling with prioritization or a message retaining mechanism for operations
that can be postponed.
Diameter requests related to priority traffic (e.g., MCPTT emergency call),
detected via the presence of priority information (e.g., Resource-Priority
header field for MPS) in SIP messages as described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [13],
have the highest priority. Depending on regional/national requirements and
network operator policy, these Diameter requests shall be the last to be
throttled, when the MC Service Server has to apply traffic reduction.
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Diameter overload node behaviour
# B.1 Message prioritization
This clause describes possible behaviours of the MC Service Server and the
Configuration Management Server regarding message prioritization in an
informative purpose.
The MC Service Server may take the following into account when making
throttling decisions:
\- Identification of the procedures that can be deferred, so to avoid to drop
non deferrable procedures;
\- Prioritization of certain types of request (e.g. between NDR and DPR)
according to the context of their use, in particular:
\- Lower prioritization of commands for MC Service Server that are related to
massive subscription data update due to provisioning.
\- Priority level of a priority user.
The Configuration Management Server may take the following into account when
making throttling decisions:
\- Identification of the procedures that can be deferred (e.g. Update of the
MCPTT User Profile in the MCPTT database), so to avoid to drop non deferrable
procedures;
\- Prioritization of certain types of request (e.g. between NDR and DPR)
according to the context of their use, in particular:
\- Lower prioritization of commands for the Configuration Management Server
that are related to massive subscription data update due to provisioning.
\- Priority level of a priority user.
###### ## Annex C (normative): Diameter message priority mechanism
# C.1 General
IETF RFC 7944 [8] specifies a Diameter message priority mechanism that allows
Diameter nodes to indicate the relative priority of Diameter messages. With
this information, other Diameter nodes may leverage the relative priority of
Diameter messages into routing, resource allocation, set the DSCP marking for
transport of the associated Diameter message, and also abatement decisions
when overload control is applied.
# C.2 MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2, MCData-2 and CSC-13 interfaces
## C.2.1 General
The Diameter message priority mechanism is an optional feature.
It is recommended to make use of IETF RFC 7944 [8] over the MCPTT-2,
MCVideo-2, MCData-2 and CSC-13 interfaces of an operator network when the
overload control defined in Annex A is applied on these interfaces.
## C.2.2 MC Service Server and Configuration Management Server behaviour
When the MCPTT Server or the Configuration Management Server support the
Diameter message priority mechanism, the MCPTT Server or the Configuration
Management Server shall comply with IETF RFC 7944 [8].
The MCPTT Server or the Configuration Management Server sending a request
shall determine the required priority according to its policies. When priority
is required, the MCPTT Server or the Configuration Management Server shall
include the DRMP AVP indicating the required priority level in the request it
sends and shall prioritise the request according to the required priority
level.
When the MCPTT Server or the Configuration Management Server receives the
corresponding response, it shall prioritise the received response according to
the priority level received within the DRMP AVP if present, in the response,
otherwise according to the priority level of the corresponding request.
When the MCPTT Server or the Configuration Management Server receives a
request, it shall handle the request according to the received DRMP AVP
priority level. For the response, the MCPTT Server or the Configuration
Management Server may modify the priority level received in the DRMP AVP
according to its policies and shall handle the response according to the
required priority level. If the required priority level is different from the
priority level received in the request, the MCPTT Server or the Configuration
Management Server shall include the DRMP AVP in the response.
If:
\- the MCPTT Server and the Configuration Management Server supports using the
Diameter message priority mechanism for DSCP marking purposes,
\- the transport network utilizes DSCP marking, and
\- message-dependant DSCP marking is possible for the protocol stack
transporting Diameter,
then the MCPTT Server and the Configuration Management Server shall set the
DSCP marking for transport of the request or response according to the
required priority level.
Diameter requests related to priority traffic (e.g. MCPTT emergency call)
shall contain a DRMP AVP with a high priority of which the level value is
operator dependent.
When not-explicitly requested, the inclusion and priority value of the DRMP
AVP in Diameter messages are implementation specific.
## C.2.3 MC Service User Database behaviour
When the MCPTT User Database supports the Diameter message priority mechanism,
the MCPTT User Database shall comply with IETF RFC 7944 [8].
The MCPTT User Database sending a request shall determine the required
priority according to its policies. When priority is required, the MCPTT User
Database shall include the DRMP AVP indicating the required priority level in
the request it sends, and shall prioritise the requests according to required
priority level.
When the MCPTT User Database receives the corresponding response, it shall
prioritise the received response according to the priority level received
within the DRMP AVP if present in the response, otherwise according to the
priority level of the corresponding request.
When the MCPTT User Database receives a request, it shall handle the request
according to the received DRMP AVP priority level. For the response, it may
modify the priority level received in the DRMP AVP according to its policies
and shall handle the response according to the required priority level. If the
required priority level is different from the priority level received in the
request, it shall include the DRMP AVP in the response.
If:
\- the MCPTT User Database supports using the Diameter message priority
mechanism for DSCP marking purposes,
\- the transport network utilizes DSCP marking, and
\- message-dependant DSCP marking is possible for the protocol stack
transporting Diameter,
then the MCPTT User Database shall set the DSCP marking for transport of the
request or response according to the required priority level.
When not explicitly requested, the inclusion and priority value of the DRMP
AVP in Diameter messages are implementation specific.
###### ## Annex D (normative): Diameter load control mechanism
# D.1 General
Diameter load control mechanism is an optional feature.
It is recommended to make use of IETF RFC 8583 [17] on the MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2,
MCData-2 and CSC-13 interfaces where, when applied, the MC Service Server and
the Configuration Management Server shall behave as reacting nodes and the MC
Service User Database as a reporting node.
# D.2 MC Service User Database behaviour
The MC Service User Database may report its current load by including a Load
AVP of type HOST in answer commands as described in IETF RFC 8583 [17].
The MC Service User Database calculates its current load by implementation
specific means. For example, the MC Service User Database may take into
account the traffic over the MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2, MCData-2 and CSC-13
interfaces or other interfaces, the level of usage of internal resources (e.g.
CPU, memory), the access to external resources, etc.
The MC Service User Database determines when to send Load AVPs of type HOST by
implementation specific means.
# D.3 MC Service Server and Configuration Management Server behaviour
When performing next hop Diameter Agent selection for requests that are routed
based on realm, the MC Service Server/Configuration Management Server may take
into account load values from Load AVPs of type PEER received from candidate
next hop Diameter nodes, as per IETF RFC 8583 [17].
#