# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the format and usage of the Mobile IPv6 Vendor
Specific Option [2] within the Third Generation Partnership Project.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 5094: \"Mobile IPv6 Vendor Specific Option\".
[3] IANA Private Enterprise Numbers Registry,
\.
[4] IETF RFC 6275: \"Mobility Support in IPv6\".
[5] IETF RFC 5555: \"Mobile IPv6 support for dual stack Hosts and Routers
(DSMIPv6)\".
[6] IETF RFC 5213: \"Proxy Mobile IPv6\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.275: \"Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6) based Mobility and Tunnelling
protocols; Stage 3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.327: \"Mobility between 3GPP Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking (I-WLAN) and 3GPP systems; General Packet Radio System (GPRS) and
3GPP I-WLAN aspects; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option
## 4.1 General
The 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option is a Mobile IPv6 Vendor-Specific Option as defined
by IETF RFC 5094 [2] using the Vendor-Id assigned to 3GPP. The 3GPP Mobile
IPv6 Option is used to encode 3GPP Specific Information Elements within the
protocols based on Mobile IPv6 (MIPv6) as defined by IETF RFC 6275 [4], such
as the Dual Stack Mobile IPv6 (DSMIPv6) and Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6)
protocols respectively defined by IETF RFC 5555 [5] and IETF RFC 5213 [6].
## 4.2 Format
The format of the 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option is shown in table 4.2-1. The defined
3GPP Specific Information Elements are listed in table 4.2-2. The data format
of a given 3GPP Specific Information Element (IE) is defined in the
specification defining its usage, as indicated in table 4.2-2.
* * *
Bits  
Octets 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 1 Type  
2 Length  
3 Vendor Id (1^st^ Octet)  
4 Vendor Id (2^nd^ Octet)  
5 Vendor Id (3^rd^ Octet)  
6 Vendor Id (4^th^ Octet)  
7 Sub-Type  
8 Reserved M  
9-n 3GPP Specific IE Data Fragment
* * *
Figure 4.2-1: 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option
Table 4.2-1: Fields in a 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option
* * *
Field Content Reference Type Value is decimal 19 the assigned value for the
Vendor-Specific mobility option RFC 5094 [2] Length An 8-bit field indicating
the length of the option in octets excluding the Type and the Length fields.
All other fields are included. RFC 5094 [2] Vendor ID A 32-bit field. Value is
set to the SMI Network Management Private Enterprise Number for 3GPP, which is
decimal \"10415\". IANA [3] Sub-Type Indicate the type of the 3GPP Specific
Information Element encoded by the 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option. RFC 5094 [2]
Reserved Value set to zero by sender and ignored by receiver. Defined here
More 3GPP Specific IE Data Fragment (M) Flag Value set to \"1\" if this
instance of the 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option is followed by another 3GPP Mobile
IPv6 Option encoding the follow up 3GPP Specific IE data fragment that does
not fit in this instance of the 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option. Set to zero
otherwise. Defined here 3GPP Specific IE Data Fragment The 3GPP Specific IE
might be split over multiple 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Options in case the total length
of the 3GPP Specific Information Element exceeds 248 bytes. This is the data
fragment of the 3GPP Specific IE contained in this instance of the 3GPP Mobile
IPv6 Option. The data fragment has a maximum length of 248 bytes. Defined here
* * *
The syntax of the 3GPP specific information element allows appending extra
octets. The receiver that does not support such appended octets shall ignore
the appended octets in order to ensure backwards compatibility.
Table 4.2-2: Subtypes for 3GPP specific Information Elements
* * *
3GPP-specific IE Subtype 3GPP-specific Information Element Reference 1
Protocol Configuration Options. 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 2 3GPP Specific PMIPv6
Error Code. 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 3 PMIPv6 PDN GW IP Address. 3GPP TS 29.275 [7]
4 PMIPv6 DHCPv4 Address Allocation Procedure Indication. 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 5
PMIPv6 Fully Qualified PDN Connection Set Identifier 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 6
PMIPv6 PDN type indication. 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 7 Charging ID 3GPP TS 29.275
[7] 8 Selection Mode 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 9 I-WLAN Mobility Access Point Name
(APN). 3GPP TS 24.327 [8] 10 Charging Characteristics 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 11
Mobile Equipment Identity (MEI) 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 12 MSISDN 3GPP TS 29.275
[7] 13 Serving Network 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 14 APN Restriction 3GPP TS 29.275
[7] 15 Maximum APN Restriction 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 16 Unauthenticated IMSI 3GPP
TS 29.275 [7] 17 PDN Connection ID 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 18 PGW Back-Off Time
3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 19 Signalling Priority Indication 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 20
Additional Protocol Configuration Options 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 21 Static IP
Address Allocation Indication 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 22 MME/SGSN Identifier 3GPP
TS 29.275 [7] 23 End Marker Notification 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 24 Trusted WLAN
Mode Indication 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 25 UE Time Zone 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 26
Access Network Identifier Timestamp 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 27 Logical Access ID
3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 28 Origination Time Stamp 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 29 Maximum
Wait Time 3GPP TS 29.275 [7] 30 TWAN Capabilities 3GPP TS 29.275 [7]
* * *
#