# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the Diameter-based interfaces between the HSS
and other network elements involved in the architecture for interworking with
packet data networks and applications, such as Machine-Type Communications
(MTC).
In particular, this document specifies the S6m interface between the Home
Subscriber Server (HSS) and the MTC Interworking Function (MTC-IWF), the S6n
interface between the HSS and the MTC-AAA and the S6t interface between the
HSS and the Service Capability Exposure Function (SCEF). The procedures over
those interfaces are defined in 3GPP TS 23.682 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[3] Void.
[4] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[5] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transport Protocol\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx Interface; Signalling
flows and Message Elements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx interfaces based on the Diameter protocol;
protocol details \".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.173: \"Diameter-based SLh interface for Control Plane LCS\".
[9] IETF RFC 5234: \"Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh Interface based on the Diameter protocol\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.338: \"Diameter based protocols to support SMS capable MMEs\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.368: \"Tsp interface protocol between the MTC Interworking
Function (MTC-IWF) and Service Capability Server (SCS)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.272: \"Mobility Management Entity (MME) and Serving GPRS
Support Node (SGSN) related interfaces based on Diameter protocol\".
[15] IETF RFC 7683 : \"Diameter Overload Indication Conveyance\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging applications\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.217: \"Congestion Reporting Over Np Reference Point\".
[18] IETF RFC 5777: \"Traffic Classification and Quality of Service (QoS)
Attributes for Diameter\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.007: \"Restoration procedures\".
[20] IETF RFC 7944: \"Diameter Routing Message Priority\".
[21] IETF RFC 5778: \"Diameter Mobile IPv6: Support for Home Agent to Diameter
Server Interaction\".
[22] IETF RFC 8583: \"Diameter Load Information Conveyance\".
[23] IETF RFC 6733: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[24] 3GPP TS 29.128: \"Mobility Management Entity (MME) and Serving GPRS
Support Node (SGSN) interfaces for interworking with packet data networks and
applications\".
[25] 3GPP TS 29.154: \"Service capability exposure functionality over Nt
Reference point\".
[26] 3GPP TS 29.122: \"T8 reference point for Northbound APIs\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AAA Authentication, Authorization and Accounting
ABNF Augmented Backus-Naur Form
AVP Attribute-Value Pair
DRMP Diameter Routing Message Priority
DSCP Differentiated Services Code Point
IANA Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
MTC Machine-Type Communications
MTC-IWF MTC Interworking Function
NIDD Non-IP Data Delivery
SCS Services Capability Server
SCEF Service Capability Exposure Function
# 4 General Description
## 4.1 Introduction
The S6m reference point between the MTC-IWF and the HSS, the S6n reference
point between the MTC-AAA and the HSS, and the S6t reference point between the
SCEF and the HSS, are defined in the 3GPP TS 23.682 [2].
This document describes the Diameter-based S6m, S6n and S6t related
procedures, message parameters and protocol specification.
An excerpt of the architecture for Machine-Type Communication, as defined in
3GPP TS 23.682 [2] is shown in Figure 4.1-1, where the relevant interfaces
towards the HSS are highlighted.
Figure 4.1-1: 3GPP Architecture for Machine-Type Communication
In this architecture, the S6m reference point connects the MTC-IWF with the
HSS, where the subscription information of the UE (e.g., an MTC device) is
stored. This reference points allows the MTC-IWF to retrieve subscription data
and to do any necessary mapping between different identities associated to the
UE.
The S6m interface shall allow the MTC-IWF to:
\- retrieve subscription information of the UE from the HSS,
\- request routing information from the HSS, i.e. the address of the UE\'s
serving nodes supporting SMS for the UE ; in this context serving nodes of the
UE are the MSC or MME but not both, the SGSN, and the IP-SM-GW,
\- retrieve the IMSI of the UE,
\- retrieve the External Identifier of the UE associated to an Application
Port Identifier,
\- perform authorization of the Service Capability Server that is requesting
to send a device trigger to the UE.
Additionally, the S6n reference point connects the MTC-AAA with the HSS, and
it allows the MTC-AAA to do the mapping of the UE IMSI to the external
identifier(s) of the UE.
The S6t reference point connects the SCEF with the HSS to perform
configuration and reporting of Monitoring events, and configuration of AESE
Communication Pattern.
The S6t interface shall allow the SCEF to:
\- configure UE related Monitoring events
\- receive reporting of the configured Monitoring events from the HSS
\- configure UE related AESE Communication Pattern
\- Authorize the UE for NIDD.
# 5 Diameter-based S6m/S6n Interface
## 5.1 Introduction
This clause describes the Diameter-based S6m and S6n interface related
procedures and Information elements exchanged between functional entities.
In the tables that describe the Information Elements transported by each
Diameter command, each Information Element is marked as (M) Mandatory, (C)
Conditional or (O) Optional in the \"Cat.\" column. For the correct handling
of the Information Element according to the category type, see the description
detailed in clause 6 of the 3GPP TS 29.228 [6].
## 5.2 Procedure Descriptions
### 5.2.1 Subscriber Information Retrieval
#### 5.2.1.1 General
This procedure is used between the MTC-IWF and the HSS and between the MTC-AAA
and the HSS.
When the procedure is invoked by the MTC-IWF, it is used:
\- To translate an external identifier, or MSISDN, to the IMSI of the user,
\- To retrieve information about the serving entities currently serving a
certain user,
\- To authorize a certain SCS to request a specific service (e.g. device
triggering),
\- To retrieve subscription data of the user, associated to the specific
service requested by the SCS,
\- To retrieve an External Identifier based on IMSI and application port
identifier.
When the procedure is invoked by the MTC-AAA, it is used:
\- To translate an IMSI to one or more external identifiers of the user.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Subscriber-Information-Request/Answer
in the Diameter application specified in chapter 6. Tables 5.2.1.1/1 and
5.2.1.1/2 detail the involved information elements.
Table 5.2.1.1/1: Subscriber Information Retrieval (Request)
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User Identity | User-Identifier | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 6.4.2) | | | contain the | | | | | identity of the | | | | | UE. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP | | | | | containing either | | | | | an External | | | | | Identifier, an | | | | | MSISDN or an IMSI | | | | | (exactly one, and | | | | | only one, of | | | | | those identifiers | | | | | shall be included | | | | | in the request). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Requested Service | Service-ID | O | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 6.4.3) | | | contain the | | | | | service requested | | | | | by the SCS. In | | | | | this release, | | | | | only the Device | | | | | Triggering and | | | | | SMS_MO services | | | | | are supported. | | | | | | | | | | For S6n (i.e., | | | | | when the | | | | | procedure is | | | | | invoked by the | | | | | MTC-AAA), this IE | | | | | is not | | | | | applicable, and | | | | | shall be absent. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | SCS Identity | SCS-Identity | O | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 6.4.4) | | | contain the | | | | | identity of the | | | | | Service | | | | | Capability Server | | | | | that is | | | | | requesting a | | | | | service to be | | | | | applied to a | | | | | certain UE. | | | | | | | | | | When the | | | | | Service-ID | | | | | indicates | | | | | DEVICE_TRIGGER | | | | | (0) or SMS_MO | | | | | (1), the | | | | | SCS-Identity | | | | | shall be | | | | | formatted as an | | | | | E.164 address as | | | | | described in | | | | | clause 6.4.4. | | | | | | | | | | For S6n (i.e., | | | | | when the | | | | | procedure is | | | | | invoked by the | | | | | MTC-AAA), this IE | | | | | is not | | | | | applicable, and | | | | | shall be absent. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Service | S | O | This Information | | Parameters | ervice-Parameters | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | (see 6.4.5) | | | parameters | | | | | associated to the | | | | | requested service | | | | | by the SCS | | | | | (identified by | | | | | the Service-ID | | | | | AVP). In this | | | | | release, only | | | | | parameters | | | | | associated to | | | | | Device Triggering | | | | | via SMS-MT (T4) | | | | | and parameters | | | | | associated to | | | | | SMS_MO are | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | For Device | | | | | Triggering via | | | | | SMS-MT, this AVP | | | | | may contain: | | | | | Pri | | | | | ority-Indication, | | | | | SM-RP-SMEA... | | | | | | | | | | For SMS_MO, this | | | | | parameter may | | | | | contain: | | | | | Application-Port | | | | | Identifier. | | | | | | | | | | For S6n (i.e., | | | | | when the | | | | | procedure is | | | | | invoked by the | | | | | MTC-AAA), this IE | | | | | is not | | | | | applicable, and | | | | | shall be absent. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | SIR Flags | SIR-Flags | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 6.4.10) | | | contain a bit | | | | | mask. See clause | | | | | 6.4.10 for the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [7]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.2.1.1/2: Subscriber Information Retrieval (Response)
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | Result of the | | | Ex | | request. | | (See 6.3) | perimental-Result | | | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | | | shall be used for | | | | | errors defined in | | | | | the Diameter base | | | | | protocol (see | | | | | IETF | | | | | RFC 6733 [23]). | | | | | | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for S6m/S6n | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User Identity | User-Identifier | C | This information | | | | | element shall | | (see 6.4.2) | | | contain the User | | | | | Identity of the | | | | | UE. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP | | | | | containing an | | | | | External | | | | | Identifier, an | | | | | MSISDN, an IMSI, | | | | | or other | | | | | service-specific | | | | | identities (such | | | | | as an LMSI...). | | | | | | | | | | There may be | | | | | multiple | | | | | instances of this | | | | | IE in the | | | | | response provided | | | | | by the HSS. | | | | | | | | | | This IE shall be | | | | | present only when | | | | | the Result- Code | | | | | is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Service Data | Service-Data | C | This information | | | | | element shall | | (see 6.4.7) | | | contain data | | | | | related to the | | | | | requested service | | | | | and additional | | | | | data specific to | | | | | each triggering | | | | | method. | | | | | | | | | | In this release, | | | | | only data | | | | | associated to | | | | | trigger delivery | | | | | via SMS-MT (T4) | | | | | is supported. | | | | | | | | | | This IE shall be | | | | | present only when | | | | | the Requested | | | | | Service IE was | | | | | included in the | | | | | request, and the | | | | | Result- Code is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [7]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
#### 5.2.1.2 Detailed Behaviour of the HSS
When the Subscriber Information Retrieval request is received from the MTC-
IWF, indicated by the S6m/S6n indicator, which shall be set, the HSS shall, in
the following order:
1\. Check that the User Identity for whom data is asked exists in HSS. If not,
Experimental-Result shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN in the
Subscriber Information Retrieval Response.
2\. Check whether the requesting/receiving SCS is authorized to
request/receive the specified service for the UE. If not, Experimental-Result
shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_REQUESTING_ENTITY (5510) in the
Subscriber Information Retrieval Response.
3\. Check that the requested service (e.g., device trigger) is present and
authorized. If not, Experimental-Result shall be set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVICE (5511) in the Subscriber Information
Retrieval Response.
4\. If the requested service is DEVICE_TRIGGER, check whether the UE is
currently registered in any serving node supporting SMS for the UE (MSC or MME
which has registered as MSC but not both, SGSN, IP-SM-GW). If the user is not
registered in any serving node, the HSS shall answer successfully, but it
shall not include any Serving Node or Additional Serving Node(s) in the
response; also, it shall indicate to the MTC-IWF that the user is absent, in
the Subscriber Information Retrieval Response, by setting the relevant bit in
the HSS-Cause IE.
The HSS shall also check if the UE is known to be not reachable in the
registered serving nodes (i.e. check MNRF, MNRG, and UNRI) and if the trigger
delivery is requested with \"non-priority\"; if both are true, the HSS shall
answer successfully, but it shall not include any Serving Node or Additional
Serving Node(s) in the response, and it shall set the \"Absent Subscriber\"
flag in the HSS-Cause IE.
5\. If the requested service is DEVICE_TRIGGER, check whether the requested
service cannot be delivered according to the user\'s provisioned teleservices
and the user\'s active barring conditions. If so, the HSS shall answer
successfully, but it should not include any Serving Node or Additional Serving
Node(s) in the response, and it shall set accordingly the corresponding bits
in the HSS-Cause IE (see clause 6.4.9).
6\. If the requested service is SMS_MO, check whether IMSI and Application
Port Identifier are present in the request within User-Identifier and Service-
Parameters AVPs. If not, Experimental-Result shall be set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_MISSING_APPLICATION_DATA (5598) in the Subscriber Information
Retrieval Response.
If there is an error in any of the above steps then the HSS shall stop
processing and shall return the error code specified in the respective step.
If the HSS cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not stated in the
above steps (e.g. due to a database error), it shall stop processing the
request and set Result-Code to DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY.
Otherwise, the requested operation shall take place and the HSS shall return
the Result-Code AVP set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS. If the requested service is
DEVICE_TRIGGER, the HSS returns the network addresses of the registered
serving nodes supporting SMS for the UE (MSC or MME that has registered as MSC
but not both and/or SGSN and/or IP-SM-GW), if available (and not marked \"not
reachable\" by MNRF, MNRG, or UNRI, unless priority was indicated) in the HSS,
and the IMSI of the subscriber, and the corresponding data needed by the
service requested by the SCS; if available, the MSISDN of the user shall also
be returned by the HSS, along with the user\'s IMSI. If the requested service
is SMS_MO, the HSS returns the External-Identifier associated to the
Application Port Identifier.
When the Subscriber Information Retrieval request is received from the MTC-
AAA, indicated by the S6m/S6n indicator, which shall be cleared, the HSS shall
check:
\- That the User Identity IE is included in the request, and that it contains
an IMSI; if other IEs are included in the request, they may be ignored by the
HSS.
\- Whether the user identified by that IMSI is known in the HSS.
If it is known, the HSS shall answer successfully and return in the response
one or several instances of the User Identity IE, each one containing either
an External-Identifier or an MSISDN (if any of these identities are present in
the subscriber profile in HSS), or the subscriber\'s IMSI (if the subscriber
does not have any External Identifiers or MSISDNs assigned).
If it is not known, Experimental-Result shall be set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN in the Subscriber Information Retrieval Response.
#### 5.2.1.3 Detailed Behaviour of the MTC-IWF
When the MTC-IWF sends a Subscriber Information Retrieval request to the HSS,
it shall set the S6m/S6n indicator bit in the SIR Flags IE.
Upon receipt of a successful Subscriber Information Retrieval response for the
DEVICE_TRIGGER service, when multiple serving nodes are returned from HSS, the
MTC-IWF should give a higher preference to the serving node included in the
\"Serving Node\" IE, than to those serving nodes included in the list of
\"Additional Serving Node\" IEs.
Upon receipt of a successful Subscriber Information Retrieval response for the
SMS_MO service, the MTC-IWF shall use the retrieved External-Identifier for
communication with the SCS via Tsp.
#### 5.2.1.4 Detailed Behaviour of the MTC-AAA
When the MTC-AAA sends a Subscriber Information Retrieval request to the HSS,
it shall clear the S6m/S6n indicator bit in the SIR Flags IE.
The MTC-AAA shall only include the User Identifier IE in the request, and it
shall contain only the IMSI of the UE.
# 6 Protocol Specification
## 6.1 Introduction
### 6.1.1 Use of Diameter Base Protocol
The Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as specified in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures (including error
handling and unrecognised information handling) shall be used unmodified.
### 6.1.2 Securing Diameter Messages
For secure transport of Diameter messages, see 3GPP TS 33.210 [4].
### 6.1.3 Accounting Functionality
Accounting functionality (Accounting Session State Machine, related command
codes and AVPs) shall not be used on the S6m interface.
### 6.1.4 Use of Sessions
Between the MTC-IWF and the HSS, Diameter sessions shall be implicitly
terminated. An implicitly terminated session is one for which the server does
not maintain state information. The client shall not send any re-authorization
or session termination requests to the server.
The Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23] includes the
Auth-Session-State AVP as the mechanism for the implementation of implicitly
terminated sessions.
The client (server) shall include in its requests (responses) the Auth-
Session-State AVP set to the value NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1), as described in
IETF RFC 6733 [23]. As a consequence, the server shall not maintain any state
information about this session and the client shall not send any session
termination request. Neither the Authorization-Lifetime AVP nor the Session-
Timeout AVP shall be present in requests or responses.
### 6.1.5 Transport Protocol
Diameter messages over the S6m interface shall make use of SCTP IETF RFC 4960
[5] as transport protocol.
### 6.1.6 Routing Considerations
This clause specifies the use of the Diameter routing AVPs Destination-Realm
and Destination-Host.
The S6m reference point is defined as an intra-operator interface so, both
MTC-IWF and HSS shall be located in the same network domain/realm.
If the MTC-IWF knows the address/name of the HSS for a certain user, both the
Destination-Realm AVP and the Destination-Host AVP shall be present in the
request. Otherwise, only the Destination-Realm AVP shall be present and the
command shall be routed to the next Diameter node. Consequently, the
Destination-Host AVP is declared as optional in the ABNF for all requests
initiated by the MTC-IWF.
Destination-Realm AVP is declared as mandatory in the ABNF for all requests.
I If the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID AVP is received in any of the
commands, it shall be ignored by the receiving node, and it shall not be used
for routing purposes.
### 6.1.7 Advertising Application Support
The HSS and the MTC-IWF shall advertise support of the Diameter S6m
Application by including the value of the application identifier in the Auth-
Application-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id grouped AVP of
the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The vendor identifier value of 3GPP (10415) shall be included in the
Supported-Vendor-Id AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands, and in the Vendor-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The Vendor-Id AVP included in Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands that is not included in the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id AVPs as described above shall indicate the manufacturer of the
Diameter node as per IETF RFC 6733 [23].
### 6.1.8 Diameter Application Identifier
The S6m/S6n interface protocol shall be defined as an IETF vendor specific
Diameter application, where the vendor is 3GPP. The vendor identifier assigned
by IANA to 3GPP (http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers) is 10415.
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the S6m interface application
is 16777310 (allocated by IANA).
### 6.1.9 Use of the Supported-Features AVP
When new functionality is introduced on the S6m application, it should be
defined as optional. If backwards incompatible changes can not be avoided, the
new functionality shall be introduced as a new feature and support advertised
with the Supported-Features AVP. The usage of the Supported-Features AVP on
the S6m application is consistent with the procedures for the dynamic
discovery of supported features as defined in clause 7.2 of 3GPP TS 29.229
[7].
When extending the application by adding new AVPs for a feature, the new AVPs
shall have the M bit cleared and the AVP shall not be defined mandatory in the
command ABNF.
As defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [7], the Supported-Features AVP is of type
grouped and contains the Vendor-Id, Feature-List-ID and Feature-List AVPs. On
the all reference points as specified in this specification, the Supported-
Features AVP is used to identify features that have been defined by 3GPP and
hence, for features defined in this document, the Vendor-Id AVP shall contain
the vendor ID of 3GPP (10415). If there are multiple feature lists defined for
the reference point, the Feature-List-ID AVP shall differentiate those lists
from one another.
### 6.1.10 User Identity to HSS resolution
The User identity to HSS resolution mechanism enables the MTC-IWF to find the
identity of the HSS that holds the subscription data for the target user when
multiple and separately addressable HSSs have been deployed in the home
network. The resolution mechanism is not required in networks that utilise a
single HSS.
This User identity to HSS resolution mechanism may rely on routing
capabilities provided by Diameter and be implemented in the home operator
network within dedicated Diameter Agents (Redirect Agents or Proxy Agents)
responsible for determining the HSS identity based on the provided user
identity (e.g., external identifiers provided by the MTC-IWF).
When the Diameter Load Control mechanism is supported (see IETF RFC 8583
[22]), load values from previously received Load AVPs of type HOST may be
taken into account when determining the HSS identity.
NOTE: Alternatives to the user identity to HSS resolution Diameter based
implementation are outside the scope of this specification.
## 6.2 Commands
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the Command code values and related ABNF for each command
described in this specification.
### 6.2.2 Command-Code values
This clause defines Command-Code values for the S6m/S6n interface application
as allocated by IANA.
Every command is defined by means of the ABNF syntax IETF RFC 5234 [9],
according to the Command Code Format (CCF) specification defined in IETF RFC
6733 [23]. When the definition and use of an AVP is not specified in this
document, the guidelines in IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall apply.
The Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP shall not be included in any command
sent by Diameter nodes supporting applications defined in this specification.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP is received in any of the commands
defined in this specification, it shall be ignored by the receiving node.
NOTE: The Vendor-Specific-Application-Id is included as an optional AVP in all
Command Code Format specifications defined in this specification in order to
overcome potential interoperability issues with intermediate Diameter agents
non-compliant with the IETF RFC 6733 [23].
The following Command Codes are defined in this specification:
Table 6.2.2/1: Command-Code values for S6m/S6n
* * *
Command-Name Abbreviation Code Clause Subscriber-Information-Request SIR
8388641 6.2.3 Subscriber-Information-Answer SIA 8388641 6.2.4
* * *
For these commands, the Application-ID field shall be set to 16777310
(application identifier of the S6m/S6n interface application, allocated by
IANA).
### 6.2.3 Subscriber-Information-Request (SIR) Command
The Subscriber-Information-Request (SIR) command, indicated by the Command-
Code field set to 8388641 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the MTC-IWF to the HSS or from the MTC-AAA to the HSS.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ PXY, 16777310 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> { User-Identifier }
>
> [ Service-ID ]
>
> [ SCS-Identity ]
>
> [ Service-Parameters ]
>
> { SIR-Flags }
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
### 6.2.4 Subscriber-Information-Answer (SIA) Command
The Subscriber-Information-Answer (SIA) command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388641 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the HSS to the MTC-IWF or from the HSS to the MTC-AAA.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ 16777310 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ User-Identifier ]
>
> [ Service-Data ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
## 6.3 Result-Code AVP and Experimental-Result AVP Values
### 6.3.1 General
This clause defines result code values that shall be supported by all Diameter
implementations that conform to this specification.
### 6.3.2 Success
Result codes that fall within the Success category shall be used to inform a
peer that a request has been successfully completed. The Result-Code AVP
values defined in Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23]
shall be applied.
### 6.3.3 Permanent Failures
Errors that fall within the Permanent Failures category shall be used to
inform the peer that the request has failed, and should not be attempted
again. The Result-Code AVP values defined in Diameter base protocol as
specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall be applied. When one of the result codes
defined here is included in a response, it shall be inside an Experimental-
Result AVP and the Result-Code AVP shall be absent.
#### 6.3.3.1 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN (5001)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the user identified
by the IMSI, MSISDN, or External-Identifier is unknown. This error code is
defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [7].
#### 6.3.3.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_REQUESTING_ENTITY (5510)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the SCS is not
allowed to request control plane services for an UE, to the MTC-IWF.
#### 6.3.3.3 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVICE (5511)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the specific
service requested by the SCS is not allowed for an UE, or that it cannot be
delivered according to the current subscribed services of the UE.
## 6.4 AVPs
### 6.4.1 General
The following table specifies the Diameter AVPs defined for the S6m/S6n
interface protocol, their AVP Code values, types, possible flag values and
whether or not the AVP may be encrypted. The Vendor-ID header of all AVPs
defined in this specification shall be set to 3GPP (10415).
For all AVPs which contain bit masks and are of the type Unsigned32, bit 0
shall be the least significant bit. For example, to get the value of bit 0, a
bit mask of 0x00000001 should be used.
Table 6.4.1/1: S6m/S6n specific Diameter AVPs
+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | Flag | | | | | | | | | | rules | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Attr | AVP | C | Value | Must | May | S | Must | May | | ibute | Code | lause | Type | | | hould | not | Encr. | | Name | | de | | | | not | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | IP-SM | 3100 | 6 | O | M,V | | | | No | | -GW-N | | .4.14 | ctetS | | | | | | | umber | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | IP- | 3101 | 6 | D | M,V | | | | No | | SM-GW | | .4.15 | iamet | | | | | | | -Name | | | erIde | | | | | | | | | | ntity | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | User- | 3102 | 6.4.2 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | Ident | | | ouped | | | | | | | ifier | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Servi | 3103 | 6.4.3 | Enume | M,V | | | | No | | ce-ID | | | rated | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SC | 3104 | 6.4.4 | O | M,V | | | | No | | S-Ide | | | ctetS | | | | | | | ntity | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Ser | 3105 | 6.4.5 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | vice- | | | ouped | | | | | | | Param | | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | T4- | 3106 | 6.4.6 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | Param | | | ouped | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Se | 3107 | 6.4.7 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | rvice | | | ouped | | | | | | | -Data | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | T4 | 3108 | 6.4.8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | -Data | | | ouped | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | HSS- | 3109 | 6.4.9 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Cause | | | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SIR- | 3110 | 6 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Flags | | .4.10 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Exte | 3111 | 6 | UTF8S | M,V | | | | No | | rnal- | | .4.11 | tring | | | | | | | Ident | | | | | | | | | | ifier | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | IP-S | 3112 | 6 | D | M,V | | | | No | | M-GW- | | .4.18 | iamet | | | | | | | Realm | | | erIde | | | | | | | | | | ntity | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"M\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | | | ired. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"V\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | opt | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | Vend | | | | | | | | | | or-ID | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | | ader. | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | | det | | | | | | | | | | ails, | | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | | ETF R | | | | | | | | | | FC 67 | | | | | | | | | | 33 [ | | | | | | | | | | 23]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | | | | stand | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | match | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | able, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | gnore | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | | -bit. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+
The following table specifies the Diameter AVPs re-used by the S6m/S6n
interface protocol from existing Diameter Applications, including a reference
to their respective specifications and when needed, a short description of
their use within S6m/S6n.
Any other AVPs from existing Diameter Applications, except for the AVPs from
Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23], do not need to be
supported. The AVPs from Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733
[23] are not included in table 6.4.1/2, but they may be re-used for the
S6m/S6n protocol.
Table 6.4.1/2: S6m/S6n re-used Diameter AVPs
* * *
Attribute Name Reference Comments User-Name IETF RFC 6733 [23] This AVP shall
contain the IMSI of the UE, in the User-Identifier AVP. MSISDN 3GPP TS 29.329
[10]  
LMSI 3GPP TS 29.173 [8]  
Serving-Node 3GPP TS 29.173 [8] see 6.4.12 Additional-Serving-Node 3GPP TS
29.173 [8] see 6.4.13 Supported-Features 3GPP TS 29.229 [7]  
Feature-List-ID 3GPP TS 29.229 [7]  
Feature-List 3GPP TS 29.229 [7]  
SM-RP-SMEA 3GPP TS 29.338 [12]  
Priority-Indication 3GPP TS 29.368 [13]  
MME-Number-for-MT-SMS 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]  
OC-Supported-Features IETF RFC 7683 [15] See 6.4.16 OC-OLR IETF RFC 7683 [15]
See 6.4.17 DRMP IETF RFC 7944 [20] see clause 6.4.19 Application-Port-
Identifier 3GPP TS 29.368 [13]  
Load IETF RFC 8583 [22] See 6.4.20
* * *
### 6.4.2 User-Identifier
The User-Identifier AVP is of type Grouped and it contains the different
identifiers used by the UE.
AVP format:
> User-Identifier ::= \
>
> [ User-Name ]
>
> [ MSISDN ]
>
> [ External-Identifier ]
>
> [ LMSI ]
>
> *[AVP]
This AVP shall contain at least one of the identifiers used by the UE, i.e.,
it shall not be empty. The IMSI of the UE shall be included (when applicable)
in the User-Name AVP.
### 6.4.3 Service-ID
The Service-ID AVP is of type Enumerated and it shall identify the service
requested by the SCS. The following values are defined:
DEVICE_TRIGGER (0)
The SCS requests a control plane device triggering to the UE. .
SMS_MO (1)
The UE (identified by IMSI and application port identifier) requests SMS_MO to
be delivered to the SCS.
### 6.4.4 SCS-Identity
The SCS-Identity AVP is of type OctetString and it shall contain the identity
of the SCS or UE which originated the service request towards the MTC-IWF,
over the Tsp reference point.
The encoding of the SCS-Identity AVP is defined per SCS service.
For the device triggering service, the SCS-Identity AVP shall contain the ISDN
number of the SCS in international ISDN number format as described in ITU-T
Rec E.164 [41]. It shall be encoded as a TBCD-string. See 3GPP TS 29.002 [24]
for encoding of TBCD-strings. This AVP shall not include leading indicators
for the nature of address and the numbering plan.
### 6.4.5 Service-Parameters
The Service-Parameters AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the service-
specific parameters related to the requested service.
AVP format:
> Service-Parameters ::= \
>
> [ T4-Parameters ]
>
> [ Application-Port-Identifier ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.4.6 T4-Parameters
The T4-Parameters AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> T4-Parameters ::= \
>
> [ Priority-Indication ]
>
> [ SM-RP-SMEA ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.4.7 Service-Data
The Service-Data AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the service-specific
data related to the device triggering request handled by the MTC-IWF.
> Service-Data ::= \
>
> [ T4-Data ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.4.8 T4-Data
The T4-Data AVP is of type Grouped and it shall contain information about the
network node(s) serving the targeted user for SMS, i.e. the names/numbers of
the serving nodes (MSC or MME, SGSN, IP-SM-GW) which allow the trigger
delivery. AVP format:
> T4-Data ::= \
>
> [ HSS-Cause ]
>
> [ Serving-Node ]
>
> *[ Additional-Serving-Node ]
>
> *[AVP]
When the HSS-Cause indicates Absent Subscriber, via the corresponding flag in
the bit mask, the Serving-Node and Additional-Serving-Node AVPs shall not be
present. When the HSS-Cause indicates Teleservice Not Provisioned or Call
Barred, via the corresponding flag in the bit mask, the Serving-Node and
Additional-Serving-Node AVPs should not be present. Additional-Serving-Node
AVP shall be absent if Serving-Node AVP is absent.
### 6.4.9 HSS-Cause
The HSS-Cause AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it contains a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits is defined in table 6.4.9/1:
Table 6.4.9/1: HSS-Cause
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bit | Name | Description | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 0 | Absent Subscriber | This bit, when set, | | | | indicates that there | | | | is no serving node | | | | registered in the | | | | HSS over which the | | | | corresponding | | | | triggering method | | | | should be | | | | immediately | | | | attempted for the | | | | user. NOTE 1. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 | Teleservice Not | This bit, when set, | | | Provisioned | indicates that the | | | | required | | | | teleservice(s) for | | | | the corresponding | | | | triggering method | | | | are not provisioned | | | | in the HSS/HLR for | | | | the user. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2 | Call Barred | This bit, when set, | | | | indicates that the | | | | user has an active | | | | barring condition | | | | which makes it | | | | impossible to | | | | deliver the | | | | corresponding | | | | triggering method. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: This may be | | | | caused because there | | | | is not any serving | | | | node currently | | | | registered in HSS | | | | for the user, or | | | | because the user is | | | | known to be absent | | | | in all suitable | | | | registered serving | | | | nodes (based on | | | | MNRF, MNRG and UNRI | | | | flags) and the | | | | trigger delivery is | | | | requested with | | | | \"non-priority\". | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Bits not | | | | defined in this | | | | table shall be | | | | cleared by the HSS | | | | and discarded by the | | | | receiving node, | | | | MTC-IWF. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.4.10 SIR-Flags
The SIR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it contains a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits is defined in table 6.4.10/1:
Table 6.4.10/1: SIR-Flags
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | bit | name | Description | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | 0 | S6m/S6n Indicator | This bit, when set, | | | | indicates that the | | | | SIR message is sent | | | | on the S6m interface, | | | | i.e. the source node | | | | is an MTC-IWF. | | | | | | | | This bit, when | | | | cleared, indicates | | | | that the SIR message | | | | is sent on the S6n | | | | interface, i.e. the | | | | source node is an | | | | MTC-AAA. | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Note: Bits not | | | | defined in this table | | | | shall be cleared by | | | | the sending node, | | | | MTC-IWF or MTC-AAA, | | | | and discarded by the | | | | receiving HSS. | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.4.11 External-Identifier
The External-Identifier AVP is of type UTF8String. For S6m/S6n interface it
shall contain an external identifier of the UE. See 3GPP TS 23.003 [11] for
the definition and formatting of the External Identifier. For S6t interface,
it shall contain an external identifier for an individual UE or a group of
UEs, as indicated by Type-Of-External-Identifier AVP. See 3GPP TS 23.003 [11]
for the definition and formatting of the External Group Identifier.
### 6.4.12 Serving-Node
The Serving-Node AVP is of type Grouped and it shall contain the name/number
of the serving node to be used for T4-triggering. It is originally defined in
3GPP TS 29.173 [8].
> Serving-Node ::= \
>
> [ SGSN-Name ]
>
> [ SGSN-Realm ]
>
> [ SGSN-Number ]
>
> [ MME-Name ]
>
> [ MME-Realm ]
>
> [ MME-Number-for-MT-SMS ]
>
> [ MSC-Number ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-Number ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-Name ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-Realm ]
>
> *[AVP]
The following combinations are allowed:
a) SGSN-Number
b) SGSN-Name & SGSN-Realm & SGSN-Number if the HSS supports the \"Gdd in
SGSN\" feature and has received the \"Gdd in SGSN\" indication over S6a or Gr
interface from the SGSN (cf. 3GPP TS 29.272 [4] and 3GPP TS 29.002 [9])
c) MME-Name & MME-Realm & MME-Number-for-MT-SMS
d) MSC-Number
e) MSC-Number & MME-Name & MME-Realm
f) IP-SM-GW-Number
g) IP-SM-GW-Number & IP-SM-GW-Name & IP-SM-GW-Realm
### 6.4.13 Additional-Serving-Node
The Additional-Serving-Node AVP is of type Grouped and when present it shall
contain the name/number of an additional serving node to be used for
T4-triggering. It is originally defined in 3GPP TS 29.173 [8],
> Additional-Serving-Node ::= \
>
> [ SGSN-Name ]
>
> [ SGSN-Realm ]
>
> [ SGSN-Number ]
>
> [ MME-Name ]
>
> [ MME-Realm ]
>
> [ MME-Number-for-MT-SMS ]
>
> [ MSC-Number ]
>
> *[AVP]
The following combinations are allowed:
a) SGSN-Number
b) SGSN-Name & SGSN-Realm & SGSN-Number if the HSS supports the \"Gdd in
SGSN\" feature and has received the \"Gdd in SGSN\" indication over S6a or Gr
interface from the SGSN (cf. 3GPP TS 29.272 [4] and 3GPP TS 29.002 [9])
c) MME-Name & MME-Realm & MME-Number-for-MT-SMS
d) MSC-Number
e) MSC-Number & MME-Name & MME-Realm
### 6.4.14 IP-SM-GW-Number
The IP-SM-GW-Number AVP is of type OctetString and it shall contain the ISDN
number of the IP-SM-GW in international number format as described in ITU-T
Rec E.164 [41]. It shall be encoded as a TBCD-string. See 3GPP TS 29.002 [24]
for encoding of TBCD-strings. This AVP shall not include leading indicators
for the nature of address and the numbering plan.
### 6.4.15 IP-SM-GW-Name
The IP-SM-GW-Name AVP is of type DiameterIdentity and it shall contain the
Diameter identity of the registered IP-SM-GW. For further details on the
encoding of this AVP, see IETF RFC 3588 [5].
### 6.4.16 OC-Supported-Features
The OC-Supported-Features AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC
7683 [15]. This AVP is used to support Diameter overload control mechanism,
see Annex A for more information.
### 6.4.17 OC-OLR
The OC-OLR AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC 7683 [15].
This AVP is used to support Diameter overload control mechanism, see Annex A
for more information.
### 6.4.18 IP-SM-GW-Realm
The IP-SM-GW-Realm AVP is of type DiameterIdentity and it shall contain the
Diameter identity of the registered IP-SM-GW\'s realm. For further details on
the encoding of this AVP, see IETF RFC 3588 [5].
### 6.4.19 DRMP
The DRMP AVP is of type Enumerated and it is defined in IETF RFC 7944 [20].
This AVP allows the HSS and the MTC-IWF over the S6m interface and the HSS and
the MTC-AAA over the S6n interface to indicate the relative priority of
Diameter messages. The DRMP AVP may be used to set the DSCP marking for
transport of the associated Diameter message.
### 6.4.20 Load
The Load AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC 8583 [22]. This
AVP is used to support the Diameter load control mechanism.
# 7 Diameter-based S6t Interface
## 7.1 Introduction
This clause describes the Diameter-based S6t interface related procedures and
Information elements exchanged between functional entities.
In the tables that describe the Information Elements transported by each
Diameter command, each Information Element is marked as (M) Mandatory, (C)
Conditional or (O) Optional in the \"Cat.\" column. For the correct handling
of the Information Element according to the category type, see the description
detailed in clause 6 of the 3GPP TS 29.228 [6].
## 7.2 Procedure Descriptions
### 7.2.1 Configuration Information on S6t
#### 7.2.1.1 General
This procedure is used between the SCEF and the HSS for:
\- the configuration/deletion of Monitoring events for a UE or a Group of UEs;
\- the configuration/deletion of Communication Patterns;
\- the configuration/query of Enhanced Coverage Restrictions;
\- the configuration of Network Configuration parameters;
\- the translation of an External Group Identifier(s) to IMSI Group Id(s).
The following events may be configured for monitoring:
\- the association of the UE and UICC and/or new IMSI-IMEI-SV association;
\- the UE reachability;
\- location of the UE, and change in location of the UE;
\- loss of connectivity;
\- Communication failure;
\- Roaming status (i.e. Roaming or No Roaming, identity of the PLMN serving
the UE) of the UE, and change in roaming status of the UE.
\- Availability after DDN failure.
\- Idle Status Indication in addition to UE reachability or Availability after
DDN failure.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Configuration-Information-
Request/Answer in the Diameter application specified in clause 8. The tables
7.2.1.1-1 and 7.2.1.1-2 detail the involved information elements.
Table 7.2.1.1-1: Configuration Information Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User Identity | User-Identifier | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 6.4.2) | | | contain the | | | | | identity of the | | | | | UE or the | | | | | identity of a | | | | | group of UEs. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP containing | | | | | either an | | | | | External | | | | | Identifier or an | | | | | MSISDN (exactly | | | | | one, and only | | | | | one, of those | | | | | identifiers shall | | | | | be included in | | | | | the request). | | | | | | | | | | When requesting | | | | | event monitoring | | | | | configuration for | | | | | a group of UEs, | | | | | and when | | | | | requesting | | | | | translation from | | | | | External Group | | | | | Identifier to | | | | | IMSI Group ID, | | | | | the SCEF shall | | | | | include the | | | | | External Group | | | | | Identifier (see | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | | [11]) in the | | | | | Ex | | | | | ternal-Identifier | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Group Reporting | Group-Repo | C | If present, this | | Guard Timer (See | rting-Guard-Timer | | Information | | 8.4.59) | | | Element indicates | | | | | that the | | | | | collected Status | | | | | Indications | | | | | and/or reports | | | | | for UEs belonging | | | | | to a group shall | | | | | be reported no | | | | | later than at the | | | | | interval | | | | | indicated by the | | | | | Group Reporting | | | | | Guard Timer. | | | | | | | | | | Shall be present | | | | | if the | | | | | User-Identifier | | | | | contains an | | | | | External Group | | | | | Identifier. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [7]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Monitoring Event | Monitoring-Ev | O | If present, this | | Configuration | ent-Configuration | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 8.4.2) | | | contain the | | | | | details of | | | | | Monitoring | | | | | event(s). | | | | | Multiples | | | | | instances | | | | | covering | | | | | different | | | | | monitoring events | | | | | may be present. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | AESE | AESE-Comm | O | If present, this | | Communication | unication-Pattern | | Information | | Pattern | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | (see 8.4.25) | | | details of | | | | | Communication | | | | | Pattern(s). | | | | | Multiples | | | | | instances | | | | | covering | | | | | different | | | | | communication | | | | | patterns may be | | | | | present. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | CIR-Flags | CIR-Flags | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | (see 8.4.39) | | | Element shall | | | | | contain a bit | | | | | mask. See 8.4.39 | | | | | for the meaning | | | | | of the bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Enhanced Coverage | Enhanced-Cov | O | If present, this | | Restriction | erage-Restriction | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 8.4.51) | | | contain the | | | | | updates of the | | | | | Enhanced Coverage | | | | | Restriction. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Suggested Network | Suggested-Netw | O | If present, this | | Configuration | ork-Configuration | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 8.4.66) | | | contain the | | | | | suggested network | | | | | configuration. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Additional | Addi | C | If the request is | | Identifiers | tionalIdentifiers | | used to retrieve | | | | | multiple IMSI | | (see 8.4.69) | | | Group IDs for | | | | | multiple External | | | | | Group | | | | | Identifiers, this | | | | | information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present and shall | | | | | contain all the | | | | | External Group | | | | | Identifiers for | | | | | which the IMSI | | | | | Group IDs are | | | | | requested, except | | | | | the one conveyed | | | | | in the | | | | | User-Identifier | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 7.2.1.1-2: Configuration Information Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | Result of the | | | Ex | | request. | | (See 6.3) | perimental-Result | | | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | | | shall be used for | | | | | errors defined in | | | | | the Diameter base | | | | | protocol (see | | | | | IETF | | | | | RFC 6733 [23]). | | | | | | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall only be | | | | | used for S6t | | | | | errors which are | | | | | applicable | | | | | regardless of the | | | | | services | | | | | requested (e.g. | | | | | DIAMETER_ERROR | | | | | _USER_UNKNOWN). | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | Otherwise, this | | | | | IE shall reflect | | | | | the outcome of | | | | | the procedure at | | | | | Diameter base | | | | | protocol level | | | | | and Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be | | | | | used. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | User Identity | User-Identifier | C | This information | | | | | element shall | | (see 6.4.2) | | | contain the User | | | | | Identity of the | | | | | UE. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP | | | | | containing an | | | | | External | | | | | Identifier or an | | | | | MSISDN for a UE. | | | | | | | | | | This IE shall not | | | | | be present if the | | | | | Ex | | | | | ternal-Identifier | | | | | of | | | | | User-Identifier | | | | | in CIR message | | | | | contains the | | | | | identity of a | | | | | Group of UEs | | | | | (i.e. External | | | | | Group | | | | | Identifier). | | | | | | | | | | This IE shall be | | | | | present only when | | | | | the Result-Code | | | | | is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Number of UEs | Number-of-UEs | C | This IE shall | | | | | contain the | | (See | | | number of UEs | | 3GPP | | | belonging to the | | TS 29.154 [25]) | | | group of UEs. | | | | | | | | | | This IE shall be | | | | | present if the | | | | | Ex | | | | | ternal-Identifier | | | | | of | | | | | User-Identifier | | | | | in CIR message | | | | | contains the | | | | | identity of a | | | | | Group of UEs | | | | | (i.e. External | | | | | Group | | | | | Identifier). | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See | | | contain the list | | 3GPP | | | of features | | TS 29.229 [7]) | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Monitoring Event | Monito | O | If an immediate | | Report | ring-Event-Report | | report is | | | | | available this | | (see 8.4.3) | | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | requested data | | | | | available in the | | | | | HSS. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | AESE | AESE-C | O | If present, this | | Communication | ommunication-Patt | | Information | | Pattern Config | ern-Config-Status | | Element shall | | Status | | | contain the | | | | | details of | | (see 8.4.32) | | | Communication | | | | | Patt | | | | | ern-Config-Status | | | | | (s). Multiples | | | | | instances | | | | | covering | | | | | different | | | | | communication | | | | | patterns | | | | | configuration | | | | | statuses may be | | | | | present. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Monitoring | Monitoring-Ev | C | This IE shall be | | Event-Config | ent-Config-Status | | present if | | Status | | | Monitoring Event | | | | | Configuration IE | | (see 8.4.24) | | | is included in | | | | | CIR and if the | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | | | in Configuration | | | | | Information | | | | | Answer is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | | | | | Multiple | | | | | instances of this | | | | | IE may be | | | | | present; they | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | configuration | | | | | status for all | | | | | monitoring event | | | | | configurations | | | | | that were | | | | | requested. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Services | upported-Services | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 8.4.40) | | | contain AVPs | | | | | indicating | | | | | details of the | | | | | services | | | | | supported by the | | | | | HSS and | | | | | authorized for | | | | | the requesting | | | | | SCEF. | | | | | | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element may | | | | | additionally | | | | | contain AVPs with | | | | | the services | | | | | supported by the | | | | | serving node(s), | | | | | if they are known | | | | | to the HSS. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | S6t-HSS Cause | S6t-HSS-Cause | C | This information | | | | | element shall | | (see 8.4.50) | | | contain an | | | | | indication of | | | | | Absent | | | | | Subscriber. It | | | | | shall be present | | | | | if the user is | | | | | not registered in | | | | | any serving node. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Enhanced Coverage | Enhanced-Coverage | C | This information | | Restriction Data | -Restriction-Data | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | (see 8.4.52) | | | result of a | | | | | status query for | | | | | Enhanced Coverage | | | | | restriction | | | | | control. It shall | | | | | be present if the | | | | | request contained | | | | | a CIR-Flag AVP | | | | | with the bit for | | | | | Enhanc | | | | | ed-Coverage-Query | | | | | set. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | CIA-Flags | CIA-Flags | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | (see 8.4.60) | | | Element shall | | | | | contain a bit | | | | | mask. See 8.4.60 | | | | | for the meaning | | | | | of the bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Active Network | Suggested-Netw | O | If present, this | | Configuration | ork-Configuration | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 8.4.66) | | | contain the | | | | | parameters which | | | | | are active in the | | | | | HSS. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | IMSI Group Id | IMSI-Group-Id | C | This information | | | | | element shall be | | (See 3GPP TS | | | present if the | | 29.272 [14]) | | | CIR-Flag for IMSI | | | | | Group Retrieval | | | | | was set in the | | | | | request and the | | | | | Result-Code is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+
#### 7.2.1.2 Detailed Behaviour of the HSS
When the Configuration Information Request is received from the SCEF, the HSS
shall, in the following order:
1\. Check that the User Identity for whom data is asked exists in HSS. If not,
Experimental-Result shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN (5001) in the
Configuration Information Answer.
2\. Check whether the requesting SCEF is authorized to request the specified
service (e.g. presence of Monitoring Event Configuration AVPs indicates the
MONTE service). If not, Experimental-Result shall be set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_REQUESTING_ENTITY (5510) in the Configuration
Information Answer.
3\. Check that the requested service (e.g. MONTE, indicated by the presence of
Monitoring-Event-Configuration AVPs, or Communication Pattern, indicated by
the presence of AESE-Communication-Pattern AVP) is authorized for the UE or
the group of UEs. If not, Experimental-Result shall be set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVICE (5511) in the Configuration Information
Answer.
3a. If the request is IMSI Group Id Retrieval (as indicated by the CIR-Flags
AVP), the HSS shall return the IMSI Group Id(s) in the order of sequence that
corresponds to the order of sequence of the received External Group
Identifier(s) received in the User-Identifier AVP and AdditionalIdentifiers
AVP. The Result Code shall be set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS. Stop processing.
Otherwise, continue to step 4.
NOTE: Applicable steps 4-8 are performed for each monitoring event type or
communication pattern requested.
4\. Check whether the limits on number of monitoring events that can be
requested per monitoring type and SCEF-ID is reached. If so, Result-Code in
Monitoring-Event-Config-Status for the affected service(s) shall be set to
DIAMETER_RESOURCES_EXCEEDED (5006). The Result-Code shall be set to
DIAMETER_SUCCESS in the Configuration Information Answer.
4a. Check whether the requesting SCEF is authorized to request the specific
service configuration(s) (e.g. Monitoring Event Type indicates a specific
monitoring event configuration). If not, Experimental-Result-Code in
Monitoring-Event-Config-Status for the affected service configuration(s) shall
be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_REQUESTING_ENTITY (5510). The Result-
Code shall be set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS in the Configuration Information Answer.
4b. Check that the requested specific service configuration(s) (e.g.
Monitoring Event Type) is authorized for the UE or the group of UEs. If not,
Experimental-Result-Code in Monitoring-Event-Config-Status for the affected
service(s) shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVICE (5511). The
Result-Code shall be set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS in the Configuration Information
Answer.
5\. When the request is for a group, i.e. because the External-Identifier AVP
of the User-Identifier AVP contain an External Group Identifier, the HSS
applies the Monitoring-Event-Configuration AVP to each UE of the Group and
includes the CIA-Flags AVP with the Group-Configuration-In-Progress bit set in
the Configuration Information Answer. The Result-Code shall be set to
DIAMETER_SUCCESS in the Configuration Information Answer.
6\. If a serving node is registered and is involved in the reporting of the
configured monitoring event, the HSS shall forward the monitoring event
configuration to the serving node and wait for the answer before sending the
Configuration Information Answer to the SCEF. The monitoring event
configuration status from the serving node for each event shall be conveyed by
the HSS to the SCEF. The Result-Code shall be set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS in the
Configuration Information Answer.
7\. If the user is not registered in any serving node or the user is purged in
the registered serving node(s), the HSS shall store the configuration data
related to the service; also, it shall indicate to the SCEF that the user is
absent, in the Configuration Information Answer, by setting the relevant bit
in the S6t-HSS-Cause IE. The Result-Code shall be set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS in
the Configuration Information Answer.
8\. For Monitoring, if the data related to an immediate reporting is available
in the HSS, the HSS (e.g. as being received from the MME/SGSN in the Insert
Subscriber Data answer) shall include this data in the Configuration
Information Answer.For Monitoring events that can be answered by the HSS
without requiring interation with the serving node (e.g. roaming status, IMEI-
Change), the HSS shall respond immediately, either in the CIA or in an
immediate RIR.
If the HSS is aware that the UE is registered in an MME and an SGSN and the
services supported by the MME and SGSN are different, the HSS shall
additionally report the capabilities of the different nodes to the SCEF by
including Supported-Services AVP(s) with the subset of services supported by
the serving node(s) among those supported by the HSS, as indicated by the
Node-Type AVP (e.g. HSS, MME). If the capabilities are the same reported from
the MME, the SGSN and the HSS, the HSS shall report the service capabilities
without Node-Type to the SCEF. If the Supported-Services of the SGSN and MME
are different and the UE is purged in SGSN or MME the HSS shall report the
Supported-Services to the SCEF excluding the Supported-Services from the
purged node.
If the HSS receives CIR command from SCEF and has sent IDR commands over
S6a/S6d to an MME and an SGSN, the HSS shall check the Result-Codes in
Monitoring-Event-Config-Status AVPs reported by the MME and the SGSN:
\- if they are different, the HSS shall include both Service-Report AVPs with
the respective Node-Type (indicating the type of serving node) in the
Monitoring-Event-Config-Status AVP to the SCEF in the CIA command;
\- otherwise, the HSS shall include one Service-Report AVP without Node-Type
in the Monitoring-Event-Config-Status AVP to the SCEF in the CIA command.
If the configuration data in the CIR command are out of the allowed range, the
HSS shall set the Experimental-Result-Code in Monitoring-Event-Config-Status
for the affected service(s) to DIAMETER_ERROR_REQUESTED_RANGE_IS_NOT ALLOWED
(5512).
If the received SCEF Reference ID for Deletion does not exist, the HSS shall
set the Experimental-Result-Code in Monitoring-Event-Config-Status for the
affected service(s) to DIAMETER_ERROR_CONFIGURATION_EVENT_NON_EXISTANT (5514).
If the SCEF Reference ID exists and the old configuration data could not be
replaced by new Configuration event data, the HSS shall set the Experimental-
Result-Code in Monitoring-Event-Config-Status for the affected service(s) to
DIAMETER_ERROR_CONFIGURATION_EVENT_STORAGE_NOT_SUCCESSFUL (5513).
If the HSS cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not stated in the
above steps (e.g. due to a database error), it shall stop processing the
request and set Result-Code in Configuration Information Answer to
DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY.
If the HSS detects that configuration data provided by a Monitoring-Event-
Configuration are overwritten by a CIR command and both configurations were
initiated by the same SCEF, the HSS shall include in the CIA command the
Monitoring Event Report AVP including the SCEF Reference ID of the overwritten
configuration data in the SCEF-Reference-ID and SCEF-Reference-ID-for-Deletion
AVPs.
If the HSS needs to report loss of connectivity it shall include the
Monitoring-Type AVP set to \"LOSS_OF_CONNECTIVITY\" in the Monitoring Event
Report. In addition, the HSS may also include the Loss-Of-Connectivity-Reason
AVP in the Monitoring Event Report.
For the \"CHANGE_OF_IMSI_IMEI(SV)_ASSOCIATION\" event type, if there was no
previous IMEI(SV) information stored in the HSS, and a new IMEI(SV) is
received from the MME/SGSN, this is equivalent to a change of IMEI(SV) and the
corresponding event shall be reported, by setting the \"IMEI\" flag (bit 0) in
the IMEI-Change AVP, as described in clause 8.4.22.
For the \"ROAMING_STATUS\" event type, if there was no previous roaming status
information stored in the HSS, and a certain PLMN ID value is received from
the MME/SGSN, this is equivalent to a change of roaming status and the
corresponding event shall be reported.
If the SCEF indicates the support of Monitoring event feature to the HSS and
the HSS supports Monitoring. The HSS shall include the Supported-Services AVP
with the Supported-Monitoring-Events AVP indicating the authorized monitoring
events for the requesting SCEF in the CIA command.
If CIR message includes multiple SCEF Reference ID and one, several or all
SCEF Reference ID Monitoring events cannot be handled, or fail to be
configured at the registered serving node(s), the HSS shall report all SCEF-
Reference-ID requested to the SCEF with an appropriate Experimental-Result-
Code or Result-Code in the Monitoring-Event-Config-Status AVP(s).
NOTE: In order to avoid reattempts from the SCS/AS when some configuration
failed at the serving node(s), based on operator\'s choice, the HSS can still
store the configuration data, return a successful response to SCEF and report
the SCEF with monitoring event(s) suspended. The configuration data can then
be forwarded whenever traffic is received from MME/SGSN and event(s) can be
reported to SCEF as resumed, as described in chapter 7.2.2.
If a CIR message includes multiple SCEF Reference ID and for a SCEF Reference
ID at least one CP parameter set cannot be handled, the HSS shall reply within
the AESE-Communication-Pattern-Config-Status all SCEF Reference ID requested
to the SCEF with an appropriate Experimental-Result-Code or Result-Code.
If an SCEF Reference ID received in a CIR command match with an SCEF Reference
ID stored in the HSS and both SCEF Reference ID are provided by the same SCEF
ID, the HSS shall delete the stored CP sets associated with the SCEF reference
Id and store the new CP set(s).
If the CIR message contains combinations of monitoring events and CP parameter
set it shall handle each set belonging to an SCEF Reference ID separately and
shall send a combined answer to the SCEF with all SCEF Reference IDs
requested.
If the SCEF-Reference-ID-for-Deletion is present, the receiving node shall
delete the corresponding monitoring event configuration, if stored.
If the SCEF-Reference-ID is present, the receiving node shall store the
configuration event.
IF the CIR message contains the CIR-Flags with delete all monitoring events,
the HSS shall delete all Monitoring events configured by the SCEF for the
subscriber. This includes forwarding the deletion to involved serving nodes.
If the CIR message contains the CIR-Flags with delete all communication
pattern, and the feature Config-Eff-CP is supported, the HSS shall delete all
Communication Pattern configured by the SCEF for the subscriber. This includes
forwarding the deletion to involved serving nodes.
If the CIR command contains the CIR-Flags AVP with the bit for Enhanced
Coverage Query set, the HSS shall return the current settings of Enhanced
Coverage together with the current Serving PLMN-ID (if any) in the CIA
command.
If the CIR command contains Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction AVP, the HSS shall
update the subscription data for Enhanced Coverage; the update shall be a
complete replacement of any stored information with the received information.
This may result in the need to update the MME/SGSN via S6a/d/MAP-Gr with the
new value for access restriction; there is however no need for the HSS to
delay sending of CIA until updates of serving nodes are confirmed.
If the CIR command contains Suggested-Network-Configuration AVP to update a
previous Suggested Network Configuration (i.e. the SCEF Reference ID matches
with an SCEF Reference ID stored in the HSS and both SCEF Reference IDs are
provided by the same SCEF ID) the HSS shall check whether the suggested
parameters are acceptable, and if so, update the stored UE\'s subscription
parameters accordingly. The update shall be a complete replacement of any
stored information with the received information. This may result in Insert
Subscriber Data Signalling towards the UE\'s serving node. If the HSS modifies
parameters received in Suggested-Network-Configuration AVP, the HSS shall
inform the SCEF about the active parameters. When the HSS did not modify
parameters received in the Suggested-Network-Configuration AVP, the HSS shall
return a Suggested-Network-Configuration AVP to the SCEF in CIA containing
only SCEF-Reference-ID and SCEF-ID.
If a Monitoring-Event-Report is included in a CIA command and the Monitoring-
Event-Report is related to a One-time Monitoring event request, the HSS shall
delete the related Monitoring event for the UE or the individual group member
UE locally after sending the Monitoring-Event-Report.
#### 7.2.1.3 Detailed Behaviour of the SCEF
When the SCEF receives Monitoring-Event-Report AVP from the HSS in CIA
command, it shall handle it according to the procedures defined in 3GPP TS
23.682 [2].
When the SCEF receives an AESE-Communication-Pattern-Config-Status AVP from
the HSS in a CIA command, it shall handle it according to the procedures
defined in 3GPP TS 23.682 [2]. If the SCEF has included a number of CP pattern
sets with several SCEF reference IDs in the request, it shall handle each
AESE-Communication-Pattern-Config-Status AVP separately according to the
procedures defined in 3GPP TS 23.682 [2].
If the SCEF receives Supported-Services AVP(s), it shall only trigger those
services which are supported and authorized by the HSS and the MME/SGSN.
The SCEF shall store the Supported-Services received from the HSS and modify
them, if the HSS reports change of capabililities.
NOTE: It depends on SCEF implementation, if the SCEF triggers only those
services which are supported in both nodes when the UE is registered in both
the MME and the SGSN.
When the SCEF needs to query the current settings of Enhanced Coverage
Restriction, it shall send a CIR command to the HSS with the corresponding bit
in the CIR-Flags AVP set, unless the SCEF knows that Enhanced Coverage
Restriction Control is not supported by the HSS.
When the SCEF needs to update the current settings of Enhanced Coverage
Restriction, it shall send a CIR command to the HSS with the new values for
Enhanced Coverage Restriction within the Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction AVP.
The SCEF shall not query and update the current settings of Enhanced Coverage
Restriction by means of a single CIR command.
When the SCEF receives Suggested-Network-Configuration AVP from the HSS in CIA
command, it shall handle it according to the procedures defined in 3GPP TS
23.682 [2]. Absence of Suggested-Network-Configuration AVP from CIA - while it
was present in CIR -- indicates that the HSS does not support and has ignored
the Suggested-Network-Configuration received in CIR.
### 7.2.2 Reporting on S6t
#### 7.2.2.1 General
This procedure is used between the HSS and the SCEF.
When the procedure is invoked by the HSS, it is used for reporting:
\- The change of association of the UE and UICC and/or new IMSI-IMEI-SV;
\- The UE reachability for SMS;
\- The Roaming status (Roaming or No Roaming) of the UE, and change in roaming
status of the UE.
It is also used:
\- To update the SCEF with the suspend/resume/cancel status of an ongoing
monitoring.
\- To update the SCEF with information about removal of Communication Pattern.
\- To convey reports and/or status indications for all or some UEs belonging
to a group.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Reporting-Information-Request/Answer
in the Diameter application specified in clause 8. The tables 7.2.2.1-1 and
7.2.2.1-2 detail the involved information elements.
Table 7.2.2.1-1: Reporting Information Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User Identity | User-Identifier | C | If present, this | | | | | information | | (see 8.4.36) | | | element shall | | | | | contain the User | | | | | Identity of the | | | | | UE. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP | | | | | containing an | | | | | External | | | | | Identifier and/or | | | | | an MSISDN. This | | | | | AVP shall not | | | | | carry the IMSI | | | | | towards the SCEF. | | | | | | | | | | For group based | | | | | configuration | | | | | processing, the | | | | | Ex | | | | | ternal-Identifier | | | | | shall be present | | | | | and contain an | | | | | External Group | | | | | Identifier (see | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | | [11]). | | | | | | | | | | For reports | | | | | associated to | | | | | individual UEs | | | | | (i.e. not | | | | | associated to a | | | | | group member UE), | | | | | this information | | | | | element may be | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | For individual UE | | | | | reports and/or | | | | | status | | | | | indications, if | | | | | the | | | | | Monitorin | | | | | g-Event-Report(s) | | | | | with the | | | | | pertaining | | | | | SCE | | | | | F-Reference-Id(s) | | | | | are present, they | | | | | uniquely identify | | | | | the monitoring | | | | | event(s) | | | | | reported, | | | | | regardless of the | | | | | presence of the | | | | | User-Identifier. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [7]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Monitoring Event | Monito | O | If a report is | | Report | ring-Event-Report | | available in the | | | | | HSS this | | (see 8.4.3) | | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | requested data | | | | | available in the | | | | | HSS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Group-Monitoring | Group-Monito | C | If present, this | | Event Report | ring-Event-Report | | information | | | | | element shall | | (see 8.4.61) | | | contain reports | | | | | and/or status | | | | | indications for | | | | | all UEs or a | | | | | subset of UEs | | | | | belonging to a | | | | | group. | | | | | | | | | | Shall be present | | | | | if | | | | | User-Identifier | | | | | contains an | | | | | External Group | | | | | Identifier | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | RIR-Flags | RIR-Flags | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | (see 8.4.63) | | | Element shall | | | | | contain a bit | | | | | mask. See 8.4.63 | | | | | for the meaning | | | | | of the bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | C | If present, this | | Services | upported-Services | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 8.4.40) | | | contain AVPs | | | | | indicating | | | | | details of the | | | | | services | | | | | supported by the | | | | | HSS and | | | | | authorized for | | | | | the SCEF. | | | | | | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element may | | | | | additionally | | | | | contain AVPs with | | | | | the services | | | | | supported by the | | | | | serving node(s), | | | | | if there has been | | | | | a change of | | | | | capabilities in | | | | | MME/SGSN. | | | | | | | | | | If RIR-flags | | | | | indicates a | | | | | change of SCEF | | | | | authorization for | | | | | one or more | | | | | monitoring | | | | | events, this | | | | | information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 7.2.2.1-2: Reporting Information Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | Result of the | | | Ex | | request. | | (See 6.3) | perimental-Result | | | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | | | shall be used for | | | | | errors defined in | | | | | the Diameter base | | | | | protocol (see | | | | | IETF | | | | | RFC 6733 [23]). | | | | | | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for S6t errors. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [7]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Monitoring Event | Monitoring-Ev | O | If present, this | | Report Status | ent-Report-Status | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | status of each | | | | | individual | | | | | monitoring event | | | | | report received | | | | | by the SCEF from | | | | | the HSS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
#### 7.2.2.2 Detailed Behaviour of the HSS
For group based configuration processing, if the Group Guard Timer was
included in the CIR command, the HSS shall send the RIR command before the
Group Guard Timer expires and shall include several reports and/or status
indications in one or more Group-Monitoring Event Report AVPs.
NOTE: The HSS may divide the accumulated Monitoring Configuration
Indications/immediate reports into multiple messages.
The HSS shall send immediate reports and configuration indications for group
based configuration processing using the Group-Monitoring-Event-Report.
If the HSS knows that it has additional RIR commands to send for the same
group, the HSS shall include the RIR-Flags AVP with the Group-Configuration-
In-Progress bit set and restart the Group Guard Timer to the value it
originally received in the CIR.
For group based configuration processing, if the MME/SGSN previously indicated
that it does not support the External-Identifier in the ULR command and the UE
does not have an MSISDN configured as part of its subscription data, the HSS
shall indicate that the UE is absent by setting the relevant bit in the
S6t-HSS-Cause IE of the Group-Monitoring Event Report-Item AVP.
If the HSS detects that configuration data provided by a Monitoring-Event-
Configuration are overwritten by a new CIR command and the configurations were
initiated by different SCEFs, the HSS shall initiate an RIR command and
include a Monitoring-Event-Report AVP including the SCEF Reference ID of the
overwritten configuration data and provide the SCEF Reference ID in the SCEF-
Reference-ID-for-Deletion AVP.
If the Monitoring-Event-Report is related to a One-time Monitoring event
request, the HSS shall delete the related Monitoring event for the UE or the
individual group member UE locally after sending the Monitoring-Event-Report.
This HSS response will be performed immediately when the event does not
involve direct interaction with the serving node.
If UE Reachability is reported, a Maximum-UE-Availability-Time AVP may also be
present in the report.
If the HSS detects that the serving node does not support or does not activate
(as indicated in IDA or NOR commands) a Monitoring event, or if the UE is part
of a group and requires the External-Identifier to be supported by the serving
node when it does not, it shall send to the SCEF, an RIR command with the
Event-Handling AVP with the value SUSPEND.
If an HSS detects that in the new serving node an event to be activated is
supported which was not supported in the old serving node or if the HSS
detects that the new serving node supports the External-Identifier for a UE
that is part of a group and requires the External-Identifier which was not
supported in the old serving node, it shall send an RIR command with the
Event-handling AVP with the value RESUME to the SCEF.
If the HSS receives a Notify Request from the MME/SGSN to inform the
Monitoring-Event-Config-Status at the IWK-SCEF, the HSS shall send an RIR
command to the SCEF, for the monitoring event configurations not accepted by
the IWK-SCEF, with the Event-Handling AVP set to the value CANCEL.
If the HSS receives a Notify Request from the MME/SGSN to inform that
monitoring event configuration(s) no longer exist in the SCEF
(DIAMETER_ERROR_SCEF_REFERENCE_ID_UNKNOWN in Monitoring-Event-Config-Status),
the HSS shall locally delete the monitoring event configuration(s) and shall
skip the sending of a RIR command to the SCEF.
If the HSS receives the DIAMETER_ERROR_SCEF_REFERENCE_ID_UNKNOWN within an RIA
command, it shall delete the event stored for the indicated SCEF-Reference-ID
(see 3GPP TS 23.007 [19]).
If the Supported-Services of the SGSN and/or MME have been previously reported
to the SCEF, an the HSS detects that they have changed from a previous report,
the HSS shall report all the Supported-Services AVP(s) to the SCEF with the
corresponding Node-Type AVP (e.g. HSS, MME) If the services supported and
authorized by the HSS are the same than those supported by the serving
node(s), the Node-Type AVP shall be absent.
If a subscriber is barred/un-barred for services relevant to an active
monitoring, the HSS shall send an RIR command to the SCEF with the Event-
Handling AVP set to the value SUSPEND/RESUME.
NOTE: When there is an HSS-initiated detach (e.g. due to MM interaction) or
when the subscriber is purged in registered serving node(s) while monitoring
is active, the sending of a RIR command to the SCEF is not needed since it is
assumed that any SCS/AS requiring to be notified when this event is detected
has configured monitoring event Loss of connectivity as specified in 3GPP TS
23.682 [2], clause 5.6.8.2.
If authorization for one or more events is granted or revoked for an SCEF and
the Report-Eff-MONTE is supported by HSS and SCEF, the HSS shall send RIR
command with RIR-flags indicating that authorization has changed for one or
more events. The Supported-Monitoring-Events AVP shall indicate the authorized
or revoked authorization for each event.
When a subscriber is deleted from the HSS while monitoring is active or the
authorization for monitoring is revoked, if Report-Eff-MONTE feature is not
supported by SCEF or HSS, the HSS shall send an RIR command to the SCEF with
the Event-Handling AVP set to the value CANCEL. If the HSS and SCEF support
the Report-Eff-MONTE feature, the HSS shall make use of RIR-flags AVP for a
given User-Identity and no Monitoring-Event-Report AVP(s) shall be included.
When a subscriber is deleted from the HSS or the authorization for
communication pattern is revoked while communication pattern are configured,
and the Config-Eff-CP feature is supported by SCEF and HSS, the HSS shall make
use of the RIR-flag \"All-Communication-Pattern-Cancelled\" to indicate
removal of Communication Pattern for a given User-Identity.
#### 7.2.2.3 Detailed Behaviour of the SCEF
When the SCEF receives a Reporting Information Request from the HSS, and at
least one of the received Monitoring Event Reports has a SCEF-Reference-ID not
known by the SCEF, it shall reply with
DIAMETER_ERROR_SCEF_REFERENCE_ID_UNKNOWN (see 3GPP TS 23.007 [19]). In that
case, if the HSS had included multiple Monitoring Event Reports in the RIR
command, the SCEF shall include in the Reporting Information Answer command a
list of Monitoring-Event-Report-Status AVPs where the status of multiple
monitoring event reports is detailed. In that AVP list, the AVPs corresponding
to event reports with a successful status may be omitted by the SCEF, for
efficiency.
Otherwise when the SCEF receives a Reporting Information Request from the HSS,
the SCEF shall set Experimental-Result to DIAMETER_SUCCESS in the Reporting
Information Answer and shall handle it according to the procedures defined in
3GPP TS 23.682 [2].
If the SCEF receives RIR command with the Event-Handling AVP set to SUSPEND it
shall either notify the SCS/AS that the event is not active or initiate
deletion of the event depending on operator configuration.
If the SCEF receives a RIR command with the Event-Handling AVP set to CANCEL
it shall delete the event.
If the SCEF supports Report-Eff-MONTE feature and receives a RIR command with
RIR-flags indicating that its authorization has changed for one or more
events, it shall consider all events indicated in Supported-Monitoring-Events
AVP as cancelled and shall delete the events for all associated UEs.
Editor\'s Note: The usage of Retry-After timer is FFS.
If the SCEF receives RIR command with the Event-Handling AVP set to RESUME it
shall notify the SCS/AS that the event is activated in serving node.
If the SCEF receives a Reporting Information Request from the HSS with the
Monitoring-Type AVP set to LOSS_OF_CONNECTIVITY, it shall interpret this as
the reporting of loss of connectivity of the UE.
If the monitoring is not for One-time monitoring request (i.e. Maximum Number
of Reports was configured with a value higher than one), on receiving
Monitoring event reports for a Continuous Monitoring Request for an individual
UE, the SCEF shall check whether the number of reports for this Monitoring
event type reaches the configured maximum number of reports. When the reports
reach the configured maximum number, the SCEF shall send CIR message to the
HSS to delete the corresponding Monitoring Event Configuration for an
individual UE, with the SCEF-Reference-ID-for-Deletion AVP set to the related
SCEF Reference ID.
NOTE: For One-Time report, the HSS/MME/SGSN/SCEF will locally delete the event
after the first report is received at the SCEF. For continuous monitoring, the
HSS/MME/SGSN, as an implementation option, can delete the monitoring event if
it is ensured that the SCEF has received the configured maximum number of
reports (if present) for the associated event type, regardless of the
Monitoring Duration. However, the CIR message to delete the corresponding
Monitoring Event Configuration is always required to ensure network
consistency.
On receiving Monitoring event reports for a One-Time event for a group of UEs
(i.e. External Group Identifier), the SCEF shall check whether it has received
the reports for all individual group member UEs for this Monitoring event by
using the total number of individual group member UE(s) (e.g. External
Identifier or MSISDN) received in the reports and the number of UEs originaly
received within the Number-of-UEs AVP from the HSS. When the reports for all
individual group member UEs have been received, the SCEF shall determine that
reporting for this group is complete and send the CIR message to the HSS to
delete the corresponding Monitoring Event Configuration, with the SCEF-
Reference-ID-for-Deletion AVP set to the related SCEF Reference ID.
On receiving Monitoring event reports for a Continuous Monitoring Request for
a group of UEs (i.e. External Group Identifier), the SCEF shall check whether
the reports of each individual group member UE have reached the configured
maximum number of reports by using the total number of individual group member
UE(s) (e.g. External Identifier or MSISDN) received in the reports and the
number of UEs originally within the Number-of-UEs AVP from the HSS. When
reports of each individual group member UE have reached the configured maximum
number of reports, the SCEF shall determine that reporting for this group is
complete and send the CIR message to the HSS to delete the corresponding
Monitoring Event Configuration, with the SCEF-Reference-ID-for-Deletion AVP
set to the related SCEF Reference ID.
If the HSS reports change of Supported-Services, the SCEF shall replace the
stored Supported-Service by the received ones. The SCEF shall only trigger
those services which are supported and authorized by the HSS and the MME/SGSN.
If the SCEF receives the RIR command with the Group-Configuration-In-Progress
bit of the RIR-Flags AVP set, the SCEF shall restart the associated Group
Reporting Guard Timer.
NOTE: The SCEF needs to be prepared to receive RIR for Group based
configuration processing before the Group Reporting Group Timer expires.
If the SCEF receives a Monitoring Event Report AVP with the SCEF-Reference-ID-
for-Deletion AVP it shall initate cancelation of the Monitoring event
identified by the SCEF Refernce ID for Deletion in the Monitoring Event Report
AVP.
### 7.2.3 NIDD Information on S6t
#### 7.2.3.1 General
This procedure is used between the SCEF and the HSS for:
\- the authorization of the UE or group of UEs for NIDD.
This procedure is used between the HSS and the SCEF for:
\- the update/revocation of a UE\'s authorization for NIDD,
\- sending of group user identifier list segments.
This procedure is mapped to the commands NIDD-Information-Request/Answer in
the Diameter application specified in clause 8. The tables 7.2.3.1-1 and
7.2.3.1-2 detail the involved information elements.
Table 7.2.3.1-1: NIDD Information Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User Identity | User-Identifier | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 8.4.36) | | | contain the | | | | | identity of the | | | | | UE or the | | | | | identity of a | | | | | group of UEs. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP containing | | | | | either an IMSI, | | | | | External | | | | | Identifier or an | | | | | MSISDN (exactly | | | | | one, and only | | | | | one, of those | | | | | identifiers shall | | | | | be included in | | | | | the request). | | | | | | | | | | When the request | | | | | is for a group of | | | | | UEs, the SCEF | | | | | shall include the | | | | | External Group | | | | | Identifier (see | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS 23.003 [11]) | | | | | in the | | | | | Ex | | | | | ternal-Identifier | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [7]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | NIDD | NIDD-Auth | O | If present, this | | Authorization | orization-Request | | Information | | Request | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | (see 8.4.44) | | | details of | | | | | Authorization for | | | | | NIDD. | | | | | | | | | | When sent by the | | | | | SCEF, the | | | | | Service-Selection | | | | | AVP inside | | | | | NIDD-Auth | | | | | orization-Request | | | | | shall be present, | | | | | and it shall | | | | | contain the APN | | | | | for which NIDD | | | | | authorization is | | | | | requested. | | | | | | | | | | Shall be absent | | | | | when sent by the | | | | | HSS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | NIDD | NIDD-Aut | O | If present, this | | Authorization | horization-Update | | Information | | Update | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | (see 8.4.57) | | | details of the | | | | | updated NIDD | | | | | Authorization. | | | | | | | | | | Shall be absent | | | | | when sent by the | | | | | SCEF. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | NIR Flags | NIR-Flags | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain a bit | | | | | mask. See 8.4.70 | | | | | for the meaning | | | | | of the bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Group User | Grou | C | This information | | Identifier List | p-User-Identifier | | element shall be | | | | | present if the | | | | | request is sent | | | | | from HSS to SCEF | | | | | following a | | | | | previous NIA with | | | | | an incomplete | | | | | Group User | | | | | Identifier List. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MTC Provider Info | MTC-Provider-Info | O | If present, it | | | | | contains the | | | | | identity of the | | | | | MTC Service | | | | | Provider and/or | | | | | MTC Application | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.682 [2], | | | | | clause 5.6). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 7.2.3.1-2: NIDD Information Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | Result of the | | | Ex | | request. | | (See 6.3) | perimental-Result | | | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | | | shall be used for | | | | | errors defined in | | | | | the Diameter base | | | | | protocol (see | | | | | IETF | | | | | RFC 6733 [23]). | | | | | | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for S6t errors. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | This AVP reflects | | | | | the outcome of | | | | | the procedure on | | | | | Diameter level. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [7]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | NIDD-Autho | NIDD-Autho | C | If present, this | | rization-Response | rization-Response | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 8.4.45) | | | contain the | | | | | details of NIDD | | | | | Authorization. | | | | | When sent by the | | | | | HSS the IE shall | | | | | only be present | | | | | when the Result | | | | | Code is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | | | | | | | | | | Shall be absent | | | | | when sent by the | | | | | SCEF. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Group User | Grou | C | This information | | Identifier List | p-User-Identifier | | element shall be | | | | | present if the | | | | | request was for a | | | | | group of UEs and | | | | | the Result-Code | | | | | is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | | | | | | | | | | It shall contain | | | | | for each UE of | | | | | the group the | | | | | External- | | | | | Identifier/MSISDN | | | | | and IMSI. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | NIA Flags | NIA-Flags | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain a bit | | | | | mask. See 8.4.72 | | | | | for the meaning | | | | | of the bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+
#### 7.2.3.2 Detailed Behaviour of the HSS
When the NIDD Information Request is received from the SCEF, the HSS shall, in
the following order:
1\. Check that the User Identity for whom data is asked exists in HSS. If not,
Experimental-Result shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN in the NIDD
Information Answer.
2\. Check that the requested service is authorized for the UE. If not,
Experimental-Result shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVICE (5511)
in the NIDD Information Answer.
3\. Check that the APN sent in the Service-Selection AVP of the NIDD-
Authorization-Request AVP is subscribed for the subscriber identified by the
given MSISDN or the External Identifier. If it is not subscribed, then the
Experimental-Result shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_NO_APN_SUBSCRIPTION
(5451) in the NIDD Information Answer.
4\. If the User-Identifier contains an External Identifier, the HSS shall
include the IMSI and if available the MSISDN associated with the appropriate
External Identifier in the NIDD-Authorization-Response.
5\. If the User-Identifier contains an MSISDN, the HSS shall include the IMSI
and if available, the appropriate External Identifier associated with the
MSISDN in the NIDD-Authorization-Response.
6\. If the User-Identifier contains an IMSI the HSS shall include the MSISDN
and the appropriate External Identifier assigned to the IMSI in the NIDD-
Authorization-Response.
6a. If the User-Identifier contains an External Group Identifier, the HSS
shall include the IMSI and the MSISDN or External-Identifier assigned to each
member of the group in the Group-User-Identifier. If due to message size
constraints or timing constraints (NIA timeout) the complete list of group
user identifier cannot be sent, the HSS shall segment the list, include the
first segment in NIA and set the NIA-Flag \"Incomplete Group User Identifier
List\", and send subsequent segments with separate NIR commands to the SCEF.
7\. If the requested service is NIDD Authorization request and the feature
\"NIDD Authorization Update\" is commonly supported by HSS and SCEF, the HSS
shall store the granted NIDD Authorization in order to being able to
update/revoke the Authorization towards the SCEF when so needed. The HSS may
indicate within the NIDD-Authorization-Response AVP a granted validity time
which shall not be later than the requested validity time as received within
the NIDD-Authorization-Request AVP (if any). If so the HSS shall delete the
stored Authorization at the indicated point in time.
NOTE 1: If several External Identifiers are mapped to one IMSI, some functions
might not work in this release of the specification.
NOTE 2: Step 6 above is applicable for the case where the SCEF receives a
T6a/b-CMR (see 3GPP TS 29.128 [24]) command while a valid NIDD configuration
does not exist for the UE at the SCEF.
If there is an error in any of the above steps then the HSS shall stop
processing and return the error code specified in the respective step.
If the HSS cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not stated in the
above steps (e.g. due to a database error), it shall stop processing the
request and set Result-Code to DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY. Otherwise the
Result-Code shall be set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS.
When the need to update/revoke one or several stored granted NIDD
Authorizations for a user is detected in the HSS, and the feature \"NIDD
Authorization Update\" is commonly supported by the HSS and the SCEF, the HSS
shall issue an NIDD-Information Request command containing a NIDD-
Authorization-Update AVP towards the SCEF. The NIDD-Authorization-Update AVP
may identify several granted NIDD Authorizations for the user to be updated.
#### 7.2.3.3 Detailed Behaviour of the SCEF
When the SCEF receives an NIDD-Authorization-Response AVP from the HSS in a
NIA command, it shall handle it according to the procedures defined in 3GPP TS
23.682 [2]. If the feature \"NIDD Authorization Update\" is commonly supported
by the HSS and the SCEF, and a granted validity time was received within the
NIDD-Authorization-Response, the SCEF shall consider the authorization being
implicitly revoked at the indicated time, and may issue a new NIDD
Authorization request towards the HSS.
# 8 Protocol Specification for S6t
## 8.1 Introduction
### 8.1.1 Use of Diameter Base Protocol
The Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as specified in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures (including error
handling and unrecognised information handling) shall be used unmodified.
### 8.1.2 Securing Diameter Messages
For secure transport of Diameter messages, see 3GPP TS 33.210 [4].
### 8.1.3 Accounting Functionality
Accounting functionality (Accounting Session State Machine, related command
codes and AVPs) shall not be used on the S6t interface.
### 8.1.4 Use of Sessions
The client (server) shall include in its requests (responses) the Auth-
Session-State AVP set to the value NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1), as described in
IETF RFC 6733 [23]. As a consequence, the server shall not maintain any state
information about this session and the client shall not send any session
termination request. Neither the Authorization-Lifetime AVP nor the Session-
Timeout AVP shall be present in requests or responses.
### 8.1.5 Transport Protocol
Diameter messages over the S6t interface shall make use of SCTP IETF RFC 4960
[5] as transport protocol.
### 8.1.6 Routing Considerations
This clause specifies the use of the Diameter routing AVPs Destination-Realm
and Destination-Host.
If the SCEF knows the address/name of the HSS for a certain user, both the
Destination-Realm AVP and the Destination-Host AVP shall be present in the
request. Otherwise, only the Destination-Realm AVP shall be present and the
command shall be routed to the next Diameter node. Consequently, the
Destination-Host AVP is declared as optional in the ABNF for all requests
initiated by the SCEF.
As the HSS knows the address/name and the associated home network domain name
of the SCEF to which it sends RIR and NIR commands from a previously received
CIR command, both the Destination-Realm and Destination-Host AVPs shall be
present in request commands sent by the HSS to the SCEF.
Destination-Realm AVP is declared as mandatory in the ABNF for all requests.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID AVP is received in any of the commands,
it may be ignored by the receiving node, and it shall not be used for routing
purposes.
### 8.1.7 Advertising Application Support
The HSS and the SCEF shall advertise support of the Diameter S6t Application
by including the value of the application identifier in the Auth-Application-
Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id grouped AVP of the
Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The vendor identifier value of 3GPP (10415) shall be included in the
Supported-Vendor-Id AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands, and in the Vendor-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The Vendor-Id AVP included in Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands that is not included in the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id AVPs as described above shall indicate the manufacturer of the
Diameter node as per IETF RFC 6733 [23].
### 8.1.8 Diameter Application Identifier
The S6t interface protocol shall be defined as an IETF vendor specific
Diameter application, where the vendor is 3GPP. The vendor identifier assigned
by IANA to 3GPP (http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers) is 10415.
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the S6t interface application
is 16777345 (allocated by IANA).
### 8.1.9 Use of the Supported-Features AVP
When new functionality is introduced on the S6t application, it should be
defined as optional. If backwards incompatible changes cannot be avoided, the
new functionality shall be introduced as a new feature and support advertised
with the Supported-Features AVP. The usage of the Supported-Features AVP on
the S6t application is consistent with the procedures for the dynamic
discovery of supported features as defined in clause 7.2 of 3GPP TS 29.229
[7].
When extending the application by adding new AVPs for a feature, the new AVPs
shall have the M bit cleared and the AVP shall not be defined mandatory in the
command ABNF.
As defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [7], the Supported-Features AVP is of type
grouped and contains the Vendor-Id, Feature-List-ID and Feature-List AVPs. On
the all reference points as specified in this specification, the Supported-
Features AVP is used to identify features that have been defined by 3GPP and
hence, for features defined in this document, the Vendor-Id AVP shall contain
the vendor ID of 3GPP (10415). If there are multiple feature lists defined for
the reference point, the Feature-List-ID AVP shall differentiate those lists
from one another.
### 8.1.10 User Identity to HSS resolution
The User identity to HSS resolution mechanism enables the SCEF to find the
identity of the HSS that holds the subscription data for the target user when
multiple and separately addressable HSSs have been deployed in the home
network. The resolution mechanism is not required in networks that utilise a
single HSS.
This User identity to HSS resolution mechanism may rely on routing
capabilities provided by Diameter and be implemented in the home operator
network within dedicated Diameter Agents (Redirect Agents or Proxy Agents)
responsible for determining the HSS identity based on the provided user
identity (e.g. external identifiers provided by the SCEF).
When the Diameter Load Control mechanism is supported (see IETF RFC 8583
[22]), load values from previously received Load AVPs of type HOST may be
taken into account when determining the HSS identity.
NOTE: Alternatives to the user identity to HSS resolution Diameter based
implementation are outside the scope of this specification.
## 8.2 Commands
### 8.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the Command code values and related ABNF for each command
described in this specification.
### 8.2.2 Command-Code values
This clause defines Command-Code values for the S6t interface application as
allocated by IANA.
Every command is defined by means of the ABNF syntax IETF RFC 5234 [9],
according to the Command Code Format (CCF) specification defined in IETF RFC
6733 [23]. When the definition and use of an AVP is not specified in this
document, the guidelines in IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall apply.
The Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP shall not be included in any command
sent by Diameter nodes supporting applications defined in this specification.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP is received in any of the commands
defined in this specification, it shall be ignored by the receiving node.
NOTE: The Vendor-Specific-Application-Id is included as an optional AVP in all
Command Code Format specifications defined in this specification in order to
overcome potential interoperability issues with intermediate Diameter agents
non-compliant with the IETF RFC 6733 [23].
The following Command Codes are defined in this specification for S6t:
Table 8.2.2-1: Command-Code values for S6t
* * *
Command-Name Abbreviation Code Clause Configuration-Information-Request CIR
8388718 8.2.3 Configuration-Information-Answer CIA 8388718 8.2.4 Reporting-
Information-Request RIR 8388719 8.2.5 Reporting-Information-Answer RIA 8388719
8.2.6 NIDD-Information-Request NIR 8388726 8.2.7 NIDD-Information-Answer NIA
8388726 8.2.8
* * *
For these commands, the Application-ID field shall be set to 16777345
(application identifier of the S6t interface application, allocated by IANA).
### 8.2.3 Configuration Information Request (CIR) Command
The Configuration Information Request (CIR) command, indicated by the Command-
Code field set to 8388718 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the SCEF to the HSS.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ PXY, 16777345 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> { User-Identifier }
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ Monitoring-Event-Configuration ]
>
> [ CIR-Flags ]
>
> *[ AESE-Communication-Pattern ]
>
> [ Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction ]
>
> [ Group-Reporting-Guard-Timer ]
>
> [ AdditionalIdentifiers ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
>
> [ Suggested-Network-Configuration ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.2.4 Configuration-Information-Answer (CIA) Command
The Configuration-Information-Answer (CIA) command, indicated by the Command-
Code field set to 8388718 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags
field, is sent from the HSS to the SCEF.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ 16777345 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ User-Identifier ]
>
> [ Number-of-UEs ]
>
> *[ Monitoring-Event-Report ]
>
> *[ Monitoring-Event-Config-Status ]
>
> *[ AESE-Communication-Pattern-Config-Status ]
>
> *[ Supported-Services ]
>
> [ S6t-HSS-Cause ]
>
> [ Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction-Data ]
>
> [ CIA-Flags ]
>
> *[ IMSI-Group-Id]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
>
> [ Suggested-Network-Configuration ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.2.5 Reporting-Information-Request (RIR) Command
The Reporting-Information-Request (RIR) command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388719 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the HSS to the SCEF.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ 16777345 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> { Destination-Host }
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ User-Identifier ]
>
> *[ Monitoring-Event-Report ]
>
> *[ Group-Monitoring-Event-Report ]
>
> [ RIR-Flags ]
>
> *[ Supported-Services ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.2.6 Reporting-Information-Answer (RIA) Command
The Reporting-Information-Answer (RIA) command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388719 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the HSS to the SCEF.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ 16777345 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> ***[ Monitoring-Event-Report-Status ]**
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.2.7 NIDD Information Request (NIR) Command
The NIDD Information Request (NIR) command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388726 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent
from the SCEF to the HSS. It may also be sent from the HSS to the SCEF when
the feature \"NIDD Authorization Update\" is commonly supported by the HSS and
the SCEF.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ 16777345 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> { User-Identifier }
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ NIDD-Authorization-Request ]
>
> [ NIDD-Authorization-Update ]
>
> [ NIR-Flags ]
>
> *[ Group-User-Identifier ]
>
> [ MTC-Provider-Info ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.2.8 NIDD-Information-Answer (NIA) Command
The NIDD-Information-Answer (NIA) command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388726 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent
from the HSS to the SCEF. It may also be sent from the SCEF to the HSS when
the feature \"NIDD Authorization Update\" is commonly supported by the HSS and
the SCEF.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ NIDD-Authorization-Response ]
>
> *[ Group-User-Identifier ]
>
> [ NIA-Flags ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
>
> *[AVP]
## 8.3 Result-Code AVP and Experimental-Result AVP Values
### 8.3.1 General
This clause defines result code values that shall be supported by all Diameter
implementations that conform to this specification.
### 8.3.2 Success
Result codes that fall within the Success category shall be used to inform a
peer that a request has been successfully completed. The Result-Code AVP
values defined in Diameter base protocol specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall
be applied.
### 8.3.3 Permanent Failures
Errors that fall within the Permanent Failures category shall be used to
inform the peer that the request has failed, and should not be attempted
again. The Result-Code AVP values defined in Diameter base protocol specified
in IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall be applied. When one of the result codes defined
here is included in a response, it shall be inside an Experimental-Result AVP
and the Result-Code AVP shall be absent.
#### 8.3.3.1 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN (5001)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the user identified
by the IMSI, MSISDN, or External-Identifier is unknown. This error code is
defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [7].
#### 8.3.3.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_REQUESTING_ENTITY (5510)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the SCEF is not
allowed to request the service.
#### 8.3.3.3 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVICE (5511)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the specific
service requested by the SCEF is not allowed for an UE, or that it cannot be
delivered according to the current subscribed services of the UE.
#### 8.3.3.4 DIAMETER_ERROR_REQUESTED_RANGE_IS_NOT ALLOWED (5512)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the specific
service requested by the SCEF is not allowed for an UE, or that it cannot be
delivered according to the current subscribed services of the UE.
#### 8.3.3.5 DIAMETER_ERROR_CONFIGURATION_EVENT_STORAGE_NOT_ SUCCESSFUL (5513)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the specific
service requested by the SCEF could not be stored for an UE.
#### 8.3.3.6 DIAMETER_ERROR_CONFIGURATION_EVENT_NON_EXISTANT (5514)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the requested
deletion by the SCEF could not be performed for an UE because the event does
not exist.
#### 8.3.3.7 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_NO_APN_SUBSCRIPTION (5451)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the APN is not
authorized for an UE.
## 8.4 AVPs
### 8.4.1 General
The following table specifies the Diameter AVPs defined for the S6t interface
protocol, their AVP Code values, types, possible flag values and whether or
not the AVP may be encrypted. The Vendor-ID header of all AVPs defined in this
specification shall be set to 3GPP (10415).
For all AVPs which contain bit masks and are of the type Unsigned32, bit 0
shall be the least significant bit. For example, to get the value of bit 0, a
bit mask of 0x00000001 should be used.
Table 8.4.1-1: S6t specific Diameter AVPs
+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | Flag | | | | | | | | | | rules | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Attr | AVP | C | Value | Must | May | S | Must | May | | ibute | Code | lause | Type | | | hould | not | Encr. | | Name | | de | | | | not | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | A | 3113 | 8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | ESE-C | | .4.25 | ouped | | | | | | | ommun | | | | | | | | | | icati | | | | | | | | | | on-Pa | | | | | | | | | | ttern | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Commu | 3114 | 8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | nicat | | .4.26 | ouped | | | | | | | ion-P | | | | | | | | | | atter | | | | | | | | | | n-Set | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Pe | 3115 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | riodi | | .4.27 | ned32 | | | | | | | c-Com | | | | | | | | | | munic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | -Indi | | | | | | | | | | cator | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Co | 3116 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | mmuni | | .4.28 | ned32 | | | | | | | catio | | | | | | | | | | n-Dur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | -Time | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Per | 3117 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | iodic | | .4.29 | ned32 | | | | | | | -time | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Sch | 3118 | 8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | edule | | .4.30 | ouped | | | | | | | d-Com | | | | | | | | | | munic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | -Time | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 3119 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | tatio | | .4.31 | ned32 | | | | | | | nary- | | | | | | | | | | Indic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | AESE- | 3120 | 8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | Commu | | .4.32 | ouped | | | | | | | nicat | | | | | | | | | | ion-P | | | | | | | | | | atter | | | | | | | | | | n-Con | | | | | | | | | | fig-S | | | | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | AE | 3121 | 8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | SE-Er | | .4.33 | ouped | | | | | | | ror-R | | | | | | | | | | eport | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Monit | 3122 | 8.4.2 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | oring | | | ouped | | | | | | | -Even | | | | | | | | | | t-Con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Mon | 3123 | 8.4.3 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | itori | | | ouped | | | | | | | ng-Ev | | | | | | | | | | ent-R | | | | | | | | | | eport | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SC | 3124 | 8.4.4 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | EF-Re | | | ned32 | | | | | | | feren | | | | | | | | | | ce-ID | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SC | 3125 | 8.4.5 | D | M,V | | | | No | | EF-ID | | | iamet | | | | | | | | | | erIde | | | | | | | | | | ntity | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SCEF- | 3126 | 8.4.6 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Refer | | | ned32 | | | | | | | ence- | | | | | | | | | | ID-fo | | | | | | | | | | r-Del | | | | | | | | | | etion | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Monit | 3127 | 8.4.7 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | oring | | | ned32 | | | | | | | -Type | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Maxim | 3128 | 8.4.8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | um-Nu | | | ned32 | | | | | | | mber- | | | | | | | | | | of-Re | | | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | UE-R | 3129 | 8.4.9 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | eacha | | | ouped | | | | | | | bilit | | | | | | | | | | y-Con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Moni | 3130 | 8 | Time | M,V | | | | No | | torin | | .4.10 | | | | | | | | g-Dur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Ma | 3131 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | ximum | | .4.11 | ned32 | | | | | | | -Dete | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | -Time | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Re | 3132 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | achab | | .4.12 | ned32 | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | | -Type | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Ma | 3133 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | ximum | | .4.13 | ned32 | | | | | | | La | | | | | | | | | | tency | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Ma | 3134 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | ximum | | .4.14 | ned32 | | | | | | | Res | | | | | | | | | | ponse | | | | | | | | | | Time | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Loca | 3135 | 8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | tion- | | .4.15 | ouped | | | | | | | Infor | | | | | | | | | | matio | | | | | | | | | | n-Con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MONT | 3136 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | E-Loc | | .4.16 | ned32 | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | -Type | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Acc | 3137 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | uracy | | .4.17 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | A | 3138 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | ssoci | | .4.18 | ned32 | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | -Type | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Roam | 3139 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | ing-I | | .4.19 | ned32 | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Reac | 3140 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | habil | | .4.20 | ned32 | | | | | | | ity-I | | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | I | 3141 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | MEI-C | | .4.22 | ned32 | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Monit | 3142 | 8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | oring | | .4.24 | ouped | | | | | | | -Even | | | | | | | | | | t-Con | | | | | | | | | | fig-S | | | | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Sup | 3143 | 8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | porte | | .4.40 | ouped | | | | | | | d-Ser | | | | | | | | | | vices | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Su | 3144 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | pport | | .4.41 | ned64 | | | | | | | ed-Mo | | | | | | | | | | nitor | | | | | | | | | | ing-E | | | | | | | | | | vents | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | CIR- | 3145 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Flags | | .4.39 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Serv | 3146 | 8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | ice-R | | .4.37 | ouped | | | | | | | esult | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Serv | 3147 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | ice-R | | .4.38 | ned32 | | | | | | | esult | | | | | | | | | | -Code | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | R | 3148 | 8 | Time | M,V | | | | No | | efere | | .4.42 | | | | | | | | nce-I | | | | | | | | | | D-Val | | | | | | | | | | idity | | | | | | | | | | -Time | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Even | 3149 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | t-Han | | .4.43 | ned32 | | | | | | | dling | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | N | 3150 | 8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | IDD-A | | .4.44 | ouped | | | | | | | uthor | | | | | | | | | | izati | | | | | | | | | | on-Re | | | | | | | | | | quest | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NI | 3151 | 8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | DD-Au | | .4.45 | ouped | | | | | | | thori | | | | | | | | | | zatio | | | | | | | | | | n-Res | | | | | | | | | | ponse | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Serv | 3152 | 8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | ice-R | | .4.47 | ouped | | | | | | | eport | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Node | 3153 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | -Type | | .4.48 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | S6t | 3154 | 8 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | -HSS- | | .4.50 | ned32 | | | | | | | Cause | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Enha | 3155 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | nced- | | .4.51 | ouped | | | | | | | Cover | | | | | | | | | | age-R | | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Enha | 3156 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | nced- | | .4.52 | ouped | | | | | | | Cover | | | | | | | | | | age-R | | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | -Data | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Restr | 3157 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | icted | | .4.53 | ouped | | | | | | | -PLMN | | | | | | | | | | -List | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Al | 3158 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | lowed | | .4.54 | ouped | | | | | | | -PLMN | | | | | | | | | | -List | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Req | 3159 | 8 | Time | V | | | M | No | | ueste | | .4.55 | | | | | | | | d-Val | | | | | | | | | | idity | | | | | | | | | | -Time | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | G | 3160 | 8 | Time | V | | | M | No | | rante | | .4.56 | | | | | | | | d-Val | | | | | | | | | | idity | | | | | | | | | | -Time | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NIDD- | 3161 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | Autho | | .4.57 | ouped | | | | | | | rizat | | | | | | | | | | ion-U | | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Lo | 3162 | 8 | Unsig | V | | | M | No | | ss-Of | | .4.58 | ned32 | | | | | | | -Conn | | | | | | | | | | ectiv | | | | | | | | | | ity-R | | | | | | | | | | eason | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Gr | 3163 | 8 | Unsig | V | | | M | No | | oup-R | | .4.59 | ned32 | | | | | | | eport | | | | | | | | | | ing-G | | | | | | | | | | uard- | | | | | | | | | | Timer | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | CIA- | 3164 | 8 | Unsig | V | | | M | No | | Flags | | .4.60 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Grou | 3165 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | p-Mon | | .4.61 | ouped | | | | | | | itori | | | | | | | | | | ng-Ev | | | | | | | | | | ent-R | | | | | | | | | | eport | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Grou | 3166 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | p-Mon | | .4.62 | ouped | | | | | | | itori | | | | | | | | | | ng-Ev | | | | | | | | | | ent-R | | | | | | | | | | eport | | | | | | | | | | -Item | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | RIR- | 3167 | 8 | Unsig | V | | | M | No | | Flags | | .4.63 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Ty | 3168 | 8 | Unsig | V | | | M | No | | pe-Of | | .4.64 | ned32 | | | | | | | -Exte | | | | | | | | | | rnal- | | | | | | | | | | Ident | | | | | | | | | | ifier | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | AP | 3169 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | N-Val | | .4.65 | ouped | | | | | | | idity | | | | | | | | | | -Time | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 3170 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | ugges | | .4.66 | ouped | | | | | | | ted-N | | | | | | | | | | etwor | | | | | | | | | | k-Con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Monit | 3171 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | oring | | .4.67 | ouped | | | | | | | -Even | | | | | | | | | | t-Rep | | | | | | | | | | ort-S | | | | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | PL | 3172 | 8 | Enume | V | | | M | No | | MN-ID | | .4.68 | rated | | | | | | | -Requ | | | | | | | | | | ested | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | A | 3173 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | dditi | | .4.69 | ouped | | | | | | | onalI | | | | | | | | | | denti | | | | | | | | | | fiers | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NIR- | 3174 | 8 | Unsig | V | | | M | No | | Flags | | .4.70 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Repor | 3175 | 8 | Time | V | | | M | No | | ting- | | .4.71 | | | | | | | | Time- | | | | | | | | | | Stamp | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NIA- | 3176 | 8 | Unsig | V | | | M | No | | Flags | | .4.72 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | G | 3177 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | roup- | | .4.73 | ouped | | | | | | | User- | | | | | | | | | | Ident | | | | | | | | | | ifier | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MT | 3178 | 8 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | C-Pro | | .4.74 | ouped | | | | | | | vider | | | | | | | | | | -Info | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MTC-P | 3179 | 8 | UTF8S | V | | | M | No | | rovid | | .4.75 | tring | | | | | | | er-ID | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"M\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | | | ired. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"V\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | opt | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | Vend | | | | | | | | | | or-ID | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | | ader. | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | | det | | | | | | | | | | ails, | | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | | ETF R | | | | | | | | | | FC 67 | | | | | | | | | | 33 [ | | | | | | | | | | 23]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | | | | stand | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | match | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | able, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | gnore | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | | -bit. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+
The following table specifies the Diameter AVPs re-used by the S6t interface
protocol from existing Diameter Applications, including a reference to their
respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their use
within S6t.
Any other AVPs from existing Diameter Applications, except for the AVPs from
Diameter base protocol specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23], do not need to be
supported. The AVPs from Diameter base protocol specified in IETF RFC 6733
[23] are not included in table 8.4.1-2, but they may be re-used for the S6t
protocol.
Table 8.4.1-2: S6t re-used Diameter AVPs
* * *
Attribute Name Reference Comments M-bit User-Identifier 6.4.2 see 8.4.36  
External-Identifier 6.4.11  
MSISDN 3GPP TS 29.329 [10]  
User-Name IETF RFC 6733 [23] This AVP shall contain the IMSI of the UE  
Supported-Features 3GPP TS 29.229 [7] see 8.4.23  
Feature-List-ID 3GPP TS 29.229 [7]  
Feature-List 3GPP TS 29.229 [7]  
OC-Supported-Features IETF RFC 7683 [15] See 6.4.16 Must not set OC-OLR IETF
RFC 7683 [15] See 6.4.17 Must not set Visited PLMN Id 3GPP TS 29.272 [14] This
Information Element shall contain the identity (MCC and MNC) of the serving
PLMN, either the VPLMN or the HPLMN.  
Charged-Party 3GPP TS 32.299 [16]  
EPS-Location-Information 3GPP TS 29.272 [14] see 8.4.21  
MME-Location-Information 3GPP TS 29.272 [14] see 8.4.34  
SGSN-Location-Information 3GPP TS 29.272 [14] see 8.4.35  
E-UTRAN-Cell-Global-Identity 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]  
Tracking-Area-Identity 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]  
Current-Location-Retrieved 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]  
Age-Of-Location-Information 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]  
User-CSG-Information 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]  
Cell-Global-Identity 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]  
Service-Area-Identity 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]  
Routing-Area-Identity 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]  
eNodeB-ID 3GPP TS 29.217 [17]  
Day-Of-Week-Mask IETF RFC 5777 [18]  
Time-Of-Day-Start IETF RFC 5777 [18]  
Time-Of-Day-End IETF RFC 5777 [18]  
DRMP IETF RFC 7944 [20] see 8.4.46 Must not set Service-Selection IETF RFC
5778 [21] See 8.4.49  
Load IETF RFC 8583 [22] See 6.4.20 Must not set DL-Buffering-Suggested-Packet-
Count 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]  
Extended-eNodeB-ID 3GPP TS 29.217 [17] Must not set Maximum-UE-Availability-
Time 3GPP TS 29.338 [12]  
Idle-Status-Indication 3GPP TS 29.128 [24] Must not set Active-Time 3GPP TS
29.128 [24] When used over S6t, this AVP contains the value of Maximum
Response Time (see 3GPP TS 29.122 [26], clause 5.13.2.1.2) which is used to
calculate the value of subscribed Active Time as described in 3GPP TS 23.682
[2], clause 4.5.21. Must not set DL-Buffering-Suggested-Packet-Count 3GPP TS
29.272 [14] Must not set Subscribed-Periodic-RAU-TAU-Timer 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]
When used over S6t, this AVP contains the value of Maximum Latency (see 3GPP
TS 29.122 [26], clause 5.13.2.1.2) which is used to calculate the value of
subscribed periodic RAU/TAU timer as described in 3GPP TS 23.682 [2], clause
4.5.21. Must not set IMSI-Group-Id 3GPP TS 29.272 [14] Must not set Number-of-
UEs 3GPP TS 29.154 [25] Must not set Terminal-Information 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]
Must not set
* * *
### 8.4.2 Monitoring-Event-Configuration
The Monitoring-Event-Configuration AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the
details of the monitoring event from the SCEF. At least SCEF-Reference-ID or
one SCEF-Reference-ID-for-Deletion shall be present.
AVP format:
> Monitoring-Event-Configuration ::= \
>
> [ SCEF-Reference-ID ]
>
> { SCEF-ID }
>
> { Monitoring-Type }
>
> *[ SCEF-Reference-ID-for-Deletion ]
>
> [ Maximum-Number-of-Reports ]
>
> [ Monitoring-Duration ]
>
> [ Charged-Party ]
>
> [ Maximum-Detection-Time ]
>
> [ UE-Reachability-Configuration ]
>
> [ Location-Information-Configuration ]
>
> [ Association-Type ]
>
> [ DL-Buffering-Suggested-Packet-Count ]
>
> [ PLMN-ID-Requested ]
>
> [ MTC-Provider-Info ]
>
> *[AVP]
At least one of the SCEF-Reference-ID or SCEF-Reference--ID-for-Deletion shall
be present.
The Maximum-Number-of-Reports AVP, if present, shall contain the maximum
number of event reports to be generated by the HSS, MME, or SGSN until the
monitoring event configuration is considered to expire.
The Monitoring-Duration AVP, if present, shall contain the absolute time at
which the monitoring event configuration is considered to expire.
If both Maximum-Number-of-Reports and Monitoring-Duration AVPs are present,
the monitoring event configuration shall be considered to expire as soon as
one of the conditions is met.
If both Maximum-Number-of-Reports and Monitoring-Duration AVPs are absent, the
monitoring event configuration shall be considered as a one-time monitoring
request (same behaviour as setting Maximum-Number-of-Reports to 1).
Monitoring-Type shall only be taken into account in combination with SCEF-
Reference-ID; Monitoring-Type AVP shall be ignored for deletion of an event
(in combination with SCEF-Reference-ID-for-Deletion).
The details of how to handle expiration of Monitoring events is described in
3GPP TS 23.682 [2].
### 8.4.3 Monitoring-Event-Report
The Monitoring-Event-Report AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the
information to be reported as requested by Monitoring-Event-Configuration.
AVP format:
> Monitoring-Event-Report::= \
>
> { SCEF-Reference-ID }
>
> [ SCEF-ID ]
>
> [ SCEF-Reference-ID-for-Deletion ]
>
> [ Visited-PLMN-Id ]
>
> [ Roaming-Information ]
>
> [ IMEI-Change ]
>
> [ Terminal-Information ]
>
> [ Reachability-Information ]
>
> [ Maximum-UE-Availability-Time ]
>
> [ EPS-Location-Information ]
>
> [ Monitoring-Type ]
>
> [ Event-Handling ]
>
> *[ Service-Report ]
>
> [ Loss-Of-Connectivity-Reason ]
>
> [ Idle-Status-Indication ]
>
> v*[AVP]
### 8.4.4 SCEF-Reference-ID
The SCEF-Reference-ID AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain the
identifier provided by the SCEF.
### 8.4.5 SCEF-ID
The SCEF- ID AVP is of type DiameterIdentity and it shall contain the identity
of the SCEF which has originated the service request towards the HSS, i.e.
when sent within a Monitoring-Event-Configuration AVP in S6t-CIR, SCEF-ID AVP
and Origin-Host AVP shall have the same value.
### 8.4.6 SCEF-Reference-ID-for-Deletion
The SCEF-Reference-ID-for-Deletion AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall
contain the SCEF-Reference-ID (in combination with the SCEF identified by the
SCEF-ID) for the event to be deleted.
### 8.4.7 Monitoring-Type
The Monitoring-Type AVP is of type Unsigned32 and shall identify the type of
event to be monitored. The following values are defined:
LOSS_OF_CONNECTIVITY (0)
UE_REACHABILITY (1)
LOCATION_REPORTING (2)
CHANGE_OF_IMSI_IMEI(SV)_ASSOCIATION (3)
ROAMING_STATUS (4)
COMMUNICATION_FAILURE (5)
AVAILABILITY_AFTER_DDN_FAILURE (6)
NUMBER_OF_UES_PRESENT_IN_A_GEOGRAPHICAL_AREA (7)
UE_REACHABILITY_AND_IDLE_STATUS_INDICATION (8)
AVAILABILITY_AFTER_DDN_FAILURE_AND_IDLE_STATUS_INDICATION (9)
### 8.4.8 Maximum-Number-of-Reports
The Maximum-Number-of-Reports AVP is of type Unsigned32. It shall contain the
number of reports to be generated and sent to the SCEF.
This AVP shall not be present when Monitoring-Type is
AVAILABILITY_AFTER_DDN_FAILURE (6).
This AVP shall not be greater than one if:
\- Monitoring-Type is UE_REACHABILITY (1) and Reachability-Type is
\"Reachability for SMS\" or
\- Monitoring-Type is LOCATION_REPORTING (2) and MONTE-Location-Type is
LAST_KNOWN_LOCATION (1).
### 8.4.9 UE-Reachability-Configuration
The UE-Reachability-Configuration AVP is of type Grouped, and it shall contain
the details for configuration for UE reachability.
AVP format:
> UE-Reachability-Configuration::= \
>
> [ Reachability-Type ]
>
> [ Maximum-Latency ]
>
> [ Maximum-Response-Time ]
>
> [ DL-Buffering-Suggested-Packet-Count ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.10 Monitoring-Duration
The Monitoring-Duration AVP is of typeTime. It shall contain the absolute time
at which the related monitoring event request is considered to expire.
### 8.4.11 Maximum-Detection-Time
The Maximum-Detection-Time AVP is of type Unsigned32. It shall contain the
maximum number of seconds without any communication with the UE after which
the SCEF is to be informed that the UE is considered to be unreachable.
### 8.4.12 Reachability-Type
The Reachability-Type AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit
mask. The meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 8.4.12-1:
Table 8.4.12-1: Reachability-Type
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bit | Name | Description | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 0 | Reachability for SMS | This bit, when set, | | | | indicates that the | | | | monitoring for | | | | reachability for SMS | | | | of the UE is to be | | | | configured | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 | Reachability for | This bit, when set, | | | Data | indicates that the | | | | monitoring for | | | | reachability for | | | | data of the UE is to | | | | be configured | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: Bits not | | | | defined in this | | | | table shall be | | | | cleared by the | | | | sender and discarded | | | | by the receiver of | | | | the command. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Bit 0 and 1 | | | | shall not be set | | | | simultaneously. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The default value, when this AVP is not included, is Reachability for SMS (bit
0 set).
### 8.4.13 Maximum-Latency
The Maximum-Latency AVP is of type Unsigned32. It shall contain the maximum
acceptable delay time for downlink data transfer in seconds.
### 8.4.14 Maximum-Response-Time
The Maximum-Response-Time AVP is of type Unsigned32. It shall contain the
maximum time in seconds for which the UE stays reachable.
### 8.4.15 Location-Information-Configuration
The Location-Information-Configuration AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains
the details for location reporting.
AVP format:
> Location-Information-Configuration::= \
>
> [ MONTE-Location-Type ]
>
> [ Accuracy ]
>
> [ Periodic-Time ]
>
> *[AVP]
If present, Periodic-Time contains the mimum periodic location reporting time.
### 8.4.16 MONTE-Location-Type
The MONTE-Location-Type AVP is of type Unsigned32. It indicates the type of
location information to be provided. The following values are defined:
CURRENT_LOCATION (0)
LAST_KNOWN_LOCATION (1)
The default value, when this AVP is not included, is LAST_KNOWN_LOCATION (1).
### 8.4.17 Accuracy
The Accuracy AVP is of type Unsigned32. It shall indicate the requested
accuracy. The following values are defined:
CGI-ECGI (0)
eNB (1)
LA-TA-RA (2)
PRA(3)
PLMN-ID (4)
### 8.4.18 Association-Type
The Association-Type AVP is of type Unsigned32. It shall indicate the details
of the event configuration related to the change of IMEI(SV)-IMSI association.
The following values are defined:
IMEI-CHANGE (0)
The event shall be reported if the association between IMSI and IMEI has
changed; if only the Software Version (SV) has changed, no event shall be
reported.
IMEISV-CHANGE (1)
The event shall be reported if the association between IMSI and IMEI, or SV,
or both, has changed (this includes the case where only the SV has changed).
### 8.4.19 Roaming-Information
The Roaming-Information AVP is of type Unsigned32. It shall indicate the
roaming status of the subscriber. The following values are defined:
SUBSCRIBER_ROAMING (0)
SUBSCRIBER_NOT_ROAMING (1)
### 8.4.20 Reachability-Information
The Reachability-Information AVP is of type Unsigned32. It shall indicate the
reachability of the subscriber. The following values are defined:
REACHABLE_FOR_SMS (0)
REACHABLE_FOR_DATA (1)
### 8.4.21 EPS-Location-Information
The EPS-Location-Information AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain the
information related to the user location relevant for EPS. It was originally
defined in 3GPP TS 29.272 [49].
AVP format:
> EPS-Location-Information ::= \
>
> [ MME-Location-Information ]
>
> [ SGSN-Location-Information ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.22 IMEI-Change
The IMEI-Change AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 8.4.22-1:
Table 8.4.22-1: IMEI-Change
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Bit | Name | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | 0 | IMEI | This bit, when set, | | | | indicates that the IMEI has | | | | changed (regardless of | | | | whether the IMEI Software | | | | Version has changed or | | | | not). | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | 1 | IMEISV | This bit, when set, | | | | indicates that only the | | | | IMEI Software Version has | | | | changed but the IMEI has | | | | not changed. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Bits not defined in | | | | this table shall be cleared | | | | by the sender and discarded | | | | by the receiver of the | | | | command. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Bits 0 and 1 shall | | | | not be set simultaneously. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
When a change of IMEI(SV) is reported, the new IMEI(SV) values may be reported
to the SCEF in the Terminal-Information AVP inside the Monitoring-Event-Report
AVP (see clause 8.4.3).
### 8.4.23 Feature-List AVP
#### 8.4.23.1 Feature-List AVP for the S6t application
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [7].
For the S6t application, the meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table
8.4.23-1 for the Feature-List-ID.
Table 8.4.23-1: Features of Feature-List-ID used in S6t
+-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Feature bit | Feature | M/O | Description | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 0 | MONTE | O | Configuration and | | | | | reporting of | | | | | monitoring events | | | | | | | | | | This feature is | | | | | applicable to | | | | | from an SCEF with | | | | | CIR/CIA command | | | | | pair and the | | | | | reporting of | | | | | events to the | | | | | SCEF with RIR/RIA | | | | | command pair. | | | | | | | | | | If the HSS does | | | | | not support this | | | | | feature, the SCEF | | | | | shall not send | | | | | monitoring event | | | | | configurations to | | | | | the HSS within | | | | | CIR. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 1 | AESE-Comm | O | Configuration of | | | unication-Pattern | | CP parameter sets | | | | | | | | | | This feature is | | | | | applicable to | | | | | from an SCEF with | | | | | CIR/CIA command | | | | | pair. | | | | | | | | | | If the HSS does | | | | | not support this | | | | | feature, the SCEF | | | | | shall not send CP | | | | | parameter set to | | | | | the HSS within | | | | | CIR. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 2 | N | O | Authorization of | | | IDD-Authorization | | NIDD | | | | | | | | | | This feature is | | | | | applicable to | | | | | from an SCEF with | | | | | NIR/NIA command | | | | | pair. | | | | | | | | | | If the HSS | | | | | indicates in the | | | | | NIA command that | | | | | it does not | | | | | support | | | | | Authorization of | | | | | NIDD, the SCEF | | | | | shall not send | | | | | NIDD | | | | | Authorizations | | | | | requests to the | | | | | HSS in subsequent | | | | | NIR commands | | | | | towards that HSS. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 3 | Enh | O | Control Of | | | anced-Coverage-Re | | Enhanced Coverage | | | striction-Control | | Restriction | | | | | | | | | | This feature is | | | | | applicable for | | | | | the CIR/CIA | | | | | command pair. | | | | | | | | | | If the SCEF | | | | | detects that the | | | | | HSS does not | | | | | support this | | | | | feature, it may | | | | | refrain from | | | | | sending further | | | | | CIR commands | | | | | containing an | | | | | Enhanced-Cov | | | | | erage-Restriction | | | | | AVP or a | | | | | CIR-Flags AVP | | | | | with the bit for | | | | | Enhanc | | | | | ed-Coverage-Query | | | | | set. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 4 | NIDD | O | Update/Revocation | | | Authorization | | of NIDD | | | Update | | Authorization | | | | | | | | | | This feature is | | | | | applicable for | | | | | the NIR/NIA | | | | | command pair. It | | | | | shall not be | | | | | supported when | | | | | N | | | | | IDD-Authorization | | | | | is not supported. | | | | | | | | | | If the SCEF | | | | | indicates in the | | | | | NIR command that | | | | | it does not | | | | | support NIDD | | | | | Authorization | | | | | Update, the HSS | | | | | shall not send | | | | | subsequent NIR | | | | | commands to | | | | | update or revoke | | | | | a granted NIDD | | | | | Authorization. | | | | | The HSS may | | | | | decide not to | | | | | grant NIDD | | | | | Authorization | | | | | when | | | | | Update/Revocation | | | | | is not supported | | | | | by the SCEF. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 5 | Report-Eff-MONTE | O | Reporting | | | | | Efficiency for | | | | | MONTE | | | | | | | | | | This feature is | | | | | applicable for | | | | | the RIR/RIA | | | | | command pair. | | | | | | | | | | If the SCEF | | | | | indicates in the | | | | | CIR command that | | | | | it does not | | | | | support Reporting | | | | | Efficiency for | | | | | MONTE, the HSS | | | | | shall not make | | | | | use of RIR-flags | | | | | to indicate the | | | | | can | | | | | cellation/removal | | | | | of all monitoring | | | | | events nor a | | | | | change of SCEF | | | | | authorization for | | | | | one or more | | | | | monitoring | | | | | events. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 6 | Event | O | Event | | | Cancellation | | Cancellation | | | Report | | Report | | | | | | | | | | This feature is | | | | | applicable to | | | | | from an SCEF for | | | | | the CIR/CIA and | | | | | RIR/RIA command | | | | | pairs. | | | | | | | | | | If the SCEF does | | | | | not indicate in | | | | | the CIR command | | | | | that it does | | | | | support Event | | | | | Cancellation | | | | | Report, the HSS | | | | | shall not send a | | | | | report indicating | | | | | the cancellation | | | | | of a report in | | | | | the CIA or | | | | | subsequent RIR | | | | | commands towards | | | | | that SCEF. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 7 | Config-Eff-CP | O | Configuration | | | | | Efficiency for | | | | | Communication | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | | | | | This feature is | | | | | applicable for | | | | | the CIR/CIA and | | | | | RIR/RIA command | | | | | pairs. | | | | | | | | | | If the SCEF | | | | | indicates in the | | | | | CIR command that | | | | | it does not | | | | | support this | | | | | feature, the HSS | | | | | shall not make | | | | | use of RIR-flags | | | | | to indicate the | | | | | removal of all | | | | | communication | | | | | pattern.\ | | | | | If the HSS | | | | | indicates in the | | | | | CIA command that | | | | | it does not | | | | | support this | | | | | feature, the SCEF | | | | | shall not set the | | | | | CIR-flag \"Delete | | | | | All Communication | | | | | Pattern\" in a | | | | | subsequent CIR | | | | | command. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Feature bit: The | | | | | order number of | | | | | the bit within | | | | | the | | | | | **S | | | | | upported-Features | | | | | AVP, e.g.** | | | | | \"**1** \"**.** | | | | | | | | | | **Feature: A | | | | | short name that | | | | | can be used to | | | | | refer to the bit | | | | | and to the | | | | | feature, e.g.** | | | | | \ | | | | | "**MONTE** \"**.** | | | | | | | | | | **M/O: Defines if | | | | | the | | | | | implementation of | | | | | the feature is | | | | | mandatory | | | | | (** \"**M** \"**) | | | | | or optional | | | | | ( | | | | |** \"**O** \"**).** | | | | | | | | | | Description: A | | | | | clear textual | | | | | description of | | | | | the feature. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+
### 8.4.24 Monitoring-Event-Config-Status
The Monitoring-Event-Config-Status AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the
details of the result of the handling of the Requested action for the
Monitoring event.
AVP format:
> Monitoring-Event-Config-Status::= \
>
> *[ Service-Report ]
>
> { SCEF-Reference-ID }
>
> [ SCEF-ID ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.25 AESE-Communication-Pattern
The AESE-Communication-Pattern AVP is of type Grouped, and it shall contain
the details of the Communication-Pattern from the SCEF.
AVP format
> AESE-Communication-Pattern ::= \
>
> [ SCEF-Reference-ID ]
>
> { SCEF-ID }
>
> *[ SCEF-Reference-ID-for-Deletion ]
>
> *[ Communication-Pattern-Set ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
At least one SCEF-Reference-ID or SCEF-Reference-ID-for-deletion shall be
present.
### 8.4.26 Communication-Pattern-Set
The Communication-Pattern-Set AVP is of type Grouped, and it shall contain a
set of Communication-Pattern.
AVP format
> Communication-Pattern-Set ::= \
>
> [ Periodic-Communication-Indicator ]
>
> [ Communication-Duration-Time ]
>
> [ Periodic-Time ]
>
> *[ Scheduled-Communication-Time ]
>
> [ Stationary-Indication ]
>
> [ Reference-ID-Validity-Time ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
Communication-duration-time and Periodic-Time shall be only provided when the
Periodic-Communication-Indicator is set to PERIODICALLY.
If the Reference-ID-Validity-Time AVP is absent, it indicates that there is no
expiration time defined for the Communication-Pattern-Set.
### 8.4.27 Periodic-Communication-Indicator
The Periodic-communication-indicator AVP is of type Unsigend32. The following
values are defined:
PERIODICALLY (0)
ON_DEMAND (1)
### 8.4.28 Communication-duration-time
The Communication-duration-time AVP is of type Unsigned32 and shall provide
the time in seconds of the duration of the periodic communication.
### 8.4.29 Periodic-time
Periodic-time AVP is of type Unsigned32 and shall provide the time in seconds
of the interval for periodic communication.
### 8.4.30 Scheduled-communication-time
The Scheduled-communication-time AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format
> Scheduled-communication-time ::= \
>
> [ Day-Of-Week-Mask ]
>
> [ Time-Of-Day-Start ]
>
> [ Time-Of-Day-End ]
>
> *[AVP]
If Day-Of-Week-Mask is not provided this shall be interpreted as every day of
the week.
If Time-Of-Day-Start is not provided, starting time shall be set to start of
the day(s) indicated by Day-Of-Week-Mask.
If Time-Of-Day-End is not provided, ending time is end of the day(s) indicated
by Day-Of-Week-Mask.
### 8.4.31 Stationary indication
The Stationary-indication AVP are of type Unsigned32.
STATIONARY_UE (0)
MOBILE_UE (1)
### 8.4.32 AESE-Communication-Pattern-Config-Status
The AESE-Communication-Pattern-Config-Status AVP is of type Grouped, and it
shall contain the details of the outcome of Communication-Pattern handling
from the HSS.
AVP format
> AESE-Communication-Pattern-Config-Status ::= \
>
> { SCEF-Reference-ID }
>
> [ SCEF-ID ]
>
> [ AESE-Error-Report ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.33 AESE-Error-Report
The AESE-Error-Report AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the details of
the Error occurred during handling of the Requested action for the
Communication-Pattern-Set.
AVP format
> AESE-Error-Report ::= \
>
> [ Service-Result ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.34 MME-Location-Information
The MME-Location-Information AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain the
information related to the user location relevant for the MME. It was
originally defined in 3GPP TS 29.272 [49].
AVP format
> MME-Location-Information ::= \
>
> [ E-UTRAN-Cell-Global-Identity ]
>
> [ Tracking-Area-Identity ]
>
> [ Current-Location-Retrieved ]
>
> [ Age-Of-Location-Information ]
>
> [ User-CSG-Information ]
>
> [ eNodeB-ID ]
>
> [ Extended-eNodeB-ID ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.35 SGSN-Location-Information
The SGSN-Location-Information AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain the
information related to the user location relevant for the SGSN. It was
originally defined in 3GPP TS 29.272 [49].
AVP format
> SGSN-Location-Information ::= \
>
> [ Cell-Global-Identity ]
>
> [ Service-Area-Identity ]
>
> [ Routing-Area-Identity ]
>
> [ Current-Location-Retrieved ]
>
> [ Age-Of-Location-Information ]
>
> [ User-CSG-Information ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.36 User-Identifier
The User-Identifier AVP is of type Grouped and it contains the different
identifiers used by the UE. This AVP is defined in clause 6.4.2. The AVP
format for the S6t interface shall be as given below.
AVP format:
> User-Identifier ::= \
>
> [ User-Name ]
>
> [ MSISDN ]
>
> [ External-Identifier ]
>
> [ Type-Of-External-Identifier ]
>
> *[AVP]
This AVP shall contain one of the identifiers (IMSI, MSISDN or External-
Identifier). The IMSI of the UE shall be included (when applicable) in the
User-Name AVP.
The External-Identifier AVP may either contain the identity of an individual
UE or the identity of a Group of UEs. The Type-Of-External-Identifier is used
to indicate which type of identity is carried in the External-Identifier. When
the Type-Of-External-Identifier is not present, it means the External-
Identifier AVP contains the identity of an individual UE.
### 8.4.37 Service-Result
The Service-Result AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the Error code
identified during the handling of the Requested action for the Monitoring
event.
AVP format:
> Service-Result ::= \
>
> [ Vendor-Id ]
>
> [ Service-Result-Code ]
>
> *[AVP]
If the Service-Result-Code contains an Experimental-Result-Code value defined
by 3GPP, then the Vendor-Id shall be set to the value 10415. If the Service-
Result-Code contains a Result-Code value defined in the Diameter base protocol
by IETF (see IETF RFC 6733 [23]), then the Vendor-Id shall be absent or set to
the value 0.
### 8.4.38 Service-Result-Code
The Service-Result-Code AVP is of type Unsigned32. This AVP shall contain
either the value of an Experimental-Result-Code defined by 3GPP or the value
of a Result-Code defined in Diameter base protocol by IETF (see IETF RFC 6733
[23]).
### 8.4.39 CIR-Flags
The CIR-Flags AVP is of type AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a
bit mask. The meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 8.4.39-1:
Table 8.4.39-1: CIR-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 Delete all Monitoring events This bit shall be set if
the SCEF wants to delete all Monitoring events for a subscriber stored in the
HSS. 1 Enhanced Coverage Query This bit shall be set if the SCEF wants to
query the current settings of the Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction. 2 IMSI Group
Id retrieval This bit shall be set if the SCEF wants to retrieve the IMSI
Group Id that corresponds to the provided External Group Identifier. 3 Delete
all Communication Pattern This bit shall be set if the SCEF wants to delete
all Communication Pattern for a subscriber stored in the HSS. NOTE: Bits not
defined in this table shall be cleared by the sender and discarded by the
receiver of the command.
* * *
### 8.4.40 Supported-Services
The Supported-Services AVP is of type Grouped and it shall contain the
different bit masks representing the services supported by the HSS:
AVP format
> Supported-Services ::= \
>
> [ Supported-Monitoring-Events ]
>
> [ Node-Type ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.41 Supported-Monitoring-Events
The Supported-Monitoring-Events AVP is of type Unsigned64 and it shall contain
a bit mask. The meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 8.4.41-1:
Table 8.4.41-1: Supported-Monitoring-Events
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 UE and UICC and/or new IMSI-IMEI-SV association This
bit shall be set if Monitoring the association of the UE and UICC and/or new
IMSI-IMEI-SV association Monitoring event is supported in the HSS 1 UE-
reachability This bit shall be set if UE reachability Monitoring event is
supported in the HSS/MME/SGSN 2 Location-of-the-UE This bit shall be set if
Location of the UE and change in location of the UE Monitoring event is
supported in the HSS/MME/SGSN 3 Loss-of-connectivity This bit shall be set if
Loss of connectivity Monitoring event is supported in the HSS/MME/SGSN 4
Communication-failure This bit shall be set if Communication failure
Monitoring event is supported in the HSS/MME/SGSN 5 Roaming-status This bit
shall be set if Roaming status (i.e. Roaming or No Roaming) of the UE, and
change in roaming status of the UE Monitoring event is supported in the HSS 6
Availability after DDN failure This bit shall be set if Availability after DDN
failure Monitoring event is supported in the HSS/MME/SGSN 7 Idle Status
Indication This bit shall be set if Idle Status Indication Monitoring event is
supported in the HSS in addition to Availability after DDN failure and UE
reachability/MME/SGSN NOTE: Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by
the sender and discarded by the receiver of the command.
* * *
Absence of this AVP shall have the same meaning as all bits cleared (i.e.
serving node does not support MONTE).
If RIR-flags is included in Reporting-Information-Request to indicate a change
of authorized monitoring events, each bit in Supported-Monitoring-Events AVP,
if cleared, shall indicate the SCEF that associated monitoring event is not
authorized.
### 8.4.42 Reference-ID-Validity-Time
The Reference-ID-Validity-Time AVP is of type Time (see IETF RFC 6733 [23]),
and contains the point of time when the CP sets associated to an SCEF-
Reference-ID (in combination with an SCEF-ID) becoming invalid and shall be
deleted.
### 8.4.43 Event-Handling
The Event-handling AVP is of type Unsigned32. The following Values are
defined:
SUSPEND (0)
RESUME (1)
CANCEL (2)
### 8.4.44 NIDD-Authorization-Request
The NIDD-Authorization-Request AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the
details for the Authorisation of NIDD via the SCEF.
AVP format:
> NIDD-Authorization-Request ::= \
>
> [ Service-Selection ]
>
> [ Requested-Validity-Time ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.45 NIDD-Authorization-Response
The NIDD-Authorization-Response AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the
information to be provided triggered by NIDD-Authorization-Request.
AVP format:
> NIDD-Authorization-Response::= \
>
> [ MSISDN ]
>
> [ User-Name ]
>
> [ External-Identifier ]
>
> [ Granted-Validity-Time ]
>
> *[AVP]
The User-Name AVP, when present, shall contain the IMSI.
### 8.4.46 DRMP
The DRMP AVP is of type Enumerated and it is defined in IETF RFC 7944 [20].
This AVP allows the HSS and the SCEF over the S6t interface to indicate the
relative priority of Diameter messages. The DRMP AVP may be used to set the
DSCP marking for transport of the associated Diameter message.
### 8.4.47 Service-Report
The Service-Report AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the result of the
handling of the Requested action for the Monitoring event, the type of node
and the services it supports.
AVP format:
> Service-Report ::= \
>
> [ Service-Result ]
>
> [ Node-Type ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.48 Node-Type
The Node-Type AVP is of type Unsigned32 and shall identify the type of node
sending the information. The following values are defined:
HSS (0)
MME (1)
SGSN (2)
### 8.4.49 Service-Selection
The Service-Selection AVP is of type of UTF8String. This AVP shall contain the
APN Network Identifier (i.e. an APN without the Operator Identifier) per 3GPP
TS 23.003 [11], clauses 9.1 & 9.1.1,).
The contents of the Service-Selection AVP shall be formatted as a character
string composed of one or more labels separated by dots (\".\").
This AVP is defined in IETF RFC 5778 [21].
### 8.4.50 S6t-HSS-Cause
The S6t-HSS-Cause AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it contains a bitmask. The
meaning of the bits is defined in table 8.4.50-1:
Table 8.4.50-1: S6t-HSS-Cause
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 Absent Subscriber This bit, when set, indicates that
the configuration could not be forwarded and/or the UE is not reachable at the
serving node, either because there is no serving node registered in the HSS or
because the subscriber is purged in the registered serving node(s). NOTE: Bits
not defined in this table shall be cleared by the sending node and discarded
by the receiving node.
* * *
### 8.4.51 Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction
The Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction AVP is of type Grouped and shall identify
either a complete (and possibly empty) list of serving PLMNs where Enhanced
Coverage shall be restricted or a complete (and possibly empty) list of
serving PLMNs where Enhanced Coverage shall not be restricted.
AVP format:
> Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction ::= \
>
> [ Restricted-PLMN-List ]
>
> [ Allowed-PLMN-List ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.52 Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction-Data
The Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction-Data AVP is of type Grouped and shall
identify the current visited PLMN (if any) and the current settings of
Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction.
AVP format:
> Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction-Data ::= \
>
> { Enhanced-Coverage-Restriction }
>
> [ Visited-PLMN-Id ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.53 Restricted-PLMN-List
The Restricted-PLMN-List AVP is of type Grouped and shall identify the
complete set of serving PLMNs where Enhanced Coverage is restricted.
AVP format:
> Restricted-PLMN-List ::= \
>
> *[ Visited-PLMN-Id ]
>
> *[AVP]
Absence of Visited-PLMN-Id AVPs indicates that Enhanced Coverage is allowed in
all serving PLMNs.
### 8.4.54 Allowed-PLMN-List
The Allowed-PLMN-List AVP is of type Grouped and shall identify the complete
set of serving PLMNs where Enhanced Coverage is allowed.
AVP format:
> Allowed-PLMN-List ::= \
>
> *[ Visited-PLMN-Id ]
>
> *[AVP]
Absence of Visited-PLMN-Id AVPs indicates that Enhanced Coverage is restricted
in all serving PLMNs.
### 8.4.55 Requested-Validity-Time
The Requested-Validity-Time AVP is of type Time (see IETF RFC 6733 [23]), and
contains the point of time after which the SCEF is willing to consider a
granted NIDD authorization as being implicitly revoked.
### 8.4.56 Granted-Validity-Time
The Granted-Validity-Time AVP is of type Time (see IETF RFC 6733 [23]), and
contains the point of time after which the HSS removes a stored NIDD
Authorization and after which the SCEF shall consider a granted NIDD
authorization as being implicitly revoked.
A value in the past indicates that the NIDD Authorization is explicitly
revoked.
### 8.4.57 NIDD-Authorization-Update
The NIDD-Authorization-Update AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the
information to be provided triggered by an update or revocation of the NIDD-
Authorization.
AVP format:
> NIDD-Authorization-Update::= \
>
> *[ APN-Validity-Time ]
>
> *[AVP]
The User-Name AVP, when present, shall contain the IMSI.
### 8.4.58 Loss-Of-Connectivity-Reason
The Loss-Of Connectivity-Reason AVP is of type Unsigned32 and shall identify
the reason why loss of connectivity is reported. The following values are
defined:
UE_DETACHED_MME (0)
UE_DETACHED_SGSN (1)
MAX_DETECTION_TIME_EXPIRED_MME (2)
MAX_DETECTION_TIME_EXPIRED_SGSN (3)
UE_PURGED_MME (4)
UE_PURGED_SGSN (5)
### 8.4.59 Group-Reporting-Guard-Timer
The Group-Reporting-Guard-Timer AVP is of type Unsigned32. The Group Reporting
Guard Timer indicates an interval in seconds after which time the HSS (at the
latest) shall send aggregated Status Indications and/or event report(s) which
have been detected for UEs that are part of a group.
### 8.4.60 CIA-Flags
The CIA-Flags AVP is of type AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a
bit mask. The meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 8.4.60-1:
Table 8.4.60-1: CIA-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 Group-Configuration-In-Progress This bit is set when
the HSS indicates that the HSS is processing the Group Monitoring Event
configuration(s) and will report further status using the RIR command. NOTE:
Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by the sender and discarded by
the receiver of the command.
* * *
### 8.4.61 Group-Monitoring-Event-Report
The Group-Monitoring-Event-Report AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the
information to be reported as requested by Monitoring-Event-Configuration for
a group.
AVP format:
> Group-Monitoring-Event-Report::= \
>
> { SCEF-Reference-ID }
>
> [ SCEF-ID ]
>
> *[ Group-Monitoring-Event-Report-Item ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.62 Group-Monitoring-Event-Report-Item
The Group-Monitoring-Event-Report-Item AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains
the information to be reported as requested by Monitoring-Event-Configuration
for a specific UE as part of group processing.
AVP format:
> Group-Monitoring-Event-Report-Item::= \
>
> { User-Identifier }
>
> [ Visited-PLMN-Id ]
>
> [ Roaming-Information ]
>
> [ IMEI-Change ]
>
> [ Reachability-Information ]
>
> [ Maximum-UE-Availability-Time ]
>
> [ EPS-Location-Information ]
>
> [ Monitoring-Type ]
>
> *[ Service-Report ]
>
> [ S6t-HSS-Cause ]
>
> [ Idle-Status-Indication ]
>
> [ Reporting-Time-Stamp ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.63 RIR-Flags
The RIR-Flags AVP is of type AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a
bit mask. The meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 8.4.63-1:
Table 8.4.63-1: RIR-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 Group-Configuration-In-Progress This bit is set when
the HSS indicates that the HSS is processing the Group Monitoring Event
configuration and will report further status/reports for the group using
additional RIR command(s). 1 All-Monitoring-Events-Cancelled This bit is set
when the HSS indicates that all existing events (if any) are cancelled, e.g.
due to subscription removal 2 Change-Of-Authorized-Monitoring-Events This bit
is set when the HSS indicates that the SCEF authorization for one or more
monitoring events has changed. 3 All-Communication-Pattern-Cancelled This bit
is set when the HSS indicates that all existing communication pattern (if any)
are cancelled, e.g. due to subscription removal NOTE: Bits not defined in this
table shall be cleared by the sender and discarded by the receiver of the
command.
* * *
### 8.4.64 Type-Of-External-Identifier
The Type-Of-External-Identifier AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall
indicate which type of identity is carried in the External-Identifier AVP. The
following values are defined:
EXTERNAL-UE-IDENTIFIER-TYPE (0)
The value 0 indicates the External-Identifier AVP carries the identity of an
individual UE.
EXTERNAL-GROUP-IDENTIFIER-TYPE (1)
The value 1 indicates the External-Identifier AVP carries the identity of a
Group of UEs.
### 8.4.65 APN-Validity-Time
The APN-Validity-Time AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the APN (within
the Service-Selection AVP) and the updated validity time for the granted NIDD
authorization associated to the APN.
AVP format:
> APN-Validity-Time::= \
>
> { Granted-Validity-Time }
>
> [ Service-Selection ]
>
> *[AVP]
Absence of Service-Selection AVP indicates that the Granted-Validity-Time
applies to all granted NIDD Authorizations for the user. In this case only one
APN-Validity-Time AVP shall be present within the NIDD-Authorization-Update
AVP.
### 8.4.66 Suggested-Network-Configuration
The Suggested-Network-Configuration AVP is of type Grouped, and it shall
contain the details for configuration for Suggested Network configuration.
AVP format:
> Suggested-Network-Configuration::= \
>
> { SCEF-Reference-ID }
>
> { SCEF-ID }
>
> [ Subscribed-Periodic-RAU-TAU-Timer ]
>
> [ Active-Time ]
>
> [ DL-Buffering-Suggested-Packet-Count ]
>
> [ Group-Reporting-Guard-Timer ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.67 Monitoring-Event-Report-Status
The Monitoring-Event-Report-Status AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the
result of a specific event report (identified by the pair SCEF-ID and SCEF-
Reference-ID) received by the SCEF.
AVP format:
> Monitoring-Event-Report-Status ::= \
>
> { SCEF-Reference-ID }
>
> { SCEF-ID }
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result-Code ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.68 PLMN-ID-Requested
The PLMN-ID-Requested AVP is of type Enumerated and it shall indicate whether
the PLMN-ID value needs to be returned in the event report associated to the
monitoring type \"ROAMING_STATUS\". The following values are defined:
TRUE (0)
The value TRUE (0) indicates that the PLMN-ID value shall be returned in the
corresponding event report for \"ROAMING_STATUS\".
FALSE (1)
The value FALSE (1) indicates that the PLMN-ID value shall not be returned in
the corresponding event report for \"ROAMING_STATUS\".
The default value, when this AVP is not included, is TRUE (0).
### 8.4.69 AdditionalIdentifiers
The AdditionalIdentifiers AVP is of type Grouped, and it shall contain
External Group Identifiers.
AVP format:
> AdditionalIdentifiers::= \
>
> *[ External-Identifier ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.70 NIR-Flags
The NIR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 8.4.70-1:
Table 8.4.70-1: NIR-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 Incomplete Group-User-Identifier-List This bit is set
when the SCEF indicates that the union of the Group User Identifier Lists sent
in this and in previous messages is still incomplete and more segments of the
list will follow within subsequent NIR commands. The bit is not set when NIR
contains the last segment of the list. NOTE: Bits not defined in this table
shall be cleared by the sender and discarded by the receiver of the command.
* * *
### 8.4.71 Reporting-Time-Stamp
The Reporting-Time-Stamp AVP is of type Time (see IETF RFC 6733 [23]), and
contains the point of time when the report was generated.
### 8.4.72 NIA-Flags
The NIA-Flags AVP is of type AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a
bit mask. The meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 8.4.72-1:
Table 8.4.72-1: NIA-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 Incomplete Group-User-Identifier-List This bit is set
when the HSS indicates that the sent Group User Identifier List is incomplete
and more segments of the list will follow within subsequent NIR commands.
NOTE: Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by the sender and
discarded by the receiver of the command.
* * *
### 8.4.73 Group-User-Identifier
The Group-User-Identifier AVP is of type Grouped and it contains the External-
Identifier or MSISDN and the IMSI of a user belonging to a group.
AVP format:
> Group-User-Identifier ::= \
>
> [ User-Name ]
>
> [ MSISDN ]
>
> [ External-Identifier ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.74 MTC-Provider-Info
The MTC-Provider-Info AVP is of type Grouped and it contains the information
associated to the MTC Service Provider and/or MTC Application (see 3GPP TS
23.682 [2], clause 5.6).
AVP format:
> MTC-Provider-Info ::= \
>
> [ MTC-Provider-ID ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 8.4.75 MTC-Provider-ID
The MTC-Provider-ID AVP is of type UTF8String and it contains a character
string representing the identity of the MTC Service Provider and/or MTC
Application.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Diameter overload control mechanism
# A.1 General
IETF RFC 7683 [15] specifies a Diameter overload control mechanism which
includes the definition and the transfer of related AVPs between Diameter
nodes.
# A.2 S6m interface
## A.2.1 General
The Diameter overload control mechanism is an optional feature over the S6m
interface.
It is recommended to make use of the IETF RFC 7683 [15] on the S6m interface
where, when applied, the MTC-IWF shall behave as a reacting node and the
HSS3GPP AAA server as a reporting node.
NOTE: There is no need to support this mechanism in the other way (overload of
the MTC-IWF) as no Diameter request commands are sent by the HSS to the MTC-
IWF.
## A.2.2 HSS behaviour
The HSS requests traffic reduction from the MTC-IWF when it is in an overload
situation, by including OC-OLR AVP in answer commands as described in IETF RFC
7683 [15].
The HSS identifies that it is in an overload situation by implementation
specific means. For example, the HSS may take into account the traffic over
the S6m interfaces or other interfaces, the level of usage of internal
resources (CPU, memory), the access to external resources etc.
The HSS determines the specific contents of the OC-OLR AVP in overload reports
and the HSS decides when to send OC-OLR AVPs by implementation specific means.
## A.2.3 MTC-IWF behaviour
The MTC-IWF applies required traffic reduction received in answer commands to
subsequent applicable requests, as per IETF RFC 7683 [15].
Requested traffic reduction is achieved by the MTC-IWF by implementation
specific means. For example, it may implement message throttling with
prioritization.
Annex B gives guidance on message prioritisation over the S6m interface.
# A.3 S6t interface
## A.3.1 General
The Diameter overload control mechanism is an optional feature over the S6t
interface.
It is recommended to make use of the IETF RFC 7683 [15] on the S6t interface
where, when applied, the SCEF shall behave as a reacting node and the HSS as a
reporting node.
NOTE: With the current services used on this interface there is no need to
support this mechanism in the other direction (overload of the SCEF) as the
number of Diameter request commands sent by the HSS to the SCEF is determined
by the SCEF in one earlier command of the SCEF and they corresponds to non-
frequent events.
## A.3.2 HSS behaviour
The HSS requests traffic reduction from the SCEF when it is in an overload
situation, by including OC-OLR AVP in answer commands as described in IETF RFC
7683 [15].
The HSS identifies that it is in an overload situation by implementation
specific means. For example, the HSS may take into account the traffic over
the S6t interfaces or other interfaces, the level of usage of internal
resources (CPU, memory), the access to external resources etc.
The HSS determines the specific contents of the OC-OLR AVP in overload reports
and the HSS decides when to send OC-OLR AVPs by implementation specific means.
## A.3.3 SCEF behaviour
The SCEF applies required traffic reduction received in answer commands to
subsequent applicable requests, as per IETF RFC 7683 [15].
Requested traffic reduction is achieved by the SCEF by implementation specific
means. For example, it may implement monitoring event activation throttling
with prioritization.
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Diameter overload control node behaviour
# B.1 Introduction
Annex B gives guidance on the Diameter overload control node behaviours
regarding message prioritisation over the S6m and S6t interface.
# B.2 Message prioritisation over S6m
This clause gives an analysis of possible behaviours of the MTC-IWF regarding
message prioritisation as guidance and for an informative purpose.
When the HSS is overloaded, the MTC-IWF will receive overload reports from the
HSS requesting a reduction of requests sent by the MTC-IWF. This will apply to
the SIR request commands.
The MTC-IWF can consider some messages with a lower or a higher priority;
lower priority messages will be candidates for throttling before higher
priority messages.
Following considerations can be taken into account:
\- SIR messages for a given SCS can have a lower priority according to
operator policies;
\- If a SCS node generates a peak signalling over the Tsp interface, SIR
messages over S6m related to this SCS can have a lower priority;
\- The SIR messages over S6m related to a recall procedure or a replace
procedure over the Tsp interface (see 3GPP TS 29.368 [13]) may have a lower
priority according to operator policies.
# B.3 Message prioritisation over S6t
This clause gives an analysis of possible behaviours of the SCEF regarding
message prioritisation as guidance and for an informative purpose.
When the HSS is overloaded, the SCEF will receive overload reports from the
HSS requesting a reduction of requests sent by the SCEF. This will apply to
the CIR request commands.
The SCEF can consider some messages with a lower or a higher priority; lower
priority messages will be candidates for throttling before higher priority
messages.
Following considerations can be taken into account:
\- CIR messages for a given SCEF can have a lower priority according to
operator policies;
\- If a SCEF node generates a peak signalling over the S6t interface, CIR
messages from this SCEF can have a lower priority;
###### ## Annex C (normative):**** Diameter message priority mechanism
# C.1 General
IETF 7944 [20] specifies a Diameter routing message priority mechanism that
allows Diameter nodes to indicate the relative priority of Diameter messages.
With this information, other Diameter nodes may leverage the relative priority
of Diameter messages into routing, resource allocation, set the DSCP marking
for transport of the associated Diameter message, and also abatement decisions
when overload control is applied.
It is recommended to make use of IETF 7944 [20] over the S6m, S6n and S6t
interfaces of an operator network when the overload control defined in Annex A
is applied on these interfaces.
# C.2 S6m, S6n, S6t interfaces
The Diameter message priority mechanism is an optional feature which may apply
on one or several of the S6m, S6n, S6t interfaces.
A 3GPP functional entity supporting the Diameter message priority mechanism
over one or several of the S6m, S6n, S6t interfaces shall comply with IETF RFC
7944 [20].
A 3GPP functional entity sending a request shall determine the required
priority according to its policies. When priority is required, it shall
include the DRMP AVP indicating the required priority level in the request it
sends, and shall prioritise the request according to the required priority
level.
When the 3GPP functional entity receives the corresponding response, it shall
prioritise received response according to the priority level received within
the DRMP AVP if present in the response, otherwise according to the priority
level of the corresponding request.
When a 3GPP functional entity receives a request, it shall handle the request
according to the received DRMP AVP priority level. For the response, it may
modify the priority level received in the DRMP AVP according to its policies
and shall handle the response according to the required priority level. If the
required priority level is different from the priority level received in the
request, it shall include the DRMP AVP in the response.
The decisions of the 3GPP functional entity for a required priority and for
the priority level value are implementation specific.
If:
\- a 3GPP functional entity supports using the Diameter message priority
mechanism for DSCP marking purposes,
\- the transport network utilizes DSCP marking, and
\- message-dependant DSCP marking is possible for the protocol stack
transporting Diameter,
then the 3GPP functional entity shall set the DSCP marking for transport of
the request or response according to the required priority level.
Diameter requests related to high priority traffic should contain a DRMP AVP
with a high priority of which the level value is operator dependent.
###### ## Annex D (normative): Diameter load control mechanism
# D.1 General
IETF RFC 8583 [22] specifies a mechanism for sharing of Diameter load
information. It includes the definition and the transfer of related AVPs
between Diameter nodes.
# D.2 S6m interface
## D.2.1 General
The Diameter load control mechanism is an optional feature over the S6m
interface.
It is recommended to make use of IETF RFC 8583 [22] on the S6m interface
where, when applied, the MTC-IWF shall behave as reacting nodes and the HSS as
a reporting node.
## D.2.2 HSS behaviour
The HSS may report its current load by including a Load AVP of type HOST in
answer commands as described in IETF RFC 8583 [22].
The HSS calculates its current load by implementation specific means. For
example, the HSS may take into account the traffic over the S6m interface or
other interfaces, the level of usage of internal resources (e.g. CPU, memory),
the access to external resources, etc.
The HSS determines when to send Load AVPs of type HOST by implementation
specific means.
## D.2.3 MTC-IWF behaviour
When performing next hop Diameter Agent selection for requests that are routed
based on realm, the MTC-IWF may take into account load values from Load AVPs
of type PEER received from candidate next hop Diameter nodes, as per IETF RFC
8583 [22].
# D.3 S6t interface
## D.3.1 General
The Diameter load control mechanism is an optional feature over the S6t
interface.
It is recommended to make use of IETF RFC 8583 [22] on the S6t interface
where, when applied, the SCEF shall behave as reacting nodes and the HSS as a
reporting node.
## D.3.2 HSS behaviour
The HSS may report its current load by including a Load AVP of type HOST in
answer commands as described in IETF RFC 8583 [22].
The HSS calculates its current load by implementation specific means. For
example, the HSS may take into account the traffic over the S6t interface or
other interfaces, the level of usage of internal resources (e.g. CPU, memory),
the access to external resources, etc.
The HSS determines when to send Load AVPs of type HOST by implementation
specific means.
## D.3.3 SCEF behaviour
When performing next hop Diameter Agent selection for requests that are routed
based on realm, the SCEF may take into account load values from Load AVPs of
type PEER received from candidate next hop Diameter nodes, as per IETF RFC
8583 [22].
#