# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the Diameter-based interfaces between the V2X
Control Function in the HPLMN and the V2X Control Function in the VPLMN (V6
interface).
This specification defines the Diameter application for V6 reference points
between the V2X Control Functions. The interactions between the V2X Control
Functions are specified.
The stage 2 description for V2X service features in EPS is specified in 3GPP
TS 23.285 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Architecture enhancements for V2X services; Stage 2\".
[3] IETF RFC 6733: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security; IP Network Layer
Security\".
[5] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx interfaces based on the Diameter protocol\".
[7] IETF RFC 5234: \"Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx Interfaces;
Signalling flows and Message Elements\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.272: \"Evolved Packet System; MME and SGSN Related Interfaces
Based on Diameter Protocol\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh Interface based on the Diameter protocol\".
[12] IETF RFC 7683: \"Diameter Overload Indication Conveyance\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.336: \"Home Subscriber Server (HSS) diameter interfaces for
interworking with packet data networks and applications\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging applications\".
[15] IETF RFC 7944: \"Diameter Routing Message Priority\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.388: \"V2X Control Function to V2X Control Function to Home
Subscriber Server (HSS) aspects (V4)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.345: \"Inter-Proximity-services (ProSe) Function signalling
aspects\".
[18] IETF RFC 8583: \"Diameter Load Information Conveyance\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ProSe Proximity-based Services
V2X Vehicle-to-Everything
# 4 General Description
## 4.1 Introduction
The V6 reference point is defined between a V2X Control Function in the HPLMN
and a V2X Control Function in the VPLMN.
The definition of the V6 reference points and related functionalities are
given in 3GPP TS 23.285 [2].
As defined in 3GPP TS 23.285 [2], the V6 reference point is used for:
\- HPLMN control of service authorization for V2X.
# 5 Procedure Description
## 5.1 Introduction
This clause describes the Diameter-based V6 interface related procedures and
Information elements exchanged between functional entities.
In the tables that describe the Information Elements transported by each
Diameter command, each Information Element is marked as (M) Mandatory, (C)
Conditional or (O) Optional in the \"Cat.\" column. For the correct handling
of the Information Element according to the category type, see the description
detailed in clause 6 of the 3GPP TS 29.228 [9].
## 5.2 V2X Service Authorization
### 5.2.1 General
The V2X Service Authorization Procedure shall be used between the V2X Control
Function in the HPLMN and the V2X Control Function in the VPLMN to obtain
service authorization information for V2X services. The procedure shall be
invoked by the V2X Control Function in the HPLMN of the UE and is used:
\- to request service authorization information for V2X related to the UE from
the V2X Control Function in the VPLMN;
\- to provide the V2X Control Function in the VPLMN with the UE identity (IMSI
or MSISDN) in order to allow to perform charging:
This procedure is mapped to the commands ProSe-Authorization-Request/Answer
(PAR/PAA) in the Diameter application specified in clause 6.
Table 5.2.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.2.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
Table 5.2.1-1: V2X Service Authorization Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | UE Identity | User-Identifier | M | This information | | | | | element shall | | (See | | | contain either | | 3GPP | | | the user IMSI, | | TS 29.336 [13]) | | | formatted | | | | | according to | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS 23.003 [8], | | | | | clause 2.2, or | | | | | the user MSISDN, | | | | | formatted | | | | | according to | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS 29.329 [11]. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | PLMN Id | Visited-PLMN-Id | M | This IE shall | | | | | contain the | | (See | | | PLMN-Id | | 3GPP | | | (3GPP | | TS 29.272 [10]) | | | TS 23.003 [8]) | | | | | of the network in | | | | | which the V2X | | | | | Control Function | | | | | is located. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See | | | contain the list | | 3GPP | | | of features | | TS 29.229 [6]) | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.2.1-2: V2X Service Authorization Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This IE shall | | | Ex | | contain the | | (See 6.4) | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for V6 errors. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which shall | | | | | contain the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - User Unknown | | | | | | | | | | - Unauthorized | | | | | Service | | | | | | | | | | - Unauthorized | | | | | Service in this | | | | | PLMN | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See | | | contain the list | | 3GPP | | | of features | | TS 29.229 [6]) | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | V2X Authorization | V2X-A | C | This Information | | Data | uthorization-Data | | Element shall | | | | | contain the V2X | | (See 6.3.2) | | | authorization | | | | | information of | | | | | the user. It | | | | | shall be present | | | | | if success is | | | | | reported. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 5.2.2 Detailed behaviour of the V2X Control Function in the HPLMN
The V2X Control Function in the HPLMN shall make use of this procedure to
request service authorization information for V2X related to the UE from the
V2X Control Function in the VPLMN. The V2X Control Function shall include in
the request the UE identity (IMSI or MSISDN) and the PLMN-Id identifying the
PLMN of the requesting V2X Control Function.
When receiving a V2X Service Authorization response from the V2X Control
Function in the VPLMN, the V2X Control Function in the HPLMN shall check the
result code. If it indicates SUCCESS, the V2X Control Function shall merge
with its own policy.
### 5.2.3 Detailed behaviour of the V2X Control Function in the VPLMN
When receiving a V2X Service Authorization request, the V2X Control Function
in the VPLMN shall, in the following order:
1\. Check whether the UE Identity (IMSI or MSISDN) exists. If not, a Result
Code of DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN shall be returned.
2\. Check whether V2X is authorized for this UE Identity. If not, a Result
Code of DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVICE shall be returned.
If there is an error in any of the above steps then the V2X Control Function
shall stop processing the request and shall return the error code specified in
the respective step.
If the V2X Control Function cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not
stated in the above steps, e.g. due to a database error or any of the required
actions cannot be performed, it shall stop processing the request and set the
Result Code to \"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\".
Otherwise, when the UE is authorized to use V2X over PC5 or V2X over MBMS in
this PLMN, the V2X Control Function shall include the V2X-Authorization-Data
AVP in the response to return V2X permissions and the V2X Application Server
information, and shall set the Result Code to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\".
# 6 Protocol Specification and Implementations
## 6.1 Introduction
### 6.1.1 Use of Diameter base protocol
The Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [3] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as specified in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures (including error
handling and unrecognised information handling) shall be used unmodified.
### 6.1.2 Securing Diameter Messages
For secure transport of Diameter messages, see 3GPP TS 33.210 [4].
### 6.1.3 Accounting functionality
Accounting functionality (Accounting Session State Machine, related command
codes and AVPs) shall not be used on the V6 interface.
### 6.1.4 Use of sessions
Between the V2X Control Functions, Diameter sessions shall be implicitly
terminated. An implicitly terminated session is one for which the server does
not maintain state information. The client shall not send any re-authorization
or session termination requests to the server.
The Diameter base protocol includes the Auth-Session-State AVP as the
mechanism for the implementation of implicitly terminated sessions.
The client (server) shall include in its requests (responses) the Auth-
Session-State AVP set to the value NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1), as described in
IETF RFC 6733 [3]. As a consequence, the server shall not maintain any state
information about this session and the client shall not send any session
termination request. Neither the Authorization-Lifetime AVP nor the Session-
Timeout AVP shall be present in requests or responses.
### 6.1.5 Transport protocol
Diameter messages over the V6 interface shall make use of SCTP IETF RFC 4960
[5].
### 6.1.6 Routing considerations
This clause specifies the use of the Diameter routing AVPs Destination-Realm
and Destination-Host.
The Destination-Realm AVP shall contain the network domain name of the
targeted V2X Control Function. The network domain name is either known by the
sending V2X Control Function or derived from the PLMN-Id of the targeted V2X
Control Function to construct the EPC Home Network Realm/Domain, as indicated
in 3GPP TS 23.003 [8], clause 19.2.
If a V2X Control Function knows the address/name of the V2X Control Function
in charge of a given UE, and the associated network domain name, both the
Destination-Realm and Destination-Host AVPs shall be present in the request.
If a V2X Control Function knows only the network domain name, the Destination-
Realm AVP shall be present and the command shall be routed to the next
Diameter node.
Consequently, the Destination-Realm AVP is declared as mandatory and the
Destination-Host AVP is declared as optional in the ABNF for all requests
initiated by a V2X Control Function.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID AVP is received in any of the commands
defined in this specification, it shall be ignored by the receiving node, and
it shall not be used for routing purposes.
### 6.1.7 Advertising Application Support
The V2X Control Functions shall advertise support of the Diameter Inter V2X
Control Functions Application by including the value of the application
identifier in the Auth-Application-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The vendor identifier value of 3GPP (10415) shall be included in the
Supported-Vendor-Id AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands, and in the Vendor-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The Vendor-Id AVP included in Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands that is not included in the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id AVPs as described above shall indicate the manufacturer of the
Diameter node as per IETF RFC 6733 [3].
### 6.1.8 Diameter Application Identifier
The Diameter Inter V2X Control Functions Application protocol shall be defined
as an IETF vendor specific Diameter application, where the vendor is 3GPP. The
vendor identifier assigned by IANA to 3GPP
(http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers) is 10415.
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the Diameter Inter V2X Control
Functions application is 16777356 (allocated by IANA). The Diameter
application identifier is used over the V6 interface.
### 6.1.9 Use of the Supported-Features AVP
When new functionality is introduced on the V6 interface, it should be defined
as optional. If backwards incompatible changes cannot be avoided, the new
functionality shall be introduced as a new feature and support advertised with
the Supported-Features AVP. The usage of the Supported-Features AVP on the V6
interface is consistent with the procedures for the dynamic discovery of
supported features as defined in clause 7.2 of 3GPP TS 29.229 [6].
When extending the application by adding new AVPs for a feature, the new AVPs
shall have the M bit cleared and the AVP shall not be defined mandatory in the
command ABNF.
As defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [6], the Supported-Features AVP is of type
grouped and contains the Vendor-Id, Feature-List-ID and Feature-List AVPs. On
the all reference points as specified in this specification, the Supported-
Features AVP is used to identify features that have been defined by 3GPP and
hence, for features defined in this document, the Vendor-Id AVP shall contain
the vendor ID of 3GPP (10415). If there are multiple feature lists defined for
the reference point, the Feature-List-ID AVP shall differentiate those lists
from one another.
## 6.2 Commands
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the Command code values and related ABNF for each command
described in this specification.
### 6.2.2 Command-Code values
This csublause defines Command-Code values for the Diameter Inter V2X Control
Functions application used over the V6 interface as allocated by IANA.
Every command is defined by means of the ABNF syntax IETF RFC 5234 [7],
according to the rules in IETF RFC 6733 [3]. In the case, the definition and
use of an AVP is not specified in this document, the guidelines in IETF RFC
6733 [3] shall apply.
The Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP shall not be included in any command
sent by Diameter nodes supporting applications defined in this specification.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP is received in any of the commands
defined in this specification, it shall be ignored by the receiving node.
NOTE: The Vendor-Specific-Application-Id is included as an optional AVP in all
Command Code Format specifications defined in this specification in order to
overcome potential interoperability issues with intermediate Diameter agents
non-compliant with IETF RFC 6733 [3].
The following Command Codes are defined in this specification:
Table 6.2.2-1: Command-Code values for Diameter V2X Inter Control Functions
Application
* * *
Command-Name Abbreviation Code Clause ProSe-Authorization-Request PAR 8388668
6.2.3 ProSe-Authorization-Answer PAA 8388668 6.2.4
* * *
For these commands, the Application-ID field shall be set to 16777356
(application identifier of the Diameter Inter V2X Control Functions interface
application, allocated by IANA).
### 6.2.3 ProSe-Authorization-Request (PAR) Command
The ProSe-Authorization-Request (PAR) Command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388668 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent
from the V2X Control Function in the HPLMN to the V2X Control Function in the
VPLMN. The ProSe-Authorization- Request (PAR) is originally defined in 3GPP TS
29.345 [17].
Message Format when used over the V6 application:
> \ ::= \ 16777356 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> { User-Identifier }
>
> { Visited-PLMN-Id }
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.4 ProSe-Authorization-Answer (PAA) Command
The ProSe-Authorization-Answer (PAA) Command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388668 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the V2X Control Function in the VPLMN to the V2X Control Function in
the HPLMN. The ProSe-Authorization- Answer (PAA) is originally defined in 3GPP
TS 29.345 [17].
Message Format when used over the V6 application:
> \ ::= \ 16777356 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> **[ V2X-Authorization-Data ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
## 6.3 Information Elements
### 6.3.1 General
The following table (table 6.3.1-1) specifies the Diameter AVPs defined for
the V6 interface, their AVP Code values, types, possible flag values and
whether or not the AVP may be encrypted. The Vendor-ID header of all AVPs
defined in this specification shall be set to 3GPP (10415).
For all AVPs which contain bit masks and are of the type Unsigned32 e.g., PRR-
Flags, bit 0 shall be the least significant bit. For example, to get the value
of bit 0, a bit mask of 0x0001 shall be used.
Table 6.3.1-1: V6 specific Diameter AVPs
+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | Flag | | | | | | | | | | rules | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Attr | AVP | C | Value | Must | May | S | Must | May | | ibute | Code | lause | Type | | | hould | not | Encr. | | Name | | | | | | not | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | V2 | 4700 | 6.3.2 | Gr | | | | | | | X-Aut | | | ouped | | | | | | | horiz | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | -Data | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | V2X | 4701 | 6.3.3 | Unsig | | | | | | | -Perm | | | ned32 | | | | | | | issio | | | | | | | | | | n-in- | | | | | | | | | | VPLMN | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | V2 | 4702 | 6.3.4 | Gr | | | | | | | X-App | | | ouped | | | | | | | licat | | | | | | | | | | ion-S | | | | | | | | | | erver | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | "M\", | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | | | ired. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"V\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | opt | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | Vend | | | | | | | | | | or-ID | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | | ader. | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | | det | | | | | | | | | | ails, | | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | | IETF | | | | | | | | | | RFC 6 | | | | | | | | | | 733 \ | | | | | | | | | | [3]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | | | | stand | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | match | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | able, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | gnore | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | | -bit. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+
The following table (table 6.3.1-2) specifies the Diameter AVPs re-used by the
V6 interface from existing Diameter Applications, including a reference to
their respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their
use within V6 interface.
Any other AVPs from existing Diameter Applications, except for the AVPs from
the Diameter base protocol, do not need to be supported. The AVPs from the
Diameter base protocol are not included in table 6.3.1-2.
Table 6.3.1-2: V6 re-used Diameter AVPs
+----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Attribute Name | Reference | Comments | M-bit | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Appl | 3GPP TS | See | | | ication-Server | 32.299 [14] | clause 6.3.5 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Geographic | 3GPP TS | See | | | al-Information | 29.272 [10] | clause 6.3.6 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | V | 3GPP TS | | | | isited-PLMN-Id | 29.272 [10] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | U | 3GPP TS | | | | ser-Identifier | 29.336 [13] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | User-Name | IETF | | | | | RFC 6733 [3] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | MSISDN | 3GPP TS | | | | | 29.329 [11] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Supp | 3GPP T | | | | orted-Features | S 29.229 [6] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | F | 3GPP T | | | | eature-List-ID | S 29.229 [6] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Feature-List | 3GPP T | | | | | S 29.229 [6] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | OC-Supp | IETF R | See | Must set | | orted-Features | FC 7683 [12] | clause 6.3.7 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | OC-OLR | IETF R | See | Must set | | | FC 7683 [12] | clause 6.3.8 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | DRMP | IETF R | See | Must not set | | | FC 7944 [15] | clause 6.3.9 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Load | IETF R | See clause | Must not set | | | FC 8583 [18] | 6.3.10 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | M-bit settings | | | | | for re-used | | | | | AVPs override | | | | | those of the | | | | | defining | | | | | specifications | | | | | that are | | | | | referenced. | | | | | Values | | | | | include: | | | | | \"Must set\", | | | | | \"Must not | | | | | set\". If the | | | | | M-bit setting | | | | | is blank, then | | | | | the defining | | | | | specification | | | | | applies. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If the | | | | | M-bit is set | | | | | for an AVP and | | | | | the receiver | | | | | does not | | | | | understand the | | | | | AVP, it shall | | | | | return a | | | | | rejection. If | | | | | the M-bit is | | | | | not set for an | | | | | AVP, the | | | | | receiver shall | | | | | not return a | | | | | rejection, | | | | | whether or not | | | | | it understands | | | | | the AVP. If | | | | | the receiver | | | | | understands | | | | | the AVP but | | | | | the M-bit | | | | | value does not | | | | | match with the | | | | | definition in | | | | | this table, | | | | | the receiver | | | | | shall ignore | | | | | the M-bit. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+
### 6.3.2 V2X-Authorization-Data
The V2X-Authorization-Data AVP is of type Group. It shall contain the V2X
related authorization data.
AVP format
> V2X-Authorization-Data ::= \
>
> [ V2X-Permission-in-VPLMN ]
>
> *[ V2X-Application-Server ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.3.3 V2X-Permission-in-VPLMN
The V2X-Permission-in-VPLMN AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a
bit mask that indicates the permissions for V2X service in the visited PLMN
for a user. The meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 6.3.3-1:
Table 6.3.3-1: V2X-Permission-in-VPLMN
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 V2X communication over PC5 Allowed This bit, when set,
indicates that the user is allowed to use V2X communication over PC5 in the
visited PLMN. 1 V2X communication over MBMS Allowed This bit, when set,
indicates that the user is allowed to use V2X communication over MBMS in the
visited PLMN. NOTE: Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by the V2X
Control Function in the VPLMN and discarded by the V2X Control Function in the
HPLMN.
* * *
### 6.3.4 V2X-Application-Server
The V2X-Application-Server AVP is of type Group. It shall contain the
identifier of V2X Application Server (e.g. FQDN or IP address), and may
contain a list of served geographical area which are associated with the given
V2X Application Server.
AVP format
> V2X-Application-Server ::= \
>
> { Application-Server }
>
> *[ Geographical-Information ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.3.5 Application-Server
The Application-Server AVP is of type UTF8String which is originally defined
in 3GPP TS 32.299 [14]. It shall contain the identifier of V2X Application
Server (e.g. FQDN or IP address).
### 6.3.6 Geographical-Information
The Geographical-Information AVP is of type UTF8String which is originally
defined in 3GPP TS 29.272 [10]. It shall contain the served geographical area
which is associated with a V2X Application Server.
### 6.3.7 OC-Supported-Features
The OC-Supported-Features AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC
7683 [12]. This AVP is used to support Diameter overload control mechanism,
see Annex A for more information.
### 6.3.8 OC-OLR
The OC-OLR AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC 7683 [12].
This AVP is used to support Diameter overload control mechanism, see Annex A
for more information.
### 6.3.9 DRMP
The DRMP AVP is of type Enumerated and it is defined in IETF RFC 7944 [15].
This AVP allows the V2X Control Function to indicate the relative priority of
Diameter messages.
### 6.3.10 Load
The Load AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC 8583 [18]. This
AVP is used to support Diameter load control mechanism, see Annex D for more
information.
## 6.4 Result-Code AVP and Experimental-Result AVP Values
### 6.4.1 General
This clause defines result code values that shall be supported by all Diameter
implementations that conform to this specification.
### 6.4.2 Success
Result codes that fall within the Success category shall be used to inform a
peer that a request has been successfully completed. The Result-Code AVP
values defined in the Diameter base protocol IETF RFC 6733 [3] shall be
applied.
### 6.4.3 Permanent Failures
#### 6.4.3.1 General
Errors that fall within the Permanent Failures category shall be used to
inform the peer that the request has failed, and should not be attempted
again. The Result-Code AVP values defined in the Diameter base protocol IETF
RFC 6733 [3] shall be applied. When one of the result codes defined here is
included in a response, it shall be inside an Experimental-Result AVP and the
Result-Code AVP shall be absent.
#### 6.4.3.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN (5001)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the user identified
by the IMSI is unknown. This error code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [6].
#### 6.4.3.3 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNKNOWN_V2X_SUBSCRIPTION (5690)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that no V2X subscription
is associated with the IMSI. This error code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.388
[16].
#### 6.4.3.4 DIAMETER_ERROR_V2X_NOT_ALLOWED (5691)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that V2X is not allowed
to be used in the specific PLMN where the UE is registered. This error code is
defined in 3GPP TS 29.388 [16].
###### ## Annex A (normative): Diameter overload control mechanism
## A.1 General
Diameter overload control mechanism is an optional feature.
IETF RFC 7683 [12] specifies a Diameter overload control mechanism which
includes the definition and the transfer of related AVPs between Diameter
nodes.
It is recommended to make use of IETF RFC 7683 [12] on the V6 interface where,
when applied, the requesting V2X Control Function shall behave as a reacting
node and the responding V2X Control Function as a reporting node.
## A.2 Responding V2X Control Function behaviour
The responding V2X Control Function requests traffic reduction from requesting
V2X Control Function when it is in an overload situation, including OC-OLR AVP
in answer commands as described in IETF RFC 7683 [12].
The V2X Control Function identifies that it is in an overload situation by
implementation specific means. For example, the V2X Control Function may take
into account the traffic over the V6 interfaces or other interfaces, the level
of usage of internal resources (CPU, memory), the access to external
resources, etc.
The V2X Control Function determines the specific contents of OC-OLR AVP in
overload reports and the V2X Control Function decides when to send OC-OLR AVPs
by implementation specific means.
## A.3 Requesting V2X Control Function behaviour
The requesting V2X Control Function applies required traffic reduction
received in answer commands to subsequent applicable requests, as per IETF RFC
7683 [12].
Requested traffic reduction is achieved by the requesting V2X Control Function
by implementation specific means. For example, it may implement message
throttling with prioritization or a message retaining mechanism for operations
that can be postponed.
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Diameter overload node behaviour
## B.1 Message prioritization
This clause describes possible behaviours of the requesting V2X Control
Function receiving an overload indication from the responding V2X Control
Function, regarding message prioritisation in an informative purpose.
The message prioritization on V6 interface is not applicable in this release.
###### ## Annex C (normative):**** Diameter message priority mechanism
## C.1 General
IETF RFC 7944 [15] specifies a Diameter routing message priority mechanism
that allows Diameter nodes to indicate the relative priority of Diameter
messages. With this information, other Diameter nodes may leverage the
relative priority of Diameter messages into routing, resource allocation and
also abatement decisions when overload control is applied.
## C.2 V6 interfaces
### C.2.1 General
The Diameter message priority mechanism is an optional feature.
It is recommended to make use of IETF RFC 7944 [15] over the V6 interface of
an operator network when the overload control defined in Annex A is applied on
the V6 interface.
### C.2.2 V2X Control Function behaviour
When the V2X Control Function supports the Diameter message priority mechanism
over the V6 interface, the V2X Control Function shall comply with IETF RFC
7944 [15]. In particular, when priority is required, the V2X Control Function
shall include the DRMP AVP indicating a priority level in the requests it
sends, and prioritise received requests according to the priority level
received within the DRMP AVP. It shall prioritise received answers according
to the priority level received within the DRMP AVP if present, otherwise
according to the priority level of the corresponding request. It shall include
the DRMP AVP in the answer to a received request if the required priority of
the answer is different from the one of the request. The V2X Control Function
decisions for a required priority and for the priority level value are
implementation specific.
Diameter requests related to high priority traffic should contain a DRMP AVP
with a high priority of which the level value is operator dependent.
## D.1 General
Diameter load control mechanism is an optional feature.
IETF RFC 8583 [18] specifies a Diameter load control mechanism which includes
the definition and the transfer of related AVPs between Diameter nodes.
It is recommended to make use of IETF RFC 8583 [18] on the V6 interface where,
when applied, the requesting V2X Control Function shall behave as a reacting
node and the responding V2X Control Function as a reporting node.
## D.2 Responding V2X Control Function behaviour
The responding V2X Control Function may report its current load by including a
Load AVP of type HOST in answer commands as described in IETF RFC 8583 [18].
The responding V2X Control Function calculates its current load by
implementation specific means. For example, the responding V2X Control
Function may take into account the traffic over the V6 interface or other
interfaces, the level of usage of internal resources (e.g. CPU, memory), the
access to external resources, etc.
The responding V2X Control Function determines when to send Load AVPs of type
HOST by implementation specific means.
## D.3 Requesting V2X Control Function behaviour
When performing next hop Diameter Agent selection for requests that are routed
based on realm, the requesting V2X Control Function may take into account load
values from Load AVPs of type PEER received from candidate next hop Diameter
nodes, as per IETF RFC 8583 [18].
#