# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and high level data model
for the Nudr Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions
and message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the
Unified Data Repository (UDR). The data model and usage of the subscription
data is specified in 3GPP TS 29.505 [2], and the data model and usage of the
policy data, structured data for exposure and application data are specified
in 3GPP TS 29.519 [3].
The 5G System architecture is specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [4]. The stage 2
definition and related procedures for Nudr SBI service are specified in 3GPP
TS 23.502 [5] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [6].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture is specified in
3GPP TS 29.500 [7] and the Principles and Guidelines for Services Definition
is specified in 3GPP TS 29.501 [8].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 29.505: \"5G System; Usage of the Unified Data Repository Services
for Subscription Data; Stage 3\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.519: \"5G System; Usage of the Unified Data Repository Service
for Policy Data, Structured Data for Exposure and Application Data; Stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and Charging Control Framework for the 5G System;
Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[9] IETF RFC 6901(April 2013): \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Pointer\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces Stage 3\".
[11] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[13] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"Network Function Repository Services; Stage 3\".
[15] IETF RFC 7232: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Conditional
Requests\".
[16] IETF RFC 7234: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Caching\".
[17] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[18] IETF RFC 7396: \"JSON Merge Patch\".
[19] IETF RFC 6902: \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Patch\".
[20] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
GPSI Generic Public Subscription Identifier
NEF Network Exposure Function
PCF Policy Control Function
SUPI Subscription Permanent Identifier
UDM Unified Data Management
UDR Unified Data Repository
# 4 Overview
The Unified Data Repository (UDR) is the network entity in the 5G Core Network
(5GC) supporting the following functionalities:
\- Storage and retrieval of subscription data as specified in 3GPP TS 29.505
[2];
\- Storage and retrieval of policy data as specified in 3GPP TS 29.519 [3];
\- Storage and retrieval of structured data for exposure as specified in 3GPP
TS 29.519 [3];
\- Storage and retrieval of application data (including **Packet Flow
Descriptions (PFDs) for application detection** , application request
information for multiple UEs) as specified in 3GPP TS 29.519 [3];
\- Subscription to notification and the notification of subscribed data
changes.
Figures 4-1 shows the data storage architecture for the 5GC:
Figure 4-1: Data storage architecture
The Nudr interface is used by the network functions (i.e. UDM, PCF and NEF) to
access a particular set of the data stored in the UDR.
# 5 Services offered by the UDR
## 5.1 Introduction
The UDR offers the following services via the Nudr interface:
\- Nudr_DataRepository Service
NOTE: This service corresponds to the Nudr_DataManagement service in 3GPP TS
23.501 [4], 3GPP TS 23.502 [5] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [6].
## 5.2 Nudr_DataRepository Service
### 5.2.1 Service Description
##### 5.2.1.1 Service and operation description
The UDR is acting as NF Service Producer. It provides Unified Data Repository
service to the NF service consumer. The NF Service Consumers are the UDM, PCF
and NEF.
For the Nudr_DataRepository service, the following service operations are
defined:
\- Query
\- Create
\- Delete
\- Update
\- Subscribe
\- Unsubscribe
\- Notify
This service allows NF service consumers to retrieve, create, update, modify
and delete data stored in the UDR.
This service allows the NF service consumers to subscribe/unsubscribe the data
change notification and to be notified of the data change.
##### 5.2.1.2 Service operation and data access authorization
UDR provides one Nudr_DataRepository service to all of the NF consumers, while
different types of data may have different data access authorizations, the UDR
shall be able to have the authorization management mechanism to guarantee the
safety of data access.
And the information in the Nudr_DataRepository service operation should be
able to identify the NF type of the consumer and the service operation type or
name, and to indicate the requested data information including the data set
and data subset, and the resource/data identifier. All HTTP methods for the
service operation shall include the information in the appropriate place of
the HTTP message.
If there is an illegal service operation or data access request initiated by a
NF consumer, the service failure response should be returned through the Nudr
interface with an explicit cause value.
### 5.2.2 Service Operations
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the generic Nudr_DataRepository service operations
towards the different data sets as shown in Figure 4-1.
The HTTP request of the service operations contains a resource URI that the
{apiSpecificResourceUriPart} (see clause 4.4.2 in 3GPP TS 29.501[4]) consists
of a top-level segment and sub-level segment(s).
For Create, Query, Update and Delete operations, the top-level segment
indicates one top level resource representing one of the data sets, which are
defined as \"/subscription-data\", \"/policy-data\", \"/exposure-data\" and
\"/application-data\" in Figure 6.1.3.1-1. And a certain child resource is
indicated by of the end URI of the sub-level segments, which are defined in
3GPP TS 29.505 [2] for use when the top-level segment is \"/subscription-
data\" and in 3GPP TS 29.519 [3] for use when the top-level segment is
\"/policy-data\", \"/exposure-data\" or \"/application-data\".
For Subscribe/Unsubscribe to data change notification operations, the resource
of the subscription to the notification should be as the child resource of
each of the data sets (i.e. \"/subscription-data\", \"/policy-data\",
\"/exposure-data\" and \"/application-data\"), which are indicated by the top-
level segment in the URI. And the resource representation of the subscription
to the notification should be indicated by the sub-level segment of each data
set.
The following procedures for each operation should be taken as the common
procedures and applicable to corresponding detail procedures with the same
service operation in 3GPP TS 29.505 [2] and 3GPP TS 29.519 [3].
#### 5.2.2.2 Query
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
The Query service operation is used to retrieve the data stored in the UDR.
HTTP GET method shall be used for the service operation to request the certain
data record(s). One piece of data records should be a data set, a data subset,
a group of data in one data subset, or a specific data. If the data record(s)
are the attribute(s), query parameter or the combination of query parameters
should be used as the filters to control the content of result.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Data retrieval
Figure 5.2.2.2.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer (e.g. UDM,
PCF or NEF) sends a request to the UDR to retrieve data.
Query parameters may be used for data retrieval:
i) Clause 5.2.2.2.3 specifies the query parameter used for retrieving subset
of a resource;
ii) Other query parameters are defined in 3GPP TS 29.505 [2] and 3GPP TS
29.519 [3].
Figure 5.2.2.2.2-1: Retrieving Data
1\. The NF service consumer shall send a GET request to the resource
representing the data. Query parameters may be used to restrict the response
to the requested data record(s) of the resource\'s representation. Query
parameters may also indicate the features that the NF service consumer
supports as described in clause 6.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [7].
2\. On success, the UDR shall respond with \"200 OK\" with the message body
containing the requested data record(s) restricted to the query parameters.
(and thus also to the indicated features supported by the NF service
consumer).
On failure, the UDR shall return an appropriated error code with the error
cause information.
The error codes of corresponding service operations in 3GPP TS 29.505 [2] and
3GPP TS 29.519 [3] shall align and comply with the failure response mechanism
which is defined in 3GPP TS 29.500 [7].
##### 5.2.2.2.3 Retrieval of subset of a resource
When a resource has multiple attributes, it is allowed for the NFs to retrieve
a subset of the attributes. When the attribute is of type map, it is allowed
for the NFs to retrieve individual member(s) of that map. For retrieval of
subset of a resource, a new query parameter \"fields\" is defined to carry the
identities of the attributes to be retrieved. The definition of \"fields\"
query parameter is:
1) \"fields\" query parameter is of type array; and
2) each element of the array is of type string encoded as a JSON pointer as
defined IETF RFC 6901 [9].
NOTE: identifying an individual element in the array is supported by JSON
pointer, however it is not recommended to use this feature if the client is
not exactly aware of the order of the members in the array.
If retrieval of subset of a particular resource is supported, then all the
attributes of the corresponding data type of that resource shall be optional
or conditional.
EXAMPLE 1:
Given the following representation of ExResource:
{
\"lv1Attr1\": \"value1\"
\"lv1Attr2\": \"value2\"
\"lv1Attr3\": {
\"lv2Attr1\": \"value3\"
\"lv2Attr2\": \"value4\"
}
}
To retrieve \"lv1Attr1\" and \"lv2Attr2\", the NF sends the following request:
GET /ExResource?fields=/lv1Attr1, /lv1Attr3/lv2Attr2
Upon success, the UDR then returns the following representation:
{
\"lv1Attr1\": \"value1\"
\"lv1Attr3\": {
\"lv2Attr2\": \"value4\"
}
}
EXAMPLE 2:
Given the following representation of ExResource:
{
\"Attr1\": \"value1\"
\"Attr2\": \"value2\"
\"AttrMap\": {
\"Key1\": {ExObject1}
\"Key2\": {ExObject2}
}
}
To retrieve \"Attr1\" and the second member of \"AttrMap \", the NF sends the
following request:
GET /ExResource?fields=/Attr1, /AttrMap/Key2
Upon success, the UDR then returns the following representation:
{
\"Attr1\": \"value1\"
\"AttrMap\": {
\"Key2\": {ExObject2}
}
}
#### 5.2.2.3 Create
##### 5.2.2.3.1 General
The Create service operation is used by the NF service consumer (e.g. NEF) to
create the data into the UDR.
The following procedures using the Create service operation are supported:
\- Data creation using PUT
\- Data creation using POST
##### 5.2.2.3.2 Data Creation using PUT
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer (e.g. NEF)
sends a request to the UDR to create data. The parent resource of the resource
identified by the resource URI shall be of archetype Store (see clause C.3 in
3GPP TS 29.501[4]).
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-1: Creating Data using PUT
1\. The NF service consumer shall send a PUT request to the resource
representing the data. The payload body of the PUT request shall contain the
representation of the new data.
2\. On success, the UDR shall respond with \"201 Created\" with the payload
containing the representation of the created data, and the \"Location\" header
shall be present and contains the URI of the created data.
On failure, the UDR shall return an appropriated error code with the error
cause information.
##### 5.2.2.3.3 Data Creation using POST
Figure 5.2.2.3.3-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer (e.g. NEF)
sends a request to the UDR to create data. The resource identified by the
resource URI shall be of archetype Collection (see clause C.2 in 3GPP TS
29.501[4]).
Figure 5.2.2.3.3-1: Creating Data using POST
1\. The NF service consumer shall send a POST request to create the new data
record as the child resource of the parent resource in the UDR. The payload
body of the POST request shall contain the representation of the new data.
2\. The UDR generates the data identifier and constructs the URI for the
created data record by appending the data identifier to the parent resource
URI received as request URI of the POST request.
On success, the UDR shall respond with \"201 Created\" with the payload
containing the representation of the created data, and the \"Location\" header
shall be present and contains the URI of the created data.
On failure, the UDR shall return an appropriated error code with the error
cause information.
#### 5.2.2.4 Delete
##### 5.2.2.4.1 General
The Delete service operation is used by the NF service consumer (e.g. NEF) to
remove the data from the UDR.
The following procedures using the Delete service operation are supported:
\- Data Deletion
HTTP DELETE method shall be used.
##### 5.2.2.4.2 Deleting Data
Figure 5.2.2.4.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer (e.g. NEF)
sends a request to the UDR to delete a data record.
Figure 5.2.2.4.2-1: Deleting Data
1\. The NF service consumer shall send a DELETE request to the resource
representing the data. The payload body of the request shall be empty.
2\. On success, the UDR shall respond with \"204 No Content\", the payload
body of the DELETE response shall be empty.
On failure, the UDR shall return an appropriated error code with the error
cause information.
#### 5.2.2.5 Update
##### 5.2.2.5.1 General
The Update service operation is used by the NF service consumer (e.g. UDM, PCF
or NEF) to update the data stored in the UDR.
The following procedures using the Update service operation are supported:
\- Data Update using PATCH
\- Data Update using PUT
HTTP PATCH method shall be used to add/create, delete or modify part of the
value(s) in the data record (e.g. a specific data or a group of data in one
data subset). HTTP PUT method shall be used to replace a complete data record.
##### 5.2.2.5.2 Data Update using PATCH
Figure 5.2.2.5.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer (e.g. UDM,
PCF or NEF) sends a request to the UDR to update some parts of the data
record.
Figure 5.2.2.5.2-1: Data Updating using PATCH
1\. The NF service consumer shall send a PATCH request to the resource
representing the data record. The payload body contains the modification
instruction towards the data record.
2\. On success, the UDR shall respond with \"204 No Content\".
On failure, the UDR shall return an appropriated error code with the error
cause information.
##### 5.2.2.5.3 Data Update using PUT
Figure 5.2.2.5.3-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer (e.g. UDM,
PCF or NEF) sends a request to the UDR to update the whole data record.
Figure 5.2.2.5.3-1: Data Updating using PUT
1\. The NF service consumer shall send a PUT request to the resource
representing the data record. The payload body contains the new data for the
resource.
2\. On success, the UDR shall respond with \"204 No Content\" or \"200 OK\".
On failure, the UDR shall return an appropriated error code with the error
cause information.
#### 5.2.2.6 Subscribe
##### 5.2.2.6.1 General
The Subscribe service operation is used for the NF service consumer to
subscribe to the data change notification from the UDR.
##### 5.2.2.6.2 NF service consumer subscribes to notifications to UDR
Figure 5.2.2.6.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer (e.g. UDM,
PCF or NEF) sends a request to the UDR to subscribe to data change
notifications.
Figure 5.2.2.6.2-1: subscribing to data change notifications
1\. The NF service consumer sends a POST request to the parent resource
(...\/subs-to-notif). The NF service consumer describes the
notifications it wants to receive, and it also indicates the features it
supports (see clause 6.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [7]). The request may contain an
expiry time, suggested by the NF Service Consumer as a hint, representing the
time upto which the subscription is desired to be kept active.
2\. On success, the UDR responds with \"201 Created\" with the message body
containing a representation of the created subscription and indicating the
supported features (see clause 6.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [7]). The Location HTTP
header shall contain the URI of the created subscription. In subsequent
notifications according to clause 5.2.2.8.2, the UDR only uses the indicated
supported features.
The response based on operator policies and taking into account the expiry
time included in the request, may contain an expiry time (i.e a future
timestamp), as determined by the UDR, after which the subscription becomes
invalid. If an expiry time was included in the request, then the expiry time
returned in the response should be less than or equal to that value. Once the
subscription expires, if the NF Service Consumer wants to keep receiving
notifications, it shall create a new subscription in the UDR. The UDR shall
not provide the same expiry time (i.e a future timestamp) for many
subscriptions in order to avoid all of them expiring and recreating the
subscription at the same time. If the expiry time is not included in the
response, the NF Service Consumer shall consider the subscription to be valid
without an expiry time.
On failure, the UDR returns an appropriated error code with the error cause
information.
##### 5.2.2.6.3 Stateless UDM subscribes to notifications to UDR
Figure 5.2.2.6.3-1 shows a scenario where the stateless UDM subscribes to
notification to the UDR.
Figure 5.2.2.6.3-1: subscribing to data change notifications via stateless UDM
1\. The stateless UDM sends a POST request to the UDR to subscribe to the
notifications.
The SubData in the POST request body shall indicate the same data for which a
change will trigger a notification.
The SubData in the POST request body shall contain a callbackReference URI to
which the notifications will be sent to. The host part of the
callbackReference URI shall be set to the FQDN of the UDM set to which the
stateless UDM belongs.
The SubData in the POST request body shall contain an original
callbackReference URI of the NF which initially triggers the subscription.
The request may contain an expiry time, suggested by the NF Service Consumer
as a hint, representing the time upto which the subscription is desired to be
kept active.
2\. On success, the UDR responds with \"201 Created\" with the message body
containing a representation of the created subscription. The Location HTTP
header shall contain the URI of the created subscription and that URI shall
contain the subscription ID allocated by the UDR.
The response based on operator policies and taking into account the expiry
time included in the request, may contain an expiry time (i.e a future
timestamp), as determined by the UDR, after which the subscription becomes
invalid. If an expiry time was included in the request, then the expiry time
returned in the response should be less than or equal to that value. Once the
subscription expires, if the NF Service Consumer wants to keep receiving
notifications, it shall create a new subscription in the UDR. The UDR shall
not provide the same expiry time (i.e a future timestamp) for many
subscriptions in order to avoid all of them expiring and recreating the
subscription at the same time. If the expiry time is not included in the
response, the NF Service Consumer shall consider the subscription to be valid
without an expiry time.
On failure, the UDR returns an appropriated error code with the error cause
information.
#### 5.2.2.7 Unsubscribe
##### 5.2.2.7.1 General
The Unsubscribe service operation is used for the NF service consumer to
unsubscribe to the data change notification from the UDR.
##### 5.2.2.7.2 Unsubscribe service operation
Figure 5.2.2.7.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer (e.g. UDM,
PCF or NEF) sends a request to the UDR to unsubscribe to data change
notifications.
Figure 5.2.2.7.2-1: Unsubscribing to the data change notifications
1\. The NF service consumer sends a DELETE request to the resource identified
by the URI previously received during subscription creation, i.e. in the
Location header field of the HTTP 201 Created response.
2\. On success, the UDR responds with \"204 No Content\".
On failure, the UDR returns an appropriated error code with the error cause
information.
#### 5.2.2.8 Notify
##### 5.2.2.8.1 General
The Notify service operation is used for the UDR to notify the data change
notification to the previous subscribe operation requestor.
##### 5.2.2.8.2 Notification to NF service consumer on data change
Figure 5.2.2.8.2-1 shows a scenario where the UDR notifies the NF service
consumer about the subscribed data change. The request contains the
CallbackReference URI as previously received in the subscribe operation (see
clause 5.2.2.6).
Figure 5.2.2.8.2-1: Data Change Notification
1\. The UDR sends a POST request to the callbackReference URI as provided by
the NF service consumer in the subscribe operation.
2\. On success, the NF service consumer responds with \"204 No Content\".\ \
On failure, the NF service consumer responds an appropriated error code with
the error cause information.
##### 5.2.2.8.3 Notification to stateless UDM on data change
Figure 5.2.2.8.3-1 shows a scenario where the UDR notifies the NF service
consumer about the subscribed data change.
Figure 5.2.2.8.3-1: Data Change Notification to stateless UDM
1\. The UDR sends a POST request to the callbackReference URI as provided by
the stateless UDM in the subscribe operation.
The notification in the POST request body shall contain the original
callbackReference URI which is received in step 1 of Figure 5.2.2.6.3-1.
2\. On success, the stateless UDM responds with \"204 No Content\".
On failure, the stateless UDM responds an appropriated error code with the
error cause information.
# 6 API Definitions
## 6.1 Nudr_DataRepository Service API
### 6.1.1 API URI
The Nudr-dr shall use the Nudr-dr API.
The request URI used in HTTP request from the NF service consumer towards the
NF service producer shall have the structure defined in clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP
TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /{apiVersion}/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"nudr-dr\".
\- The {apiVersion} shall be \"v2\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause
6.1.3.
### 6.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.1.2.1 General
Nudr service shall comply with the usage of HTTP/2.0 protocol over Service
Based Interfaces. (See Clause 5, 3GPP TS 29.500[7]).
#### 6.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
The usage of HTTP standard headers shall be supported on Nudr interface as
defined in clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [7].
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Content type
The following content types shall be supported:
\- JSON, as defined in IETF RFC 8259 [11], shall be used as content type of
the HTTP bodies specified in the present specification as indicated in clause
5.4 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
\- The Problem Details JSON Object (IETF RFC 7807 [17]). The use of the
Problem Details JSON object in a HTTP response body shall be signalled by the
content type \"application/problem+json\".
\- JSON Merge Patch (IETF RFC 7396 [18]. The use of the JSON Merge Patch
format in a HTTP request body shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/merge-patch+json\".
\- JSON Patch (IETF RFC 6902 [19]). The use of the JSON Patch format in a HTTP
request body shall be signalled by the content type \"application/json-
patch+json\".
##### 6.1.2.2.3 Cache-Control
As described in IETF RFC 7234 [16] clause 5.2, a \"Cache-Control\" header
should be included in HTTP responses carrying a representation of cacheable
resources (e.g. SessionManagementSubscriptionData). If it is included, it
shall contain a \"max-age\" value, indicating the amount of time in seconds
after which the received response is considered stale.
The \"max-age\" value shall be configurable by operator policy.
##### 6.1.2.2.4 ETag
As described in IETF RFC 7232 [15] clause 2.32, an \"ETag\" (entity-tag)
header should be included in HTTP responses carrying a representation of
cacheable resources (e.g. AccessAndMobilitySubscriptionData) to allow an NF
Service Consumer performing a conditional request with \"If-None-Match\"
header. If it is included, it shall contain a server-generated strong
validator, that allows further matching of this value (included in subsequent
client requests) with a given resource representation stored in the server or
in a cache.
##### 6.1.2.2.5 If-None-Match
As described in IETF RFC 7232 [15] clause 3.2, an NF Service Consumer may
issue conditional GET request towards UDR by including an \"If-None-Match\"
header in HTTP requests containing one or several entity tags received in
previous responses for the same resource.
##### 6.1.2.2.6 Last-Modified
As described in IETF RFC 7232 [15] clause 2.2, a \"Last-Modified\" header
should be included in HTTP responses carrying a representation of cacheable
resources (e.g. SmfSelectionSubscriptionData) to allow an NF Service Consumer
performing a conditional request with \"If-Modified-Since\" header.
##### 6.1.2.2.7 If-Modified-Since
As described in IETF RFC 7232 [15] clause 3.3, an NF Service Consumer may
issue conditional GET request towards UDR, by including an \"If-Modified-
Since\" header in HTTP requests.
##### 6.1.2.2.8 When to Use Entity-Tags and Last-Modified Dates
Both \"ETag\" and \"Last-Modified\" headers should be sent in the same HTTP
response as stated in IETF RFC 7232 [15] clause 2.4.
NOTE: \"ETag\" is a stronger validator than \"Last-Modified\" and is
preferred.
If the UDR included an \"ETag\" header with the resource then a conditional
request for this resource shall be performed with the \"If-None-Match\"
header.
#### 6.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
##### 6.1.2.3.1 General
The custom HTTP headers applicable to Nudr service are specified in the
following clauses.
##### 6.1.2.3.2 3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority
Nudr interface shall support 3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority custom header. The
header contains the HTTP/2 message priority value. See details in Clause
5.2.3.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [7].
### 6.1.3 Resources
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the nudr-dr API
Table 6.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description
* * *
SubscriptionData /subscription-data none For sub-level resource names,
resource URIs and HTTP methods see 3GPP TS 29.505 [2] PolicyData /policy-data
none For sub-level resource names, resource URIs and HTTP methods see 3GPP TS
29.519 [3] StructuredDataForExposure /exposure-data none For sub-level
resource names, resource URIs and HTTP methods see 3GPP TS 29.519 [3]
ApplicationData /application-data none For sub-level resource names, resource
URIs and HTTP methods see 3GPP TS 29.519 [3]
#### 6.1.3.2 SubscriptionData
See 3GPP TS 29.505 [2].
#### 6.1.3.3 PolicyData
See 3GPP TS 29.519 [3].
#### 6.1.3.4 StructuredDataForExposure
See 3GPP TS 29.519 [3].
#### 6.1.3.5 ApplicationData
See 3GPP TS 29.519 [3].
### 6.1.5 Notifications
#### 6.1.5.1 General
This clause specifies the general mechanism of notifications of changed data,
which are stored in the UDR, and the mechanism should be applicable to the
data change notifications, which are specified in 3GPP TS 29.505[2] and 3GPP
TS 29.519[3].
#### 6.1.5.2 Data Change Notification
The POST method shall be used for Data Change Notifications and the URI shall
be as provided during the subscription procedure.
Resource URI: {callbackReference}
Support of POST request data structures should contain the object of changed
data and conditionally the URI of original Callback reference, which is
received from the original subscribed NF.
### 6.1.6 Error Handling
Table 6.1.6-1 lists common response body data structures used within the
nudr_dr API
Table 6.1.6-1: Common Response Body Data Structures
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | **Data |** P**|** C | **Response** | **D | | type** | | ardinality**| | escription** | | | | | **codes** | | +==============+=======+==============+==============+==============+ | Pr | O | 0..1 | 4xx, 5xx | For error | | oblemDetails | | | responses | status | | | | | | codes, the | | | | | | UDR may | | | | | | provide | | | | | | detailed | | | | | | information. | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE: In | | | | | | addition | | | | | | common data | | | | | | structures | | | | | | as defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [7] | | | | | | are | | | | | | supported. | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
The \"ProblemDetails\" data structure may contain a \"cause\" attribute to
indicate the application error, see 3GPP TS 29.571 [10]. The values for
\"cause\" attribute are defined in table 6.1.6-2.
Table 6.1.6-2: Application Errors
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
NF_TYPE_NOT_ALLOWED 403 Forbidden The target data set is not permitted to
access for the NF type of the NF consumer. UNSUPPORTED_MONITORED_URI 501 Not
Implemented The subscribe service operation is not able to be implemented due
to invalid resource URI to be monitored). USER_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found The
user indicated in the HTTP/2 request does not exist in the UDR.
DATA_NO_LONGER_AVAILABLE 410 Gone The data indicated in the HTTP/2 request is
no longer available in the UDR. INCORRECT_CONDITIONAL_GET_REQUEST 412
Precondition Failed One or more conditions given in the request header fields
evaluated to false when tested in the UDR. UNPROCESSABLE_REQUEST 422
Unprocessable Entity The request cannot be procesed due to semantic errors
when trying to process a patch method.. DATABASE INCONSISTENCY 500 Internal
Server Error Requested data cannot be returned due to database inconsistency
RESOURCE_TEMP_MOVED 307 Temporary Redirect The resource is unavailable in the
current target URI but can be temporarily found in an alternative URI.
RESOURCE_MOVED 308 Permanent Redirect The resource is unavailable in the
current target URI but can be permanently found in an alternative URI. NOTE:
The error codes shall apply to both 3GPP TS 29.505 [2] and 3GPP TS 29.519 [3].
In addition error codes shall comply with the definition in clause 5.2.7.2 of
3GPP TS 29.500 [7].
### 6.1.7 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [12], the access to the Nudr_DataRepository API
may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol (see IETF RFC 6749 [13]),
using the \"Client Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP
TS 29.510 [14]) plays the role of the authorization server.
If Oauth2 authorization is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming
services offered by the Nudr_DataRepository API, shall obtain a \"token\" from
the authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as
described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [14], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nudr_DataRepository service.
The Nudr_DataRepository API defines scopes for OAuth2 authorization as
specified in 3GPP TS 33.501 [12]; it defines a single scope consisting on the
name of the service (i.e., \"nudr-dr\"), and it does not define any additional
scopes at resource or operation level.
### 6.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 6.1.8-1 are defined for the Nudr_DataRepository
API. They shall be negotiated using the extensibility mechanism defined in
clause 6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [7].
Table 6.1.8-1: Supported Features
Feature number Feature Name **Description**
* * *
1 ResourceRemovalNotificationPolicyData This feature indicates the support of
the complete removal of a Policy Data resource. 2
ResourceNotificationExposureDataFix This feature indicates the support of
corrections to Notifications of data changes in the Exposure Data resource. 3
Reserved This feature number is not allowed to be used in Rel-15. 4 Reserved
This feature number is not allowed to be used in Rel-15. 5 Reserved This
feature number is not allowed to be used in Rel-15. 6 Reserved This feature
number is not allowed to be used in Rel-15. 7 Reserved This feature number is
not allowed to be used in Rel-15. 8 Reserved This feature number is not
allowed to be used in Rel-15. 9 Reserved This feature number is not allowed to
be used in Rel-15. 10 Reserved This feature number is not allowed to be used
in Rel-15. 11 Reserved This feature number is not allowed to be used in
Rel-15. 12 Reserved This feature number is not allowed to be used in Rel-15.
13 OpSpecDataMapNotification This feature indicates the support of the
notification of data changes in the OperatorSpecificData resource by including
the complete map of Operator Specific Data Containers. It applies to Policy
Data resources as specified in 3GPP TS 29.519 [3]. NOTE: Feature numbers 3 to
12 are not applicable to this release of the specification.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
## A.1 General
This document specifies the common service operations and the top level data
model for Nudr_DataRepository Service Based Interface. There are no specific
HTTP methods or custom operations on the four top level resources in Table
6.1.3.1-1. Hence, the top level OpenAPI specification is not needed.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE 1: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on the public 3GPP file server in the
following locations (see clause 5B of the 3GPP TR 21.900 [x] for further
information):
\- https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/OpenAPI/\/, and
\- https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/\/\/OpenAPI/.
NOTE 2: To fetch the OpenAPI specification file after CT#83 plenary meeting
for Release 15 in the above links \ must be replaced with the date
the CT Plenary occurs, in the form of year-month (yyyy-mm), e.g. for CT#83
meeting \ must be replaced with value \"2019-03\" and \ must
be replaced with value \"Rel-15\".
## A.2 Nudr_DataRepository API
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the Nudr_DataRepository service.
It consists of OpenAPI 3.0.0 specifications, in YAML format.
The OpenAPI 3.0.0 definition related to SubscriptionData shall comply with the
definition in 3GPP TS 29.505 [2].
The OpenAPI 3.0.0 definition related to PolicyData, StructuredDataForExposure
and ApplicationData shall comply with the definition in 3GPP TS 29.519 [3].
The OpenAPI file for the Nudr_DataRepository API is defined as follows:
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
version: 2.0.6
title: \'Nudr_DataRepository API OpenAPI file\'
description: \|
Unified Data Repository Service.
© 2021, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.504 V15.9.0; 5G System; Unified Data Repository
Services; Stage 3
url: \'http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.504/\'
servers:
\- description: API root
url: \'{apiRoot}/nudr-dr/v2\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nudr-dr
paths:
/subscription-data/{ueId}/authentication-data/authentication-subscription:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1authentication-data\~1authentication-subscription\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/authentication-data/authentication-status:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1authentication-data\~1authentication-status\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/ue-update-confirmation-data/sor-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1ue-update-confirmation-data\~1sor-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/ue-update-confirmation-data/upu-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1ue-update-confirmation-data\~1upu-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/{servingPlmnId}/provisioned-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1%7BservingPlmnId%7D\~1provisioned-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/{servingPlmnId}/provisioned-data/am-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1%7BservingPlmnId%7D\~1provisioned-data\~1am-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/{servingPlmnId}/provisioned-data/smf-selection-
subscription-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1%7BservingPlmnId%7D\~1provisioned-data\~1smf-selection-
subscription-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/{servingPlmnId}/provisioned-data/sm-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1%7BservingPlmnId%7D\~1provisioned-data\~1sm-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/context-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1context-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/context-data/amf-3gpp-access:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1context-data\~1amf-3gpp-access\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/context-data/amf-non-3gpp-access:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1context-data\~1amf-non-3gpp-access\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/context-data/smf-registrations:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1context-data\~1smf-registrations\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/context-data/smf-registrations/{pduSessionId}:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1context-data\~1smf-registrations\~1%7BpduSessionId%7D\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/operator-specific-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1operator-specific-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/context-data/smsf-3gpp-access:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1context-data\~1smsf-3gpp-access\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/context-data/smsf-non-3gpp-access:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1context-data\~1smsf-non-3gpp-access\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/{servingPlmnId}/provisioned-data/sms-mng-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1%7BservingPlmnId%7D\~1provisioned-data\~1sms-mng-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/{servingPlmnId}/provisioned-data/sms-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1%7BservingPlmnId%7D\~1provisioned-data\~1sms-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/pp-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1pp-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/context-data/ee-subscriptions:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1context-data\~1ee-subscriptions\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/context-data/ee-subscriptions/{subsId}:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1context-data\~1ee-subscriptions\~1%7BsubsId%7D\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/context-data/ee-subscriptions/{subsId}/amf-
subscriptions:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1context-data\~1ee-subscriptions\~1%7BsubsId%7D\~1amf-
subscriptions\'
/subscription-data/group-data/{ueGroupId}/ee-subscriptions:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-data\~1group-
data\~1%7BueGroupId%7D\~1ee-subscriptions\'
/subscription-data/group-data/{ueGroupId}/ee-subscriptions/{subsId}:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-data\~1group-
data\~1%7BueGroupId%7D\~1ee-subscriptions\~1%7BsubsId%7D\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/ee-profile-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1ee-profile-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/context-data/sdm-subscriptions:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1context-data\~1sdm-subscriptions\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/context-data/sdm-subscriptions/{subsId}:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1context-data\~1sdm-subscriptions\~1%7BsubsId%7D\'
/subscription-data/shared-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-data\~1shared-
data\'
/subscription-data/subs-to-notify:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-data\~1subs-to-
notify\'
/subscription-data/subs-to-notify/{subsId}:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-data\~1subs-to-
notify\~1%7BsubsId%7D\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/{servingPlmnId}/provisioned-data/trace-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1%7BservingPlmnId%7D\~1provisioned-data\~1trace-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/identity-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1identity-data\'
/subscription-data/{ueId}/operator-determined-barring-data:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1operator-determined-barring-data\'
/subscription-data/group-data/group-identifiers:
\$ref: \'TS29505_Subscription_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1subscription-data\~1group-
data\~1group-identifiers\'
/policy-data/ues/{ueId}/am-data:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Policy_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1policy-
data\~1ues\~1%7BueId%7D\~1am-data\'
/policy-data/ues/{ueId}/ue-policy-set:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Policy_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1policy-
data\~1ues\~1%7BueId%7D\~1ue-policy-set\'
/policy-data/ues/{ueId}/sm-data:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Policy_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1policy-
data\~1ues\~1%7BueId%7D\~1sm-data\'
/policy-data/ues/{ueId}/sm-data/{usageMonId}:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Policy_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1policy-
data\~1ues\~1%7BueId%7D\~1sm-data\~1%7BusageMonId%7D\'
/policy-data/sponsor-connectivity-data/{sponsorId}:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Policy_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1policy-data\~1sponsor-
connectivity-data\~1%7BsponsorId%7D\'
/policy-data/bdt-data:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Policy_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1policy-data\~1bdt-data\'
/policy-data/bdt-data/{bdtReferenceId}:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Policy_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1policy-data\~1bdt-
data\~1%7BbdtReferenceId%7D\'
/policy-data/subs-to-notify:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Policy_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1policy-data\~1subs-to-notify\'
/policy-data/subs-to-notify/{subsId}:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Policy_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1policy-data\~1subs-to-
notify\~1%7BsubsId%7D\'
/policy-data/ues/{ueId}/operator-specific-data:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Policy_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1policy-
data\~1ues\~1%7BueId%7D\~1operator-specific-data\'
/application-data/pfds:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Application_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1application-data\~1pfds\'
/application-data/pfds/{appId}:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Application_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1application-
data\~1pfds\~1%7BappId%7D\'
/application-data/influenceData:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Application_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1application-
data\~1influenceData\'
/application-data/influenceData/{influenceId}:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Application_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1application-
data\~1influenceData\~1%7BinfluenceId%7D\'
/policy-data/plmns/{plmnId}/ue-policy-set:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Policy_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1policy-
data\~1plmns\~1%7BplmnId%7D\~1ue-policy-set\'
/application-data/influenceData/subs-to-notify:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Application_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1application-
data\~1influenceData\~1subs-to-notify\'
/application-data/influenceData/subs-to-notify/{subscriptionId}:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Application_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1application-
data\~1influenceData\~1subs-to-notify\~1%7BsubscriptionId%7D\'
/exposure-data/{ueId}/access-and-mobility-data:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Exposure_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1exposure-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1access-and-mobility-data\'
/exposure-data/{ueId}/session-management-data/{pduSessionId}:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Exposure_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1exposure-
data\~1%7BueId%7D\~1session-management-data\~1%7BpduSessionId%7D\'
/exposure-data/subs-to-notify:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Exposure_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1exposure-data\~1subs-to-notify\'
/exposure-data/subs-to-notify/{subId}:
\$ref: \'TS29519_Exposure_Data.yaml#/paths/\~1exposure-data\~1subs-to-
notify\~1%7BsubId%7D\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nudr-dr: Access to the Nudr_DataRepository API
#