# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the technical realization of the 5GC Service
Based Architecture, protocols supported over the Service Based Interfaces, and
the functionalities supported in the Service Based Architecture.
The **service requirements for the 5G system are defined in 3GPP TS 22.261
[2]. The system architecture requirements are defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [3]
and the procedures and flows in 3GPP** TS 23.502 [4].
The design principles and documentation guidelines for 5GC SBI APIs are
specified in 3GPP**** TS**** 29.501****[5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP**** TS**** 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage
2\".
[4] 3GPP**** TS**** 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP**** TS**** 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for
Services Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] IETF RFC 793: \"Transmission Control Protocol\".
[7] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[9] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification\", https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-
Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md.
[10] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[11] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\".
[12] IETF RFC 7230: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax
and Routing\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces Stage 3\".
[14] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[16] IETF RFC 5681: \"TCP Congestion Control\".
[17] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security Architecture and Procedures for 5G System\".
[18] IANA: \"SMI Network Management Private Enterprise Codes\",
http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers.
[19] IETF RFC 7944: \"Diameter Routing Message Priority\".
[20] IETF RFC 7234: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Caching\".
[21] IETF RFC 7235: \" Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Authentication\".
[22] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[23] IETF RFC 6750: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token
Usage\".
[24] IETF RFC 7232: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Conditional
Requests\".
[25] IETF RFC 7516: \"JSON Web Encryption (JWE)\".
[26] IETF RFC 7515: \"JSON Web Signature (JWS)\".
[27] 3GPP TS 29.573: \"5G System: Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)
Interconnection; Stage 3\".
[28] 3GPP TS 29.502: \"5G System; Session Management Services; Stage 3\".
[29] 3GPP TS 29.503: \"5G System; Unified Data Management Services; Stage 3\".
[30] Void.
[31] 3GPP TS 29.518: \"5G System; Access and Mobility Management Services;
Stage 3\".
[32] 3GPP TS 29.531: \"5G System; Network Slice Selection Services; Stage 3\".
[33] IETF RFC 7694: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Client-Initiated
Content-Encoding\".
[34] IETF RFC 1952: \"GZIP file format specification version 4.3\".
[35] 3GPP TS 29.525: \"5G System; UE Policy Control Service; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
SMP SBI Message Priority
# 4 Service Based Architecture Overview
## 4.1 NF Services
3GPP TS 23.501 [3] defines the 5G System Architecture as a Service Based
Architecture, i.e. a system architecture in which the system functionality is
achieved by a set of NFs providing services to other authorized NFs to access
their services.
Control Plane (CP) Network Functions in the 5G System architecture shall be
based on the service based architecture.
A NF service is one type of capability exposed by a NF (NF Service Producer)
to other authorized NF (NF Service Consumer) through a service based
interface. A NF service may support one or more NF service operation(s). See
clause 7 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [3].
Network Functions may offer different functionalities and thus different NF
services. Each of the NF services offered by a Network Function shall be self-
contained, acted upon and managed independently from other NF services offered
by the same Network Function (e.g. for scaling, healing).
## 4.2 Service Based Interfaces
A service based interface represents how the set of services is provided or
exposed by a given NF. This is the interface where the NF service operations
are invoked.
The following Control Plane interfaces within the 5G Core Network specified in
3GPP**** TS**** 23.501****[3] are defined as service based interfaces:
\- Namf, Nsmf, Nudm, Nnrf, Nnssf, Nausf, Nnef, Nsmsf, Nudr, Npcf, N5g-eir,
Nlmf, Nnwdaf.
## 4.3 NF Service Framework
### 4.3.1 General
The Service Based Architecture shall support the NF Service Framework that
enable the use of NF services as specified in clause 7.1 of 3GPP TS 23.501
[3].
The NF Service Framework includes the following mechanisms:
\- NF service registration and de-registration: to make the NRF aware of the
available NF instances and supported services (see clause 7.1.5 of 3GPP TS
23.501 [3]);
\- NF service discovery: to enable a NF Service Consumer to discover NF
Service Producer instance(s) which provide the expected NF service(s) (see
clause 7.1.3 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [3]);
\- NF service authorization: to ensure the NF Service Consumer is authorized
to access the NF service provided by the NF Service Producer (see clause 7.1.4
of 3GPP TS 23.501 [3]).
The corresponding stage 3 procedures are defined in 3GPP TS 29.510 [8].
### 4.3.2 NF Service Advertisement URI
When invoking a service operation of a NF Service Producer that use HTTP
methods with a message body (i.e PUT, POST and PATCH), the NF Service Consumer
may provide NF Service Advertisement URL(s) in the service operation request,
based on operator policy, if it expects that the NF Service Producer may
subsequently consume NF service(s) which the NF Service Consumer can provide
(as a NF Service Producer).
When receiving NF Service Advertisement URI(s) in a service operation request,
the NF Service Producer may store and use the Service Advertisement URL(s) to
discover NF services produced by the NF Service Consumer in subsequent
procedures, based on operator policy.
The NF Service Advertisement URI identifies the nfInstance resource(s) in the
NRF which are registered by NF Service Producer(s).
An example of NF Service Advertisement URI could be represented as:
\"{apiRoot}/nnrf-disc/nf-instances?nfInstanceId={nfInstanceId}\".
NOTE: The NF Service Advertisement URI can be used e.g. when different NRFs
are deployed in the PLMN.
When applicable, the NF Service Advertisement URI(s) shall be carried in HTTP
message body.
# 5 Protocols Over Service Based Interfaces
## 5.1 Protocol Stack Overview
The protocol stack for the service based interfaces is shown on Figure 5.1-1.
Figure 5.1-1: SBI Protocol Stack
The service based interfaces use HTTP/2 protocol (see clause 5.2) with JSON
(see clause 5.4) as the application layer serialization protocol. For the
security protection at the transport layer, all 3GPP NFs shall support TLS and
TLS shall be used within a PLMN if network security is not provided by other
means, as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501 [17].
## 5.2 HTTP/2 Protocol
### 5.2.1 General
HTTP/2 as described in IETF RFC 7540 [7] shall be used in Service based
interface.
### 5.2.2 HTTP standard headers
#### 5.2.2.1 General
This clause lists the HTTP standard headers that shall be supported on SBI,
other HTTP standard headers defined in IETF RFCs may be supported by NF.
#### 5.2.2.2 Mandatory to support HTTP standard headers
The HTTP request standard headers and the HTTP response standard headers that
shall be supported on SBI are defined in Table 5.2.2.2-1 and in Table
5.2.2.2-2 respectively. Mandatory to support HTTP standard headers does not
mean all the HTTP requests and responses carry the identified request and
response headers respectively. It only means it is mandatory to support the
processing of the identified headers in request and response message.
Table 5.2.2.2-1: Mandatory to support HTTP request standard headers
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Name | Reference | Description | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Accept | IETF RFC 7231 [11] | This header is used | | | | to specify response | | | | media types that are | | | | acceptable. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Accept-Encoding | IETF RFC 7231 [11] | This header may be | | | | used to indicate | | | | what response | | | | content-encodings | | | | (e.g gzip) are | | | | acceptable in the | | | | response. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Content-Length | IETF RFC 7230 [12] | This header is used | | | | to provide the | | | | anticipated size, as | | | | a decimal number of | | | | octets, for a | | | | potential payload | | | | body. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Content-Type | IETF RFC 7231 [11] | This header is used | | | | to indicate the | | | | media type of the | | | | associated | | | | representation. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Content-Encoding | IETF RFC 7231 [11] | This header may be | | | | used in some | | | | requests to indicate | | | | the content | | | | encodings (e.g gzip) | | | | applied to the | | | | resource | | | | representation | | | | beyond those | | | | inherent in the | | | | media type. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | User-Agent | IETF RFC 7231 [11] | This header shall be | | | | mainly used to | | | | identify the NF type | | | | of the HTTP/2 | | | | client. | | | | | | | | The pattern of the | | | | content should start | | | | with the value of NF | | | | type (e.g. udm, see | | | | NOTE 1) and followed | | | | by a \"-\" and any | | | | other specific | | | | information if | | | | needed afterwards. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cache-Control | IETF RFC 7234 [20] | This header may be | | | | used in some HTTP/2 | | | | requests to provide | | | | the HTTP | | | | cache-control | | | | directives that the | | | | client is willing to | | | | accept from the | | | | server. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | If-Modified-Since | IETF RFC 7232 [24] | This header may be | | | | used in a | | | | conditional GET | | | | request, for server | | | | revalidation. This | | | | is used in | | | | conjunction with the | | | | Last-Modified server | | | | response header, to | | | | fetch content only | | | | if the content has | | | | been modified from | | | | the cached version. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | If-None-Match | IETF RFC 7232 [24] | This header may be | | | | used in a | | | | conditional GET | | | | request. This is | | | | used in conjunction | | | | with the ETag server | | | | response header, to | | | | fetch content only | | | | if the tag value of | | | | the resource on the | | | | server differs from | | | | the tag value in the | | | | If-None-Match | | | | header. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | If-Match | IETF RFC 7232 [24] | This header may be | | | | used in a | | | | conditional POST or | | | | PUT or DELETE or | | | | PATCH request. This | | | | is used in | | | | conjunction with the | | | | ETag server response | | | | header, to update / | | | | delete content only | | | | if the tag value of | | | | the resource on the | | | | server matches the | | | | tag value in the | | | | If-Match header. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Via | IETF RFC 7230 [12] | This header shall be | | | | inserted by HTTP | | | | proxies. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Authorization | IETF RFC 7235 [21] | This header shall be | | | | used if OAuth 2.0 | | | | based access | | | | authorization with | | | | \"Client | | | | Credentials\" grant | | | | type is used as | | | | specified in clause | | | | 13.4.1 of 3GPP TS | | | | 33.501 [17], | | | | clause 7 of | | | | IETF RFC 6749 [22] | | | | and | | | | I | | | | ETF RFC 6750 [23]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The value of | | | | NF type in the | | | | User-Agent header | | | | shall comply with | | | | the enumeration | | | | value of | | | | Table 6.1.6.3.3-1 in | | | | 3 | | | | GPP TS 29.510 [8]. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 5.2.2.2-2: Mandatory to support HTTP response standard headers
* * *
Name Reference Description Content-Length IETF RFC 7230 [12] This header may
be used to provide the anticipated size, as a decimal number of octets, for a
potential payload body. Content-Type IETF RFC 7231 [11] This header shall be
used to indicate the media type of the associated representation. Location
IETF RFC 7231 [11] This header may be used in some responses to refer to a
specific resource in relation to the response. Retry-After IETF RFC 7231 [11]
This header may be used in some responses to indicate how long the user agent
ought to wait before making a follow-up request. Content-Encoding IETF RFC
7231 [11] This header may be used in some responses to indicate to the HTTP/2
client the content encodings (e.g gzip) applied to the resource representation
beyond those inherent in the media type. Cache-Control IETF RFC 7234 [20] This
header may be used in some responses (e.g. NRF responses to queries) to
provide HTTP response cache control directives. The cache directives \"no-
cache\", \"no-store\", \"max-age\" and \"must-revalidate\" values shall be
supported. Age IETF RFC 7234 [20] This header may be inserted by HTTP proxies
when returning a cached response. The \"Age\" header field conveys the
sender\'s estimate of the amount of time since the response was generated or
successfully validated at the origin server. The presence of an Age header
field implies that the response was not generated or validated by the origin
server for this request. Last-Modified IETF RFC 7232 [24] This header may be
sent to allow for conditional GET with the If-Modified-Since header. ETag IETF
RFC 7232 [24] This header may be sent to allow for conditional GET with the
If-If-None-Match header or a conditional POST / PUT / PATCH / DELETE with the
If-Match header. Via IETF RFC 7230 [12] This header shall be inserted by HTTP
proxies. Allow IETF RFC 7231 [11] This header field shall be used to indicate
methods supported by the target resource. WWW-Authenticate IETF RFC 7235 [21]
This header field shall be included when an NF service producer rejects a
request with a \"401 Unauthorized\" status code (e.g when a request is sent
without an OAuth 2.0 access token or with an invalid OAuth 2.0 access token).
Accept-Encoding IETF RFC 7694 [33] See clause 6.9 for the use of this header.
* * *
### 5.2.3 HTTP custom headers
#### 5.2.3.1 General
The list of custom HTTP headers applicable to 3GPP Service Based NFs are
specified below.
#### 5.2.3.2 Mandatory to support custom headers
#### 5.2.3.2.1 General
The 3GPP NF Services shall support the HTTP custom headers specified in Table
5.2.3.2-1 below. A description of each custom header and the normative
requirements on when to include them are also provided in Table 5.2.3.2-1.
Table 5.2.3.2-1: Mandatory HTTP custom headers
* * *
Name Reference Description 3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority Clause 5.2.3.2.1 This
header is used to specify the HTTP/2 message priority for 3GPP service based
interfaces. This header shall be included in HTTP/2 messages when a priority
for the message needs to be conveyed (e.g HTTP/2 messages related to
Multimedia Priority Sessions). 3gpp-Sbi-Callback Clause 5.2.3.2.3 This header
is used to indicate if a HTTP/2 message is a callback (e.g notification). This
header shall be included in HTTP POST messages for callbacks towards NF
service consumer(s) in another PLMN via the SEPP (See 3GPP TS 29.573 [27]).
* * *
#### 5.2.3.2.2 3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority
The header contains the HTTP/2 message priority value.
The encoding of the header follows the ABNF as defined in IETF RFC 7230 [12].
3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority = \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\" \":\" OWS (DIGIT /
%x31-32 DIGIT / \"3\" %x30-31)
A message with 3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority \"0\" has the highest priority.
An example is: 3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority: 10.
#### 5.2.3.2.3 3gpp-Sbi-Callback
The header contains the type of notification. The value for the notificaition
type is a string used identifing a particular type of callback (e.g a
notification, typically the name of the notify service operation).
The encoding of the header follows the ABNF as defined in IETF RFC 7230 [12].
3gpp-Sbi-Callback header field = \"3gpp-Sbi-Callback\" \":\" OWS cbtype
cbtype = 1*cbchar
cbchar = \"-\" / \"_\" / DIGIT / ALPHA
An example is: 3gpp-Sbi-Callback: Nnrf_NFManagement_NFStatusNotify.
The list of valid values for this header is specified in Annex B.
### 5.2.4 HTTP error handling
HTTP/2 connection error and stream error shall be supported as specified in
clause 5.4 of IETF RFC 7540 [7].
Guidelines for error responses to the invocation of APIs of NF services are
specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [3]. API specific error responses
are specified in the respective technical specifications.
### 5.2.5 HTTP/2 server push
HTTP/2 Server Push as specified in clause 8.2 of IETF RFC 7540 [7] may be
supported and may be used by a NF Service Producer to proactively push
resources to a NF Service Consumer, see clause 4.9.5 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
A NF Service Consumer may choose to disable HTTP/2 Server Push by setting
SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH to 0, as specified in clause 8.2 of IETF RFC 7540 [7].
### 5.2.6 HTTP/2 connection management
The HTTP request / response exchange mechanism as specified in clause 8.1 of
IETF RFC 7540 [7] shall be supported between the 3GPP NFs. An HTTP/2 endpoint
shall support establishing multiple HTTP/2 connections (at least two) towards
a peer HTTP/2 endpoint. The peer HTTP/2 endpoint is identified by host and
port pair where the host is derived from the target URI (see clause 6.1.1).
NOTE 1: HTTP/2 connection redundancy allows transporting messages through
diverse IP paths and improve 5GC resiliency.
As per clause 8.1 of IETF RFC 7540 [7] a HTTP request / response exchange
fully consumes a single stream. When the HTTP/2 Stream IDs on a given
HTTP/2connection is exhausted, an HTTP/2 endpoint, shall establish another
HTTP/2connection towards that peer HTTP/2 endpoints.
NOTE 2: As per IETF RFC 7540 [7], a stream ID once closed cannot be reused on
the same HTTP/2 connection.
The 3GPP NF shall take care to avoid simultaneous stream ID exhaustion on all
the available HTTP/2 connections towards each peer.
An NF acting as an HTTP/2 client shall support testing whether a connection is
still active by sending a PING frame as specified in clause 6.7 of IETF RFC
7540 [7]. When and how often a PING frame may be sent is implementation
specific but shall be configurable by operator policy.
A PING frame shall not be sent more often than every 60 s on each path.
### 5.2.7 HTTP status codes
#### 5.2.7.1 General
This clause describes the HTTP status codes usage on SBI.
HTTP status codes are carried in \":status\" pseudo header field in HTTP/2, as
defined in clause 8.1.2.4 in IETF RFC 7540 [7].
Table 5.2.7.1-1 specifies HTTP status codes per HTTP method which shall be
supported on SBI. Support of an HTTP status code shall be:
\- mandatory, which is marked in table as \"M\". This means that all 3GPP NFs
shall support the processing of the specific HTTP status code for the specific
HTTP method, when received in a HTTP response message. In such cases the 3GPP
NF shall also support the handling of the \"ProblemDetails\" JSON object with
the Content-Type header field set to the value \"application/problem+json\"
for HTTP status codes 4xx and 5xx, if the corresponding API definition in the
related technical specification does not specify another response body for the
corresponding status code;
\- service specific, which is marked in table as \"SS\" and means that the
requirement to process the HTTP status code depends on the definition of the
specific API; or
\- not applicable, which is marked in table as \"N/A\". This means that the
specific HTTP status code shall not be used for the specific HTTP method
within the 3GPP NFs.
Table 5.2.7.1-1: HTTP status code supported on SBI
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | HTTP | HTTP | | | | | | | status | method | | | | | | | code | | | | | | | +===========+===========+===========+=======+======+=====+=========+ | | DELETE | GET | PATCH | POST | PUT | OPTIONS | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 100 | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | Continue | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 200 OK | SS | M | SS | SS | SS | M | | (NOTE 1, | | | | | | | | NOTE 2) | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 201 | N/A | N/A | N/A | SS | SS | N/A | | Created | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 202 | SS | N/A | SS | SS | SS | N/A | | Accepted | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 204 No | M | N/A | SS | SS | SS | SS | | Content | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 300 | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | Multiple | | | | | | | | Choices | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 303 See | SS | SS | N/A | SS | SS | N/A | | Other | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 307 | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | | Temporary | | | | | | | | Redirect | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 308 | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | | Permanent | | | | | | | | Redirect | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 400 Bad | M | M | M | M | M | M | | Request | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 401 | M | M | M | M | M | M | | Una | | | | | | | | uthorized | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 403 | M | M | M | M | M | M | | Forbidden | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 404 Not | M | M | M | M | M | M | | Found | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 405 | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | | Method | | | | | | | | Not | | | | | | | | Allowed | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 406 Not | N/A | M | N/A | N/A | N/A | SS | | A | | | | | | | | cceptable | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 408 | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | | Request | | | | | | | | Timeout | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 409 | N/A | N/A | SS | SS | SS | N/A | | Conflict | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 410 Gone | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 411 | N/A | N/A | M | M | M | SS | | Length | | | | | | | | Required | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 412 | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | N/A | | Pre | | | | | | | | condition | | | | | | | | Failed | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 413 | N/A | N/A | M | M | M | SS | | Payload | | | | | | | | Too Large | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 414 URI | N/A | SS | N/A | N/A | SS | N/A | | Too Long | | (NOTE 3) | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 415 | N/A | N/A | M | M | M | SS | | Un | | | | | | | | supported | | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | | Type | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 429 Too | M | M | M | M | M | M | | Many | | | | | | | | Requests | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 500 | M | M | M | M | M | M | | Internal | | | | | | | | Server | | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 501 Not | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | | Im | | | | | | | | plemented | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 503 | M | M | M | M | M | M | | Service | | | | | | | | Un | | | | | | | | available | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | 504 | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | SS | | Gateway | | | | | | | | Timeout | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | \"200 | | | | | | | | OK\" | | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | | used on | | | | | | | | SBI shall | | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | | body. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | If the NF | | | | | | | | acting as | | | | | | | | an HTTP | | | | | | | | Client | | | | | | | | receives | | | | | | | | 2xx | | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | | code not | | | | | | | | appearing | | | | | | | | in table, | | | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | treat the | | | | | | | | received | | | | | | | | 2xx | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esponse:\ | | | | | | | | - as | | | | | | | | \"204 No | | | | | | | | Content\" | | | | | | | | if 2xx | | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | | body; | | | | | | | | and\ | | | | | | | | - as | | | | | | | | \"200 | | | | | | | | OK\" if | | | | | | | | 2xx | | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | | contains | | | | | | | | body. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | If GET | | | | | | | | method | | | | | | | | includes | | | | | | | | any query | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | arameter, | | | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | | | acting as | | | | | | | | an HTTP | | | | | | | | Client | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | | \"414 URI | | | | | | | | Too | | | | | | | | Long\" | | | | | | | | status | | | | | | | | code. | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+------+-----+---------+
#### 5.2.7.2 NF as HTTP Server
A NF acting as an HTTP server shall be able to generate HTTP status codes
specified in clause 5.2.7.1 per indicated HTTP method.
A request using an HTTP method which is not supported by any resource of a
given 5GC SBI API shall be rejected with the HTTP status code \"501 Not
Implemented\".
NOTE 1: In this case, the NF does not need to include in the HTTP response the
\"cause\" attribute indicating corresponding error since the HTTP status code
\"501 Not Implemented\" itself provides enough information of the error, i.e.
the NF does not recognize the HTTP method.
If the specified target resource does not exist, the NF shall reject the HTTP
method with the HTTP status code \"404 Not Found\".
If the NF supports the HTTP method for several resources in the API, but not
for the target resource of a given HTTP request, the NF shall reject the
request with the HTTP status code \"405 Method Not Allowed\" and shall include
in the response an Allow header field containing the supported method(s) for
that resource.
NOTE 2: In this case, the NF does not need to include in the HTTP response the
\"cause\" attribute indicating corresponding error since the HTTP status code
\"405 Method Not Allowed\" itself provides enough information of the error and
hence the Allow header field lists HTTP method(s) supported by the target
resource.
If a received HTTP request contains unknown IEs, i.e. Information Elements
within the JSON body, the NF may discard such IEs and shall process the rest
of the request message, unless the schema definition of the received message
prohibits the presence of additional IEs or constrains their types. There are
cases (e.g. Nnrf_NFManagement API) where the receiver of certain HTTP requests
needs to process unknown IEs (e.g. to store in NRF an NF Profile containing
vendor-specific attributes, and send them in NFDiscovery results).
If a received HTTP request contains IEs or query parameters not compliant with
the schema defined in the corresponding OpenAPI specification, the NF should
reject the request with the appropriate error code, e.g. \"400 Bad Request
(INVALID_MSG_FORMAT)\", even when the failed IEs are defined as optional by
the schema.
If a received HTTP PATCH request contains a body with modification
instruction(s) for unknown attribute(s) in addition to modification
instruction(s) for known attribute(s), the NF shall discard those modification
instruction(s) for unknown attribute(s).
If the NF supports the HTTP method by a target resource but the NF cannot
successfully fulfil the received request, the following requirements apply.
A NF as HTTP Server should map application errors to the most similar
3xx/4xx/5xx HTTP status code specified in table 5.2.7.1-1. If no such code is
applicable, it should use \"400 Bad Request\" status code for errors caused by
client side or \"500 Server Internal Error\" status code for errors caused on
server side.
If the received HTTP request contains unsupported payload format, the NF shall
reject the HTTP request with the HTTP status code \"415 Unsupported Media
Type\". If the HTTP PATCH method is rejected, the NF shall include the Accept-
Patch header field set to the value of supported patch document media types
for a target resource i.e. to \"application/merge-patch+json\" if the NF
supports \"JSON Merge Patch\" and to \"application/json-patch+json\" if the NF
supports \"JSON Patch\". If the received HTTP PATCH request contains both
\"JSON Merge Patch\" and \"JSON Patch\" documents and the NF supports only one
of them, the NF shall ignore unsupported patch document.
NOTE 3: The format problem might be due to the request\'s indicated Content-
Type or Content-Encoding header fields, or as a result of inspecting the
payload body directly.
If the received HTTP request contains payload body larger than the NF is able
to process, the NF shall reject the HTTP request with the HTTP status code
\"413 Payload Too Large\".
If the result of the received HTTP POST request used for a resource creation
would be equivalent to the existing resource, the NF shall reject the HTTP
request with the HTTP status code \"303 See Other\" and shall include in the
HTTP response a Location header field set to the URI of the existing resource.
Protocol and application errors common to several 5GC SBI API specifications
for which the NF shall include in the HTTP response a payload body
(\"ProblemDetails\" data structure or application specific error data
structure) with the \"cause\" attribute indicating corresponding error are
listed in table 5.2.7.2-1.
Table 5.2.7.2-1: Protocol and application errors common to several 5GC SBI API
specifications
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Protocol or | HTTP status code | Description | | application Error | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | INVALID_API | 400 Bad Request | The HTTP request | | | | contains an | | | | unsupported API name | | | | or API version in | | | | the URI. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | INVALID_MSG_FORMAT | 400 Bad Request | The HTTP request has | | | | an invalid format. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | I | 400 Bad Request | The HTTP request | | NVALID_QUERY_PARAM | | contains an | | | | unsupported query | | | | parameter in the | | | | URI. (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MANDATORY_QUE | 400 Bad Request | A mandatory query | | RY_PARAM_INCORRECT | | parameter, or a | | | | conditional query | | | | parameter but | | | | mandatory required, | | | | for an HTTP method | | | | was received in the | | | | URI with | | | | semantically | | | | incorrect value. | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | OPTIONAL_QUE | 400 Bad Request | An optional query | | RY_PARAM_INCORRECT | | parameter for an | | | | HTTP method was | | | | received in the URI | | | | with a semantically | | | | incorrect value that | | | | prevents successful | | | | processing of the | | | | service request. | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MANDATORY_Q | 400 Bad Request | Query parameter | | UERY_PARAM_MISSING | | which is defined as | | | | mandatory, or as | | | | conditional but | | | | mandatory required, | | | | for an HTTP method | | | | is not included in | | | | the URI of the | | | | request. (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MAND | 400 Bad Request | A mandatory IE or | | ATORY_IE_INCORRECT | | conditional IE in | | | | data structure, but | | | | mandatory required, | | | | for an HTTP method | | | | was received with a | | | | semantically | | | | incorrect value. | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | OPT | 400 Bad Request | An optional IE in | | IONAL_IE_INCORRECT | | data structure for | | | | an HTTP method was | | | | received with a | | | | semantically | | | | incorrect value that | | | | prevents successful | | | | processing of the | | | | service request. | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MA | 400 Bad Request | IE which is defined | | NDATORY_IE_MISSING | | as mandatory or as | | | | conditional in data | | | | structure, but | | | | mandatory required, | | | | for an HTTP method | | | | is not included in | | | | the payload body of | | | | the request. | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UNSPE | 400 Bad Request | The request is | | CIFIED_MSG_FAILURE | | rejected due to | | | | unspecified client | | | | error. (NOTE 2) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MODIFI | 403 Forbidden | The request is | | CATION_NOT_ALLOWED | | rejected because the | | | | contained | | | | modification | | | | instructions attempt | | | | to modify IE which | | | | is not allowed to be | | | | modified. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SUBS | 404 Not Found | The request for | | CRIPTION_NOT_FOUND | | modification or | | | | deletion of | | | | subscription is | | | | rejected because the | | | | subscription is not | | | | found in the NF. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RESOURCE_URI_S | 404 Not Found | The request is | | TRUCTURE_NOT_FOUND | | rejected because a | | | | fixed part after the | | | | first variable part | | | | of an | | | | \"apiSpeci | | | | ficResourceUriPart\" | | | | (as defined in | | | | clause 4.4.1 of | | | | 3 | | | | GPP TS 29.501 [5]) | | | | is not found in the | | | | NF. | | | | | | | | This fixed part of | | | | the URI may | | | | represent a | | | | sub-resource | | | | collection (e.g. | | | | contexts, | | | | subscriptions, | | | | policies) or a | | | | custom operation. | | | | (NOTE 5) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | INCORRECT_LENGTH | 411 Length Required | The request is | | | | rejected due to | | | | incorrect value of a | | | | Content-length | | | | header field. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NF_CONGESTION_RISK | 429 Too Many | The request is | | | Requests | rejected due to | | | | excessive traffic | | | | which, if continued | | | | over time, may lead | | | | to (or may increase) | | | | an overload | | | | situation. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | INS | 500 Internal Server | The request is | | UFFICIENT_RESOURCES | Error | rejected due to | | | | insufficient | | | | resources. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UNSP | 500 Internal Server | The request is | | ECIFIED_NF_FAILURE | Error | rejected due to | | | | unspecified reason | | | | at the NF. (NOTE 3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SYSTEM_FAILURE | 500 Internal Server | The request is | | | Error | rejected due to | | | | generic error | | | | condition in the NF. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NF_CONGESTION | 503 Service | The NF experiences | | | Unavailable | congestion and | | | | performs overload | | | | control, which does | | | | not allow the | | | | request to be | | | | processed. (NOTE 4) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | \"invalidParams\" | | | | attribute shall be | | | | included in the | | | | \"ProblemDetails\" | | | | data structure | | | | indicating | | | | unsupported, missing | | | | or incorrect IE(s) | | | | or query | | | | parameter(s). | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This | | | | application error | | | | indicates error in | | | | the HTTP request and | | | | there is no other | | | | application error | | | | value that can be | | | | used instead. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: This | | | | application error | | | | indicates error | | | | condition in the NF | | | | and there is no | | | | other application | | | | error value that can | | | | be used instead. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: If the | | | | reason for rejection | | | | is a temporary | | | | overload, the NF may | | | | include in the | | | | response a | | | | Retry-After header | | | | field to indicate | | | | how long the service | | | | is expected to be | | | | unavailable. | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: If the | | | | request is rejected | | | | because of an error | | | | in an URI before the | | | | first variable part | | | | of an | | | | \"apiSpecif | | | | icResourceUriPart\", | | | | the \"404 Not | | | | Found\" HTTP status | | | | code may be sent | | | | without | | | | \"ProblemDetails\" | | | | data structure | | | | indicating protocol | | | | or application | | | | error. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 5.2.7.3 NF as HTTP Client
Besides the HTTP Status Codes defined in the API specification, a NF as HTTP
client should support handling of 1xx, 3xx, 4xx and 5xx HTTP Status Codes
specified in table 5.2.7.1-1, following the client behaviour in corresponding
IETF RFC where the received HTTP Status Code is defined.
When receiving a not recommended or not recognized 1xx, 3xx, 4xx or 5xx HTTP
Status Code, a NF as HTTP client should treat it as x00 status code of the
class, as described in clause 6 of IETF RFC 7231 [11].
If 100, 200/204, 300, 400 or 500 response code is not defined by the API
specification, the client may follow guidelines below:
a) For 1xx (Informational):
1) Discard the response and wait for final response.
b) For 2xx (Successful):
1) Consider the service operation is successful if no mandatory information is
expected from the response payload in subsequent procedure.
2) If mandatory information is expected from response payload in subsequent
procedure, parse the payload following description in clause 6.2.1 of IETF RFC
7231 [11]. If parse is successful and mandatory information is extracted,
continue with subsequent procedure.
3) Otherwise, consider service operation has failure and start failure
handling.
c) For 3xx (Redirection):
1) Retry the request towards the directed resource referred in the Location
header, using same request method.
d) For 4xx (Client Error):
1) Validate the request message and make correction before resending.
Otherwise, stop process and go to error handling procedure.
e) For 5xx (Server Error):
1) Stop process and go to error handling process.
The handling of unknown, unexpected or erroneous HTTP request message IEs
shall provide for the forward compatibility of the HTTP APIs used for the
service based interfaces. Therefore, the sending HTTP entity shall be able to
safely include in a message a new optional IE. Such an IE may also have a new
type. A receiving HTTP entity shall behave as specified in clause 5.2.7.2.
### 5.2.8 HTTP/2 request retries
All NF services expose APIs across the service based interfaces and the APIs
operate on resources. Invocation of an API though a HTTP method may result in
the change of state of a resource depending of the request type. When a HTTP/2
client sends a request and it does not receive a response or it experiences a
delay, it does not guarantee that the HTTP/2 request has not been processed by
the HTTP/2 server.
A HTTP/2 client may retry the same request that uses an idempotent method any
time (see IETF RFC 7231 [11] clause 4.2.2).
Retrying a non-idempotent HTTP/2 request on the same resource before a
response for the previous request is received may lead to state changes on the
resource with unspecified behaviour. HTTP conditional requests, as specified
in IETF RFC 7232 [24] may be used to avoid such situations.
An NF acting as an HTTP/2 client may decide to retry non-idempotent request if
it matches one of the conditions set out in clause 8.1.4 of IETF RFC 7540 [7].
API specific mechanisms as specified in respective technical specifications
may be used for reconciling the state of resources, if the retry is attempted
through a new TCP connection after a TCP connection failure.
The number of retry shall be limited. A client should always prefer to retry
requests to an alternative server if the initial server is overloaded. In case
of general overload situation where all possible servers are overloaded retry
mechanisms should be disabled automatically.
### 5.2.9 Handling of unsupported query parameters
Unless specified otherwise for an API, a NF Service Producer that receives an
HTTP request with one or more unsupported (i.e. not comprehended) query
parameters shall:
a) for safe HTTP methods (e.g. HTTP GET request):
\- ignore the unsupported query parameters and respond to the request based on
the rest of the request (e.g. other supported query parameters); or
\- reject the HTTP request as specified below for non-safe HTTP methods, e.g.
based on other query parameters in the request or based on a response becoming
very large;
b) for non-safe HTTP methods:
\- reject the request with a 400 Bad Request including a ProblemDetails IE
with:
\- the cause attribute set to INVALID_QUERY_PARAM;
\- the invalidParams attribute indicating the unsupported query parameters;
\- the supportedFeatures attribute listing the features supported by the NF
Service Producer, if any, set as specified for HTTP responses in clause 6.6.2.
## 5.3 Transport Protocol
The Transmission Control Protocol as described in IETF RFC 793 [6] shall be
used as transport protocol as required by HTTP/2 (see IETF RFC 7540 [7]).
NOTE: When using TCP as the transport protocol, an HTTP/2 connection is mapped
to a TCP connection.
If a Network Function does not register any port number to the NRF then it
shall be prepared to receive connections on default port numbers, i.e. TCP
port 80 for \"http\" URIs and TCP port 443 for \"https\" URIs as specified in
IETF RFC 7540 [7].
## 5.4 Serialization Protocol
The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) format as described in IETF RFC 8259
[10] shall be used as serialization protocol.
For transmitting large parts of opaque binary data along with JSON format,
multipart messages shall be supported using:
\- A multipart/related media type;
\- 3gpp vendor specific content subtype; and
\- Cross-referencing from the JSON payload using the Content-ID field.
Use of multipart messages is documented in specific specifications.
## 5.5 Interface Definition Language
OpenAPI Specification [9] shall be used as Interface Definition Language (IDL)
of SBI.
# 6 General Functionalities in Service Based Architecture
## 6.1 Routing Mechanisms
### 6.1.1 General
For HTTP message routing between Network Functions, the message routing
mechanism as specified in clause 5 of IETF RFC 7230 [12] is almost followed
with some differences due to the adoption of HTTP/2 and to some 5G system
specificities.
NOTE: The term \"inbound\" are defined in clause**** 2.3 of IETF RFC 7230
[12]. It describes a directional requirement in relation to the request route:
\"inbound\" means toward the origin server.
### 6.1.2 Identifying a target resource
The target resource is identified by a target URI (e.g. a Resource URI, a
Custom operation URI or a Callback URI as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS
29.501 [5]).
### 6.1.3 Connecting inbound
If the request is not satisfied by a local cache, then the client shall
connect to an authority server for the target resource or to a proxy.
If a proxy is applicable for the target URI, the client connects inbound by
establishing (or reusing) a connection to that proxy as defined in clause 5.2
of IETF RFC 7230 [12]. For connecting inbound to an authority not in the same
PLMN, the client connects to the Security Edge Protection Proxy.
If no proxy is applicable, then the client connects directly to an authority
server for the target resource as defined in IETF RFC 7230 [12].
### 6.1.4 Pseudo-header setting
#### 6.1.4.1 General
Once an inbound connection is obtained, the client sends a request message
over the wire. The message starts with a HEADERS frame containing the Pseudo-
Header Fields identifying the request target. The \":method\" pseudo-header is
always present.
When sending a request directly to an origin server or to a proxy, other than
a CONNECT or server-wide OPTIONS request, a client shall include the below
pseudo-headers:
\- \":scheme\".
\- \":authority\".
\- \"path\" includes the path and query components of the target URI. The path
includes the optional deployment-specific string of the Resource URI or Custom
operation URI \"apiRoot\" part.
When sending a CONNECT request to a proxy, a client shall include the
\":authority\" pseudo-header. The \":scheme\" and \":path\" ones shall be
absent.
When sending a server-wide OPTIONS request to an origin server or to a proxy,
a client shall include the below pseudo-headers:
\- \":scheme\".
\- \":authority\".
\- \"path\" set with the value \"*\".
#### 6.1.4.2 Routing within a PLMN
For HTTP/2 request messages where the target URI authority component
designates an origin server in the same PLMN as the client, the \":authority\"
HTTP/2 pseudo-header field shall be set to:
\":authority\" = uri-host [\":\" port] as specified in clause 8.1.2.3 of IETF
RFC 7540 [7], excluding the [userinfo \"@\"] information as specified in
clause 3.2 of IETF RFC 3986 [14].
Where the uri-host shall be:
\- FQDN of the target NF service; or
\- IP address of the target NF service
The FQDN of the target NF service need not contain the PLMN identifier.
#### 6.1.4.3 Routing across PLMN
In order to reach the correct target NF service in the right PLMN and for
HTTP/2 request messages where the target URI authority component designates an
origin server not in the same PLMN as the client, the \":authority\" HTTP/2
pseudo-header shall contain the FQDN including the PLMN ID.
The \":authority\" pseudo-header field in the HTTP/2 request message shall be
set to:
\":authority\" = uri-host [\":\" port] as specified in clause 8.1.2.3 of IETF
RFC 7540 [7], excluding the [userinfo \"@\"] information as specified in
clause 3.2 of IETF RFC 3986 [14].
Where the uri-host shall be:
\- FQDN of the target NF service or the FQDN (authority) part of a callback
URI or a specified link relation
The FQDN of the target NF service or the FQDN (authority) part of a callback
URI or a specified link relation shall contain the PLMN identifier.
The format of the FQDN of target NF service is specified in clause 28.5 of
3GPP TS 23.003 [15].
SEPP on the HTTP/2 client side shall form the telescopic FQDN, as specified in
3GPP TS 23.003 [15], for the following cases:
\- FQDN of the target NF service in HPLMN is modified into a telescopic FQDN
by the SEPP in the VPLMN;
\- FQDN of the target NF service in VPLMN is modified into a telescopic FQDN
by the SEPP in the HPLMN;
\- FQDN (authority) part of callback URI of NF service resources in VPLMN is
modified into a telescopic FQDN by the SEPP in the HPLMN;
\- FQDN (authority) part of callback URI of NF service resources in HPLMN is
modified into a telescopic FQDN by the SEPP in the VPLMN;
\- FQDN (authority) part of link relation URI of NF service resources in VPLMN
is modified into a telescopic FQDN by the SEPP in the HPLMN;
\- FQDN (authority) part of link relation URI of NF service resources in HPLMN
is modified into a telescopic FQDN by the SEPP in the VPLMN.
### 6.1.5 Host header
Clients that generate HTTP/2 requests shall use the \":authority\" pseudo-
header field instead of the Host header field.
### 6.1.6 Message forwarding
An HTTP/2 proxy shall use the \":authority\" pseudo-header field to connect
inbound to the origin server or another proxy if the request cannot be
satisfied by the proxy cache.
An HTTP/2 proxy may also use other headers and/or payload content to connect
inbound to the origin server or another proxy if the request cannot be
satisfied by the proxy cache.
## 6.2 Server-Initiated Communication
The Subscribe-Notify service operations shall be supported between NFs as
specified in clause 7.1.2 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [3].
Subscribe-Notify service operations require bidirectional communication
between the NFs when the server needs to initiate communication with the
client.
Subscribe-Notify service operations shall be supported with two TCP
connections, one per direction, as follows:
\- NF service consumer acts as an HTTP client and NF service producer acts as
an HTTP server when NF service consumer subscribes to NF service producer\'s
notifications;
\- NF service producer acts as an HTTP client and NF service consumer acts as
an HTTP server when NF service producer delivers notifications to NF service
consumer.
## 6.3 Load Control
Load control for the service based interfaces, based on the current dynamic
load on an NF and/or NF service instance, is not specified in this release of
this specification.
During NF discovery procedures (see clause 4.17.4 and 4.17.5 of 3GPP TS 23.502
[4]), the NRF may provide the NF instance and/or the NF service instance
information with the NF capacity information advertised during NF Service
Registration and/or NF Service Update procedures (see clause 4.17.1 and 4.17.2
of 3GPP TS 23.502 [4] and clause 6.2.6 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [3]). The NF service
consumer that is discovering the NF service producer, may use the NF capacity
information to select the appropriate NF instance as specified in 3GPP TS
29.510 [8].
## 6.4 Overload Control
### 6.4.1 General
Service Based Interfaces use HTTP/2 over TCP for communication between the NF
Services. TCP provides transport level congestion control mechanisms as
specified in IETF RFC 5681 [16], which may be used for congestion control
between two TCP endpoints (i.e., hop by hop). HTTP/2 also provides flow
control mechanisms and limitation of stream concurrency, as specified in IETF
RFC 7540 [7], that may be configured for connection level congestion control.
In addition to TCP and HTTP/2 congestion control mechanisms, end to end
overload control shall be supported per NF service / API according to the
below defined principles.
An NF Service Producer may mitigate a potential overload status by sending the
NF Service Consumer the following HTTP status codes as a response to requests
received during, or close to reaching, an overload situation:
\- 503 Service Unavailable;
\- 429 Too Many Requests; or
\- 307 Temporary Redirect
The first 2 status codes (503 and 429) are intended to inform the NF Service
Consumer that the server cannot handle the current received traffic rate, so
it shall abate the traffic sent to the NF Service Producer by throttling part
of this traffic locally at the NF Service Consumer, or diverting it to an
alternative destination (another NF Service Producer where an alternative
resource exists) that is not overloaded. If possible, traffic diversion shall
always be preferred to throttling; the result of the throttling is a permanent
rejection of the transaction.
If the client needs to abate a certain part of the available traffic, it shall
do it based on the determined priority of each message.
Depending on regional/national requirements and network operator policy,
requests related to priority traffic and emergency shall be the last to be
throttled by the client, and shall be exempted from throttling due to overload
control up to the point where the required traffic reduction cannot be
achieved without throttling the priority requests.
The last status code (307) is intended to inform the NF Service Consumer about
the availability of other endpoints where the service offered by the NF
Service Producer is available, so the NF Service Consumer does not need to
discard traffic locally.
### 6.4.2 HTTP Status Code \"503 Service Unavailable\"
This status code should be sent when the NF Service Producer undergoes an
overload situation, and it needs to reject HTTP requests. The NF Service
Producer may include detailed information about its status in the
ProblemDetails JSON element, in the HTTP response body. Also, the HTTP header
field \"Retry-After\" may be added in the response to convey an estimated time
(in number of seconds) for the recovery of the service.
As for all 5xx status codes, this indicates a server-related issue (not
limited to a specific client, or HTTP method), and it indicates that the
server is incapable of performing the request.
Upon receipt of a \"503 Service Unavailable\" status code, the NF Service
Consumer shall monitor the amount of rejected and timed-out traffic, in
comparison to the accepted traffic by the NF Service Producer, and it shall
abate (by divertion or throttling) the traffic sent to the NF Service Producer
in such a way that the rate between accepted and rejected traffic improves
with time, and eventually reaches a situation where the server accepts all
requests once the overload status ceases at the server. The mechanism to
achieve this is implementation-specific; Annex A contains a description of an
example algorithm based on \"adaptive throttling\" of the traffic sent by the
NF Service Consumer towards an NF Service Producer.
### 6.4.3 HTTP Status Code \"429 Too Many Requests\"
This status code may be sent, if supported by the server, when the NF Service
Producer detects that a given NF Service Consumer is sending excessive traffic
which, if continued over time, may lead to (or may increase) an overload
situation in the NF Service Producer.
How the NF Service Producer detects that the incoming traffic comes from a
same NF Service Consumer, and therefore subject to a given traffic rate limit,
is out of the scope of this specification. The HTTP header field \"Retry-
After\" may be added in the response to indicate how long the NF Service
Consumer has to wait before making a new request.
As for all 4xx status codes, this indicates a client-related issue (not
limited to a specific HTTP method), and it indicates that the client seems to
be misbehaving.
### 6.4.4 HTTP Status Code \"307 Temporary Redirect\"
This status code should be sent when the NF Service Producer decides to
redirect HTTP requests to another less loaded server, or HTTP/2 end point, to
offload some part of the incoming traffic, with the goal to avoid entering (or
to mitigate) an overload situation. The NF Service Producer shall not use it
if it does not know the load status of the alternative server.
How the NF Service Producer becomes aware of the load levels of other servers
or HTTP/2 end points is deployment-specific, and out of the scope of this
specification. The URI for the temporary redirection shall be given by the
Location header field of the response.
As for all 3xx status codes (redirection), this indicates a client-related
action; the client shall be responsible of the detection of infinite
redirection loops.
## 6.5 Support of Stateless NFs
### 6.5.1 General
A NF may become stateless by decoupling the \"compute\" resource and
\"storage\" resource as specified in clause 4.1 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [3].
### 6.5.2 Stateless AMFs
#### 6.5.2.1 General
AMF may become stateless by storing the UE related information in the UDSF.
Procedures for AMF planned removal or the AMF auto-recovery are specified in
clauses 5.21.2.2 and 5.21.2.3 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [3].
#### 6.5.2.2 AMF as service consumer
1\. When the AMF subscribes to notifications from another NF Service Producer,
the AMF shall provide its GUAMI to the NF Service Producer to enable the
latter to discover AMFs within the AMF set, or information about a backup AMF,
in addition to Callback URI in the subscription resource.
The AMF may also provide the name of the AMF service to which these
notifications are to be sent (this service shall be one of the service
produced by the AMF and registered in the NRF or a custom service registered
in the NRF for the purpose of receiving these notifications);
NOTE 1: Providing an AMF service name allows the NF Service Producer to find
the endpoint address to deliver the notifications (see bullet 2). The provided
AMF service might not use itself the information received in these
notifications.
2\. A NF service producer may also use the Nnrf_NFDiscovery service to
discover AMFs within an AMF set or backup AMF.
If the AMF provided the name of its service (see bullet 1), the NF Service
Producer shall look up for the same AMF service from the AMFs within the AMF
set or from backup AMF, and use endpoint addresses (i.e. IP addresses,
transport and port information, or FQDN) of that service to send notifications
(see bullet 6). Otherwise, the notifications shall be sent to an endpoint
address registered in the NF Profile of the AMF.
NOTE 2: The AMF can register different endpoint addresses in the NRF for
different services.
3\. An NF service producer may subscribe to GUAMI changes using the
AMFStatusChange service operation of the Namf_Communication service.
4\. An NF service producer may become aware of AMF changes (at the time of the
AMF change or subsequently when sending signalling to the AMF) via
Namf_Communication service AMFStatusChange Notifications, via HTTP Error
response from the old or a wrongly selected new AMF, via link level failures
(e.g. no response from the AMF), or via a notification from the NRF that the
AMF has deregistered. The HTTP error response may be a 3xx redirect response
pointing to a new AMF.
NOTE 3:. AMFs are identified by GUAMIs. A GUAMI can point to an individual AMF
or to some or all AMFs within an AMF set. If a GUAMI points to several AMFs,
and the UE is served by one of those, all those AMFs can immediately handle
communication for that service, and the NF service producer does not need to
be aware which of those AMFs is serving a UE.
5\. When becoming aware of an AMF change, and the new AMF is not known, the NF
service producer shall select an AMF within the AMF set or the possibly
earlier received backup AMF.
6\. When becoming aware of an AMF change, the NF service producer shall
exchange the authority part of the Notification URI with new AMF information
and shall use that URI in subsequent communication.
7\. Each AMF within the AMF set shall be prepared to receive notifications
from the NF service producer, by either handling the notification to the
Notification URI constructed according to bullet 6 with the own address as
authority part, or by replying with an HTTP 3xx redirect pointing to a new
AMF, or by replying with another HTTP error.
8\. The NF service producer shall be prepared to receive updates to resources
of the related service from any AMF within the set.
9\. If the UE moves to an AMF from a different AMF Set, or to an AMF from the
same AMF set that does not support handling the notification as specified in
bullet 7, the new AMF should update peer NFs with the new callback URI for the
notification.
#### 6.5.2.3 AMF as service producer
1\. When AMF receives request to establish a service, it may provide
information about a backup AMF in a suitable resource.
2\. NF service consumer may also use the Nnrf_NFDiscovery service to discover
AMFs within an AMF set.
3\. An NF service consumer may subscribe to GUAMI changes using the
AMFStatusChange service operation of the Namf_Communication service.
4\. An NF service consumer may become aware of AMF changes (at the time of the
AMF change or subsequently when sending signalling to the AMF) via
Namf_Communication service AMFStatusChange Notifications, via Error response
from the old or a wrongly selected new AMF, via link level failures (e.g. no
response from the AMF), or via a notification from the NRF that the AMF has
deregistered. The HTTP error response may be a 3xx redirect response pointing
to a new AMF.
NOTE. AMFs are identified by GUAMIs. A GUAMI can point to an individual AMF or
to some or all AMFs within an AMF set. If a GUAMI points to several AMFs, and
the UE is served by one of those, all those AMFs can immediately handle
communication for that service, and the NF service consumer does not need to
be aware which of those AMFs is serving a UE.
5\. When becoming aware of an AMF change, and the new AMF is not known, the NF
service consumer shall select an AMF within the AMF set or the possibly
earlier received backup AMF.
6\. When becoming aware of an AMF change, the NF service consumer shall
exchange the authority part of resource URIs with new AMF information and
shall use that URI in subsequent communication.
7\. Each AMF within the AMF set shall be prepared to receive updates for
resources from the NF service consumer, by either handling the updates to the
resource URIs constructed according to step 6 with the own address as
authority part, or by replying with an HTTP 3xx redirect pointing to a new
AMF, or by replying with another HTTP error.
8\. For a service that includes notifications from the AMF, the NF service
consumer shall be prepared to receive for the that service notifications from
any AMF within the set.
NOTE: If the UE moves to an AMF from a different AMF Set, or to an AMF from
the same AMF set that does not support handling the updates as specified in
bullet 7, but mechanisms exist to transfer information related to the resource
to the AMF, service specific mechanism can exist.to notify the NF service
consumer about the resource at the AMF. For instance, for the
Namf_EventExposure service, information and an event subscription is
transferred to the new AMF in such a manner and the new AMF will then report
an event-change event.
## 6.6 Extensibility Mechanisms
### 6.6.1 General
This clause describes the extensibility mechanisms supported in the Service-
Based Architecture in 3GPP 5GC, such as feature negotiation, vendor-specific
extensions, etc.
### 6.6.2 Feature negotiation
A versioning of services in the request URI shall be supported by 3GPP 5G
APIs, but version upgrades shall only be applied for non-backward compatible
changes or the introduction of new mandatory features.
The following mechanism to negotiate applicable optional features shall be
used by 5G APIs. This supported feature mechanism shall be applied separately
for each API.
For any API that defines resources, suitable resources associated to or
representing the NF Service Consumer (e.g. a top-level resource or a sub-
resource representing the NF Service Consumer) shall be identified in each API
to support the negotiation of the applicable optional features between the NF
Service Consumer and NF Service Producer for this resource. Each such resource
for a 5G API shall contain an attribute (e.g. \"supportedFeatures\") of the
SupportedFeatures data type defined in 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] containing a
bitmask to indicate supported features. The features and their positions in
that bitmask are defined separately for each API.
The HTTP client acting as NF service consumer shall include the attribute of
the SupportedFeatures data type defined in 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] in the HTTP PUT
or POST requests to create the resource associated to or representing the NF
Service Consumer of 5G API. This attribute indicates which of the optional
features defined for the corresponding service are supported by the HTTP
client. The HTTP server shall determine the supported features for the
corresponding resource by comparing the supported features indicated by the
client with the supported features the HTTP server supports. Features that are
supported both by the client and the server are supported for that resource.
The HTTP server shall include the attribute of the SupportedFeatures data type
defined in 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] indicating those features in the representation
of the resource it returns to the HTTP client in the HTTP response confirming
the creation of the resource.
The HTTP client acting as NF service consumer may include a query parameter
(e.g. \"supported-features\") of the SupportedFeatures data type defined in
3GPP TS 29.571 [13] in HTTP GET requests to fetch resource(s) associated to
the NF Service Consumer of 5G API. This query parameter indicates which of the
optional features defined for the corresponding service are supported by the
HTTP client. The HTTP server shall determine the supported features for the
corresponding resource(s) by comparing the supported features indicated by the
client with the supported features the HTTP server supports. Features that are
supported both by the client and the server are supported for the resource(s);
attributes or enumerated values that are only of relevance to a feature
unsupported by the requested resource(s) should be ommitted from the
representation sent in the response. The HTTP Server shall include the
attribute of the SupportedFeatures data type defined in 3GPP TS 29.571 [13]
indicating those features in the HTTP GET response, if supported by the API
definition.
The supported features for a resource associated to or representing the NF
Service Consumer shall also be applicable to all subordinate resources of that
resource, and for all custom operations related to any of those resources. If
any of those resources is used for the subscription to notifications (see
clause 4.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]), the supported features shall also apply
to those notifications.
Attributes used for the representation of a resource, particular values in
enumerated data types, and/or procedural description can be marked to relate
to a particular supported feature. Such attributes shall not be mandated in
data structures. Such attributes or enumerated values shall only be sent and
such procedures shall only be applied if the corresponding feature is
supported.
Unknown attributes and values shall be ignored by the receiving entity.
Unsupported query parameters shall be handled as specified in clause 5.2.9.
NOTE: The sender may send such information before the supported features for a
resource have been determined.
For an API that does not define any resources, only custom operations without
associated resources or notifications without subscription will be used. For
such APIs, if a feature negotiation is desired, the request and response
bodies of a suitable custom operation or notification need to be defined in
such a manner that an attribute of the SupportedFeatures data type defined in
3GPP TS 29.571 [13] is included. The client invoking that custom operation or
notification shall indicate its supported features for that API within the
corresponding HTTP request. The data structures to be included in the HTTP
request as defined for that API, shall include the attribute of the
SupportedFeatures data type defined in 3GPP TS 29.571 [13], preferably in the
outermost data structure for cases where the body contains a complex structure
with several layers of JSON objects. The server shall determine the supported
features by comparing the supported features indicated by the client with its
own supported features. Features that are supported both by the client and the
server are supported for subsequent custom operations and notifications of
that API. The server shall include the attribute of the SupportedFeatures data
type defined in 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] indicating those features in the
successful response to the custom operation or notification. The data
structures to be included in the HTTP response as defined for that API, shall
include the attribute of the SupportedFeatures data type defined in 3GPP TS
29.571 [13], preferably in the outermost data structure for cases where the
body contains a complex structure with several layers of JSON objects. The
client and server shall only use those supported features in subsequent
communication of that API between each other until the supported feature
negotiation performed as part of that communication yields a new result.
Additionally, a NF instance should register all the features it supports to
the NRF, to enable NF Service Consumers to discover NF Service Producers
supporting specific features.
### 6.6.3 Vendor-specific extensions
Information elements sent on the 3GPP 5GC APIs should be extensible with
vendor-specific data. The definition of JSON data structures using OpenAPI as
Interface Definition Language (see OpenAPI Specification [9]) allows to extend
by default any JSON object with additional member elements, as long as no
specific directives are included in the schema definition preventing such
extension (e.g., by setting \"additionalProperties\" to false).
NOTE 1: The only JSON data types that can be extended, by defining additional
members, are JSON objects; simple data types (and arrays of items of simple
data types) cannot be extended in this way.
However, in order to avoid duplication of member names inside a same object
(see 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], clause 5.2.4.2, for the requirement of uniqueness of
member names in JSON objects), it is necessary to comply with a naming scheme
for vendor-specific data elements, to avoid clashing names between vendors.
Vendor-specific member names in JSON objects shall be named in the following
manner:
\"vendorSpecific-nnnnnn\": {
...
}
where the value \"nnnnnn\" is a fixed 6-digit string, using the IANA-assigned
\"SMI Network Management Private Enterprise Codes\" [18] value associated to a
given vendor, and padding with leading digits \"0\" to complete a 6-digit
value.
NOTE 2: The content (value) of those vendor-specific member elements, and
their usage, is not to be defined by any of the 3GPP Technical Specifications.
Also, the type of value assigned to these members is not defined by 3GPP, and
therefore, they can be any of the types allowed in the JSON specification:
objects, arrays, or simple types (string, number, Boolean, etc.). However, to
allow future extensibility of these values, it is recommended that they are
defined as objects.
EXAMPLE: The vendor-specific member name for vendor \"3GPP\" would be:
> \"vendorSpecific-010415\": {
>
> ...
>
> }
### 6.6.4 Extensibility for Query parameters
New query parameters may be defined after the OpenAPI freeze of the first 3GPP
release that contains an API.
A new feature should be defined in the API for any query parameter added in a
new version of the API or for any new functionality resulting in defining new
query parameter(s). A single feature may be defined, if appropriate, when
adding multiple query parameters in a new version of the API.
Prior to using such a query parameter in an HTTP request, the NF Service
Consumer should determine, if possible, whether the query parameter is
supported by the NF Service Producer, using the feature negotiation mechanism
specified in clause 6.6.2.
NOTE 1: Not doing so could result in the NF Service Producer rejecting the
request if it does not support the query parameters, see clause 5.2.9.
NOTE 2: A NF Service Consumer can discover the features (and therefore the
query parameters) supported by a NF Service Producer using the NRF, if the
latter has registered the features it supports to the NRF.
If the NF Service Consumer includes the query parameter (e.g. \"supported-
features\") of the SupportedFeatures data type defined in 3GPP TS 29.571 [13]
in an HTTP GET request (see clause 6.6.2), the NF Service Producer shall
include the attribute (e.g. \"supportedFeatures\") of the SupportedFeatures
data type defined in 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] in the HTTP GET response, set as
defined for HTTP responses in clause 6.6.2, if supported by the API
definition.
NOTE 3: This allows a NF Service Consumer to discover the features (and
therefore the query parameters) supported by the NF Service Producer when the
first interaction with the NF Service Producer is an HTTP GET request and the
service was not discovered via the NRF, e.g. for a NF Discovery Request sent
to the NRF.
NOTE 4: Some APIs are designed to allow returning the attribute of the
SupportedFeatures data type defined in 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] in the HTTP GET
response, regardless of whether the query parameter of the SupportedFeatures
data type defined in 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] is present in the request.
If a NF Service Consumer uses such a query parameter in an HTTP GET request
without prior knowledge of whether it is supported by the NF Service Producer,
the NF Service Consumer shall be prepared to receive a successful response
that may not match all the query parameters sent in the request, and to act
accordingly. The NF Service Consumer may use the attribute of the
SupportedFeatures data type defined in 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] returned by the NF
Service Producer in the HTTP GET response, if available, to determine the
features (and thus query parameters) not supported by the NF Service Producer.
When defining new query parameters in a new version of an API, it needs to be
checked that the addition of the query parameter does not cause backward
compatibility problems with NF Service Producers complying with an earlier
version of the API, e.g. if the query parameter is ignored in a HTTP GET
request. Otherwise, it needs to be ascertained that the NF Service Consumer
does not use such a query parameter without prior knowledge that it is
supported by the NF Service Producer.
## 6.7 Security Mechanisms
### 6.7.1 General
The security mechanisms for service based interfaces are specified in clause
13 of 3GPP TS 33.501 [17].
Security Protection Edge Proxy (SEPP), as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501 [17],
shall be used between service based interfaces across PLMNs. The NFs in a PLMN
shall use the SEPP as a HTTP/2 proxy for the HTTP/2 messages that carry
\":authority\" pseudo header with a uri-host formatted as specified in clause
6.1.4.3.
### 6.7.2 Transport layer security protection of messages
As specified in clause 13.1 of 3GPP TS 33.501 [17], TLS shall be used for the
security protection of messages at the transport layer for the service based
interfaces if network security is not provided by other means.
### 6.7.3 Authorization of NF service access
As specified in clause 13.4.1 of 3GPP TS 33.501 [17] OAuth 2.0 (see IETF RFC
6749 [22]) may be used for authorization of NF service access. All NFs and the
NRF shall support the OAuth 2.0 authorization framework with \"Client
Credentials\" grant type as specified in clause 4.4 of IETF RFC 6749 [22] ,
except that there is no \"Authorization\" HTTP request header in the access
token request.
The NRF shall act as the Authorization Server providing \"Bearer\" access
tokens (IETF RFC 6750 [23]) to the NF service consumers to access the services
provided by the NF service providers.
If an NF service (i.e API) receives an OAuth 2.0 access token in the
\"Authorization\" HTTP request header field, the NF service shall validate the
access token, its expiry and its access scope before allowing access to the
requested resource, as specified in clause 7 of IETF RFC 6749 [22].
An NF service consumer shall support OAuth 2.0.
For request/response semantics service operations and for the subscribe and
unsubscribe operations of subscribe/notify semantics service operations, an NF
service consumer may use OAuth 2.0 for the authorization of the API access,
based on local configuration.
When Oauth2 authorization is used, the NF service consumer shall use the token
received from NRF as a \"Bearer\" token and include it in the Authorization
header of the HTTP service requests, as described in IETF RFC 6750 [23] clause
2.1.
An NF service producer shall decide to accept or reject an API request without
the OAuth2.0 access token in the \"Authorization\" HTTP request header field,
based on local configuration.
If an NF service producer rejects an API request without the OAuth2.0 access
token or an API request with an invalid OAuth2.0 access token, it shall return
the HTTP \"401 Unauthorized\" status code together with the \"WWW-
Authenticate\" header as specified in IETF RFC 7235 [21], where:
\- the scheme for challenge in the \"WWW-Authenticate\" header shall be set to
\"Bearer\" (IETF RFC 6750 [23]).
\- the \"realm\" attribute shall be set to the URI of the service (i.e API
URI) for which the access failed, in the case of request / response service
operations.
\- the \"error\" attribute shall be set to \"invalid_token\", as described in
IETF RFC 6750 [23], if the request contained a token which was deemed as
invalid by the NF service producer (e.g. it is expired, malformed...); if the
request did not contain a token, the \"error\" attribute shall not be
included.
For the notify operation of subscribe/notify semantics service operations, in
this release of this specification OAuth 2.0 access token is not used.
When an NF service consumer receives a \"401 Unauthorized\" status code with a
\"WWW-Authenticate\" header containing \"Bearer\" as the scheme for challenge
it shall not repeat the same request without an OAuth2.0 access token or with
an access token that has been already used. The NF service consumer may repeat
the same request with a new OAuth 2.0 access token.
NOTE: If a NF service producer accepts a request without the OAuth 2.0 access
token, based on local policy, it is assumed that such accesses are allowed
based on trust relationships and hence full access to the resource as it would
have been otherwise allowed, is provided.
### 6.7.4 Application layer security across PLMN
#### 6.7.4.1 General
HTTP/2 messages sent across the PLMN between the SEPPs shall follow the
application layer security procedures specified in clause 13.2 of 3GPP TS
33.501 [17].
#### 6.7.4.2 N32 Procedures
As specified in clause 13.2 of 3GPP TS 33.501 [17], the following procedures
shall be supported across N32
\- Capability Negotiation Request and Response;
\- Parameter Exchange Request and Response;
\- forwarding of the JOSE (see IETF RFC 7516 [25] and IETF RFC 7515 [26])
protected messages over N32.
Based on the capability negotiation and parameters exchanged between the
SEPPs, the service based interface messages sent across N32 interface shall be
subjected to JOSE based protection (see IETF RFC 7516 [25] and IETF RFC 7515
[26]) as specified in clause 13.2.4 of 3GPP TS 33.501 [17].
3GPP TS 29.573 [27] specifies protocol for the exchange of the messages
described above over N32, the format of the JOSE (see IETF RFC 7516 [25] and
IETF RFC 7515 [26]) protected messages and the procedure for forwarding of the
JOSE protected messages over N32.
## 6.8 SBI Message Priority Mechanism
### 6.8.1 General
The primary usage of SBI Message Priority (SMP) is to provide guidance to 5GC
NF acting as HTTP/2 clients or servers and HTTP/2 proxies when making
throttling decisions related to overload control. The priority information may
also be used for routing in proxies. Eventually a server may use the priority
information to process higher-priority requests before lower-priority
requests.
The SMP mechanism defined in this clause uses the \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-
Priority\" custom HTTP header defined in clause 5.2.3.2.1 to set and carry the
message priority between the client and the server.
NOTE 1: The custom HTTP header enforces the message priority end to end
between the client and the server through one or more proxies.
The SMP mechanism should also use the stream priority mechanism specified in
IETF RFC 7540 [7] clause 5.3.
NOTE 2: The stream priority enforces the message priority at the HTTP/2
connection level not end to end.
HTTP/2 clients, servers and proxies implementing SBIs shall support the custom
HTTP header and should support the stream priority.
### 6.8.2 Message level priority
A client, proxy and server shall use the \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\" value
(see clause 5.2.3.2.1) when setting or evaluating the priority of a message.
The client shall assign the request priority by adding the \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-
Priority\" custom HTTP header (see clause 5.2.3.2.1) to the message and
setting its value.
If the \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\" custom HTTP header is not present in a
response message then the HTTP nodes shall use the priority indicated in the
\"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\" of the associated request message.
If the server wants to assign a different priority to the response message
than the request one then the server shall assign the response priority by
adding the \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\" custom HTTP header to the message and
setting its value.
### 6.8.3 Stream priority
The purpose of HTTP/2 stream priority is to allow an endpoint to prioritize
streams for transmitting frames when there is limited capacity for sending and
to express how it would prefer its peer to allocate resources when managing
concurrent streams. Setting the stream priority ensures a priority treatment
to a message between the two endpoints of an HTTP/2 connection.
The stream priority applies to all frames in both directions. If it is not
changed until the stream is closed then all frames of the request and response
messages will have the same priority. A client assigns a priority for a
request and the correspondent response by including dependency and Weight
information in the HEADERS frame that opens the stream carrying the message.
The stream dependency shall be set to 0.
If the stream priority is used then the stream priority Weight is mapped from
the custom HTTP header. The mapping algorithm shall respect the ordering of
the priority. If message 1 has a priority of \"x\" and message 2 has a
priority of \"y\" where \"x\" is lower than \"y\" then the Weight of the
stream carrying the message 1 shall be higher than the Weight of the stream
carrying the message 2.
If the server wants to change the priority of the response, it shall send a
PRIORITY frame after the stream state became \"half-closed (remote)\" or shall
send the priority information in the HEADERS frame.
### 6.8.4 Recommendations when defining SBI Message Priorities
The recommendations provided in this clause are compliant with clause 10 of
IETF RFC 7944 [19]. They have been adapted to 5G services and Service Based
Architecture.
The priorities defined for all messages across all SBIs used in an HTTP/2
administrative domain must be defined in a consistent and coordinated fashion,
taking the default priority (see below for default priority values) into
account.
The following are some guidelines to be considered when defining the SMPs to
be used in SBA networks that support HTTP/2 nodes handling multiple services.
\- As with any prioritization scheme, it is possible for higher-priority
messages to block lower-priority messages from ever being handled. In 5GC,
this will often result in the messages being retried. This may result in more
traffic than the network would have handled without use of the SMP mechanism.
One potential guideline to prevent unwanted starving of lower-priority
messages is to have higher-priority messages represent a relatively small
portion of messages handled by the 5GC under normal scenarios. Multimedia
Priority Service (see 3GPP**** TS**** 23.501 [5] clause 5.16.5) and Mission
Critical Service (see 3GPP**** TS**** 23.501 [5] clause 5.16.6) typically
generate little traffic compared to the total traffic of a 5GC.
Multimedia Priority Service (MPS) or Mission Critical Service (MCX) requires
the blocking of lower-priority services.
\- When setting priorities for Multimedia Priority Services, Mission Critical
Services or Emergency calls, it is important to use the same priority values
across all APIs and services exposed by the 5GC. For instance, if it is
defined that the MPS priority level of [1; n] shall be assigned the priority
of [k; k+n-1] in the same order then it shall be the same on all SBIs.
\- Messages related to MPS, MCX and Emergency calls may be ranked according to
their priority (e.g., based on ARP priority level, 5QI priority level, MPS
Priority) based on regional/national regulatory and operator policies when it
is known by the application sending the message. Otherwise MPS and MCX should
have higher priorities than Emergency calls. Emergency call related messages
should have higher priority than the rest of the messages.
NOTE: In some situations (e.g. REGISTRATION or SERVICE REQUEST procedure); it
is possible to identify that the message belongs to a procedure of a high
priority user without knowing the identity of the priority service. In such a
case, all the messages sent over an SBI of these high priority procedures
should be given the same SBI message priority.
\- Requests without the \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\" header shall be assigned
the default priority value of \"24\".
\- Streams without priority shall be assigned a Stream Dependency of 0x0 and
the default Weight of 16.
\- When defining priorities of the messages of a service it is needed to
follow the same rules independently of the application, the SBI and the
service.
> \- When there is a series of request/response required to complete a
> procedure, it is appropriate to mark request/response occurrences that occur
> later in the series at a higher priority than those that occur early in the
> series.
>
> \- The requests that establish new sessions should have a lower priority
> than the ones that update or end a session.
>
> \- The requests that will result on deregistering users if they failed
> (authentication vector retrieval, update location...) shall have a higher
> priority than the ones of a non-registered user.
>
> \- Request/response of optional procedure and delay tolerant services should
> have lower priority than those of mandatory procedures.
### 6.8.5 HTTP/2 client behaviour
The client sending a request shall determine its required priority according
to 6.8.4. It shall include a \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\" header (see clause
5.2.3.2.1) indicating the required priority level in the request and shall
prioritise the requests according to the required priority level. If the
client also uses the stream priority at the HTTP/2 connection level then it
shall map the header value into a Weight and include it in the HEADERS of the
request message.
When the client receives a response with the \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\"
header, it shall prioritise the received response according to the priority
level received, otherwise according to the priority level of the corresponding
request. This includes determining the order in which responses are handled
and resources that are applied to the handling of the responses. The client
may use the stream priority to determine how to prioritize the response at the
HTTP/2 connection level.
### 6.8.6 HTTP/2 server behaviour
The server should use the \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\" header (see clause
5.2.3.2.1) and may use the stream priority information to determine how to
handle the request. This includes determining the order in which requests are
handled and resources that are applied to the handling of the request.
Servers should use \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\" value when making overload
throttling decisions.
Servers should use stream priority information when making overload throttling
decisions at the connection level.
When the priority of the response message needs to have a different value than
the request, a server shall include a \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\" header in
the response message which value is set to the response required priority
level.
If a server has included \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\" header in the response
message it may also set the stream priority as described in IETF RFC 7540 [7],
via priority information in the HEADERS frame or in a PRIORITY frame. In both
cases the priority Weight value shall be mapped from the 3gpp-Sbi-Message-
Priority\" header value. When sending the priority information with a PRIORITY
frame the server shall send it before sending the HEADERS frame of the
response message. A server shall not send a PRIORITY frame after the HEADER
one.
### 6.8.7 HTTP/2 proxy behaviour
A proxy should forward request and response without removing the \"3gpp-Sbi-
Message-Priority\" header or changing its value.
While done only in exceptional circumstances, a proxy may modify priority
information when relaying request and response by changing the \"3gpp-Sbi-
Message-Priority\" value. For example, a SEPP may modify the priority set by a
roaming partner.
Proxies should use the request priority information (respectively response
priority information) according to the \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority\" value and
may use the stream priority Weight value when making overload throttling
decisions to a request (respectively a response).
Proxies may use the priority information according to the \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-
Priority\" value and may use the stream priority Weight value when relaying a
request or a response messages. This includes the selection of routes (only
for the requests) and the ordering of messages relayed.
### 6.8.8 DSCP marking of messages
A client, proxy or server may prioritize traffic at IP level by placing
messages into different traffic classes and marking them with an appropriate
Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP).
Multiple HTTP/2 connections between two HTTP/2 end points are necessary: one
per DSCP value. All messages sent over a connection are assigned the same
traffic class and receive the same DSCP marking. The \"3gpp-Sbi-Message-
Priority\" value shall be considered in the selection of the appropriate
connection to send the message.
## 6.9 Discovering the communication options supported by a target resource
### 6.9.1 General
The OPTIONS method, as described in clause 4.3.7 of IETF RFC 7231 [11], may be
used by a NF Service Consumer to determine the communication options supported
by a NF Service Producer for a target resource.
Clause 6.9.2 describes example communication options that may be discovered
using the OPTIONS method.
### 6.9.2 Discoverable communication options
#### 6.9.2.2 Content-encodings supported in HTTP requests
Certain service operations may result in large HTTP request payloads, e.g. to
register NF profiles in the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [8]) or to update the NSSF
with the available S-NSSAIs supported by Tracking Areas (see 3GPP TS 29.531
[32]). Gzip coding (see IETF RFC 1952 [34]) may be supported to optimally
reduce the payload size of HTTP requests in this case.
A NF Service Consumer may determine the content-encodings supported by the NF
Service Producer in HTTP requests targeting a particular resource by:
\- sending an HTTP OPTIONS request targeting the resource of the NF Service
Producer; and/or
\- receiving an \"Accept-Encoding\" header in HTTP responses from the NF
Service Producer for requests targeting the resource.
A NF Service Producer that receives an HTTP OPTIONS request for a target
resource shall include an \"Accept-Encoding\" header in the HTTP 200 OK
response (see IETF RFC 7694 [33]), if specific content-encodings, e.g. Gzip
coding (e.g. see IETF RFC 1952 [34]) are supported in HTTP requests targeting
the resource.
A NF Service Producer that receives an HTTP request with a content-encoding
that it does not support shall reject the request with the status code \"415
Unsupported Media Type\" and include an \"Accept-Encoding\" header in the
response indicating the supported encodings in HTTP requests, as described in
clause 3 of IETF RFC 7694 [33].
A NF Service Producer may include an \"Accept-Encoding\" header in the HTTP
2xx response for requests other than HTTP OPTIONS if specific content-
encodings, e.g. Gzip coding (e.g. see IETF RFC 1952 [34]), are supported in
HTTP requests targeting the resource, to optimize future interactions, e.g.
when the request payload was big enough to justify use of a compression coding
but the client did not do so.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Internal NF Routing of HTTP Requests
The internal details of the architecture of a Network Function instance are
out of the scope of 3GPP and are entirely implementation-specific. This annex
describes how an instance of an NF Service Producer can route internally HTTP
requests received on a given Service-Based Interface.
Figure A-1 illustrates an example component architecture where incoming HTTP
requests are received and processed in a component named as \"Ingress Proxy\"
module and route them to the appropriate computing resource in the NF.
Figure A-1: Internal message routing inside NF Service Producer
The Ingress Proxy may parse any of the different components in the HTTP
request, but typically it may parse the path of the URI (i.e. the :path
pseudo-header in the HTTP/2 request).
The path component of the URI contains the service name of the requested SBA
service, so frequently the routing is done based on this component.
It is also frequent to inspect other components of the path (i.e. path
segments), to do a more fine-grained routing and direct requests done on a
specific HTTP resource(s) towards a given computing resource(s).
It can be noted that the path components used to determine the target
computing resource typically do not need to be statically defined but are
frequently defined in terms of \"variables\", or placeholders, similarly to
how they are defined in the OpenAPI specification language (a mechanism
usually known as \"path templating\"). See: https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-
Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md#path-templating
###### ## Annex B (informative): Client-side Adaptive Throttling for Overload
Control
This clause contains an example algorithm to make an NF Service Consumer
adjust the traffic rate sent to an NF Service Producer based on the number of
received \"rejects\" of HTTP requests with a status code \"503 Service
Unavailable\", or requests that have timed-out and the response was never
received. This algorithm is described in the book \"Betsy Beyer, et al;
Google: Site Reliability Engineering\"
(https://landing.google.com/sre/book.html), chapter 21, \"Handling Overload\".
NOTE: The reference link provided to the book can change and hence the name of
the book is expected to be used for referring to the latest edition.
Each client (NF Service Consumer) keeps track of the following counters during
a certain time window:
\- Requests: The number of requests that the client (NF Service Consumer)
needs to handle. Under normal operation (no overload), all these requests are
sent to the server (NF Service Producer). Under an overload situation, part of
these requests are locally rejected by the client (and not sent to the
server), and the rest of the requests are sent to the server.
\- Accepts: The number of requests accepted by the server (i.e., requests for
which a response has been effectively received at the client, with a status
code other than \"503 Service Unavailable\").
When there is no server overload, these values are equal.
When there is an overload status in the server, the rate between \"Accepts\"
and \"Requests\" decreases progressively. When this rate falls below a certain
point (given by an algorithm parameter named \"K\"), the client shall start
dropping some requests locally and not send them to the server.
The local rejection of requests can be done by calculating a \"Client request
rejection probability\", as:
{width="3.0729166666666665in" height="0.53125in"}
So, for example, assuming that the K parameter is set at 1.5:
\- if the server accepts >67% of the traffic, and rejects \50%, for K = 2); if K is
lower, the algorithm is more \"aggressive\", and the client starts dropping
requests sooner (e.g., K = 1.1 implies to start dropping requests as soon as
the server rejects >10% of the requests).
###### ## Annex B (normative): 3gpp-Sbi-Callback Types
This annex specifies the list of allowed 3GPP SBI callback type values for the
3gpp-Sbi-Callback HTTP custom header specified in clause 5.2.3.2.3. Only the
callbacks that are invoked across PLMN are specified.
Table B-1: Values for 3gpp-Sbi-Callback Custom HTTP Header
Value for 3gpp-Sbi-Callback Custom HTTP Header Reference
* * *
\"Nsmf_PDUSession_Update\" 3GPP TS 29.502 [28], Clause 5.2.2.8.3.2,
5.2.2.8.3.3, 5.2.2.8.3.4 and 5.2.2.8.3.5. \"Nsmf_PDUSession_StatusNotify\"
3GPP TS 29.502 [28], Clause 5.2.2.10. \"Nudm_SDM_Notification\" 3GPP TS 29.503
[29], Clause 6.1.5.2 \"Nudm_UECM_DeregistrationNotification\" 3GPP TS 29.503
[29], Clause 6.2.5.2 \"Nudm_UECM_PCSCFRestorationNotification\" 3GPP TS 29.503
[29], Clause 6.2.5.3 \"Nnrf_NFManagement_NFStatusNotify\" 3GPP TS 29.510 [8],
Clause 6.1.5.2. \"Namf_EventExposure_Notify\" 3GPP TS 29.518 [31], Clause
6.2.5.2. \"Npcf_UEPolicyControl_UpdateNotify\" 3GPP TS 29.525 [35], Clauses
4.2.4, 5.5.2 and 5.5.3. \"Nnssf_NSSAIAvailability_Notification\" 3GPP TS
29.531 [32], Clause 6.2.5.2
#