# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Nausf Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions and
message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the AUSF.
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2], 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS 33.501 [8].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[7] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security Architecture and Procedures for 5G System\".
[9] Void
[10] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[11] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.503: \"5G System; Unified Data Management Services; Stage 3\".
[13] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"Network Function Repository Services; Stage 3\".
[15] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the Universal Subscriber Identity
Module (USIM) application\".
[16] IETF RFC 5216: \"The EAP-TLS Authentication Protocol\".
[17] IETF RFC 9048: \"Improved Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for
3rd Generation Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA\')\".
[18] IETF RFC 3748: \"Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)\".
[19] IETF RFC 4648: \"The Base16, Base32 and Base64 Data Encodings\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
[21] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
API Application Programming Interface
AUSF Authentication Server Function
MAC Message Authentication Code
NF Network Function
SEAF SEcurity Anchor Function
SoR Steering of Roaming
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
UPU UE Parameters Update
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Introduction
The Network Function (NF) Authentication Server Function (AUSF) is the network
entity in the 5G Core Network (5GC) supporting the following functionalities:
\- Authenticate the UE for the requester NF,
\- Provide keying material to the requester NF,
\- Protect the Steering Information List for the requester NF.
Figure 4-1 shows the reference architecture for the AUSF:
Figure 4-1: AUSF in 5G System architecture
This figure represents the AUSF architecture in the Service-based Architecture
model. In the reference point model, the interface between the AMF and the
AUSF is named N12. In this release, the SEAF function is collocated with the
AMF. The AUSF may provide the service to the UDM.
# 5 Services offered by the AUSF
## 5.1 Introduction
The AUSF offers to NF Service Consumers (e.g. AMF) the following services:
\- Nausf_UEAuthentication
\- Nausf_SoRProtection
\- Nausf_UPUProtection
## 5.2 Nausf_UEAuthentication Service
### 5.2.1 Service Description
The AUSF is acting as NF Service Producer. It provides UE authentication
service to the requester NF. The NF Service Consumer is the AMF.
For this service, the following service operations are defined:
\- Authenticate
This service permits to authenticate the UE and to provide one or more master
keys which are used by the AMF to derived subsequent keys.
### 5.2.2 Service Operations
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction
The service operation defined for the Nausf_UEAuthentication is as follows:
\- Authenticate: It allows the AMF to authenticate the UE.
#### 5.2.2.2 Authenticate
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
The service operation \"Authenticate\" permits the requester NF to initiate
the Authentication of the UE by providing the following information to the
AUSF:
\- UE id (e.g. SUPI)
\- Serving Network Name
The AUSF retrieves the UE\'s subscribed authentication method from the UDM and
depending on the information provided by the UDM, the AUSF enters in one of
the following procedures:
\- 5G-AKA
\- EAP-based authentication\'
For those two different procedures a new resource is generated by the AUSF.
The content of the resource will depend on the procedure and will be returned
to the AMF.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 5G AKA
In this procedure, the NF Service Consumer (AMF) requests the authentication
of the UE by providing UE related information and the serving network name and
the 5G AKA is selected. The NF Service Consumer (AMF) shall then return to the
AUSF the result received from the UE:
Figure 5.2.2.2.2-1: 5G AKA
1\. The NF Service Consumer (AMF) shall send a POST request to the AUSF. The
payload of the body shall contain at least the UE Id and the Serving Network
Name.
2a. On success, \"201 Created\" shall be returned. The payload body shall
contain the representation of the resource created and the \"Location\" header
shall contain the URI of the created resource (e.g.
.../v1/ue_authentications/{authCtxId}). The AUSF generates a sub-resource
\"5g-aka-confirmation\". The AUSF shall provide an hypermedia link towards
this sub-resource in the payload to indicate to the AMF where it shall send a
PUT for the confirmation.
2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1. If the serving network is not authorized, the AUSF shall use the
SERVING_NETWORK_NOT_AUTHORIZED \"cause\".
3\. Based on the relation type, the NF Service Consumer (AMF) deduces that it
shall send a PUT containing the \"RES*\" provided by the UE to the URI
provided by the AUSF or derived by itself. The NF Service Consumer (AMF) shall
also send a PUT containing null value in the RES* to indicate the failure to
the AUSF for the following cases:
\- if the UE is not reached, and the RES* is never received by the NF Service
Consumer (AMF);
\- the comparation of the HRES* and HXRES* is unsuccessful in the NF Service
Consumer (AMF);
\- the authentication failure is received from the UE, e.g. synchronization
failure or MAC failure;
4a. On success, \"200 OK\" shall be returned. If the UE is not authenticated,
e.g. the verification of the RES* was not successful in the AUSF, the AUSF
shall set the value of AuthResult to AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE.
4b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1.
##### 5.2.2.2.3 EAP-based authentication method
###### 5.2.2.2.3.1 General
In this procedure, the NF Service Consumer requests the authentication of the
UE by providing UE related information and the serving network and the EAP-
based authentication is selected (see IETF RFC 3748 [18]). EAP messages are
exchanged between a UE acting as EAP peer, an NF Service Consumer (AMF/SEAF)
acting as a pass-through authenticator and the AUSF acting as the EAP server.
###### 5.2.2.2.3.2 EAP method: EAP-AKA\'
EAP-AKA\' is the EAP method used in this procedure
Figure 5.2.2.2.3-1: EAP-based authentication with EAP-AKA\' method
1\. The NF Service Consumer (AMF) shall send a POST request to the AUSF. The
payload of the body shall contain at least the UE Id, Serving Network Name.
2a. On success, \"201 Created\" shall be returned. The payload body shall
contain the representation of the resource generated and the \"Location\"
header shall contain the URI of the generated resource (e.g.
.../v1/ue_authentications/{authCtxId}/eap-session). The AUSF generates a sub-
resource \"eap-session\". The AUSF shall provide an hypermedia link towards
this sub-resource in the payload to indicate to the AMF where it shall send a
POST containing the EAP packet response. The body payload shall also contain
the EAP packet EAP-Request/AKA\'-Challenge.
2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1. In particular, if the serving network is not authorized, the AUSF
shall use the \"Cause\" SERVING_NETWORK_NOT_AUTHORIZED.
3\. Based on the relation type, the NF Service Consumer (AMF) shall send a
POST request including the EAP-Response/AKA\' Challenge received from the UE.
The POST request is sent to the URI provided by the AUSF or derived by the NF
Service Consumer (AMF).
4a. On success, and if the AUSF and the UE have indicated the use of protected
successful result indications as in IETF RFC 9048 [17], the AUSF shall reply
with a \"200 OK\" HTTP message containing the EAP Request/AKA\' Notification
and an hypermedia link towards the sub-resource \"eap-session\".
4b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1.
NOTE: Steps 4 to 5 are optional.
5\. The NF Service Consumer (AMF) shall send a POST request including the EAP
Response/AKA\' Notification received from the UE. The POST request is sent to
the URI provided by the AUSF or derived by the NF Service Consumser (AMF).
6a. If the EAP authentication exchange is successfully completed (with or
without the optional Notification Request/Response messages exchange), \"200
OK\" shall be returned to the NF Service Consumer (AMF). The payload shall
contain the result of the authentication, an EAP success/failure and the Kseaf
if the authentication is successful. If the UE is not authenticated, the AUSF
shall set the authResult to AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE.
6b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1.
###### 5.2.2.2.3.3 EAP method: EAP-TLS
The EAP-TLS method can be used in private networks as an EAP method (see 3GPP
TS 33.501 [8] Annex B.1). The corresponding stage 3 implementation is
described in Annex B.
## 5.3 Nausf_SoRProtection Service
### 5.3.1 Service Description
The AUSF is acting as NF Service Producer. It provides SoRProtection service
to the NF Service Consumer.
This service permits to provide the NF Service Consumer (e.g. UDM) with the
SoR-MAC-IAUSF and CounterSoR to protect the the Steering Information List from
being tampered with or removed by the VPLMN.
NOTE: If the Steering Information List is not available or HPLMN determines
that no steering of the UE is required, a SOR transparent container
information element with an HPLMN indication that \'no change of the
\"Operator Controlled PLMN Selector with Access Technology\" list stored in
the UE\' protected by SoR-MAC-IAUSF and CounterSoR is still sent to the UE
during registration. The Steering Information List In such a case, the NF
Service Consumer shall send an empty list to the AUSF when consuming the
Nausf_SoRProtection Service.
In option this service also allows to provide the NF Service Consumer (e.g.
UDM) with the SoR-XMAC-IUE that allows the NF Service Consumer (e.g. UDM) to
verify that the UE received the Steering Information List.
### 5.3.2 Service Operations
#### 5.3.2.1 Introduction
The service operation defined for the Nausf_SoRProtection is as follows:
\- Protect
#### 5.3.2.2 Protect
##### 5.3.2.2.1 General
The Protect service operation is used in the following procedures:
\- Procedure for steering of UE in VPLMN during registration (see clause
6.14.2.1 of 3GPP TS 33.501 [8]);
\- Procedure for steering of UE in VPLMN after registration (see clause
6.14.2.2 of 3GPP TS 33.501 [8]).
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. UDM) uses this service operation to request the
AUSF to compute the SoR-MAC-IAUSF and the CounterSoR by providing Steering
Information List. The NF Service Consumer (e.g. UDM) may also request the AUSF
to compute the SoR-XMAC-IUE by providing the indication that an
acknowledgement is requested from the UE.
Figure 5.3.2.2.1-1: Steering of UE in VPLMN
1\. The NF Service Consumer (e.g. UDM) shall send a POST request to the AUSF
that was used to authenticate the UE. The payload of the body shall contain
the Steering Information List and the acknowledge indication.
2a. On success, \"200 OK\" shall be returned. The payload body shall contain
the requested security material (e.g. SoR-MAC-I~AUSF~, Counter~SoR~, SoR-
XMAC-I~UE~) necessary to protect the Steering of Roaming procedure.
> SoR Header shall be used to form the input as one of multiple paramters to
> calculate the SoR-MAC-IAUSF. SoR Header shall be constructed by AUSF based
> on the information received in the request and encoded as specified in
> clasue 9.11.3.51 of 3GPP TS 24.501 [20].
2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in table 6.2.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.2.7.3-1. If the Counter~SoR~ associated with the K~AUSF~ of the UE, is about
to wrap around, the AUSF shall use the \"COUNTER-WRAP\" cause.
## 5.4 Nausf_UPUProtection Service
### 5.4.1 Service Description
The AUSF is acting as NF Service Producer. It provides UPUProtection service
to the NF Service Consumer.
This service permits to provide the NF Service Consumer (e.g. UDM) with the
UPU-MAC-I~AUSF~ and Counter~UPU~ to protect the UE Parameters Update Data from
being tampered with or removed by the VPLMN.
In option this service also allows to provide the NF Service Consumer (e.g.
UDM) with the UPU-XMAC-I~UE~ that allows the NF Service Consumer (e.g. UDM) to
verify that the UE received UE Parameters Update Data correctly.
### 5.4.2 Service Operations
#### 5.4.2.1 Introduction
The service operation defined for the Nausf_UPUProtection is as follows:
\- Protect
#### 5.4.2.2 Protect
##### 5.4.2.2.1 General
The Protect service operation is used in the following procedures:
\- Procedure for UE Parameters Update (see clause 6.15.2.1 of 3GPP TS 33.501
[8]).
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. UDM) uses this service operation to request the
AUSF to compute the UPU-MAC-I~AUSF~ and Counter~UPU~ by providing the UE
Parameters Update Data (UPU Data). The NF Service Consumer (e.g. UDM) may also
request the AUSF to compute the UPU-XMAC-I~UE~ by providing the indication
that an acknowledgement is requested from the UE.
Figure 5.4.2.2-1: UE Parameters Update in VPLMN
1\. The NF Service Consumer (e.g. UDM) shall send a POST request to the AUSF
that was used to authenticate the UE and stores the latest K~AUSF~ for the UE.
The payload of the body shall contain the UE Parameters Update Data (UPU
Data), the UPU Header and the acknowledge indication.
2a. On success, \"200 OK\" shall be returned. The payload body shall contain
the requested security material necessary to protect the UE Parameters Update
procedure.
2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in table 6.4.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.4.7.3-1. If the Counter~UPU~ associated with the K~AUSF~ of the UE, is about
to wrap around, the AUSF shall use the \"COUNTER-WRAP\" cause.
# 6 API Definitions
## 6.1 Nausf_UEAuthentication Service API
### 6.1.1 API URI
URIs of this API shall have the following root:
{apiRoot}/{apiName}/{apiVersion}/
where \"apiRoot\" is defined in clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], the
\"apiName\" shall be set to \"nausf-auth\" and the \"apiVersion\" shall be set
to \"v1\" for the current version of this specification.
### 6.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, as defined in IETF RFC 7540 [6], shall be used as specified in clause
5 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
#### 6.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
The usage of HTTP standard headers is specified in clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Content type
The following content types shall be supported:
\- JSON, as defined in IETF RFC 8259 [7], shall be used as content type of the
HTTP bodies specified in the present specification as indicated in clause 5.4
of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
\- The Problem Details JSON Object (IETF RFC 7807 [11]. The use of the Problem
Details JSON object in a HTTP response body shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\"
\- The 3GPP hypermedia format as defined in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. The use of the
3GPP hypermedia format in a HTTP response body shall be signalled by the
content type \"application/3gppHal+json\"
#### 6.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
##### 6.1.2.3.1 General
The usage of HTTP custom headers shall be supported as specified in clause
5.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
### 6.1.3 Resources
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
The structure of the Resource URIs of the \"Authenticate\" service is shown in
Figure 6.1.3.1-1
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the AUSF API
Table 6.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Resource name | Resource URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ue-a | {apiRoot}/naus | POST | Initiate the | | uthentications | f-auth/v1/ue-a | | authentication | | | uthentications | | process by | | (Collection) | | | providing | | | | | inputs related | | | | | to the UE | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5g-ak | {api | PUT | Put the UE | | a-confirmation | Root}/nausf-au | | response from | | | th/v1/ue-authe | | the 5G-AKA | | (Document) | ntications/{au | | process. | | | thCtxId}/5g-ak | | | | | a-confirmation | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | eap-session | {apiRoot}/ | POST | Post the EAP | | | nausf-auth/v1/ | | response from | | (Document) | ue-authenticat | | the UE. | | | ions/{authCtxI | | | | | d}/eap-session | | See NOTE. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: This | | | | | POST is used | | | | | to provide EAP | | | | | response to | | | | | the AUSF in a | | | | | sub-resource | | | | | (Document) | | | | | generated by | | | | | the first POST | | | | | operation. As | | | | | this operation | | | | | is not | | | | | idempotent (it | | | | | triggers | | | | | subsequent EAP | | | | | operations), a | | | | | PUT was not | | | | | adequate. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.1.3.2 Resource: List of ue-authentications
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Description
This resource represents a collection of the ue-authentication resources
generated by the AUSF.
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nausf-auth/v1/ue-authentications**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Definition apiRoot See clause 6.1.1
* * *
##### 6.1.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.2.3.1 POST
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
+--------------------+---+-------------+------------------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +--------------------+---+-------------+------------------------+ | AuthenticationInfo | M | 1 | Contains the UE id | | | | | (i.e. SUCI or SUPI as | | | | | specified in | | | | | 3GPP TS 33.501 [8]) | | | | | and the serving | | | | | network name. | | | | | | | | | | It may also contain | | | | | Trace Data as | | | | | specified in | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. | +--------------------+---+-------------+------------------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | UEAuth | M | 1 | 201 Created | Upon success, | | enticationCtx | | | | if 5G AKA is | | | | | | selected, the | | | | | | response body | | | | | | will contain | | | | | | one AV and | | | | | | \"link\" for | | | | | | the AMF to | | | | | | PUT the | | | | | | confirmation. | | | | | | | | | | | | If an | | | | | | EAP-based | | | | | | method is | | | | | | selected, the | | | | | | response body | | | | | | will contain | | | | | | the EAP | | | | | | method | | | | | | selected, the | | | | | | corresponding | | | | | | EAP packet | | | | | | request and a | | | | | | \"link\" for | | | | | | the AMF to | | | | | | POST the EAP | | | | | | response. | | | | | | | | | | | | The HTTP | | | | | | response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a | | | | | | \"Location\" | | | | | | header that | | | | | | contains the | | | | | | resource URI | | | | | | of the | | | | | | created | | | | | | resource. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 400 Bad | This case | | roblemDetails | | | Request | represents | | | | | | the failure | | | | | | to start | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | service | | | | | | because of | | | | | | input | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | error. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 403 Forbidden | This case | | roblemDetails | | | | represents | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | is not | | | | | | allowed to be | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthenticated. | | | | | | | | | | | | The \"cause\" | | | | | | attribute can | | | | | | be set to one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | AUTHENTICAT | | | | | | ION_REJECTED | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | SERVING | | | | | | _NETWORK_NO | | | | | | T_AUTHORIZED | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | INVALID_H | | | | | | N_PUBLIC_KE | | | | | | Y_IDENTIFIER | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | INVALID_S | | | | | | CHEME_OUTPUT | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute can | | | | | | be set to the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | error: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | USE | | | | | | R_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 500 Internal | This case | | roblemDetails | | | Server Error | represents | | | | | | the failure | | | | | | in starting | | | | | | the | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | service | | | | | | because of a | | | | | | server | | | | | | internal | | | | | | error. | | | | | | | | | | | | If the error | | | | | | is due to a | | | | | | problem with | | | | | | UDM not able | | | | | | to generate | | | | | | the requested | | | | | | AV, the AUSF | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | error: | | | | | | \ | | | | | | "AV_GENERATI | | | | | | ON_PROBLEM\" | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 501 Not | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | Implemented | attribute can | | | | | | be set to the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | error: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | UNSUP | | | | | | PORTED_PROTE | | | | | | CTION_SCHEME | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | other than | | | | | | those | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | the table | | | | | | above also | | | | | | apply, with a | | | | | | P | | | | | | roblemDetails | | | | | | data type | | | | | | (see clause | | | | | | 5.2.7 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
##### 6.1.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
###### 6.1.3.2.4.1 Overview
There is no Resource Custom Operations in the current version of this API.
#### 6.1.3.3 Resource: 5g-aka-confirmation (Document)
##### 6.1.3.3.1 Description
The subresource \"5g-aka-confirmation\" is generated by the AUSF. This
subresource should not persist after the AUSF has read its content.
##### 6.1.3.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nausf-auth/v1/ue-authentications/{authCtxId}/5g-aka-
confirmation**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Definition apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 authCtxId Represents a specific ue-
authentication
* * *
##### 6.1.3.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.3.3.1 PUT
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the PUT method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the PUT Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description ConfirmationData M 1 Contains the \"RES*\"
generated by the UE and provided to the AMF.
* * *
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the PUT Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Confirmatio | M | 1 | 200 OK | This case | | nDataResponse | | | | indicates | | | | | | that the AUSF | | | | | | has performed | | | | | | the | | | | | | verification | | | | | | of the 5G AKA | | | | | | confirmation. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | body shall | | | | | | contain the | | | | | | result of the | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | and the Kseaf | | | | | | if the | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | is | | | | | | successful. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 400 Bad | This case | | roblemDetails | | | Request | represents a | | | | | | 5G AKA | | | | | | confirmation | | | | | | failure | | | | | | because of | | | | | | input | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | error. This | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that the AUSF | | | | | | was not able | | | | | | to confirm | | | | | | the | | | | | | au | | | | | | thentication. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 500 Internal | This case | | roblemDetails | | | Server Error | represents a | | | | | | 5G AKA | | | | | | confirmation | | | | | | failure | | | | | | because of a | | | | | | server | | | | | | internal | | | | | | error. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the PUT | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | other than | | | | | | those | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | the table | | | | | | above also | | | | | | apply, with a | | | | | | P | | | | | | roblemDetails | | | | | | data type | | | | | | (see clause | | | | | | 5.2.7 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
#### 6.1.3.4 Resource: eap-session (Document)
##### 6.1.3.4.1 Description
The \"eap-session\" is generated by the AUSF if an EAP-based authentication
method is selected. This resource is used to handle the EAP session. This
subresource should not persist after the EAP exchanges.
##### 6.1.3.4.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nausf-auth/v1/ue-authentications/{authCtxId}/eap-
session**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.4.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.4.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Definition apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 authCtxId Represents a specifc ue-
authentication
* * *
##### 6.1.3.4.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.4.3.1 POST
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.4.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.4.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.4.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description EapSession M 1 Contains the EAP packet
response (see IETF RFC 3748 [18]) from the UE and transferred by the AMF
* * *
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | EapSession | M | 1 | 200 OK | During an EAP | | | | | | session, the | | | | | | body response | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the EAP | | | | | | packet | | | | | | Response and | | | | | | an hypermedia | | | | | | link. | | | | | | | | | | | | At the end of | | | | | | the EAP | | | | | | session, the | | | | | | body response | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the EAP | | | | | | packet | | | | | | Success or | | | | | | Failure (see | | | | | | IETF RFC | | | | | | 3748 [18]) | | | | | | and the Kseaf | | | | | | if the | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | is successful | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 400 Bad | This case | | roblemDetails | | | Request | represents an | | | | | | EAP session | | | | | | failure | | | | | | because of | | | | | | input | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | error. This | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that the AUSF | | | | | | was not able | | | | | | to continue | | | | | | the EAP | | | | | | session. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 500 Internal | This case | | roblemDetails | | | Server Error | represents an | | | | | | EAP session | | | | | | failure | | | | | | failure | | | | | | because of a | | | | | | server | | | | | | internal | | | | | | error. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | other than | | | | | | those | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | the table | | | | | | above also | | | | | | apply, with a | | | | | | P | | | | | | roblemDetails | | | | | | data type | | | | | | (see clause | | | | | | 5.2.7 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
### 6.1.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
#### 6.1.4.1 Overview
There is no Custom Operation in the current version of this API.
### 6.1.5 Notifications
#### 6.1.5.1 General
There is no use of notification in the current version of this API.
### 6.1.6 Data Model
#### 6.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Nausf service based
interface protocol.
Table 6.1.6.1-1: Nausf specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Clause defined Description AuthenticationInfo 6.1.6.2.2 Contains the
UE id (i.e. SUCI or SUPI) and the Serving Network Name. UEAuthenticationCtx
6.1.6.2.3 Contains the information related to the resource generated to handle
the UE authentication. It contains at least the UE id, Serving Network, the
Authentication Method and related EAP information or related 5G-AKA
information. 5gAuthData 6.1.6.2.4 Contains 5G authentication related
information. AV5gAka 6.1.6.2.5 Contains Authentication Vector for method 5G
AKA. ConfirmationData 6.1.6.2.7 Contains the \"RES*\" generated by the UE.
EapSession 6.1.6.2.8 Contains information related to the EAP session.
* * *
Table 6.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nausf service based
interface protocol from other specifications, including a reference to their
respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their use
within the Nausf service based interface.
Table 6.1.6.1-2: Nausf re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments LinksValueSchema 3GPP TS 29.571 [10] 3GPP
Hypermedia link ProblemDetails 3GPP TS 29.571 [10] Common Data Type used in
response bodies Supi 3GPP TS 29.571 [10]  
Uri 3GPP TS 29.571 [10]  
ResynchronizationInfo 3GPP TS 29.503 [12]  
SupiOrSuci 3GPP TS 29.503 [12]  
ServingNetworkName 3GPP TS 29.503 [12]  
Autn 3GPP TS 29.503 [12]  
Pei 3GPP TS 29.571 [10]  
TraceData 3GPP TS 29.571 [10]
* * *
#### 6.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.1.6.2.1 Introduction
The following clause defines the structures to be used in resource
representations.
##### 6.1.6.2.2 Type: AuthenticationInfo
Table 6.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type AuthenticationInfo
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description supiOrSuci SupiOrSuci M 1
Contains the SUPI or SUCI of the UE. servingNetworkName ServingNetworkName M 1
Contains the Serving Network Name. resynchronizationInfo ResynchronizationInfo
O 0..1 Contains RAND and AUTS; see 3GPP 33.501 [8] clause 9.4. pei Pei O 0..1
Permanent Equipment Identifier traceData TraceData O 0..1 Contains TraceData
provided by the UDM to the AMF
* * *
##### 6.1.6.2.3 Type: UEAuthenticationCtx
Table 6.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type UEAuthenticationCtx
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | authType | AuthType | M | 1 | Indicates the | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | method used | | | | | | for this UE | | | | | | ie. | | | | | | \"5G-AKA-Co | | | | | | nfirmation\", | | | | | | \"EAP-AKA\'\" | | | | | | or | | | | | | \"EAP-TLS\". | | | | | | See clause | | | | | | 6.1.6.3.3 | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | _links | map(Link | M | 1..N | If 5G-AKA has | | | sValueSchema) | | | been | | | | | | selected, | | | | | | this IE shall | | | | | | contain a | | | | | | member whose | | | | | | name is set | | | | | | to \"5g-aka\" | | | | | | and the URI | | | | | | to perform | | | | | | the | | | | | | confirmation. | | | | | | | | | | | | If an | | | | | | EAP-based | | | | | | method has | | | | | | been | | | | | | selected, | | | | | | this IE shall | | | | | | contain a | | | | | | member whose | | | | | | name is set | | | | | | to | | | | | | \" | | | | | | eap-session\" | | | | | | and the URI | | | | | | to perform | | | | | | the EAP | | | | | | session. | | | | | | | | | | | | See NOTE | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | 5gAuthData | 5GAuthData | M | 1 | Contains | | | | | | either 5G-AKA | | | | | | or EAP | | | | | | related | | | | | | information. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | servi | Servi | O | 0..1 | Contains the | | ngNetworkName | ngNetworkName | | | Serving | | | | | | Network Name. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE: In the | | | | | | current | | | | | | version of | | | | | | this API, | | | | | | only one | | | | | | hypermedia | | | | | | link is | | | | | | provided | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
##### 6.1.6.2.4 Type: 5gAuthData
Table 6.1.6.2.4-1: Definition of type 5gAuthData as a list of mutually
exclusive alternatives
* * *
Data type Cardinality Description Av5gAka 1 Contains the 5G AV if 5G-AKA has
been selected. EapPayload 1 Contains the EAP packet request.
* * *
##### 6.1.6.2.5 Type: Av5gAka
Table 6.1.6.2.5-1: Definition of type Av5gAka
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description rand Rand M 1  
autn Autn M 1  
hxresStar HxresStar M 1
* * *
##### 6.1.6.2.6 Type: ConfirmationData
Table 6.1.6.2.6-1: Definition of type ConfirmationData
+----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | resStar | ResStar | M | 1 | Contains the | | | | | | \"RES*\" | | | | | | provided by the | | | | | | UE to the AMF. | | | | | | | | | | | | If no RES* has | | | | | | been provided | | | | | | by the UE the | | | | | | null value is | | | | | | conveyed to the | | | | | | AUSF. | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
##### 6.1.6.2.7 Type: EapSession
Table 6.1.6.2.7-1: Definition of type EapSession
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | eapPayload | EapPayload | M | 1 | Contains the | | | | | | EAP packet | | | | | | (see | | | | | | IETF RFC | | | | | | 3748 [18]). | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | kSeaf | Kseaf | C | 0..1 | If the | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | is | | | | | | successful, | | | | | | the Kseaf | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | included | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | _links | map(Link | C | 1..N | If the EAP | | | sValueSchema) | | | session | | | | | | requires | | | | | | another | | | | | | exchange e.g. | | | | | | for EAP-AKA\' | | | | | | notification, | | | | | | this IE shall | | | | | | contain a | | | | | | member whose | | | | | | name is | | | | | | \" | | | | | | eap-session\" | | | | | | and the URI | | | | | | to continue | | | | | | the EAP | | | | | | session. | | | | | | | | | | | | See NOTE. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | authResult | AuthResult | C | 0..1 | Indicates the | | | | | | result of the | | | | | | au | | | | | | thentication. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | supi | Supi | C | 0..1 | If the | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | is successful | | | | | | and if the | | | | | | AMF had | | | | | | provided a | | | | | | SUCI, this IE | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the SUPI of | | | | | | the UE. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE: In the | | | | | | current | | | | | | version of | | | | | | this API, | | | | | | only 0 or 1 | | | | | | hypermedia | | | | | | link is | | | | | | provided. | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
##### 6.1.6.2.8 Type: ConfirmationDataResponse
Table 6.1.6.2.8-1: Definition of type ConfirmationDataResponse
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description authResult AuthResult M 1
Indicates the result of the authentication supi Supi C 0..1 If the
authentication is successful and if the AMF had provided a SUCI, this IE shall
contain the SUPI of the UE kseaf Kseaf C 0..1 Contains the Kseaf if
authentication is successful.
* * *
#### 6.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.1.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
Table 6.1.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description EapPayload string The EAP packet is
encoded using base64 (see IETF RFC 4648 [19]) and represented as a String.
ResStar string pattern: \"[A-Fa-f0-9]{32}\"; nullable Kseaf string pattern:
\"[A-Fa-f0-9]{64}\" HxresStar string pattern: \"[A-Fa-f0-9]{32}\"
* * *
##### 6.1.6.3.3 Enumeration: AuthType
Table 6.1.6.3.3-1: Enumeration AuthType
* * *
Enumeration value Description 5G_AKA 5G AKA EAP_AKA_PRIME EAP-AKA\' EAP_TLS
EAP-TLS is only used in the case where the Annex B is supported.
* * *
##### 6.1.6.3.4 Enumeration: AuthResult
Table 6.1.6.3.4-1: Enumeration AuthResult
* * *
Enumeration value Description AUTHENTICATION_SUCCESS This value is used to
indicate that the AUSF successfully authenticate the UE AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE
This value is used to indicate that the AUSF fails to authenticate the UE.
AUTHENTICATION_ONGOING This value is used during an EAP Session to indicate
that the EAP session is still ongoing.
* * *
##### 6.1.6.3.5 Relation Types
###### 6.1.6.3.5.1 General
This clause describes the possible relation types defined within AUSF API.
Table 6.1.6.3.5-1: supported registered relation types
* * *
Relation Name 5g-aka eap-session
* * *
###### 6.1.6.3.5.2 The \"5g-aka\" Link relation
The value \"5g-aka\" specifies that the value of the href attribute is the URI
where NF Service Consumer shall send a PUT containing the result \"RES*\"
received from the UE.
###### 6.1.6.3.5.3 The \"eap-session\" Link relation
The value \"eap-session\" specifies that the value of the href attribute is
the URI that will be used by the NF Service Consumer to provide EAP packet
response during an EAP exchange. The NF Service Consumer shall use a POST to
provide the EAP Packet Response to the AUSF to the corresponding URI.
#### 6.1.6.4 Binary data
##### 6.1.6.4.1 Introduction
There is no binary data in the current version of this API.
### 6.1.7 Error Handling
#### 6.1.7.1 General
HTTP error handling shall be supported as specified in clause 5.2.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
#### 6.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
Protocol errors shall be supported as specified in clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
#### 6.1.7.3 Application Errors
The common application errors defined in the Table 5.2.7.2-1 in 3GPP TS 29.500
[4] may also be used for the Nausf_UEauthentication service. The following
application errors listed in Table 6.1.7.3-1 are specific for the
Nausf_Ueauthentication service.
Table 6.1.7.3-1: Application errors
* * *
Application Error HTTP status code Description SERVING_NETWORK_NOT_AUTHORIZED
403 Forbidden The serving network is not authorized, e.g. serving PLMN.
AUTHENTICATION_REJECTED 403 Forbidden The user cannot be authenticated with
this authentication method e.g. only SIM data available
INVALID_HN_PUBLIC_KEY_IDENTIFIER 403 Forbidden Invalid HN public key
identifier received INVALID_SCHEME_OUTPUT 403 Forbidden SUCI cannot be
decrypted with received data CONTEXT_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found The AUSF cannot
found the resource corresponding to the URI provided by the NF Service
Consumer. USER_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found The user does not exist in the HPLMN
UPSTREAM_SERVER_ERROR 504 Gateway Timeout No response is received from a
remote peer, e.g. from the UDM NETWORK_FAILURE 504 Gateway Timeout The request
is rejected due to a network problem. AV_GENERATION_PROBLEM 500 Internal
Server Error The UDM has indicated that it was not able to generate AV.
UNSUPPORTED_PROTECTION_SCHEME 501 Not implemented The received protection
scheme is not supported by HPLMN
* * *
### 6.1.8 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8], the access to the Nausf_UEAuthentication
Service API may be authorized by means of the Oauth2 protocol (see IETF RFC
6749 [13]), using the \"Client Credentials\" authorization grant, where the
NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [14]) plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming service offered
by the Nausf_UEAuthentication Service API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the
authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as
described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [14], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nausf_UEAuthentication service.
The Nausf_UEAuthentication Service API does not define any scopes for Oauth2
authorization as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8]; it defines a single scope
consisting on the name of the service (i.e., \"nausf-auth\"), and it does not
define any additional scopes at resource or operation level.
## 6.2 Nausf_SoRProtection Service API
### 6.2.1 API URI
URIs of this API shall have the following root:
{apiRoot}/{apiName}/{apiVersion}/
where \"apiRoot\" is defined in clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], the
\"apiName\" shall be set to \"nausf-sorprotection\" and the \"apiVersion\"
shall be set to \"v1\" for the current version of this specification.
### 6.2.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.2.2.1 General
HTTP/2, as defined in IETF RFC 7540 [6], shall be used as specified in clause
5 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
#### 6.2.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.2.2.2.1 General
The usage of HTTP standard headers is specified in clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
##### 6.2.2.2.2 Content type
The following content types shall be supported:
\- JSON, as defined in IETF RFC 8259 [7], shall be used as content type of the
HTTP bodies specified in the present specification as indicated in clause 5.4
of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
\- The Problem Details JSON Object (IETF RFC 7807 [11]. The use of the Problem
Details JSON object in a HTTP response body shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\"
#### 6.2.2.3 HTTP custom headers
##### 6.2.2.3.1 General
In this version of the API, no specific custom headers are defined for the
\"Nausf_SoRProtection\" service.
For 3GPP specific HTTP custom headers used across all service based
interfaces, see clause 5.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
### 6.2.3 Resources
#### 6.2.3.1 Overview
The structure of the Resource URIs of the SoRProtection service is shown in
Figure 6.2.3.1-1
Figure 6.x.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the SoRProtection API
Table 6.2.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.2.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Resource name | Resource URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ue-sor | {apiRoot | gen | Resource for | | | }/nausf-sorpro | erate-sor-data | SoR security | | (Custom | tection/v1/{su | (POST) | material | | operation) | pi}/ue-sor/gen | | computation | | | erate-sor-data | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.2.3.2 Resource: ue-sor
##### 6.2.3.2.1 Description
It is the resource to which the custom operation used to generate the SoR
security material is associated with.
##### 6.2.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/nausf-sorprotection/v1/supi/ue-sor
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.2.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.2.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Definition
apiRoot See clause 6.2.1
supi Represents the Subscription Permanent Identifier (see 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]
clause 5.9.2)\ pattern: \'\^(imsi-[0-9]{5,15}\|nai-.+\|.+)\$\'
* * *
##### 6.2.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
No Standard Methods are supported for this resource.
##### 6.2.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
###### 6.2.3.2.4.1 Overview
Table 6.2.3.2.4.1-1: Custom operations
* * *
Custom operation URI Mapped HTTP method Description /generate-sor-data POST
The AUSF calculates the SoR-MAC-IAUSF and the CounterSoR to protect the
Steering Information List provided. It may also calculate the SoR-XMAC-IUE to
verify that the UE received the Steering Information List if the indication
that an acknowledgement is requested from the UE.
* * *
###### 6.2.3.2.4.2 Operation: generate-sor-data
###### # 6.2.3.2.4.2.1 Description
This custom operation is used by the NF service consumer (e.g. UDM) to request
the AUSF to compute the security material (SoR-MAC-IAUSF, CounterSoR and SoR-
XMAC-IUE) needed to ensure the protection of the SoR procedure (see 3GPP TS
33.501 [8]).
###### # 6.2.3.2.4.2.2 Operation Definition
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.2.3.2.4.2.2-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 6.2.3.2.4.2.2-2.
Table 6.2.3.2.4.2.2-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description SorInfo M 1 Contains the Steering
Information List and may contain the indication that an acknowledgement is
requested from the UE (as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8]).
* * *
Table 6.2.3.2.4.2.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | So | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon success, | | rSecurityInfo | | | | the response | | | | | | body will | | | | | | contain | | | | | | SoR-MAC-IAUSF | | | | | | and | | | | | | CounterSoR | | | | | | and may | | | | | | contain the | | | | | | So | | | | | | R-XMAC-IUE~.~ | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 503 Service | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | Unavailable | attribute | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | to one of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | error: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | COUNTER_WRAP | | | | | | | | | | | | See table | | | | | | 6.2.7.3-1 for | | | | | | the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of these | | | | | | errors. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | other than | | | | | | those | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | the table | | | | | | above also | | | | | | apply, with a | | | | | | P | | | | | | roblemDetails | | | | | | data type | | | | | | (see clause | | | | | | 5.2.7 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
### 6.2.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
#### 6.2.4.1 Overview
There is no Custom Operation in the current version of this API.
### 6.2.5 Notifications
#### 6.2.5.1 General
There is no use of notification in the current version of this API.
### 6.2.6 Data Model
#### 6.2.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.2.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Nausf-SORProtection
service based interface protocol.
Table 6.x.6.1-1: Nausf specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Clause defined Description SorInfo 6.2.6.2.2 Contains the Steering
Information SorSecurityInfo 6.2.6.2.3 Contains the material generated for
securing of SoR. It contains at least the SoR-MAC-IAUSF and CounterSoR.
SteeringInfo 6.2.6.2.4 Contains a combination of one PLMN identity and zero or
more access technologies. SorMac 6.2.6.3.2 MAC value for protecting SOR
procedure (SoR-MAC-IAUSF and SoR-XMAC-IUE) Countersor 6.2.6.3.2 CounterSoR
AckInd 6.2.6.3.2 Contains indication whether the acknowledgement from UE is
needed AccessTech 6.2.6.3.3 Access Technology
* * *
Table 6.2.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nausf-SORProtection
service based interface protocol from other specifications, including a
reference to their respective specifications and when needed, a short
description of their use within the Nausf service based interface.
Table 6.2.6.1-2: Nausf re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments PlmnId 3GPP TS 29.571 [10] PLMN ID
* * *
#### 6.2.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.2.6.2.1 Introduction
The following clauses define the structures to be used in resource
representations.
##### 6.2.6.2.2 Type: SorInfo
Table 6.2.6.2.2-1: Definition of type SorInfo
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ackInd | AckInd | M | 1 | Contains the | | | | | | indication | | | | | | whether the | | | | | | ac | | | | | | knowledgement | | | | | | from UE is | | | | | | needed. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | stee | Stee | C | 1 | When present, | | ringContainer | ringContainer | | | this | | | | | | information | | | | | | contains the | | | | | | information | | | | | | needed to | | | | | | update the | | | | | | \"Operator | | | | | | Controlled | | | | | | PLMN Selector | | | | | | with Access | | | | | | Technology\" | | | | | | list stored | | | | | | in the USIM. | | | | | | | | | | | | It may | | | | | | contain an | | | | | | array of | | | | | | preferred | | | | | | PLMN/Acces | | | | | | sTechnologies | | | | | | combinations | | | | | | in priority | | | | | | order. The | | | | | | first entry | | | | | | in the array | | | | | | indicates the | | | | | | highest | | | | | | priority and | | | | | | the last | | | | | | entry | | | | | | indicates the | | | | | | lowest. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or it may | | | | | | contain a | | | | | | secured | | | | | | packet. | | | | | | | | | | | | If no change | | | | | | of the | | | | | | \"Operator | | | | | | Controlled | | | | | | PLMN Selector | | | | | | with Access | | | | | | Technology\" | | | | | | list stored | | | | | | in the USIM | | | | | | is needed | | | | | | then this | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | absent. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
##### 6.2.6.2.3 Type: SorSecurityInfo
Table 6..6.2.3-1: Definition of type SorSecurityInfo
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description sorMacIausf SorMac M 1
Contains the SoR-MAC-IAUSF. countersor CounterSor M 1 Contains the
Counter~SoR~. sorXmacIue SorMac O 0..1 When present, contains the SoR-
XMAC-I~UE~. It shall be included, if the UDM requests the acknowledgement from
the UE.
* * *
##### 6.2.6.2.4 Type: SteeringInfo
Table 6..6.2.4-1: Definition of type SteeringInfo
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description plmnId PlmnId M 1 Contains
a preferred PLMN identity. accessTechList Array(AccessTech) C 1..N When
present it contains the 31referred access technologies as listed in clause
4.2.5 of 3GPP TS 31.102 [15]. If absent it means that all access technologies
are equivalently preferred in this PLMN.
* * *
##### 6.2.6.2.5 Type: SteeringContainer
Table 6.2.6.2.5.-1: Definition of type SteeringContainer as a list of
alternatives
* * *
Data type Cardinality Description array(SteeringInfo) 1..N List of
PLMN/AccessTechnologies combinations. SecuredPacket 1 A secured packet
containing one or more APDUs commands dedicated to Remote File Management.
* * *
#### 6.2.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.2.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.2.6.3.2 Simple data types
Table 6.2.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description SorMac string pattern:
\"\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{32}\$\" CounterSor string pattern: \"\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{4}\$\"
AckInd boolean true indicates that the SoR-XMAC-I~UE~ shall be computed and
returned in the response SecuredPacket string Contains a secure packet as
specified in 3GPP TS 24.501 [20]. It is encoded using base64 and represented
as a String.
* * *
##### 6.2.6.3.3 Enumeration: AccessTech
Table 6.2.6.3.3-1: Enumeration AccessTech
* * *
Enumeration value Description \"NR\"  
\"EUTRAN_IN_WBS1_MODE_AND_NBS1_MODE\"  
\"EUTRAN_IN_NBS1_MODE_ONLY\"  
\"EUTRAN_IN_WBS1_MODE_ONLY\"  
\"UTRAN\"  
\"GSM_AND_ECGSM_IoT\"  
\"GSM_WITHOUT_ECGSM_IoT\"  
\"ECGSM_IoT_ONLY\"  
\"CDMA_1xRTT\"  
\"CDMA_HRPD\"  
\"GSM_COMPACT\"
* * *
### 6.2.7 Error Handling
#### 6.2.7.1 General
HTTP error handling shall be supported as specified in clause 5.2.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
#### 6.2.7.2 Protocol Errors
Protocol Error Handling shall be supported as specified in clause 5.2.7.2 of
3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
#### 6.2.7.3 Application Errors
The common application errors defined in the Table 5.2.7.2-1 in 3GPP TS 29.500
[4] may also be used for the Nausf_SoRProtection service. The following
application errors listed in Table 6..7.3-1 are specific for the
Nausf_SoRProtection service.
Table 6.2.7.3-1: Application errors
* * *
Application Error HTTP status code Description COUNTER_WRAP 503 Service
Unavailable The Counter~SoR~ associated with the KAUSF of the UE is about to
wrap around. The AUSF suspends the SoR protection service for the UE until a
new KAUSF is generated.
* * *
### 6.2.8 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8], the access to the Nausf_SoRProtection API
may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol (see IETF RFC 6749 [13]),
using the \"Client Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP
TS 29.510 [14]) plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Nausf_SoRProtection API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the
authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as
described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [14], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nausf_SoRProtection service.
The Nausf_SoRProtection Service API does not define any scopes for OAuth2
authorization as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8]; it defines a single scope
consisting on the name of the service (i.e., \"nausf-sorprotection\"), and it
does not define any additional scopes at resource or operation level.
## 6.3 Nausf_UPUProtection Service API
### 6.3.1 API URI
URIs of this API shall have the following root:
{apiRoot}/{apiName}/{apiVersion}/
where \"apiRoot\" is defined in clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], the
\"apiName\" shall be set to \"nausf-upuprotection\" and the \"apiVersion\"
shall be set to \"v1\" for the current version of this specification.
### 6.3.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.3.2.1 General
HTTP/2, as defined in IETF RFC 7540 [6], shall be used as specified in clause
5 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
#### 6.3.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.3.2.2.1 General
The usage of HTTP standard headers is specified in clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
##### 6.3.2.2.2 Content type
The following content types shall be supported:
\- JSON, as defined in IETF RFC 8259 [7], shall be used as content type of the
HTTP bodies specified in the present specification as indicated in clause 5.4
of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
\- The Problem Details JSON Object (IETF RFC 7807 [11]. The use of the Problem
Details JSON object in a HTTP response body shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\"
#### 6.3.2.3 HTTP custom headers
##### 6.3.2.3.1 General
In this version of the API, no specific custom headers are defined for the
\"Nausf_UPUProtection\" service.
For 3GPP specific HTTP custom headers used across all service based
interfaces, see clause 5.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
### 6.3.3 Resources
#### 6.3.3.1 Overview
The structure of the Resource URIs of the UPUProtection service is shown in
Figure 6.3.3.1-1
Figure 6.3.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the UPUProtection API
Table 6.3.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.3.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Resource name | Resource URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ue-upu | {apiRoot | gen | Resource for | | | }/nausf-upupro | erate-upu-data | UPU security | | (Custom | tection/v1/{su | (POST) | material | | operation) | pi}/ue-upu/gen | | computation | | | erate-upu-data | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.3.3.2 Resource: ue-upu
##### 6.3.3.2.1 Description
It is the resource to which the custom operation used to generate the UPU
security material is associated with.
##### 6.3.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/nausf-upuprotection/v1/supi/ue-upu
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.3.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.3.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Definition
apiRoot See clause 6.3.1
supi Represents the Subscription Permanent Identifier (see 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]
clause 5.9.2)\ pattern: \'\^(imsi-[0-9]{5,15}\|nai-.+\|.+)\$\'
* * *
##### 6.3.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
No Standard Methods are supported for this resource.
##### 6.3.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
###### 6.3.3.2.4.1 Overview
Table 6.3.3.2.4.1-1: Custom operations
* * *
Custom operation URI Mapped HTTP method Description /generate-upu-data POST
The AUSF calculates the UPU-MAC-I~AUSF~ and the Counter~UPU~ to protect the UE
Parameters Update Data provided. It may also calculate the UPU-XMAC-I~UE~ to
verify that the UE received the UE Parameters Update Data if the indication
that an acknowledgement is requested from the UE is provided.
* * *
###### 6.3.3.2.4.2 Operation: generate-upu-data
###### # 6.3.3.2.4.2.1 Description
This custom operation is used by the NF service consumer (e.g. UDM) to request
the AUSF to compute the security material (UPU-MAC-I~AUSF~, Counter~UPU~ and
UPU-XMAC-I~UE~) needed to ensure the protection of the UPU procedure (see 3GPP
TS 33.501 [8]).
###### # 6.3.3.2.4.2.2 Operation Definition
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.3.3.2.4.2.2-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 6.3.3.2.4.2.2-2.
Table 6.3.3.2.4.2.2-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description UpuInfo M 1 Contains the UE Parameters
Update Data and may contain the indication that an acknowledgement is
requested from the UE (as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8]).
* * *
Table 6.3.3.2.4.2.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Up | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon success, | | uSecurityInfo | | | | the response | | | | | | body will | | | | | | contain | | | | | | UP | | | | | | U-MAC-I~AUSF~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | Counter~UPU~ | | | | | | and may | | | | | | contain the | | | | | | UP | | | | | | U-XMAC-I~UE.~ | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 503 Service | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | Unavailable | attribute | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | to one of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | error: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | COUNTER_WRAP | | | | | | | | | | | | See table | | | | | | 6.3.7.3-1 for | | | | | | the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of these | | | | | | errors. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
### 6.3.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
#### 6.3.4.1 Overview
There is no Custom Operation in the current version of this API.
### 6.3.5 Notifications
#### 6.3.5.1 General
There is no use of notification in the current version of this API.
### 6.3.6 Data Model
#### 6.3.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.3.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Nausf-UPUProtection
service based interface protocol.
Table 6.3.6.1-1: Nausf specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Clause defined Description UpuInfo 6.3.6.2.2 Contains the UE
parameters update Information UpuSecurityInfo 6.3.6.2.3 Contains the material
generated for securing of UPU. It contains at least the UPU-MAC-I~AUSF~ and
Counter~UPU~. UpuData 6.3.6.2.4 Contains UE parameters update data set (e.g.,
the updated Routing ID Data or the Default configured NSSAI). UpuMac 6.3.6.3.2
MAC value for protecting UPU procedure (UPU-MAC-I~AUSF~ and UPU-MAC-I~UE~)
CounterUpu 6.3.6.3.2 Counter~UPU~ UpudAckInd 6.3.6.3.2 Contains the indication
of whether the acknowledgement from UE is needed UpuHeader 6.3.6.3.2 Contains
the \"UPU Header\" IE as specified in clause 9.11.3.53A of 3GPP TS 24.501 [20]
(octet 4),
* * *
Table 6.3.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nausf-UPUProtection
service based interface protocol from other specifications, including a
reference to their respective specifications and when needed, a short
description of their use within the Nausf service based interface.
Table 6.3.6.1-2: Nausf re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments Snssai 3GPP TS 29.571 [10] Default configured
NSSAI
* * *
#### 6.3.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.3.6.2.1 Introduction
The following clauses define the structures to be used in resource
representations.
##### 6.3.6.2.2 Type: UpuInfo
Table 6.3.6.2.2-1: Definition of type UpuInfo
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description upuDataList array(UpuData)
M 1..N This information defines the UE Parameters Update (UPU). A secured
packed with the Routing indicator update data and/or the Default configured
NSSAI update data are included. See clause 6.3.6.2.4. upuHeader UpuHeader O
0..1 This attribute contains UPU Header encoded as defined in clause
6.3.6.3.2. upuAckInd UpuAckInd M 1 Contains the indication of whether the
acknowledgement from UE is needed.
* * *
##### 6.3.6.2.3 Type: UpuSecurityInfo
Table 6.3.6.2.3-1: Definition of type UpuSecurityInfo
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description upuMacIausf UpuMac M 1
Contains the UPU-MAC-I~AUSF~. counterUpu CounterUpu M 1 Contains the
Counter~UPU~. upuXmacIue UpuMac O 0..1 When present, contains the UPU-
XMAC-I~UE~. It shall be included, if the UDM requests the acknowledgement from
the UE.
* * *
##### 6.3.6.2.4 Type: UpuData
Table 6.3.6.2.4-1: Definition of type UpuData
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description secPacket SecuredPacket C
0..1 Presents if the Routing indicator update data is required to be updated,
and contains a secured packet with the Routing indicator to be updated.
defaultConfNssai array(Snssai) C 0..N Presents if the Default configured NSSAI
is required to be updated, and contains the Default configured NSSAI to be
updated.
* * *
#### 6.3.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.3.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.3.6.3.2 Simple data types
Table 6.3.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
+------------+-----------------+-------------------------------------+ | Type Name | Type Definition | Description | +------------+-----------------+-------------------------------------+ | UpuMac | string | pattern: \"\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{32}\$\" | +------------+-----------------+-------------------------------------+ | CounterUpu | string | pattern: \"\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{4}\$\" | +------------+-----------------+-------------------------------------+ | UpuAckInd | boolean | true indicates that the | | | | UPU-XMAC-I~UE~ shall be computed | | | | and returned in the response | +------------+-----------------+-------------------------------------+ | UpuHeader | string | It contains the \"UPU Header\" IE | | | | as specified in clause 9.11.3.53A | | | | of 3GPP TS 24.501 [20] (octet 4), | | | | encoded as 2 hexadecimal | | | | characters. | | | | | | | | pattern: \"\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{2}\$\" | +------------+-----------------+-------------------------------------+
##### 6.3.6.3.3 Enumeration: UpuDataType
Table 6.3.6.3.3-1: Enumeration UpuDataType
* * *
Enumeration value Description \"ROUT_INDICATOR\" Routing indicator update data
\"DEFAULT_CONF_NSSAI\" Default configured NSSAI update data
* * *
### 6.3.7 Error Handling
#### 6.3.7.1 General
HTTP error handling shall be supported as specified in clause 5.2.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
#### 6.3.7.2 Protocol Errors
Protocol Error Handling shall be supported as specified in clause 5.2.7.2 of
3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
#### 6.3.7.3 Application Errors
The common application errors defined in the Table 5.2.7.2-1 in 3GPP TS 29.500
[4] may also be used for the Nausf_UPUProtection service. The following
application errors listed in Table 6..7.3-1 are specific for the
Nausf_UPUProtection service.
Table 6.3.7.3-1: Application errors
* * *
Application Error HTTP status code Description COUNTER_WRAP 503 Service
Unavailable The Counter~UPU~ associated with the K~AUSF~ of the UE is about to
wrap around. The AUSF suspends the UPU protection service for the UE until a
new K~AUSF~ is generated.
* * *
### 6.3.8 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8], the access to the Nausf_UPUProtection API
may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol (see IETF RFC 6749 [13]),
using the \"Client Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP
TS 29.510 [14]) plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Nausf_UPUProtection API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the
authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as
described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [14], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nausf_UPUProtection service.
The Nausf_UPUProtection Service API does not define any scopes for OAuth2
authorization as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8]; it defines a single scope
consisting on the name of the service (i.e., \"nausf-upuprotection\"), and it
does not define any additional scopes at resource or operation level.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the Nausf Service API(s). It
consists of OpenAPI 3.0.0 specifications in YAML format.
NOTE 1: OpenAPI 3.0 does not support description of API using HATEOAS. Indeed,
only relative paths can be used and as a consequence the URI provided in the
\"href\" cannot be reused as it is.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
> NOTE 2: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
> applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not
> expressed in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the
> specification also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on the public 3GPP file server in the
following locations (see clause 5B of the 3GPP TR 21.900 [21] for further
information):
> \- [https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/OpenAPI/\/]{.underline},
> and
>
> \-
> [https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/\/\/OpenAPI/]{.underline}.
NOTE 3: To fetch the OpenAPI specification file after CT#83 plenary meeting
for Release 15 in the above links \ must be replaced with the date
the CT Plenary occurs, in the form of year-month (yyyy-mm), e.g. for CT#83
meeting \ must be replaced with value \"2019-03\" and \ must
be replaced with value \"Rel-15\".
# A.2 Nausf_UEAuthentication API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
version: 1.0.3
title: AUSF API
description: \|
AUSF UE Authentication Service.
© 2019, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nausf-auth/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501.
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nausf-auth
paths:
/ue-authentications:
post:
requestBody:
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AuthenticationInfo\'
required: true
responses:
\'201\':
description: UEAuthenticationCtx
content:
application/3gppHal+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UEAuthenticationCtx\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the newly created resource according to the
structure: {apiRoot}/nausf-auth/v1/ue-authentications/{authCtxId}\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'400\':
description: Bad Request from the AMF
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'403\':
description: Forbidden due to serving network not authorized
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'404\':
description: User does not exist in the HPLMN
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'500\':
description: Internal Server Error
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'501\':
description: Received protection scheme is not supported by HPLMN
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
/ue-authentications/{authCtxId}/5g-aka-confirmation:
put:
parameters:
\- name: authCtxId
in: path
required: true
schema:
type: string
requestBody:
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ConfirmationData\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Request processed (EAP success or Failure)
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ConfirmationDataResponse\'
\'400\':
description: Bad Request
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'500\':
description: Internal Server Error
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
/ue-authentications/{authCtxId}/eap-session:
post:
operationId: EapAuthMethod
parameters:
\- name: authCtxId
in: path
required: true
schema:
type: string
requestBody:
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EapSession\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Use to handle or close the EAP session
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EapSession\'
application/3gppHal+json:
schema:
type: object
properties:
eapPayload:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EapPayload\'
_links:
type: object
description: \'URI : /{eapSessionUri}\'
additionalProperties:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/LinksValueSchema\'
minProperties: 1
required:
\- eapPayload
\- _links
\'400\':
description: Bad Request
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'500\':
description: Internal Server Error
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nausf-auth: Access to Nausf_UEAuthentication API
schemas:
AuthenticationInfo:
type: object
properties:
supiOrSuci:
\$ref: \'TS29503_Nudm_UEAU.yaml#/components/schemas/SupiOrSuci\'
servingNetworkName:
\$ref: \'TS29503_Nudm_UEAU.yaml#/components/schemas/ServingNetworkName\'
resynchronizationInfo:
\$ref: \'TS29503_Nudm_UEAU.yaml#/components/schemas/ResynchronizationInfo\'
pei:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Pei\'
traceData:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/TraceData\'
required:
\- supiOrSuci
\- servingNetworkName
UEAuthenticationCtx:
type: object
properties:
authType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AuthType\'
5gAuthData:
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Av5gAka\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EapPayload\'
_links:
type: object
additionalProperties:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/LinksValueSchema\'
servingNetworkName:
\$ref: \'TS29503_Nudm_UEAU.yaml#/components/schemas/ServingNetworkName\'
required:
\- authType
\- 5gAuthData
\- _links
Av5gAka:
type: object
required:
\- rand
\- hxresStar
\- autn
properties:
rand:
\$ref: \'TS29503_Nudm_UEAU.yaml#/components/schemas/Rand\'
hxresStar:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/HxresStar\'
autn:
\$ref: \'TS29503_Nudm_UEAU.yaml#/components/schemas/Autn\'
ConfirmationData:
type: object
required:
\- resStar
properties:
resStar:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ResStar\'
ConfirmationDataResponse:
type: object
properties:
authResult:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AuthResult\'
supi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
kseaf:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Kseaf\'
required:
\- authResult
EapSession:
type: object
properties:
eapPayload:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EapPayload\'
kSeaf:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Kseaf\'
_links:
type: object
additionalProperties:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/LinksValueSchema\'
authResult:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AuthResult\'
supi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
required:
\- eapPayload
AuthResult:
type: string
enum:
\- AUTHENTICATION_SUCCESS
\- AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE
\- AUTHENTICATION_ONGOING
EapPayload:
type: string
format: base64
description: contains an EAP packet
Kseaf:
type: string
pattern: \'[A-Fa-f0-9]{64}\'
ResStar:
type: string
pattern: \'[A-Fa-f0-9]{32}\'
nullable: true
HxresStar:
type: string
pattern: \"[A-Fa-f0-9]{32}\"
AuthType:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- 5G_AKA
\- EAP_AKA_PRIME
\- EAP_TLS
\- type: string
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.509 V15.5.0; 5G System; 3GPP TS Authentication Server
services.
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.509
# A.3 Nausf_SoRProtection API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
version: 1.0.2
title: Nausf_SoRProtection Service
description: \|
AUSF SoR Protection Service.
© 2019, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nausf-sorprotection/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nausf-sorprotection
paths:
/{supi}/ue-sor:
post:
parameters:
\- name: supi
in: path
description: Identifier of the UE
required: true
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
requestBody:
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SorInfo\'
required: true
responses:
\'200\':
description: SorSecurityInfo
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SorSecurityInfo\'
\'503\':
description: Service Unavailable
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nausf-sorprotection: Access to the Nausf_SoRProtection API
schemas:
SorInfo:
type: object
properties:
steeringContainer:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SteeringContainer\'
ackInd:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AckInd\'
required:
\- ackInd
SorSecurityInfo:
type: object
properties:
sorMacIausf:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SorMac\'
counterSor:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/CounterSor\'
sorXmacIue:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SorMac\'
required:
\- sorMacIausf
\- counterSor
SteeringContainer:
oneOf:
\- type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29509_Nausf_SoRProtection.yaml#/components/schemas/SteeringInfo\'
minItems: 1
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SecuredPacket\'
SteeringInfo:
type: object
properties:
plmnId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
accessTechList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AccessTech\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- plmnId
SorMac:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{32}\$\'
CounterSor:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{4}\$\'
AckInd:
type: boolean
SecuredPacket:
type: string
format: base64
AccessTech:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- NR
\- EUTRAN_IN_WBS1_MODE_AND_NBS1_MODE
\- EUTRAN_IN_NBS1_MODE_ONLY
\- EUTRAN_IN_WBS1_MODE_ONLY
\- UTRAN
\- GSM_AND_ECGSM_IoT
\- GSM_WITHOUT_ECGSM_IoT
\- ECGSM_IoT_ONLY
\- CDMA_1xRTT
\- CDMA_HRPD
\- GSM_COMPACT
\- type: string
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.509 V15.4.0; 5G System; Authentication Server Services
url: \'http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.509\'
# A.4 Nausf_UPUProtection API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
version: 1.0.2
title: Nausf_UPUProtection Service
description: \|
AUSF UPU Protection Service.
© 2021, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nausf-upuprotection/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nausf-upuprotection
paths:
/{supi}/ue-upu:
post:
parameters:
\- name: supi
in: path
description: Identifier of the UE
required: true
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
requestBody:
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UpuInfo\'
required: true
responses:
\'200\':
description: UpuSecurityInfo
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UpuSecurityInfo\'
\'503\':
description: Service Unavailable
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nausf-upuprotection: Access to the Nausf_UPUProtection API
schemas:
UpuInfo:
type: object
properties:
upuDataList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UpuData\'
minItems: 1
upuHeader:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UpuHeader\'
upuAckInd:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UpuAckInd\'
required:
\- upuDataList
\- upuAckInd
UpuSecurityInfo:
type: object
properties:
upuMacIausf:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UpuMac\'
counterUpu:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/CounterUpu\'
upuXmacIue:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UpuMac\'
required:
\- upuMacIausf
\- counterUpu
UpuData:
type: object
properties:
secPacket:
\$ref: \'TS29509_Nausf_SoRProtection.yaml#/components/schemas/SecuredPacket\'
defaultConfNssai:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
minItems: 1
oneOf:
\- required: [secPacket]
\- required: [defaultConfNssai]
UpuMac:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{32}\$\'
CounterUpu:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{4}\$\'
UpuAckInd:
type: boolean
UpuHeader:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{2}\$\'
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.509 V15.7.0; 5G System; Authentication Server Services
url: \'http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.509\'
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Use of EAP-TLS
# B.1 General
The Annex B of 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] describes the use of EAP-TLS as an
alternative authentication method in the case of private network. This annex
describes corresponding stage 3.
# B.2 EAP method: EAP-TLS
EAP-TLS as defined in IETF RFC 5216 [16] is the EAP method used in this
procedure. This procedure is described in Annex B.2.1 of 3GPP TS 33.501 [8].
1 The NF Service Consumer (AMF) shall send a POST request to the AUSF. The
payload of the body shall contain at least the UE Id and Serving Network Name.
2a. On success, \"201 Created\" shall be returned. The payload body shall
contain the representation of the resource generated and the \"Location\"
header shall contain the URI of the generated resource (e.g.
.../v1/ue_authentications/{authCtxId}/eap-session). The AUSF generates a sub-
resource \"eap-session\". The AUSF shall provide a hypermedia link towards
this sub-resource in the payload to indicate to the AMF where it shall send a
POST containing the EAP packet response. The body payload shall also contain
the EAP packet EAP-Request/EAP-Type=EAP-TLS (TLS Start)
2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1. In particular, if the serving network is not authorized, the AUSF
shall use the \"Cause\" SERVING_NETWORK_NOT_AUTHORIZED.
3\. Based on the relation type, the NF Service Consumer (AMF) shall send a
POST request including the EAP-Response/EAP-Type=EAP-TLS (TLS client_hello)
received from the UE. The POST request is sent to the URI provided by the AUSF
or derived by the NF Service Consumer (AMF).
4a. On success, the AUSF shall reply with a \"200 OK\" HTTP message containing
the EAP Request as described in Annex B.2.1 of 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and a
hypermedia link towards the sub-resource \"eap-session\".
4b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1.
5\. The NF Service Consumer (AMF) shall send a POST request including the EAP
Response received from the UE. The POST request is sent to the URI provided by
the AUSF or derived by the NF Service Consumer (AMF).
6a. On success, the AUSF shall reply with a \"200 OK\" HTTP message containing
the EAP Request as described in Annex B.2.1 of 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and a
hypermedia link towards the sub-resource \"eap-session\".
6b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1.
7\. The NF Service Consumer (AMF) shall send a POST request including the EAP
Response received from the UE. The POST request is sent to the URI provided by
the AUSF or derived by the NF Service Consumer (AMF).
8a. If the EAP authentication exchange is successfully completed (with or
without the optional Notification Request/Response messages exchange), \"200
OK\" shall be returned to the NF Service Consumer (AMF). The payload shall
contain the result of the authentication, an EAP success/failure and the Kseaf
if the authentication is successful.
8b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Withdrawn API versions
# C.1 General
This Annex lists withdrawn API versions of the APIs defined in the present
specification. 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] clause 4.3.1.6 describes the withdrawal of
API versions.
# C.2 Nausf_SoRProtection API
The API versions listed in table C.2-1 are withdrawn for the
Nausf_SoRProtection API.
Table C.2-1: Withdrawn API versions of the Nausf_SoRProtection service
* * *
API version number Reason for withdrawal 1.0.0 The version 1.0.0 indicates
that a 201 \"Created\" must be sent in response to the POST Custom Operations
while it should be a \"200 OK\" as indicated in clause 6.2.3.2.4.2.2. The
version 1.0.1 corrects this mistake. As a consequence, the version 1.0.0 is
withdrawn in order to avoid interoperability problems with further version of
the Nausf_SoRProtection service.
* * *
#