# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies detailed call flows of Policy and Charging
Control (PCC) over the Npcf, Nsmf, Namf, Nudr, Nnef, Nchf, Nbsf and Nnwdaf
service-based interfaces and their relationship with the flow level signalling
in 5G system.
NOTE: The call flows depicted in this Technical Specification do not cover all
traffic cases.
The stage 2 definition and procedures of PCC are contained in 3GPP TS 23.502
[3] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [4]. The 5G System Architecture is defined in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2].
Detailed stage 3 procedures are provided in 3GPP TS 29.507 [7], 3GPP TS 29.508
[8], 3GPP TS 29.512 [9], 3GPP TS 29.514 [10], 3GPP TS 29.520 [11], 3GPP TS
29.519 [12], 3GPP TS 29.521 [22], 3GPP TS 29.594 [23], 3GPP TS 29.522 [24],
3GPP TS 29.551 [25], 3GPP TS 29.525 [31] and 3GPP TS 29.554 [26].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition of the 5G System are specified in 3GPP
TS 29.500 [5] and 3GPP TS 29.501 [6].
The present specification also describes the PCC reference architectures for
non-roaming and roaming scenarios in 5G system.
The present specification also describes the mapping of QoS parameters at AF,
PCF and SMF.
The present specification also describes the session binding at PCF, and the
QoS flow binding at SMF.
The present specification also describes the PCF addressing.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and Charging Control Framework for the 5G System;
Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.507: \"5G System; Access and Mobility Policy Control Service;
Stage 3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.508: \"5G System; Session Management Event Exposure Service;
Stage 3\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.512: \"5G System; Session Management Policy Control Service;
Stage 3\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.514: \"5G System; Policy Authorization Service; Stage 3\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.520: \"5G System; Network Data Analytics Services; Stage 3\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.519: \"5G System; Usage of the Unified Data Repository Service
for Policy Data, Application Data and Structured Data for Exposure; Stage 3\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policies and Charging control architecture; Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.201: \"Representational State Transfer (REST) reference point
between Application Function (AF) and Protocol Converter (PC)\".
[16] IETF RFC 4566: \"SDP: Session Description Protocol\".
[17] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS) Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
(3GP-DASH)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.214: \"Policy and Charging Control over Rx reference point\".
[19] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"End-to-end transparent streaming service; Protocols and
codecs\".
[20] 3GPP2 C.S0046-0 v1.0: \"3G Multimedia Streaming Services\".
[21] 3GPP2 C.S0055-A v1.0: \"Packet Switched Video Telephony Services
(PSVT/MCS)\".
[22] 3GPP TS 29.521: \"5G System; Binding Support Management Service; Stage
3\".
[23] 3GPP TS 29.594: \"5G System; Spending Limit Control Service; Stage 3\".
[24] 3GPP TS 29.522: \"5G System; Network Exposure Function Northbound APIs;
Stage 3\".
[25] 3GPP TS 29.551: \"5G System; Packet Flow Description Management Service;
Stage 3\".
[26] 3GPP TS 29.554: \"5G System; Background Data Transfer Policy Control
Service; Stage 3\".
[27] 3GPP TS 29.504: \"5G System; Unified Data Repository Services; Stage 3\".
[28] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Charging management; Charging architecture and
principles\".
[29] IETF RFC 6733: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[30] 3GPP TS 29.213: \"Policy and charging control signalling flows and
Quality of Service (QoS) parameter mapping\".
[31] 3GPP TS 29.525: \"UE Policy Control Service; Stage 3\".
[32] 3GPP TS 29.518: \"Access and Mobility Management Services; Stage 3\".
[33] 3GPP TS 24.501: \" Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core Network
5QI 5G QoS Identifier
AF Application Function
AMBR Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
ARP Allocation and Retention Priority
AW Average Window
BSF Binding Support Function
CHF Charging Function
LBO Local Breakout
MBR Maximum Bitrate
MPD Media Presentation Description
MPS Multimedia Priority Service
NEF Network Exposure Function
NRF Network Repository Function
NWDAF Network Data Analytics Function
PCC Policy and Charging Control
PCF Policy Control Function
PDB Packet Delay Budget
PER Packet Error Rate
PFD Packet Flow Description
PFDF Packet Flow Description Function
PL Priority Level
QNC QoS Notification Control
QoS Quality of Service
SDP Session Description Protocol
SEPP Security Edge Protection Proxy
SMF Session Management Function
S-NSSAI Single Network Slice Selection Assistance Information
UDR Unified Data Repository
UPF User Plane Function
UPSI UE policy section identifier
# 4 Reference architecture
The policy framework functionality in 5G is comprised by the functions of the
Policy Control Function (PCF), the policy and charging enforcement
functionality supported by SMF and UPF, the access and mobility policy
enforcement functionality supported by the AMF, the Network Data Analytics
Function (NWDAF), the Network Exposure Function (NEF), the Charing Function
(CHF), the Unified Data Repository (UDR) and the Application Function (AF).
For the roaming scenario, the Security Edge Protection Proxy (SEPP) is
deployed between the V-PCF and H-PCF. 3GPP TS 23.503 [4] specifies the 5G
policy framework stage 2 functionality.
Figure 4.1-1a: Overall non-roaming 5G Policy framework architecture (service
based representation)
Figure 4.1-1b: Overall non-roaming 5G Policy framework architecture (reference
point representation)
NOTE 1: The N4 interface is not part of the Policy Framework architecture but
shown in the figures for completeness.
The Nchf service for online and offline charging consumed by the SMF is
defined in 3GPP TS 32.240 [28].
The Nchf service for Spending Limit Control consumed by the PCF is defined in
3GPP TS 29.594 [23].
Figure 4.1-2a: Overall roaming policy framework architecture - LBO (service
based representation)
Figure 4.1-2b: Overall roaming policy framework architecture - LBO (reference
point representation)
NOTE 2: In the LBO scenario, the PCF in the VPLMN may interact with the AF in
order to generate PCC rules for services delivered via the VPLMN. The PCF in
the VPLMN uses locally configured policies according to the roaming agreement
with the HPLMN operator as input for PCC rule generation. The PCF in VPLMN has
no access to subscriber policy information from the HPLMN to retrieve input
for PCC Rule generation. The interactions between the PCF in the VPLMN and the
PCF in the HPLMN through the Npcf service based interface enables the PCF in
the HPLMN to provision UE policies to the PCF in the VPLMN, as described in
3GPP TS 23.503 [4] subclause 5.2.5.
NOTE 3: In the LBO scenario, AF requests targeting a DNN (and slice) and / or
a group of UEs are stored in the UDR by the NEF. The PCF in the VPLMN
subscribes to and get notification from the UDR in the VPLMN for those AF
requests. Details are defined in subclause 5.6.7 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
NOTE 4: For the sake of clarity, SEPPs are not depicted in the roaming
reference point architecture figures.
NOTE 5: N4 and N32 are not service based interfaces.
Figure 4.1-3a: Overall roaming policy framework architecture - home routed
scenario (service based representation)
Figure 4.1-3b: Overall roaming policy framework architecture - home routed
scenario (reference point representation)
NOTE 6: For the sake of clarity, SEPPs are not depicted in the roaming
reference point architecture figures.
NOTE 7: N4 and N32 are not service based interfaces.
To allow the 5G system to interwork with AFs related to existing services,
e.g. IMS based services, Mission Critical Push To Talk services, the PCF shall
support the corresponding Rx procedures and requirements defined in 3GPP TS
29.214 [18]. This facilitates the migration from EPC to 5GC without requiring
these AFs to upgrade to support the N5 interface.
Figure 4.1-4: Interworking between 5G Policy framework and AFs supporting Rx
interface
# 5 Signalling Flows for the Policy Framework
## 5.1 AM Policy Association Management
### 5.1.1 AM Policy Association Establishment
This procedure concerns the following scenarios:
1\. UE initial registration with the network.
2\. The AMF re-allocation with PCF change in handover procedure and
registration procedure.
3\. UE registers with 5GS during the UE moving from EPS to 5GS when there is
no existing AM Policy Association.
Figure 5.1.1-1: AM Policy Association Establishment procedure
This procedure concerns both roaming and non-roaming scenarios.
In the non-roaming case the role of the V-PCF is performed by the PCF. For the
roaming scenarios, the V-PCF interacts with the AMF.
Step 2 - step 5 are not executed in the roaming case.
1\. The AMF receives the registration request from the AN. Based on local
policy, the AMF selects to contact the (V-) PCF to create the policy
association with the (V-) PCF and to retrieve Access and Mobility control
policy. The AMF selects the PCF as described in subclause 8.2 and invokes the
Npcf_AMPolicyControl_Create service operation by sending the HTTP POST request
to the \"AM Policy Associations\" resource as defined in subclause 5.1.2.1.1
of 3GPP TS 29.507 [7]. The request operation provides the SUPI, and if
received from the UDM, the Service Area Restrictions, RFSP index, GPSI and a
list of Internal Group Identifiers, and may provide the access type, the PEI
if received in the AMF, the User Location Information if available, the UE
Time Zone if available, Serving Network, RAT type, GUAMI of AMF, alternative
or backup address(es) of AMF and trace control and configuration parameters
information. The request includes a Notification URI to indicate to the PCF
where to send a notification when the policy is updated.
2\. If the PCF does not have the subscription data, it invokes the
Nudr_DataRepository_Query service operation to the UDR by sending an HTTP GET
request to the \"AccessAndMobilityPolicyData \" resource as specified in TS
29.519 [12]
3\. The UDR sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the PCF with the subscription
data.
4\. The PCF may request notifications from the UDR on changes in the
subscription information by invoking Nudr_DataRepository_Subscribe service
operation by sending an HTTP POST request to the \"PolicyDataSubscriptions\"
resource as specified in 3GPP TS 29.519 [12].
5\. The UDR sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to acknowledge the
subscription from the PCF.
6\. The (V-)PCF makes the requested policy decision including Access and
Mobility control policy information, and may determine applicable Policy
Control Request Trigger(s).
7\. The (V)PCF sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to the AMF with the
determined policies as described in subclause 4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.507 [7]:
\- Access and Mobility control Policy including Service Area Restrictions,
and/or a RAT Frequency Selection Priority (RFSP) Index; and/or
\- Policy Control Request Triggers and related policy information;
8\. The AMF deploys the Access and Mobility control policy information if
received which includes storing the Service Area Restrictions, provisioning
the Service Area Restrictions to the UE and/ or provisioning the RFSP index
and Service Area Restrictions to the NG-RAN.
NOTE: The PCF can reject the AM Policy Association establishment, e.g. the PCF
cannot obtain the subscription-related information from the UDR and the PCF
cannot make the policy decisions, as described in 3GPP TS 29.519 [12]. In this
case, the AMF deploys the Access and Mobility control policy information based
on the policy retrieved from the UDM if available or the local configuration.
### 5.1.2 AM Policy Association Modification
#### 5.1.2.1 AM Policy Association Modification initiated by the AMF
##### 5.1.2.1.1 AM Policy Association Modification initiated by the AMF
without AMF relocation
This procedure is performed when a Policy Control Request Trigger condition is
met.
Figure 5.1.2.1.1-1: AMF-initiated AM Policy Association Modification without
AMF relocation procedure
This procedure concerns both roaming and non-roaming scenarios.
In the non-roaming case the role of the V-PCF is performed by the PCF. For the
roaming scenarios, the V-PCF interacts with the AMF.
1\. The AMF detects a Policy Control Request Trigger condition is met or other
condition is met, e.g. trace control configuration needs to be updated, as
defined in subclause 4.2.3.1 of 3GPP TS 29.507 [7].
2\. The AMF invokes the Npcf_AMPolicyControl_Update service operation to the
(V-) PCF by sending the HTTP POST request to the \"Individual AM Policy
Association\" resource with information on the conditions that have changed.
3\. The (V)PCF stores the information received in step 2 and makes the policy
decision.
4\. The (V)PCF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the AMF with the updated
Access and Mobility control policy information and/ or the updated Policy
Control Request Trigger parameters.
5\. The AMF deploys the Access and Mobility control policy if received, which
includes storing the Service Area Restrictions, provisioning the Service Area
Restrictions to the NG-RAN and UE, and/or provisioning the RFSP index to the
NG-RAN.
##### 5.1.2.1.2 AM Policy Association Modification with old PCF during AMF
relocation
This procedure is performed when AMF relocation is performed and the old PCF
is selected by the new AMF.
Figure 5.1.2.1.2-1: AMF-initiated AM Policy Association Modification with old
PCF during AMF relocation procedure
This procedure concerns both roaming and non-roaming scenarios.
In the non-roaming case the role of the V-PCF is performed by the PCF. For the
roaming scenarios, the V-PCF interacts with the AMF.
1\. When the old AMF and the new AMF belong to the same PLMN, the old AMF
transfers to the new AMF about the AM Policy Association information includin,
e.g.g policy control request trigger(s), and the resource URI (i.e.
{apiRoot}/npcf-am-policy-control/v1/policies/{polAssoId}) of AM Policy
Association at the (V-)PCF).
2\. Based on local policies, the new AMF decides to contact with (V-)PCF and
update the resource identified by the resource URI received in step 1.
3\. The new AMF invokes the Npcf_AMPolicyControl_Update service operation to
the (V-) PCF by sending the HTTP POST request to the \"Individual AM Policy
Association\" resource with the Notification URI of the new AMF. The request
may also include the met policy control request trigger(s) and corresponding
information, and the new alternate or backup IP addresses.
4\. The (V-)PCF updates the stored information provided by the old AMF with
the information provided by the new AMF and makes the policy decision.
5\. The PCF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the AMF with the updated
Access and Mobility control policy information and/or the updated Policy
Control Request Trigger parameters.
> 6\. The AMF deploys the Access and Mobility control policy if received,
> which includes storing the Service Area Restrictions, provisioning the
> Service Area Restrictions to the NG-RAN and UE, and/or provisioning the RFSP
> index to the NG-RAN.
#### 5.1.2.2 AM Policy Association Modification initiated by the PCF
This procedure is performed when the Access and Mobility control policies are
changed.
Figure 5.1.2.2-1: PCF-initiated AM Policy Association Modification procedure
This procedure concerns both roaming and non-roaming scenarios.
In the non-roaming case the role of the V-PCF is performed by the PCF. For the
roaming scenarios, the V-PCF interacts with the AMF.
1\. The (V-) PCF receives an external trigger, e.g. the subscriber policy data
of a UE is changed, or the (V-)PCF receives an internal trigger, e.g. operator
policy is changed, to re-evaluate Access and Mobility control policy for a UE.
2\. The (V-)PCF makes the policy decision including, Access and Mobility
control policy, and may determine applicable Policy Control Request
Trigger(s).
3\. The (V-)PCF invokes the Npcf_AMPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service
operation by sending the HTTP POST request with \"{notificationUri}/update\"
as the resource URI to the AMF that has previously subscribed, as described in
subclause 4.2.4.2 of 3GPP TS 29.507 [7].
4\. The AMF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response the PCF.
5\. The AMF deploys the Access and Mobility control policy information if
received which includes storing the Service Area Restrictions, provisioning
the Service Area Restrictions to the UE and/or provisioning the RFSP index and
Service Area Restrictions to the NG-RAN.
### 5.1.3 AM Policy Association Termination
#### 5.1.3.1 AM Policy Association Termination initiated by the AMF
This procedure is performed when the UE deregisters from the network, when the
UE deregisters from 5GS during the UE moving from 5GS to EPS or when the old
AMF removes the AM Policy Association during AMF relocation.
Figure 5.1.3.1-1: AMF-initiated AM Policy Association Termination procedure
This procedure concerns both roaming and non-roaming scenarios.
In the non-roaming case the role of the V-PCF is performed by the PCF. For the
roaming scenarios, the V-PCF interacts with the AMF.
Step 4 and step 5 are not executed in the roaming case.
1\. The AMF invokes the Npcf_AMPolicyControl_Delete service operation to
delete the policy context in the (V-) PCF by sending the HTTP DELETE request
to the \"Individual AM Policy Association\" resource.
2\. The AMF removes the UE context for this UE, including the Access and
Mobility Control Policy related to the UE and/or policy control request
triggers.
3\. The (V-)PCF removes the policy context for the UE and sends an HTTP \"204
No Content\" response to the AMF.
4\. The PCF invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Unsubscribe service operation to
unsubscribe the notification of subscriber policy data modification from the
UDR by sending the HTTP DELETE request to the
\"IndividualPolicyDataSubscription\" resource if it has subscribed such
notification.5. The UDR sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
#### 5.1.3.2 AM Policy Association Termination initiated by the PCF
This procedure is performed when the UDR notifies the PCF that the policy
profile is removed or when the PCF decides to terminate the AM Policy
Association based on the internal logic, e.g. UE movement triggers a geo-
fencing rule.
Figure 5.1.3.2-1: PCF-initiated AM Policy Association Termination procedure
This procedure concerns both roaming and non-roaming scenarios.
In the non-roaming case the role of the V-PCF is performed by the PCF. For the
roaming scenarios, the V-PCF interacts with the AMF.
Step 1, step 2 and step 3 are not executed in the roaming case or in the case
that the PCF decides to terminate the AM Policy Association based on the
internal logic.
1\. The subscriber policy control data is removed from the UDR.
2\. The UDR invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Notify service operation to notify
the PCF that the policy profile is removed if PCF has subscribed such
notification by sending the HTTP POST request to the resource URI
\"{notificationUri}\" as specified in 3GPP TS 29.519 [12].
3\. The PCF sends the response to the Nudr_DataRepository_Notify service
operation.
4\. The (V-)PCF decides to terminate the AM Policy Association based on step 2
or an internal trigger, e.g. operator policy is changed, to re-evaluate Access
and Mobility control policy for a UE.
5\. The (V-)PCF may, depending on operator policies, invokes the
Npcf_AMPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service operation to the AMF of the removal
of the Access and Mobility control policy control information by sending the
HTTP POST request to the request URI \"{notificationUri}/terminate\" as
described in subclause 4.2.4.3 of 3GPP TS 29.507 [7].
> Alternatively, the (V-)PCF may decide to maintain the Policy Association if
> a default profile is applied, and then step 4 through 6 are not executed.
6\. The AMF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
7\. Step 1 through step 3 as specified in Figure 5.1.3.1-1 are executed with
the following difference:
\- the AMF removes the policy control request trigger(s) related to the AM
policy association, but still keeps the provisioned AM policies and applies
them to the UE.
## 5.2 SM Policy Association Management
### 5.2.1 SM Policy Association Establishment
This clause is applicable if a new SM Policy Association is being established.
The following procedure concerns both roaming and non-roaming scenarios.
In the LBO roaming case, the PCF acts as the V-PCF, and the V-PCF shall not
contact the UDR/CHF. In the home routed roaming case, the PCF acts as the
H-PCF and the H-PCF interacts with the H-SMF.
Figure 5.2.1-1: SM Policy Association Establishment procedure
This procedure concerns both roaming and non-roaming scenarios.
In the home routed roaming case, the PCF acts as the H-PCF. In the LBO roaming
case, the PCF acts as the V-PCF, and the step 2 to 5 shall be skipped.
1\. The SMF receives a PDU session establishment request from the UE. The SMF
selects the PCF as described in subclause 8.3 and invokes the
Npcf_SMPolicyControl_Create service operation by sending the HTTP POST request
to the \"SM Policies\" resource as defined in subclause 4.2.2.2 of 3GPP TS
29.512 [9]. The request operation provides the SUPI, the PDU session ID, PDU
Session Type, DNN, and S-NSSAI, and may provide the GPSI, the Internal Group
Identifier, the Access Type, the IPv4 address or the IPv6 network prefix (if
available), the PEI if received in the SMF, the User Location Information, the
UE Time Zone, Serving Network, RAT type, charging information, the subscribed
Session-AMBR and the subscribed default QoS, if available. The request
operation also includes a Notification URI to indicate to the PCF where to
send a notification when the SM related policies are updated.
2-3. If PCF does not have the subscription data for the SUPI, DNN and S-NSSAI,
the PCF invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Query service operation to the UDR by
sending the HTTP GET request to the \"SessionManagementPolicyData\" resource
as specified in 3GPP TS 29.519 [12].The UDR sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response
to the PCF with the policy control subscription data.
Additionally, if the TSC feature defined in 3GPP TS 29.512 [9] is supported,
the PCF invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Query service operation to retrieve
the stored AF influence data in the UDR by sending the HTTP GET request to the
\"Influence Data\" resource as specified in 3GPP TS 29.519 [12]. The UDR sends
an HTTP \"200 OK\" response with the stored AF request.
4-5. To request notifications from the UDR on changes in the subscription
information, the PCF invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Subscribe service
operation by sending an HTTP POST request to the \"PolicyDataSubscriptions\"
resource. The UDR sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to acknowledge the
subscription.
Additionally, if the TSC feature defined in 3GPP TS 29.512 [9] is supported,
to request notifications from the UDR on changes in the AF influence data, the
PCF invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Subscribe service operation by sending an
HTTP POST request to the \"Influence Data Subscription\" resource. The UDR
sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to acknowledge the subscription.
6\. If the PCF determines that the policy decision depends on the status of
the policy counters available at the CHF, and such reporting is not
established for the subscriber, the PCF initiates an Initial Spending Limit
Report Retrieval as defined in subclause 5.3.2. If policy counter status
reporting is already established for the subscriber, and the PCF determines
that the status of additional policy counters are required, the PCF initiates
an Intermediate Spending Limit Report Retrieval as defined in subclause 5.3.3.
7\. The PCF makes the policy decision to determine the information provided in
step 10.
8\. In the case that the BSF is to be used and that either the IP
address/prefix or MAC address is available, the PCF invokes the
Nbsf_Management_Register service operation by sending HTTP POST request to
create the PDU session binding information for a UE in the BSF as detailed in
subclause 8.5.2.
9\. The PCF receives an HTTP \"201 Created\" response from the BSF with the
created binding information as detailed in subclause 8.5.2.
10\. The PCF sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to the SMF with the
determined policies as described in subclause 4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.512 [9].
### 5.2.2 SM Policy Association Modification
#### 5.2.2.1 General
The following procedures concern both roaming and non-roaming scenarios.
In the LBO roaming case, the PCF acts as the V-PCF, and the V-PCF shall not
contact the UDR/CHF. In the home routed roaming case, the PCF acts as the
H-PCF and the H-PCF interacts with the H-SMF.
The SM Policy Association Modification procedure may be initiated either by
the SMF or by the PCF.
NOTE: The following procedures cover both Npcf_PolicyAuthorization service
operations over the N5 reference point and Rx interactions between AF and PCF.
It is assumed that for the interactions between one AF and one PCF, only one
of those possibilities is used. For details of Rx interface refer to 3GPP TS
29.214 [18] and for details on the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization service refer to
3GPP TS 29.514 [10].
#### 5.2.2.2 SM Policy Association Modification initiated by the PCF
##### 5.2.2.2.1 Interactions between SMF, PCF and CHF
This procedure is performed when the PCF decides to modify policy decisions
for a PDU session.
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: Interactions between SMF, PCF and CHF for PCF-initiated SM
Policy Association Modification procedure
1\. The PCF receives an internal or external trigger to re-evaluate PCC Rules
and policy decision for a PDU Session. Possible external trigger events are
described in subclause 5.2.2.2.2. In addition, this procedure is triggered by
the following cases:
\- The UDR notifies the PCF about a policy subscription change (e.g. change in
MPS EPS Priority, MPS Priority Level and/or IMS Signalling Priority, or change
in user profile configuration indicating whether supporting application
detection and control).
\- The UDR notifies the PCF about application data change (e.g. change in AF
influence data).
\- The CHF provides a Spending Limit Report to the PCF as described in
subclause 5.3.5.
2\. If the PCF determines that the policy decision depends on the status of
the policy counters available at the CHF and such reporting is not established
for the subscriber, the PCF initiates an Initial Spending Limit Report as
defined in subclause 5.3.2. If policy counter status reporting is already
established for the subscriber, and the PCF decides to modify the list of
subscribed policy counters, the PCF sends an Intermediate Spending Limit
Report as defined in subclause 5.3.3. If the PCF decides to unsubscribe any
future status notification of policy counters, it sends a Final Spending Limit
Report Request to cancel the request for reporting the change of the status of
the policy counters available at the CHF as defined in subclause 5.3.4.
3\. The PCF makes a policy decision. The PCF can determine that updated or new
policy information need to be sent to the SMF.
4\. The PCF invokes the Npcf_SMPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service operation by
sending the HTTP POST request with \"{notificationUri}/update\" as the
resource URI to the SMF that has previously subscribed. The request operation
provides the PDU session ID and the updated policies, as described in
subclause 4.2.4 of 3GPP TS 29.512 [9].
5\. The SMF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" to the PCF.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Interactions between PCF, AF and UDR
###### 5.2.2.2.2.1 AF Session Establishment
This procedure is performed when the AF/NEF requests to create an AF
application session context for the requested service.
NOTE: The NEF acts as an AF to support the network exposure functionality.
Figure 5.2.2.2.2.1-1: AF Session Establishment triggers PCF-initiated SM
Policy Association Modification procedure
1\. When the AF receives an internal or external trigger to set-up a new AF
session, the AF invokes the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Create service operation
to the PCF by sending the HTTP POST request to the \"Application Sessions\"
resource. The request operation includes the IP address or the MAC address of
the UE, the SUPI if available, the GPSI if available, the DNN if available,
the S-NSSAI if available, service information, sponsored data connectivity if
applicable, AF application identifier, Priority indicator, etc. The request
operation may also include the subscription to notifications on certain user
plane events, e.g. subscription to QoS notification control.
1a. The AF provides the Service Information to the PCF by sending a Diameter
AAR for a new Rx Diameter session.
2\. The PCF stores the Service Information received in step 1.
3-4. If the PCF does not have the subscription data for the SUPI, DNN and
S-NSSAI, it invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Query service operation to the UDR
by sending the HTTP GET request to the \"SessionManagementPolicyData\"
resource. The UDR sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the PCF with the
subscription data.
Additionally, if the AF provided a Background Data Transfer Reference ID in
step 1 or step 1a and the corresponding transfer policy is not locally stored
in the PCF, the PCF sends the HTTP GET request to the \"IndividualBdtData\"
resource. The UDR sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the PCF with the
Background Data Transfer policy.
5\. The PCF identifies the affected established PDU Session (s) using the
information previously received from the SMF and the Service Information
received from the AF.
6\. The PCF sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to the AF.
6a. The PCF sends a Diameter AAA to the AF.
7\. The AF may invoke the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Subscribe service operation
by sending the HTTP PUT request to the \"Events Subscription\" resource to
subscribe to events in the PCF. The request includes the events that
subscribes and a Notification URI to indicate to the PCF where to send the
notification of the subscribed events, as described in subclause 4.2.6 of 3GPP
TS 29.514 [10].
8\. The PCF sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to the AF.
9\. The PCF interacts with SMF according to Figure 5.2.2.2-1.
###### 5.2.2.2.2.2 AF Session Modification
This procedure is performed when the AF/NEF requests to update an AF
application session context for the requested service.
NOTE: The NEF acts as an AF to support the network exposure functionality.
Figure 5.2.2.2.2.2-1: AF Session Modification triggers PCF-initiated SM Policy
Association Modification procedure
1\. When the AF receives an internal or external trigger to modify an existing
AF session, the AF invokes the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Update service
operation to the PCF by sending the HTTP PATCH request to the \"Individual
Application Session Context\" resource including the modified service
information as defined in subclause 4.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS 29.514 [10]. The AF may
also provide the updated subscription to notifications on user plane events.
1a. The AF provides the Service Information to the PCF by sending a Diameter
AAR for the existing Rx Diameter session corresponding to the modified AF
session.
2\. The PCF stores the received Service Information.
3-4. These steps are the same as steps 3-4 in subclause 5.2.2.2.2.1.
5\. The PCF identifies the affected existing PDU Session(s) using the
information previously received from the SMF and the Service Information
received from the AF.
6\. The PCF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" or HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to
the AF.
6a. The H-PCF sends a Diameter AAA to the AF.
7\. The AF may decide to (un)subscribe to events for the active AF application
session context in relation to the corresponding PDU session.
\- If the AF decides to create a subscription to events or modify the events
subscription, it invokes the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Subscribe service
operation by sending the HTTP PUT request to the \"Events Subscription\"
resource. The HTTP request includes the events that subscribes and may also
include a Notification URI to indicate to the PCF where to send the
notification of the subscribed events.
\- If the AF decides to remove subscription to all subscribed events for the
existing application session context, it invokes the
Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Unsubscribe service operation by sending the HTTP
DELETE request to the \"Events Subscription\" resource.
8\. The PCF responses to the AF.
\- If the PCF accept the HTTP PUT request to create a subscription to events,
it sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response.
\- If the PCF accept the HTTP PUT request to modify the events subscription,
it sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" or HTTP \"204 No Content\" response.
\- Upon receipt of the HTTP DELETE request to remove subscription to all
subscribed events, the PCF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response.
9\. The PCF interacts with SMF according to Figure 5.2.2.2-1.
###### 5.2.2.2.2.3 AF Session Termination
This procedure is performed when the PCF requests the AF/NEF to delete the AF
application session context.
NOTE: The NEF acts as an AF to support the network exposure functionality for
policy/charging capability.
Figure 5.2.2.2.2.3-1: AF Session Termination triggers PCF-initiated SM Policy
Association Modification procedure
1\. The AF sends the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Delete service operation by
sending the HTTP POST request to the \"Individual Application Session
Context\" resource to request the removal of the AF application session as
defined in subclause 4.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS 29.514 [10]. The request may include
the events to subscribe to.
1a. The AF sends a session termination request, Diameter STR, to the PCF to
request the removal of the session. The request may include the events to
subscribe to.
2\. The PCF identifies the affected PDU Session where PCC rules related with
this AF session are installed. These PCC rules need to be removed.
> If the request in step 1 or step 1a does not include the event(s) or it
> includes the event(s) but the corresponding information is available at the
> PCF, step 3 or step3a is performed respectively; otherwise, the step 3* or
> step3a* is performed respectively.
3\. The PCF removes the AF application session context and sends an HTTP \"204
No Content\" or HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the AF.
3a. The PCF sends a Diameter STA, session termination answer, to the AF.
3*. The PCF removes the AF application session context and sends an HTTP \"200
OK\" response with the information corresponding to the requested event(s) to
the AF.
3a*. The PCF sends a Diameter STA, session termination answer with the
information corresponding to the requested event(s), to the AF.
4\. The PCF interacts with SMF according to Figure 5.2.2.2-1.
#### 5.2.2.3 SM Policy Association Modification initiated by the SMF
This procedure is performed when the SMF observes some policy control trigger
condition is met.
Figure 5.2.2.3-1: SMF-initiated SM Policy Association Modification procedure
1\. The SMF detects a policy control request trigger condition is met or a PCC
rule error is reported.
2\. The SMF invokes the Npcf_SMPolicyControl_Update service operation to the
PCF by sending the HTTP POST request to the \"Individual SM Policy\" resource
with information on the conditions that have changed or a PCC rule error
occurs.
3\. If the (H-)PCF requires subscription-related information and does not have
it, the (H-)PCF invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Query service operation to the
UDR by sending the HTTP GET request to the \"SessionManagementPolicyData\"
resource to fetch the information.
4\. The UDR sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the PCF with the subscription
related information containing the information about the allowed service(s)
and PCC Rules information.
5\. The PCF invokes the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Notify service operation by
sending the HTTP POST request with \"{notifUri}/notify\" as the resource URI
to the AF to indicate that an event for the active application session has
occurred or to indicate the deletion of the active application session.
5a. If the AF requested a notification of the corresponding event, the PCF
sends a Diameter RAR with the Specific-Action AVP set to indicate the event
that caused the request.
6\. The AF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
6a. The AF replies with a Diameter RAA and may provide updated service
information within.
7\. If the PCF indicates in step 5 that an event for the active application
session has occurred, the AF may invoke the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Update
service operation to the PCF by sending the HTTP PATCH request to the
\"Individual Application Session Context\" resource including the modified
service information.
8\. The PCF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" or an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to
the AF.
9\. If the PCF indicates in step 5 the deletion of the active application
session, the AF may terminate the AF session by invoking the
Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Delete service operation by sending the HTTP POST
request to the \"Individual Application Session Context\" resource to
terminate the AF session. The request may include the events to subscribe to.
10\. The PCF removes the AF application session context and sends an HTTP
\"204 No Content\". If the PCF need to include the notification of event, it
sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response.
7a-10a. If all service data flows for an AF session are deleted, the AF
session is terminated.
11\. If the PCF determines that the policy decision depends on the status of
the policy counters available at the CHF and such reporting is not established
for the subscriber, the PCF initiates an Initial Spending Limit Report as
defined in subclause 5.3.2. If policy counter status reporting is already
established for the subscriber, and the PCF decides to modify the list of
subscribed policy counters, the PCF sends an Intermediate Spending Limit
Report as defined in subclause 5.3.3. If the PCF decides to unsubscribe any
future status notification of policy counters, it sends a Final Spending Limit
Report Request to cancel the request for reporting the change of the status of
the policy counters available at the CHF as defined in subclause 5.3.4.
12\. The PCF makes a policy decision. The PCF may determine that updated or
new policy information needs to be sent to the SMF in step 17.
13\. If the IP address is released for the IP PDU session or the MAC address
is not used anymore for the Ethernet PDU session and the binding information
has been previously registered in the BSF, the PCF invokes the
Nbsf_Management_Deregister service operation by sending an HTTP DELETE request
to the BSF to delete binding information as detailed in subclause 8.5.3.
14\. The PCF receives an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response from the BSF as
detailed in subclause 8.5.3.
15\. If a new IP address is allocated for the IP PDU session or a new MAC
address is used for the Ethernet PDU session and the BSF is to be used, the
PCF invokes the Nbsf_Management_Register service operation by sending an HTTP
POST request to create the binding information in the BSF as detailed in
subclause 8.5.2.
16\. The PCF receives an HTTP \"201 Created\" response from the BSF with the
created binding information as detailed in subclause 8.5.2.
17\. The PCF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the SMF with updated policy
information about the PDU Session determined in step 12.
### 5.2.3 SM Policy Association Termination
#### 5.2.3.1 SM Policy Association Termination initiated by the SMF
This procedure is performed when the UE requests to terminate a PDU session or
based on some internal triggers in the SMF(e.g. operator policy).
Figure 5.2.3.1-1:SMF-initiated SM Policy Association Termination procedure
This procedure concerns both roaming and non-roaming scenarios.
In the LBO roaming case, the PCF acts as the V-PCF, and the step 8, steps 10 -
step 13 shall be skipped. In the home routed roaming case, the PCF acts as the
H-PCF, and the H-PCF interacts only with the H-SMF.
1\. The SMF invokes the Npcf_SMPolicyControl_Delete service operation by
sending the HTTP POST request to the \"Individual SM Policy\" resource to
request the PCF to delete the context of the SM related policy as defined in
subclause 4.2.5.2 of 3GPP TS 29.512 [9]. The request operation may include
usage monitoring information (if applicable) and access network information.
2\. Upon receipt of Npcf_SMPolicyControl_Delete service operation, the PCF
identifies the PCC Rules that require an AF to be notified and removes PCC
Rules for the PDU Session.
3\. The SMF removes all the PCC Rules which are applied to the PDU session.
4\. The PCF invokes the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Notify service operation by
sending the HTTP POST request with \"{notifUri}/terminate\" as the resource
URI to the AF to trigger the AF to request the application session context
termination.
4a. The PCF indicates the session abort to the AF by sending a diameter ASR to
the AF.
5\. The AF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
5a. The AF responds by sending a diameter ASA to the PCF.
6\. The AF invokes the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Delete service operation by
sending the HTTP POST request to the \"Individual Application Session
Context\" resource.
6a. The AF sends a diameter STR to the PCF to indicate that the session has
been terminated.
7\. The PCF removes the AF application session context and sends an HTTP \"204
No Content\" response to the AF. If the PCF needs to report usage data or the
access network information, it sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response. If usage
thresholds were provided by the AF earlier, and the PCF has usage data that
has not yet been reported to the AF, the PCF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response
with the resources that have been consumed by the user since the last report.
The PCF also deletes the subscription to PCF detected events for that AF
application Session.
7a. The PCF responds by sending a diameter STA to the AF. If usage thresholds
were provided by the AF earlier, and the PCF has usage data that has not yet
been reported to the AF, the PCF informs the AF about the resources that have
been consumed by the user since the last report. If the SMF in step 1 reports
the access network information and if the AF requested the PCF to report
access network information in step 6a and/or the RAN-NAS-Cause feature is
supported, the PCF informs the AF about the access network information.
8\. If this is the last PDU session for this subscriber the Final Spending
Limit Report Request as defined in subclause 5.3.4 is sent. If any existing
PDU sessions for this subscriber require policy counter status reporting, the
Intermediate Spending Limit Report Request as defined in subclause 5.3.3 can
be sent to alter the list of subscribed policy counters.
9\. The PCF removes PCC Rules for the terminated PDU Session and sends an HTTP
\"204 No Content\" response to the SMF.
10\. The PCF invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Update service operation by
sending the HTTP PATCH request to the \"SessionManagementPolicyData\" resource
to store the remaining usage allowance in the UDR, if all PDU sessions of the
user to the same DNN and S-NSSAI are terminated.
11\. The UDR sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
12-13. To unsubscribe the notification of the PDU session related data
modification from the UDR, the PCF invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Unsubscribe
service operation by sending the HTTP DELETE request to the
\"IndividualPolicyDataSubscription\" resource if it has subscribed such
notification. The UDR sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
Additionally, to unsubscribe the notification of the AF influence data from
the UDR, the PCF invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Unsubscribe service operation
by sending the HTTP DELETE request to the \"Individual Influence Data
Subscription\" resource if it has subscribed such notification. The UDR sends
an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
14\. In the case that binding information has been previously registered in
the BSF the PCF invokes the Nbsf_Management_Deregister service operation by
sending an HTTP DELETE request to the BSF to delete binding information as
detailed in subclause 8.5.3.
15\. The PCF receives an HTTP \"204 No Content response from the BSF as
detailed in subclause 8.5.3.
#### 5.2.3.2 SM Policy Association Termination initiated by the PCF
This procedure is performed when the PCF requests to terminate a SM Policy
Association based on some external or internal triggers as described in step 1
below.
Figure 5.2.3.2-1: PCF-initiated SM Policy Association Termination procedure
This procedure concerns both roaming and non-roaming scenarios.
In the LBO roaming case, the PCF acts as the V-PCF. In the home routed roaming
case, the PCF acts as the H-PCF, and the H-PCF interacts only with the H-SMF.
1\. The PCF makes policy decisions to terminate a PDU session based on an
external trigger, e.g. UE subscription data is deleted, or based on an
internal trigger, e.g. operator policy is changed.
2\. The PCF sends the Npcf_SMPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service operation by
sending the HTTP POST request with \"{notificationUri}/delete\" as the
resource URI to trigger the SMF to request the release of the PDU session as
defined in subclause 4.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.512 [9]. The request includes
resource URI of the individual SM policy to be deleted and the cause why the
PCF requests the termination.
3\. The SMF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the PCF.
4\. The PCF interacts with SMF/AF/UDR/CHF/BSF according to Figure 5.2.3.1-1.
## 5.3 Spending Limit Procedures
### 5.3.1 General
The PCF may interact with the CHF to make PCC decisions based on spending
limits. In Home Routed roaming and Non-roaming case, the (H-) PCF will
interact with the CHF in HPLMN.
### 5.3.2 Initial Spending Limit Report Request
This clause describes the signalling flow for the PCF to request the status of
the policy counters available at the CHF, and to subscribe to updates of these
policy counters by the CHF. If the PCF provides the list of policy counter
identifier(s), the CHF returns the policy counter status per policy counter
identifier provided by the PCF, and stores the PCF\'s subscription to spending
limit reports for these policy counters. If the PCF does not provide the list
of policy counter identifier(s), the CHF returns the policy counter status for
all policy counter identifier(s), which are available for this subscriber, and
stores the PCF\'s subscription to spending limit reports for all policy
counters.
Figure 5.3.2-1: Initial Spending Limit Report Request procedure
1\. The PCF retrieves subscription information that indicates that policy
decisions depend on policy counter(s) held at the CHF and optionally the list
of policy counter identifier(s).
2\. The PCF invokes the Nchf_SpendingLimitControl_Subscribe service operation
to the CHF by sending the HTTP POST request to the \"Spending Limit Retrieval
Subscriptions\" resource if such reporting is not established for the
subscriber. The request operation includes the subscriber Id \"SUPI\", the
notification URI and optionally the list of policy counter identifier(s).
3\. The CHF responds to the Nchf_SpendingLimitControl_Subscribe service
operation including a Subscription Correlation ID and as Event Information
provides the policy counter status, and optionally pending policy counter
statuses and their activation times, per required policy counter identifier,
and stores the PCF\'s subscription to spending limit reports for these policy
counters. When no policy counter identifier(s) was received from the PCF, it
provides the policy counter status, optionally pending policy counter statuses
and their activation times, for all policy counters, which are available for
this subscriber, and stores the PCF\'s subscription to spending limit reports
for all policy counters.
### 5.3.3 Intermediate Spending Limit Report Request
This clause describes the signalling flow for the PCF to request the status of
additional policy counters available at the CHF or to remove the request for
the status of policy counters available at CHF. If the PCF provides the list
of policy counter identifier(s), the CHF returns the policy counter status per
policy counter identifier provided by the PCF.
Figure 5.3.3-1: Intermediate Spending Limit Report Request procedure
1\. The PCF decides to modify the list of subscribed policy counters, e.g. PCF
determines that policy decisions depend on additional policy counter
identifier(s) held at the CHF or that notifications of policy counter status
changes for some policy counters are no longer required.
2\. The PCF invokes the Nchf_SpendingLimitControl_Subscribe service operation
to the CHF by sending the HTTP PUT request to the \"Individual Spending Limit
Retrieval Subscription\" resource. The request operation may include an
updated list of policy counter identifier(s) that overrides the previously
stored list of policy counter identifier(s) and a notification URI.
3\. The CHF responds to the Nchf_SpendingLimitControl_Subscribe service
operation and provides as Event Information the policy counter status and
optionally pending policy counter statuses and their activation times, per
required policy counter identifier, and stores or removes the PCF\'s
subscription to spending limit reporting by comparing the updated list with
the existing PCF subscriptions. When no policy counter identifier(s) was
received from the PCF, it provides the policy counter status, optionally
pending policy counter statuses and their activation times, for all policy
counter(s), which are available for this subscriber, and stores the PCF\'s
subscription to spending limit reports for all policy counters.
### 5.3.4 Final Spending Limit Report Request
This clause describes the signalling flow for the PCF to unsubscribe to any
future updates of policy counters for a given subscriber by the CHF. It
cancels the request for reporting the change of the status of the policy
counters available at the CHF.
Figure 5.3.4-1: Final Spending Limit Report Request procedure
1\. The PCF decides that policy decisions for a given user no longer depend on
policy counter(s) to which the PCF has existing subscriptions for status
change notification.
2\. The PCF sends Nchf_SpendingLimitControl_Unsubscribe service operation to
the CHF by sending the HTTP DELETE request to the \"Individual Spending Limit
Retrieval Subscription\" resource to cancel the notification request from the
CHF on policy counter status, whereby the \"{subscriptionId}\" is the
identification of the existing subscription to be deleted.
3\. The CHF removes the PCF\'s subscription to spending limit reporting and
responds to the Nchf_SpendingLimitControl_Unsubscribe service operation to the
PCF.
### 5.3.5 Spending Limit Report
This clause describes the signalling flow for the CHF to notify the changes of
the status of a subscribed policy counter(s) available at the CHF for that
subscriber. Alternatively, the signalling flow can be re-used by the CHF to
provide one or more pending statuses for a subscribed policy counter together
with the time that have to be applied.
Figure 5.3.5-1: Spending Limit Report procedure
1\. The CHF detects that status of a policy counter identifier(s) has changed
and the PCF requested notification of changes in the status of a policy
counter(s). Alternatively, if the CHF detects a policy counter status will
change at a future point in time, the CHF shall be able to instruct the PCF to
apply one or more pending statuses for a requested policy counter.
2\. When the status of a specific policy counter changes, or the CHF detects
that a policy counter status will change at a future point in time and decides
to instruct the PCF to apply one or more pending statuses for a requested
policy counter, the CHF shall determine the PDU sessions impacted by the
change (i.e. those PDU sessions that have subscribed to status change
notifications for the changed policy counter) and invoke
Nchf_SpendingLimitControl_Notify service operation by sending the HTTP POST
request with \"{notifURI}/notify \" as the request URI to the PCF associated
with each affected PDU session. The request operation includes the subscriber
Id \"SUPI\" and in the Event Information the updated policy counter status,
optionally including pending policy counter statuses and their activation
times for any of the subscribed policy counters.
3\. The PCF acknowledges the Nchf_SpendingLimitControl_Notify service
operation. The PCF uses the status of the received policy counter(s) as input
to its policy decision to apply operator defined actions, e.g. downgrade the
QoS, and it shall ignore an unknown policy counter status report for all
unknown policy counter identifiers in the Nchf_SpendingLimitControl_Notify
service operation from the CHF.
### 5.3.6 Subscription termination request by CHF
This clause describes the signalling flow for the CHF to report the removal of
the subscriber to every PCF.
Figure 5.3.6-1: Subscription Termination Request procedure
1\. When the CHF decides that a subscriber is removed it may report the
removal to the PCF.
2\. The CHF may invoke the Nchf_SpendingLimitControl_Notify service operation
by sending the HTTP POST request with \"{notifURI}/terminate\" as request URI
to the PCF. The request operation shall include the subscriber Id \"SUPI\" and
in the subscription termination information \"removed subscriber\" as Event
Information.
3\. The PCF removes the subscription to notification of all policy counter
statuses for a subscriber identified by the subscriber Id, makes applicable
policy decisions and acknowledges the Nchf_SpendingLimitControl_Notify service
operation.
## 5.4 Network Data Analytics Procedures
### 5.4.1 General
The PCF may interact with the NWDAF to make PCC decisions based on load level
information.
### 5.4.2 Network data analytics Subscribe/Unsubscribe
This procedure is used by the PCF to subscribe to/unsubscribe from load level
information of network slice instance(s) from NWDAF. Periodic notification and
notification upon threshold exceeded can be subscribed. The PCF may make
policy decisions based on the load level information of network slice
instance.
Figure 5.4.2-1: Network data analytics Subscribe procedure
1\. The PCF makes policy decisions depend on load level information.
2\. In order to subscribe to load level information of network slice
instance(s) from NWDAF, the PCF invokes Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Subscribe
service operation by sending an HTTP POST request with Resource URI of the
resource \"NWDAF Events Subscriptions\". The request includes the subscribed
events and may include the identifier of network slice instance(s), event
notification method.
In order to update the existing subscription, the PCF invokes
Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Subscribe service operation by sending an HTTP PUT
request with Resource URI of the resource \"Individual NWDAF Event
Subscription\".
3\. The NWDAF responds to the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Subscribe service
operation. If the subscription is accepted, the response includes the URI of
the created subscription with \"201 Created\".
4\. If the NWDAF observes the event(s) that PCF has subscribed to, the NWDAF
invokes Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Notify service operation to report the
event(s) by sending an HTTP POST request with {notificationURI} as
Notification URI.
5\. The PCF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the NWDAF.
NOTE 1: For details of Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Subscribe/Notify service
operations refer to 3GPP TS 29.520 [11].
Figure 5.4.2-2: Network data analytics Unsubscribe procedure
1\. The PCF receives an internal or external trigger to unsubscribe from a
load level information of network slice instance(s) from NWDAF.
2\. The PCF invokes Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Unsubscribe service operation by
sending an HTTP DELETE request with Resource URI of the resource \"Individual
NWDAF Event Subscription\", to the NWDAF to unsubscribe from load level
information of network slice instance(s). The request includes the event
subscriptionId of the existing subscription that is to be deleted.
3\. The NWDAF responds to the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Unsubscribe service
operation. If the unsubscription is accepted, the NWDAF responds with \"204 No
Content\".
NOTE 2: For details of Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Unsubscribe service operation
refer to 3GPP TS 29.520 [11].
### 5.4.3 Network data analytics info request
This procedure is used by the PCF to request load level information of network
slice instance(s) from NWDAF. The PCF may make policy decisions based on the
load level information of network slice instance.
Figure 5.4.3-1: Network data analytics info request procedure
1\. The PCF makes policy decisions depend on load level information of network
slice instance(s), especially for one time usage.
2\. The PCF invokes Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo_Request service operation by sending
an HTTP GET request with Resource URI of the resource \"NWDAF Analytics\", to
the NWDAF to request load level information of network slice instance(s). The
request includes the network slice instance(s) as event filter and may include
the identifier of network slice instance(s), event notification method.
3\. The NWDAF responds to the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo_Request service operation.
If the request is accepted, the response includes load level information of
Network Slice instance(s) with \"200 OK\".
NOTE: For details of Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo_Request service operation refer to
3GPP TS 29.520 [11].
## 5.5 Service Capability Exposure Procedures
### 5.5.1 General
PCC abilities can be exposed to a 3rd party application server via the NEF.
The following procedures are included in this clause:
1\. The procedure of Packet Flow Descriptions management.
2\. The procedure of AF traffic routing.
3\. The procedure of Background Data Transfer negotiation.
### 5.5.2 Management of Packet Flow Descriptions
#### 5.5.2.1 AF-initiated PFD management procedure
This subclause describes the procedure initiated by the AF for creation,
update or removal of packet flow descriptions of the application(s) in
operator\'s network as depicted in figure 5.5.2.1-1.
Figure 5.5.2.1-1: AF-initiated PFDF management procedure
1\. To create PFDs resources for one or more application identifier(s), the AF
invokes the Nnef_PFDmanagement_Create service operation to the NEF by sending
the HTTP POST request to the resource \"PFD Management Transactions\".
To update the PFDs for an existing individual transaction including one or
more application identifier(s), the AF invokes the Nnef_PFDmanagement_Update
service operation by sending the HTTP PUT request to the resource \"Individual
PFD Management Transaction\".
To update the PFDs for an existing application identifier, the AF invokes the
Nnef_PFDmanagement_Update service operation by sending the HTTP PUT or PATCH
request to the resource \"Individual Application PFD Management\".
To remove the PFDs for an existing individual transaction \"Individual PFD
Management Transaction\" including one or more application identifier(s), the
AF invokes the Nnef_PFDmanagement_Delete service operation by sending the HTTP
DELETE request to the resource \"Individual PFD Management Transaction\".
To remove the PFDs for an existing individual application, the AF invokes the
Nnef_PFDmanagement_Delete service operation by sending the HTTP DELETE request
to the resource \"Individual Application PFD Management\".
NOTE 1: For details of Nnef_PFDmanagement_Create/Update/Delete service
operations refer to 3GPP TS 29.522 [24].
2\. The NEF checks whether the application is authorized to perform this
request based on the operator policies.
3\. The NEF invokes Nudr_DataRepository operation service to the UDR as
follows:
\- if PFDs creation for a new application identifier was requested in step 1,
the NEF shall invoke the Nudr_DataRepository_Create service operation by
sending an HTTP PUT request message to the resource \"Individual PFD Data\"
for the requested application identifier.
\- if PFDs update for an existing application identifier was requested in step
1, the NEF shall invoke the Nudr_DataRepository_Update service operation by
sending an HTTP PUT request message to the resource \"Individual PFD Data\"
for the requested application identifier.
\- if PFDs removal for an existing application identifier was requested in
step 1, the NEF shall invoke the Nudr_DataRepository_Delete service operation
by sending an HTTP DELETE request message to the resource \"Individual PFD
Data\" for the requested application identifier.
NOTE 2: PFD creation/update/removal in step 1 can include PFD management
request for multiple applications, but the UDR service for PFD management only
supports one application at a time.
NOTE 3: For details of Nudr_DataRepository_Create/Update/Delete service
operations refer to 3GPP TS 29.519 [12].
4\. The UDR shall send the HTTP response message to the NEF correspondingly.
5\. The NEF sends Nnef_PFDManagement_Create/Update/Delete Response to the AF.
#### 5.5.2.2 PFD management towards SMF
##### 5.5.2.2.1 PFD retrieval
This procedure enables the SMF to retrieve PFDs for application identifier(s)
from the PFDF as depicted in figure 5.5.2.2.1-1 when:
\- a PCC rule with the application identifier(s) is provided or activated and
PFDs for the corresponding application identifier(s) provisioned by the PFDF
are not available at the SMF; and
\- the caching timer for an application identifier expires and the PCC Rule
for this application identifier is still active.
The SMF may retrieve PFDs for one or more application identifiers in the same
Request. All PFDs related to an application identifier are provided in the
response from the PFDF to the SMF.
Figure 5.5.2.2.1-1: PFD retrieval by SMF
1\. In order to retrieve the PFDs of individual application identifier, the
SMF shall invoke Nnef_PFDmanagement_Fetch service operation by sending an HTTP
GET request message to the resource \"Individual application PFD\".
In order to retrieve the PFDs of collection of application identifiers, the
SMF shall invoke the Nnef_PFDmanagement_Fetch service operation by sending an
HTTP GET request message to the resource \"PFD of applications\" with query
parameters indicating the requested application identifiers.
NOTE 1: For details of Nnef_PFDmanagement_Fetch service operation refer to
3GPP TS 29.551 [25].
2\. If the requested PFDs are not available in PFDF, PFDF shall invoke
Nudr_DataRepository_Query service operation by sending an HTTP GET request
message to the UDR to the resource \"Individual PFD Data\" as specified in
3GPP TS 29.519 [12].
NOTE 2: The SMF in step 1 can include PFD management request for multiple
applications, but the UDR service for PFD management only supports one
application at a time.
3\. The UDR shall send an HTTP GET response message including the requested
PFDs to the NEF.
4\. The PFDF sends the HTTP GET response message \"200 OK\" including the PFDs
for the requested application identifier(s) to the SMF.
##### 5.5.2.2.2 PFD management
This procedure enables the SMF to subscribe the notification of events when
the PFDs for application identifier change. The PFDF will notify the SMF to
update and/or delete the PFDs for application identifier(s) as subscribed
previously.
Figure 5.5.2.2.2-1: PFDF management in the SMF
1-2. In order to subscribe the notification of events when the PFDs for
application identifier change, the SMF can use Nnef_PFDmanagement_Subscribe
service operation by sending an HTTP POST message to the resource \"PFD
subscriptions\". The HTTP POST request includes a notification URI to indicate
to the PFDF where to send notifications when events occur. If the subscription
is accepted, he PFDF shall send the POST response message a \"201 Created\" to
the SMF.
3-4. The PFDF shall use Nnef_PFDmanagement_Notify service operation to update
and/or delete the PFDs for application identifier(s) in the SMF. The PFDF
shall send an HTTP POST request message to the notification URI
\"{notifyUri}\". The SMF replies to the PFDF with an HTTP POST response
message \"204 No Content\" indicating the successful provisioning of all PFDs
or \"200 OK\" containing failed application identifier(s).
5-6. The SMF may initiate Nnef_PFDmanagement_Unsubscribe service operation to
remove the subscription by sending an HTTP DELETE request message to the
resource \"Individual PFD subscription\". The PFDF replies to the SMF with an
HTTP DELETE response message \"204 No Content\".
NOTE: For details of Nnef_PFDmanagement_Subscribe/Notify/Unsubscribe service
operations refer to 3GPP TS 29.551 [25].
### 5.5.3 Traffic influence procedures
#### 5.5.3.1 General
As described in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] subclause 5.6.7, an AF may send requests to
influence SMF routing decisions for User Plane traffic of PDU Sessions. The AF
may also provide in its request subscriptions to SMF events (e.g. UP path
change).
The following cases are included in this clause:
AF requests targeting an individual UE address: such requests are routed (by
the AF or by the NEF) to an individual PCF using the BSF or by configuration
as described in subclause 5.5.3.2.
NOTE 1: Such requests target an on-going PDU Session. Whether the AF needs to
use the NEF or not depends on local deployment.
AF requests targeting PDU Sessions that are not identified by an UE address:
For such requests the AF shall contact the NEF and the NEF stores the AF
request information in the UDR. PCF(s) that have subscribed to the
modification of the AF request information receive a corresponding
notification from the UDR. This is described in subclause 5.5.3.3.
NOTE 2: Such requests can target on-going or future PDU Sessions.
NOTE 3: The 5GC functions used in the following procedures are assumed to all
belong to the same PLMN (HPLMN in non-roaming case or VPLMN in the case of a
PDU Session in LBO mode).
NOTE 4: AF requests invoked from an AF located in the HPLMN for home routed
roaming scenario are not supported.
#### 5.5.3.2 AF requests targeting an individual UE address
Figure 5.5.3.2-1: Processing AF requests to influence traffic routing for
Sessions identified by an UE address
1A. The AF sends the AF request to PCF via the NEF.
1a-1b. These steps are the same as steps 1-2 in Figure 5.5.3.3-1.
1c-1d. If the PCF address is not available on the NEF based on local
configuration, the NEF invokes the Nbsf_Management_Discovery service
operation, specified in subclause 8.5.4, to obtain the selected PCF ID for the
ongoing PDU session identified by the individual UE address in the AF request.
1e-1f. The NEF forwards the AF request to the PCF.
When receiving the Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Create request in step 1a, the NEF
invokes the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Create service operation by sending the
HTTP POST request to the \"Application Sessions\" resource as described in
subclause 5.2.2.2.2.1.
When receiving the Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Update request in step 1a, the NEF
invokes the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Update service operation by sending the
HTTP PATCH request to the \"Individual Application Session Context\" resource
as described in subclause 5.2.2.2.2.2.
When receiving the Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Delete request in step 1a The NEF
invokes the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Delete service operation by sending the
HTTP POST request to the \"Individual Application Session Context\" resource
as described in subclause 5.2.2.2.2.3.
1g The NEF sends the HTTP response message to the AF correspondingly.
1B. The AF sends the AF request to PCF directly.
1a-1b. If the PCF address is not available on the AF based on local
configuration, the AF invokes the Nbsf_Management_Discovery service operation,
as specified in subclause 8.5.4, to obtain the selected PCF ID for the ongoing
PDU session identified by the individual UE address in its request.
1c-1d. To create a new AF request, the AF invokes the
Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Create service operation by sending the HTTP POST
request to the \"Application Sessions\" resource as described in subclause
5.2.2.2.2.1.
To update an existing AF request, the AF invokes the
Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Update service operation by sending the HTTP PATCH
request to the \"Individual Application Session Context\" resource as
described in subclause 5.2.2.2.2.2.
To remove an existing AF request, the AF invokes the
Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Delete service operation by sending the HTTP POST
request to the \"Individual Application Session Context\" resource as
described in subclause 5.2.2.2.2.3.
2-3. Upon receipt of the AF request, the PCF invokes the
Npcf_SMPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service operation to update the SMF with
corresponding PCC rule(s) by sending the HTTP POST request to the resource URI
\"{notificationUri}/update\" as described in subclause 5.2.2.2.1. If the AF
subscribes to UP Path change event, the PCF includes the related subscription
information within the corresponding PCC rule(s) as specified in TS 29.512
[9].
\- For the case of 4A, the PCF includes in the PCC rule(s) the Notification
URI pointing to the NEF and the Notification Correlation ID assigned by NEF.
\- For the case of 4B, the PCF includes in the PCC rule(s) the Notification
URI pointing to the AF and the Notification Correlation ID assigned by AF.
If the AF unsubscribes from UP Path change event, the PCF removes the related
subscription information from the corresponding PCC rule(s) as specified in
3GPP TS 29.512 [9].
3a. When the SMF installs PCC rule successfully, the SMF determines whether UP
path change needs to be enforced. In this case, the SMF:
\- when early notification is required, shall notify as described in step 4
before reconfiguring the User Plane of the PDU session;
\- takes appropriate actions to reconfigure the User plane of the PDU Session
such as:
i. adding, replacing or removing a UPF in the data path to e.g. act as an UL
CL or a Branching Point;
ii. allocate a new Prefix to the UE (when IPv6 multi-Homing applies);
iii. updating the UPF in the target DNAI with new traffic steering rules; and
\- when late notification is required, shall notify as described in step 4
after reconfiguring the User Plane of the PDU session.
4A. In case of 1A, if the SMF observes PDU Session related event(s) that AF
has subscribed to, the SMF invokes Nsmf_EventExposure_Notify to the AF via the
NEF by sending an HTTP POST request. When receiving the
Nsmf_EventExposure_Notify service operation, the NEF performs information
mapping (e.g. Notification Correlation ID to AF Transaction ID, etc.), and
invokes the Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Notify service operation to forward the
notification to the AF. The step is the same as steps 7-10 in Figure
5.5.3.3-1.
4B. In case of 1B, if the SMF observes PDU Session related event(s) that AF
has subscribed to, the SMF invokes Nsmf_EventExposure_Notify to the AF
directly by sending an HTTP POST request to the resource URI \"{notifUri}\",
and the AF sends a \"204 No Content\" response to the SMF.
#### 5.5.3.3 AF requests targeting PDU Sessions not identified by an UE
address
If the AF traffic influence request affects future PDU session, the traffic
influence procedure is performed as depicted in Figure 5.5.3.3-1.
Figure 5.5.3.3-1: Processing AF requests to influence traffic routing for
Sessions not identified by an UE address, affecting future PDU session
1\. To create a new AF request, the AF invokes the
Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Create service operation to the NEF by sending the HTTP
POST request to the \"Traffic Influence Subscription\" resource.
To update an existing AF request, the AF invokes the
Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Update service operation by sending the HTTP PUT or
PATCH request to the \"Individual Traffic Influence Subscription\" resource.
To remove an existing AF request, the AF invokes the
Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Delete service operation by sending the HTTP DELETE
request to the \"Individual Traffic Influence Subscription\" resource.
NOTE 1: For details of Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Create/Update/Delete service
operations refer to 3GPP TS 29.522 [24].
2\. Upon receipt of the AF request, the NEF authorizes it and then performs
the mapping from the information provided by the AF into information needed by
the 5GC as described in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
3-4. When receiving the Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Create request, the NEF invokes
the Nudr_DataRepository_Create service operation to store the AF request
information in the UDR by sending the HTTP PUT request to the \"Individual
Influence Data\" resource, and the UDR sends a \"201 Created\" response.
When receiving the Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Update request, the NEF invokes the
Nudr_DataRepository_Update service operation to modify the AF request
information in the UDR by sending the HTTP PATCH/PUT request to the resource
\"Individual Influence Data\", and the UDR sends a \"200 OK\" or \"204 No
Content\" response accordingly.
When receiving the Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Delete request, the NEF invokes the
Nudr_DataRepository_Delete service operation to delete the AF requirements
from the UDR by sending the HTTP DELETE request to the \"Individual Influence
Data\" resource, and the UDR sends a \"204 No Content\" response.
NOTE 2: For details of the Nudr_DataRepository_Create/Update/Delete service
operations refer to 3GPP TS 29.519 [12].
5\. The NEF sends the HTTP response message to the AF correspondingly.
6\. The PCF retrieves the stored AF request in the UDR by invoking the
Nudr_DataRepository_Query service operation during SM Policy Association
Establishment procedure (see subclause 5.2.1).
The PCF generates the PCC rule(s) based on the AF request and provides it to
the SMF. If the AF subscribes to UP Path change event, the PCF includes the
Notification URI pointing to the NEF and the Notification Correlation ID
assigned by NEF within the corresponding PCC rule(s) as specified in 3GPP TS
29.512 [9]. If the AF unsubscribes from UP Path change event, the PCF removes
the related subscription information from the corresponding PCC rule(s) as
specified in 3GPP TS 29.512 [9].
6a. This step is the same as the step 3a in Figure 5.5.3.2-1.
7\. If the SMF observes PDU Session related event(s) that AF has subscribed
to, the SMF invokes the Nsmf_EventExposure_Notify service operation to the NEF
by sending an HTTP POST request to the resource URI \"{notifUri}\".
8\. When receiving the Nsmf_EventExposure_Notify service operation, the NEF
performs information mapping (e.g. Notification Correlation ID to AF
Transaction ID), and invokes the Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Notify service
operation to forward the notification to the AF by sending the HTTP request to
the resource URI \"notificationDestination\" as specified in TS 29.522 [24].
9\. The AF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the NEF.
10\. The NEF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
If the AF traffic influence request affects ongoing PDU session, the traffic
influence procedure is performed as depicted in Figure 5.5.3.3-2.
Figure 5.5.3.3-2: Processing AF requests to influence traffic routing for
Sessions not identified by an UE address, affecting ongoing PDU session
0\. The PCF subscribes to the changes of traffic influence data in the UDR
during SM Policy Association procedure (see subclause 5.2.1).
1-5. These steps are the same as steps 1-5 in Figure 5.5.3.3-1.
6-7. The UDR invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Notify service operation to
PCF(s) that have subscribed to modifications of AF requests by sending the
HTTP POST request to the resource URI \"{notificationUri}\", and the PCF sends
a \"204 No Content\" response to the UDR.
8-9. Upon receipt of the AF request from the UDR, the PCF determines if
existing PDU Sessions are potentially impacted by the AF request. For each of
these PDU Sessions, the PCF invokes the Npcf_SMPolicyControl_UpdateNotify
service operation to update the SMF with corresponding PCC rule(s) by sending
the HTTP POST request to the resource URI \"{notificationUri}/update\" as
described in subclause 5.2.2.2.1.
If the AF subscribes to UP Path change event, the PCF includes the information
on AF subscription to UP path change event within the corresponding PCC
rule(s) as specified in 3GPP TS 29.512 [9]. If the AF unsubscribes from UP
Path change event, the PCF removes the related subscription information from
the corresponding PCC rule(s) as specified in 3GPP TS 29.512 [9].
9a. This step is the same as step 6a in Figure 5.5.3.3-1.
10-13. These steps are the same as steps 7-10 in Figure 5.5.3.3-1.
### 5.5.4 Negotiation for future background data transfer procedure
Figure 5.5.4-1: Negotiation for future background data transfer procedure
1\. The AF invokes the Nnef_BDTPNegotiation_Create service operation by
sending an HTTP POST request to the resource \"BDT Subscription\" to get
background data transfer policies. The AF request shall contain an ASP
identifier, the volume of data to be transferred per UE, the expected amount
of UEs, the desired time window and optionally, network area information
either as a geographical area (e.g. a civic address or shapes), or an area of
interest that includes a list of TAs and/or list of NG-RAN nodes and/or a list
of cell identifiers. When the AF provides a geographical area, then the NEF
maps it based on local configuration into a short list of TAs and/or NG-RAN
nodes and/or cells identifiers that is provided to the (H-)PCF.
NOTE 1: A 3rd party application server is typically not able to provide any
specific network area information and if so, the AF request is for a whole
operator network.
2\. Upon receipt of a Background Data Transfer request from the AF indicating
a transfer policy request, the NEF invokes the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Create
service operation with the (H-)PCF by sending an HTTP POST request to the
resource \"BDT policies\". The request operation includes the ASP identifier,
the volume of data to be transferred per UE, the expected number of UEs, the
desired time window, and optionally the network area information (list of TAIs
and/or NG-RAN nodes and/or cells identifiers).
NOTE 2: The NEF may contact any PCF in the operator network.
3-4. The (H-) PCF may invoke the Nudr_DataRepository_Query service operation
by sending an HTTP GET request to the resource \"BdtData\", to request from
the UDR all stored transfer policies. The UDR sends an HTTP \"200 OK\"
response to the (H-) PCF.
NOTE 3: In case only one PCF is deployed in the network, transfer policies can
be locally stored in the PCF and the interaction with the UDR is not required.
5\. The (H-) PCF determines one or more transfer policies based on the
information received from the NEF and other available information (e.g.
network policy, existing transfer policies, network area information and load
status estimation for the desired time window).
6\. The (H-) PCF sends a \"201 Created\" response to the
Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Create service operation with the acceptable one or more
transfer policies and a Background Data Transfer Reference ID.
7\. The NEF sends a \"201 Created\" response to forward the received transfer
policies to the AF. If the NEF received only one background transfer policy
from the (H) PCF, steps 8-11 are not executed and the flow proceeds to step
12. Otherwise, the flow proceeds to step 8.
8\. The AF invokes the Nnef_BDTPNegotiation_Update service operation by
sending an HTTP PATCH request to the resource \"Individual BDT Subscription\"
to provide the NEF with the selected background data transfer policy.
9\. The NEF invokes the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Update service operation by
sending an HTTP PATCH request to the resource \"Individual BDT policy\" to
provide the (H-)-PCF with the selected background data transfer policy.
10\. The (H-) PCF sends an HTTP PATCH response message to the NEF.
11\. The NEF sends an HTTP PATCH response message to the AF.
12-13. If the (H-)PCF does not locally store the transfer policy, it invokes
the Nudr_DataRepository_Update service operation by sending an HTTP PUT
request to the resource \"IndividualBdtData\", to store for the provided ASP
identifier the new transfer policy together with the associated background
data transfer reference ID, the volume of data per UE, the expected number of
UEs and if available the corresponding network area information in the UDR.
The UDR sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to the (H-)PCF.
NOTE 4: For details of Nnef_BDTPNegotiation_Create/Update service operations
refer to 3GPP TS 29.522 [24].
NOTE 5: For details of Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Create/Update service operations
refer to 3GPP TS 29.554 [26].
NOTE 6: For details of Nudr_DataRepository_Query/Update service operations
refer to 3GPP TS 29.519 [12] and 3GPP TS 29.504 [27].
## 5.6 UE Policy Association Management
### 5.6.1 UE Policy Association Establishment
#### 5.6.1.1 General
The procedures in this subclause are performed when the UE initially registers
with the network, when the UE registers with 5GS during the UE moving from EPS
to 5GS and if there is no existing UE Policy Association or when the new AMF
establishes the UE Policy Association with the new PCF during AMF relocation.
NOTE 1: For details of the Nudr_DataRepository_Query/Update/Subscribe service
operations refer to 3GPP TS 29.519 [12].
NOTE 2: For details of the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Create/Update service
operations refer to 3GPP TS 29.525 [31].
NOTE 3: For details of the
Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer/N1N2MessageSubscribe/ N1MessageNotify
service operations refer to 3GPP TS 29.518 [32].
#### 5.6.1.2 Non-roaming
Figure 5.6.1.2-1: UE Policy Association Establishment procedure - Non-roaming
1\. The AMF receives the registration request from the AN. Based on local
policy, the AMF selects to contact the PCF to create the UE policy association
with the PCF and to retrieve the UE policy. The AMF invokes the
Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Create service operation by sending an HTTP POST request
to the \"UE Policy Associations\" resource. The request includes the
parameters as defined in subclause 4.2.2.1 of 3GPP TS 29.525 [31].
2\. If the PCF does not have the subscription data or the latest list of UPSIs
for the UE, it invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Query service operation to the
UDR by sending an HTTP GET request to the \"UEPolicySet\" resource.
3\. The UDR sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the PCF with the latest UPSIs
and its content, and/or the subscription data.
4\. The PCF may request notifications from the UDR on changes in the
subscription information, and in this case, the PCF shall invoke the
Nudr_DataRepository_Subscribe service operation by sending an HTTP POST
request to the \"PolicyDataSubscriptions\" resource.
5\. The UDR sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to acknowledge the
subscription from the PCF.
6\. The PCF determines whether and which UE policy has to be provisioned or
updated as defined in subclause 4.2.2.2.1 of 3GPP TS 29.525 [31], and can
determine applicable Policy Control Request Trigger(s).
In addition, the PCF checks if the size of determined UE policy exceeds a
predefined limit.
NOTE: NAS messages from AMF to UE do not exceed the maximum size limit allowed
in NG-RAN (PDCP layer), so the predefined size limit in PCF is related to that
limitation.
\- If the size is under the limit then the UE policy information is included
in a single Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer service operation and
messages 10 to 13 are thus executed one time.
\- If the size exceeds the predefined limit, the PCF splits the UE policy
information in smaller logical independent UE policy information fragments and
ensures the size of each is under the predefined limit. Each UE policy
information fragment will be then sent in separated
Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer service operations and messages 10 to
13 are thus executed several times, one time for each UE policy information
fragment.
7\. The PCF sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to the AMF with the Policy
Control Request Trigger(s) if applicable.
8\. To subscribe to notifications of N1 message for UE Policy Delivery Result,
the PCF invokes Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageSubscribe service operation to
the AMF by sending the HTTP POST method with the URI of the \"N1N2
Subscriptions Collection for Individual UE Contexts\" resource.
9\. The AMF sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to the PCF.
10\. If the PCF determines to provision or update the UE policy in step 6, the
PCF sends the UE policy to the UE via the AMF by invoking the
Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer service operation.
11\. The AMF sends a response to the Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer
service operation.
12\. When receiving the UE Policy container, the AMF forwards the response of
the UE to the PCF using Namf_Communication_N1MessageNotify service operation.
13\. The PCF sends a response to the Namf_Communication_N1MessageNotify
service operation.
14-15. The PCF maintains the latest list of UE policy sections delivered to
the UE (in step 8) and updates the UE policy information for the subscriber
including the latest list of UPSIs and its content in the UDR by invoking the
Nudr_DataRepository_Update service operation.
\- If there is no UE policy information retrieved in step 3, the PCF sends an
HTTP PUT request to the \"UEPolicySet\" resource, and the UDR sends an HTTP
\"201 Created\" response.
\- Otherwise, the PCF sends an HTTP PUT/PATCH request to the \"UEPolicySet\"
resource, and the UDR sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" or \"204 No Content\" response
accordingly.
#### 5.6.1.3 Roaming
Figure 5.6.1.3-1: UE Policy Association Establishment procedure - Roaming
1\. The AMF receives the registration request from the AN. Based on local
policy, the AMF decides to establish UE Policy Association with the V-PCF. The
AMF invokes the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Create service operation by sending an
HTTP POST request to the \"UE Policy Associations\" resource. The request
includes the parameters as defined in subclause 4.2.2.1 of 3GPP TS 29.525
[31].
2\. The V-PCF invokes the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Create service operation by
sending an HTTP POST request to the \"UE Policy Associations\" resource to
forward the information received from AMF to the H-PCF. The request includes
the parameters received in step 1. The V-PCF also provides the H-PCF the
Notification URI where to send a notification when the policy is updated.
3-6. These steps are the same as steps 2-5 in subclause 5.6.1.2.
7\. The H-PCF determines whether and which UE policy has to be provisioned or
updated as defined in subclause 4.2.2.2.1 of 3GPP TS 29.525 [31], and may
determine applicable Policy Control Request Trigger(s).
> In addition, the H-PCF checks if the size of determined UE policy exceeds a
> predefined limit.
NOTE 1: NAS messages from AMF to UE do not exceed the maximum size limit
allowed in NG-RAN (PDCP layer), so the predefined size limit in H-PCF is
related to that limitation.
If the size is under the limit then the UE policy information is included in
Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Create response service operation.
\- If the size exceeds the predefined limit, the H-PCF splits the UE policy
information in smaller logical independent UE policy information fragments and
ensures the size of each is under the predefined limit. One fragment will be
sent in Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Create response service operation, and others
will be sent by initiating the PCF-initiated UE Policy Association
Modification procedure specified in subclause 5.6.2.2.3.
8\. The H-PCF sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to the V-PCF with the
decided UE policy and Policy Control Request Trigger(s) if available.
9\. The V-PCF invokes Nudr_DataRepository_Query service operation to the UDR
by sending an HTTP GET request to the \"PlmnUePolicySet\" resource to retrieve
the list of UPSIs and its content stored in the V-UDR for the PLMN ID of this
UE. Alternatively, the V-PCF can have this information configured locally.
NOTE 2: The UPSI list and content stored/configured for a PLMN ID can be
structured according to e.g. location areas (e.g. TAs, PRAs). The V-PCF can
then provide UPSIs and its content only if they correspond to the current UE
location.
10\. The V-UDR sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the V-PCF with the UE
policy information.
11\. The V-PCF may request notifications from the V-UDR on changes in UE
policy information, and in this case, the PCF shall invoke the
Nudr_DataRepository_Subscribe service operation by sending an HTTP POST
request to the \"PolicyDataSubscriptions\" resource.
12\. The V-UDR sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to acknowledge the
subscription from the V-PCF.
13\. The V-PCF determines whether and which UE policy has to be provisioned or
updated as defined in subclause 4.2.2.2.1 of 3GPP TS 29.525 [31], and may
determine applicable Policy Control Request Trigger(s).
In addition, the V-PCF checks if the size of determined UE policy exceeds a
predefined limit.
NOTE 3: NAS messages from AMF to UE do not exceed the maximum size limit
allowed in NG-RAN (PDCP layer), so the predefined size limit in V-PCF is
related to that limitation.
\- If the size is under the limit then the UE policy information is included
in a single Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer service operation and
messages 17 to 22 are thus executed one time.
\- If the size exceeds the predefined limit, the V-PCF splits the UE policy
information in smaller logical independent UE policy information fragments and
ensures the size of each is under the predefined limit. Each UE policy
information fragment will be then sent in separated
Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer service operations and messages 17 to
22 are thus executed several times, one time for each UE policy information
fragment.
14\. The V-PCF sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to the AMF with the
Policy Control Request Trigger(s) if available.
15\. To subscribe to notifications of N1 message for UE Policy Delivery
Result, the V-PCF invokes Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageSubscribe service
operation to the AMF by sending the HTTP POST method with the URI of the
\"N1N2 Subscriptions Collection for Individual UE Contexts\" resource.
16\. The AMF sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to the V-PCF.
17\. The V-PCF invokes the Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer service
operation to send the policy decided locally in step 13 and to forward the
policy received from the H-PCF in step 8.
18\. The AMF sends a response to the Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer
service operation.
19\. When receiving the UE Policy container for the result of the UE policy,
the AMF forwards the response of the UE to the V-PCF using
Namf_Communication_N1MessageNotify service operation.
20\. The V-PCF sends a response to the Namf_Communication_N1MessageNotify
service operation.
21\. Upon receipt of the UE Policy container belonging to the H-PLMN in step
19, the V-PCF invokes the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Update service operation by
sending an HTTP POST request to the \"Individual UE Policy Association\"
resource to forward the response of the UE to the H-PCF.
22\. The H-PCF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the V-PCF.
23-24. The H-PCF maintains the latest list of UE policy information delivered
to the UE and updates UE policy including the latest list of UPSIs and its
content in the H-UDR by invoking the Nudr_DataRepository_Update service
operation.
\- If there is no UE policy information retrieved in step 4, the H-PCF sends
an HTTP PUT request to the \"UEPolicySet\" resource, and the UDR sends an HTTP
\"201 Created\" response.
\- Otherwise, the H-PCF sends an HTTP PUT/PATCH request to the \"UEPolicySet\"
resource, and the H-UDR sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" or \"204 No Content\"
response accordingly.
### 5.6.2 UE Policy Association Modification
#### 5.6.2.1 UE Policy Association Modification initiated by the AMF
##### 5.6.2.1.1 General
The procedures in this subclause are performed when a Policy Control Request
Trigger condition is met or when the new AMF establishes the UE Policy
Association with the old PCF during AMF relocation.
NOTE 1: For details of the Nudr_DataRepository_Update service operation refer
to 3GPP TS 29.519 [12].
NOTE 2: For details of the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Update/UpdateNotify service
operations refer to 3GPP TS 29.525 [31].
NOTE 3: For details of the
Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer/N1MessageNotify service operations
refer to 3GPP TS 29.518 [32].
##### 5.6.2.1.2 Non-roaming
Figure 5.6.2.1.2-1: AMF-initiated UE Policy Association Modification procedure
-- Non-roaming
1\. When the AMF detects a Policy Control Request Trigger condition is met or
when the new AMF decides to establish the UE Policy Association with the old
PCF during AMF relocation, it invokes the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Update service
operation to the PCF by sending an HTTP POST request to the \"Individual UE
Policy Association\" resource with information on the conditions that have
changed.
2\. The PCF makes the policy decision including the applicable updated Policy
Control Request Trigger(s) and/or updated UE Policy. The PCF checks if the
size of determined UE policy exceeds a predefined limit the same as step 6 in
subclause 5.6.1.2.
3\. The PCF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the AMF with the applicable
updated Policy Control Request Trigger(s).
4\. If the PCF decided to update the UE policy in step 2, steps 10-13 as
specified in Figure 5.6.1.2-1 are executed.
5-6. If the PCF decided to update the UE policy in step 2, the PCF maintains
the latest list of UE policy information delivered to the UE and updates UE
policy including the latest list of UPSIs and its content in the UDR by
invoking the Nudr_DataRepository_Update service operation. The PCF sends an
HTTP PUT/PATCH request to the \"UEPolicySet\" resource, and the UDR sends an
HTTP \"204 No Content\" response.
##### 5.6.2.1.3 Roaming
Figure 5.6.2.1.3-1: AMF-initiated UE Policy Association Modification procedure
- Roaming
1\. When the AMF detects a Policy Control Request Trigger condition is met or
when the new AMF decides to establish the UE Policy Association with the old
PCF during AMF relocation, it invokes the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Update service
operation to the V-PCF by sending an HTTP POST request to the \"Individual UE
Policy Association\" resource with information on the conditions that have
changed.
2\. The V-PCF forwards the information received from AMF in step 1 to the
H-PCF by sending an HTTP POST request to the \"Individual UE Policy
Association\" resource if the H-PCF has subscribed the notification.
3\. The H-PCF makes the policy decision including the applicable updated
Policy Control Request Trigger(s) and/or updated UE Policy.
In addition, the H-PCF checks if the size of determined UE policy exceeds a
predefined limit.
NOTE: NAS messages from AMF to UE do not exceed the maximum size limit allowed
in NG-RAN (PDCP layer), so the predefined size limit in H-PCF is related to
that limitation.
\- If the size is under the limit then the UE policy information is included
in Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Update response service operation.
\- If the size exceeds the predefined limit, the H-PCF splits the UE policy
information in smaller logical independent UE policy information fragments and
ensures the size of each is under the predefined limit. One fragment will be
sent in Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Update response service operation, and others
will be then sent by initiating the PCF-initiated UE Policy Association
Modification procedure specified in subclause 5.6.2.2.3.
4\. The H-PCF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the V-PCF with the updated
policy information decided in step 3.
5\. The V-PCF makes the policy decision including the applicable updated
Policy Control Request Trigger(s) and/or updated UE Policy. The V-PCF checks
if the size of determined UE policy exceeds a predefined limit the same as
step 13 in subclause 5.6.1.3.
6\. The V-PCF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the AMF with the applicable
updated Policy Control Request Trigger(s).
7\. If the V-PCF decided to update the UE policy in step 5 or the V-PCF
received the UE Policy in step 4, steps 17-22 as specified in Figure 5.6.1.3-1
are executed.
8-9. If the H-PCF decided to update the UE policy in step 3, the H-PCF
maintains the latest list of UE policy information delivered to the UE and
updates UE policy including the latest list of UPSIs and its content in the
H-UDR by invoking the Nudr_DataRepository_Update service operation. The PCF
sends an HTTP PUT/PATCH request to the \"UEPolicySet\" resource, and the UDR
sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response.
#### 5.6.2.2 UE Policy Association Modification initiated by the PCF
##### 5.6.2.2.1 General
The procedures in this subclause are performed when the UE policy is changed.
NOTE 1: For details of the Nudr_DataRepository_Update service operation refer
to 3GPP TS 29.519 [12].
NOTE 2: For details of the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service operation
refer to 3GPP TS 29.525 [31].
NOTE 3: For details of the
Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer/N1MessageNotify service operations
refer to 3GPP TS 29.518 [32].
##### 5.6.2.2.2 Non-roaming
Figure 5.6.2.2.2-1: PCF-initiated UE Policy Association Modification procedure
-- Non-roaming
1\. The PCF receives an external trigger, e.g. the subscriber policy data of a
UE is changed or application detection, or the PCF receives an internal
trigger, e.g. operator policy is changed, to re-evaluate UE policy decision
for a UE.
2\. The PCF makes the policy decision including the applicable updated Policy
Control Request Trigger(s) and/or updated UE Policy. The PCF checks if the
size of determined UE policy exceeds a predefined limit the same as step 6 in
subclause 5.6.1.2.
3\. If the PCF decided to update the Policy Control Request Trigger(s) in step
2, the V-PCF shall invoke the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service
operation by sending an HTTP POST request to the resource URI
\"{notificationUri}/update\".
4\. The AMF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
5\. If the PCF decided to update the UE policy in step 2, steps 10-13 as
specified in Figure 5.6.1.2-1 are executed.
6-7. If the PCF decided to update the UE policy in step 2, steps 5-6 in
subclause 5.6.2.1.2 are executed.
##### 5.6.2.2.3 Roaming
Figure 5.6.2.2.3-1: PCF-initiated UE Policy Association Modification procedure
-- Roaming
If the H-PCF receives a trigger, steps 1 to 4 and 10 to 11 are executed and
steps 5 to 8 are omitted.
If the V-PCF receives a trigger, steps 1 to 4 and 10 to 11 are omitted and
steps 5 to 8 are executed.
1\. The H-PCF receives an external trigger, e.g. the subscriber policy data of
a UE is changed, or the PCF receives an internal trigger, e.g. operator policy
is changed, to re-evaluate UE policy decision for a UE.
2\. The H-PCF makes the policy decision including the applicable updated
Policy Control Request Trigger(s) and/or updated UE Policy.
In addition, the H-PCF checks if the size of determined UE policy exceeds a
predefined limit.
NOTE 1: NAS messages from AMF to UE do not exceed the maximum size limit
allowed in NG-RAN (PDCP layer), so the predefined size limit in H-PCF is
related to that limitation.
\- If the size is under the limit then the UE policy information is included
in a single Npcf_UEPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service operation and messages 3
to 4 are thus executed one time.
\- If the size exceeds the predefined limit, the PCF splits the UE policy
information in smaller logical independent UE policy information fragments and
ensures the size of each is under the predefined limit. Each UE policy
information fragment will be then sent in separated
Npcf_UEPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service operations and messages 3 to 4, and
9 are thus executed several times, one time for each UE policy information
fragment.
3\. The H-PCF invokes the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service operation
by sending an HTTP POST request to the resource URI
\"{notificationUri}/update\" with the updated UE policy and/or Policy Control
Request Trigger(s) if applicable.
4\. The V-PCF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the H-PCF.
5\. The V-PCF receives an external trigger, e.g. operator policy in the V-UDR
for the PLMN ID of this UE is changed, or the V-PCF receives an internal
trigger, e.g. local policy is changed, to re-evaluate UE policy decision for a
UE.
6\. The V-PCF makes the policy decision including the applicable updated
Policy Control Request Trigger(s) and/or updated UE Policy.
In addition, the V-PCF checks if the size of determined UE policy and received
UE policy from H-PCF in step 3 exceeds a predefined limit.
NOTE 2: NAS messages from AMF to UE do not exceed the maximum size limit
allowed in NG-RAN (PDCP layer), so the predefined size limit in V-PCF is
related to that limitation.
\- If the size is under the limit then the UE policy information is included
in a single Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer service operation and
message 9 is thus executed one time.
\- If the size exceeds the predefined limit, the V-PCF splits the UE policy
information in smaller logical independent UE policy information fragments and
ensures the size of each is under the predefined limit. Each UE policy
information fragment will be then sent in separated
Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer service operations and message 9 is
thus executed several times, one time for each UE policy information fragment.
7\. If the V-PCF needs to update the Policy Control Request Trigger(s) or
forward the Policy Control Request Trigger(s) received from the H-PCF in step
3, the V-PCF shall invoke the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service
operation by sending an HTTP POST request to the resource URI
\"{notificationUri}/update\".
8\. The AMF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
9\. If the V-PCF decided to update the UE policy in step 6 or the V-PCF
received the UE Policy in step 3, steps 17-22 as specified in Figure 5.6.1.3-1
are executed.
10-11. If the H-PCF decided to update the UE policy in step 2, the steps 8-9
in subclause 5.6.2.1.3 are executed.
### 5.6.3 UE Policy Association Termination
#### 5.6.3.1 UE Policy Association Termination initiated by the AMF
##### 5.6.3.1.1 General
This procedure is performed when the UE deregisters from the network, when the
UE deregisters from 5GS during the UE moving from 5GS to EPS or when the old
AMF removes the UE Policy Association during AMF relocation.
NOTE 1: For details of the Nudr_DataRepository_Unsubscribe service operation
refer to 3GPP TS 29.519 [12].
NOTE 2: For details of the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Delete service operation refer
to 3GPP TS 29.525 [31].
NOTE 3: For details of the Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageUnsubscribe service
operation refer to 3GPP TS 29.518 [32].
##### 5.6.3.1.2 Non-roaming
Figure 5.6.3.1.2-1: AMF-initiated UE Policy Association Termination procedure
-- Non-roaming
1\. The AMF invokes the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Delete service operation by
sending the HTTP DELETE request to the \"Individual UE Policy Association\"
resource to delete the policy context in the PCF.
2\. The PCF removes the policy context for the UE and sends an HTTP \"204 No
Content\" response to the AMF.
3\. To unsubscribe to notifications of N1 message for UE Policy Delivery
Result, the PCF invokes Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageUnsubscribe service
operation to the AMF by sending the HTTP DELETE method with the URI of the
\"N1N2 Individual Subscription\" resource.
4\. The AMF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
5\. The PCF unsubscribes the notification of subscriber policy data
modification from the UDR by invoking Nudr_DataRepository_Unsubscribe service
operation by sending the HTTP DELETE request to the
\"IndividualPolicyDataSubscription\" resource if it has subscribed such
notification.
6\. The UDR sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
##### 5.6.3.1.3 Roaming
Figure 5.6.3.1.3-1: AMF-initiated UE Policy Association Termination procedure
-- Roaming
1\. The AMF invokes the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Delete service operation by
sending the HTTP DELETE request to the \"Individual UE Policy Association\"
resource to delete the policy context in the V-PCF. The V-PCF interacts with
the H-PCF.
2\. The V-PCF removes the policy context for the UE and sends an HTTP \"204 No
Content\" response to the AMF.
3\. The V-PCF invokes the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Delete service operation by
sending the HTTP DELETE request to the \"Individual UE Policy Association\"
resource to delete the policy context in the H-PCF.
4\. The H-PCF removes the policy context for the UE and sends an HTTP \"204 No
Content\" response to the V-PCF.
5\. To unsubscribe to notifications of N1 message for UE Policy Delivery
Result, the V-PCF invokes Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageUnsubscribe service
operation to the AMF by sending the HTTP DELETE method with the URI of the
\"N1N2 Individual Subscription\" resource.
6\. The AMF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the V-PCF.
7\. The V-PCF invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Unsubscribe service operation by
sending the HTTP DELETE request to the \"IndividualPolicyDataSubscription\"
resource to unsubscribes the notification from the V-UDR on changes in UE
policy information if it has subscribed such notification.
8\. The V-UDR sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the V-PCF.
9\. The H-PCF unsubscribes the notification of subscriber policy data
modification from the H-UDR by invoking Nudr_DataRepository_Unsubscribe
service operation by sending the HTTP DELETE request to the
\"IndividualPolicyDataSubscription\" resource if it has subscribed such
notification.
10\. The H-UDR sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the H-PCF.
#### 5.6.3.2 UE Policy Association Termination initiated by the PCF
##### 5.6.3.2.1 General
This procedure is performed when the (H-)UDR notifies the (H-)PCF that the
policy profile is removed.
NOTE 1: For details of the Nudr_DataRepository_Notify service operation refer
to 3GPP TS 29.519 [12].
NOTE 2: For details of the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_UpdateNotify/Delete service
operations refer to 3GPP TS 29.525 [31].
NOTE 3: For details of the Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageUnsubscribe service
operation refer to 3GPP TS 29.518 [32].
##### 5.6.3.2.2 Non-roaming
Figure 5.6.3.2.2-1: PCF-initiated UE Policy Association Termination procedure
-- Non-roaming
1\. The subscriber policy control data is removed from the UDR.
2\. The UDR invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Notify service operation by
sending the HTTP POST request to resource URI \"{notificationUri}\" to notify
the PCF that the policy profile is removed if PCF has subscribed such
notification.
3\. The PCF sends HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to confirm reception and
the result to UDR.
4\. The PCF may, depending on operator policies, invoke the
Npcf_UEPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service operation to the AMF of the removal
of the UE policy control information by sending the HTTP POST request to the
resource URI \"{notificationUri}/terminate\".
Alternatively, the PCF may decide to maintain the UE Policy Association if a
default profile is applied, and then step 4 through 6 are not executed.
5\. The AMF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF.
6\. Steps 1 to 4 as specified in Figure 5.6.3.1.2-1 are executed.
##### 5.6.3.2.3 Roaming
Figure 5.6.3.2.3-1: PCF-initiated UE Policy Association Termination procedure
-- Roaming
1\. The subscriber policy control data is removed from the H-UDR.
2\. The H-UDR invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Notify service operation by
sending the HTTP POST request to resource URI \"{notificationUri}\" to notify
the H-PCF that the policy profile is removed if H-PCF has subscribed such
notification.
3\. The H-PCF sends HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to confirm reception and
the result to H-UDR.
4\. The H-PCF may, depending on operator policies, invoke the
Npcf_UEPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service operation to the AMF of the removal
of the UE policy control information by sending the HTTP POST request to the
resource URI \"{notificationUri}/terminate\".
Alternatively, the H-PCF may decide to maintain the UE Policy Association if a
default profile is applied, and then step 4 through 10 are not executed.
5\. The AMF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the V-PCF.
6\. The V-PCF invokes the Npcf_UEPolicyControl_UpdateNotify service operation
to the AMF of the removal of the UE policy control information by sending the
HTTP POST request to the resource URI \"{notificationUri}/terminate\".
7\. The AMF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the V-PCF.
8\. The V-PCF invokes the Nudr_DataRepository_Unsubscribe service operation by
sending the HTTP DELETE request to the \"IndividualPolicyDataSubscription\"
resource to unsubscribe the notification from the V-UDR on changes in UE
policy information if it has subscribed such notification.
9\. The V-UDR sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the V-PCF.
10\. Steps 1 to 6 as specified in Figure 5.6.3.1.3-1 are executed.
# 6 Binding Mechanism
## 6.1 Overview
The binding mechanism associates the session information with the QoS flow
that is intended to carry the service data flow(s).
The binding mechanism includes three steps:
1\. Session binding.
2 PCC rule authorization.
3\. QoS flow binding.
The Session binding function receives the AF session information and
determines the relevant PDU session. With this information the PCC rule
authorization function runs the policy rules and constructs the PCC rule(s),
if the authorization is granted. Finally, the QoS flow binding function
selects the QoS flow(s) to carry the service data flow (defined in a PCC rule
by means of the SDF template), within the PDU session.
The PCC rule authorization function and the QoS flow binding function can take
place without the Session binding function at certain PDU session events (e.g.
request of SM related policies initiated by the SMF). The PCF may authorize
dynamic PCC rules for service data flows without a corresponding AF session.
NOTE: The relation between AF sessions and rules depends only on the operator
configuration. An AF session can be covered by one or more PCC rules, if
applicable (e.g. one rule per media component of an IMS session).
## 6.2 Session Binding
The Session binding is the association of the AF session information to one
and only one PDU session.
When the PCF receives the service information from the AF, the PCF shall
perform the session binding and shall associate the described IP and Ethernet
data flows within the AF session information (and therefore the applicable PCC
rules) to one existing PDU session. This association is done comparing the
following parameters received from the AF with the corresponding PDU session
parameters.
a) For an IP type PDU session, the UE IPv4 address or IPv6 address. If IPv6
address is received from the AF, the association is done by comparing the /128
IPv6 address with the IPv6 prefix of the PDU session using the longest prefix
match.
For an Ethernet type PDU session, the UE MAC address.
b) The UE identity (of the same kind e.g. SUPI), if available.
NOTE 1: In case the UE identity in the access network and the application
level identity for the user are of different kinds, the PCF needs to maintain,
or have access to, the mapping between the identities. Such mapping is outside
the scope of the present document.
c) The information about the data network (DNN) the user is accessing, if
available.
d) The IPv4 address domain identity if available in the \"ipDomain\"
attribute.
NOTE 2: The \"ipDomain\" attribute is helpful when within a network slice
instance, there are several separate IP address domains, with SMF/UPF(s) that
allocate Ipv4 IP addresses out of the same private address range to UE PDU
Sessions. The same IP address can thus be allocated to UE PDU sessions served
by SMF/UPF(s) in different address domains. If one PCF controls several
SMF/UPF(s) in different IP address domains, the UE IP address is thus not
sufficient for the session binding. An AF can serve UEs in different IP
address domains, either by having direct IP interfaces to those domains, or by
having interconnections via NATs in the user plane between the UPF and the AF.
If a NAT is used, the AF obtains the IP address allocated to the UE PDU
session via application level signalling and supplies it for the session
binding to the PCF in the \"ueIpv4\" attribute. The AF supplies an
\"ipDomain\" attribute denoting the IP address domain behind the NAT in
addition. The AF can derive the appropriate value from the source address
(allocated by the NAT) of incoming user plane packets. The value provided in
the \"ipDomain\" attribute is operator configurable.
e) The S-NSSAI if available.
NOTE 3: The S-NSSAI is helpful in the scenario where multiple network slice
instances are deployed in the same DNN, and the same IPv4 address may be
allocated to UE PDU sessions in different network slice instances. If one PCF
controls several network slices, each network slice in different IP address
domains, the UE IP address is not sufficient for the session binding. The AF
supplies the S-NSSAI denoting the network slice instance that allocated the
IPv4 address of the UE PDU session. How the AF derives S-NSSAI is out of the
scope of this specification.
Session Binding applies for PDU sessions of IP type. It may also apply to
Ethernet PDU session type but only when especially allowed by PCC related
policy control request trigger. In the case of Ethernet PDU session, session
binding does not apply to AF requests sent over Rx.
NOTE 4: For the Ethernet PDU session, the PCF needs to provision \"UE MAC_CH\"
trigger to the SMF.
NOTE 5: Refer to 3GPP TS 29.213 [30] for the session binding between the IP
type PDU session and the AF request sent over Rx.
The PCF shall identify the PCC rules affected by the AF session information,
including new PCC rules to be installed and existing PCC rules to be modified
or removed.
If the PCF is not capable of executing the Session binding, the PCF shall
reject the AF request.
## 6.3 PCC rule Authorization
The PCC rule authorization is the selection of the 5G QoS parameters for the
PCC rules.
The PCF shall perform the PCC rule authorization after successful Session
binding for PCC rules belonging to the AF sessions, as well as for the PCC
rules without the corresponding AF sessions. By the authorization process the
PCF determines whether the user can have access to the requested services and
under what constraints. If so, the PCC rules are created or modified. If the
Session information is not authorized, a negative answer shall be issued to
the AF.
The PCF shall perform the PCC rule authorization function when the PCF
receives the session information from the AF, when the PCF receives a
notification of PDU session events (e.g. PDU session establishment, PDU
session modification) from the SMF, or when the PCF receives a notification
from the UDR that calls for a policy decision.
For the authorization of a PCC rule, the PCF shall consider any 5GC specific
restrictions, the AF service information and other information available to
the PCF (e.g. user\'s subscription information, operator policies). The PCF
assigns appropriate a set of 5G QoS parameters (5QI, QoS characteristics, ARP,
GBR, MBR, QNC, RQI), that can be supported by the access network, to each PCC
rule.
The authorization of a PCC rule associated with an emergency service shall be
supported without subscription information (e.g. information stored in the
UDR). The PCF shall apply policies configured for the emergency service.
NOTE: The PCC rule authorization is not applicable to the Unstructured type
PDU session.
## 6.4 QoS flow binding
The QoS flow binding is the association of the PCC rule to a QoS flow,
identified by the QFI, within a PDU session.
The QoS flow binding function resides in the SMF. The binding is performed
using the following binding parameters:
\- 5QI;
\- ARP;
\- QNC (if available in the PCC rule);
\- Priority Level (if available in the PCC rule);
\- Averaging Window (if available in the PCC rule), and;
\- Maximum Data Burst Volume (if available in the PCC rule).
The selected QoS flow shall have the same above binding parameters as the one
indicated by the PCC rule. The set of 5G QoS parameters assigned by the PCF to
the service data flow is the main input for QFI allocation.
The SMF shall bind a PCC rule to the default QoS flow as follows:
  * For a non-GBR default QoS flow, the PCC rule(s) bound to the default QoS flow contains values of the non-GBR type 5QI, ARP, and if received, 5QI priority Level, that are identical to the corresponding values within the \"authDefQos\" attribute of the enforced session rule.
  * For a GBR or delay critical GBR default QoS flow, the PCC rule bound to the default QoS flow contains a reference to a QoS data decision with the \"defQosFlowIndication\" attribute set to true and the authorized default QoS within the \"authDefQos\" attribute of the enforced session rule contains values of the GBR type or delay critical GBR type 5QI, ARP, GBR, MBR, and if available, 5QI priority Level, averaging window and maximum data burst volume.
When the QoS data decision which the PCC rule refers to includes the
\"defQosFlowIndication\" attribute set to true as defined in subclause
4.2.6.2.10 of 3GPP TS 29.512 [9], the SMF shall bind the PCC rule to the
default QoS flow as long as the \"defQosFlowIndication\" attribute set to true
.
If the \"defQosFlowIndication\" attribute has not been received before during
the lifetime of the PCC rule or the \"defQosFlowIndication\" attribute has
been received but set to false (as defined in subclause 4.2.6.2.10 of 3GPP TS
29.512 [9]), the SMF shall evaluate whether a QoS flow with the same binding
parameters combination exists. If a QoS flow with the same binding parameters
combination exists, the SMF allocates the same QFI to the service data flows
that are assigned for the same values of the binding parameters. If no QoS
flow exists, the SMF assigns a QFI for a new QoS flow, derives the QoS
parameters for a new QoS flow, using authorized QoS in the PCC rule, and binds
the PCC rule to the QoS flow.
NOTE 1: For non-GBR QoS flows, and when standardized 5QIs or pre-configured
5QIs are used, the 5QI value can be used as the QFI of the QoS flow. However,
the pre-configured 5QI values cannot be used when the UE is roaming.
NOTE 2: For an unstructured PDU session, there is maximum one QoS flow.
NOTE 3: For PCC rules containing a delay critical GBR 5QI value, the SMF can
bind PCC Rules with the same binding parameters to different QoS Flows to
ensure that the GFBR of the QoS Flow can be achieved with the Maximum Data
Burst Volume of the QoS Flow.
The PCF shall supply the PCC rules to be installed, modified, or removed to
the SMF. The SMF shall evaluate whether it is possible to use one of the
existing QoS flows or not, and if applicable.
If the PCF has previously indicated to the SMF that a PCC rule shall be bound
to the default QoS flow by including the \"defQosFlowIndication\" attribute
set to true within the QoS data decision which the PCC rule refers to, but the
PCF updates the QoS data decision by including the \"defQosFlowIndication\"
attribute set to false as defined in subclause 4.2.6.2.10 of 3GPP TS 29.512
[9], the SMF shall create the binding between service data flow(s) and the QoS
flow which have the same binding parameters.
If the PCC rule is corresponding to the QoS rule requested by the UE as
defined in subclause 4.2.4.17 of 3GPP TS 29.512 [9] and a Segregation bit is
set as defined in Table 9.11.4.13.1 of 3GPP TS 24.501 [33] in the request from
the UE, the SMF should abide by the UE request and bind the PCC rule on a
distinct and dedicated QoS Flow e.g. even if an existing QoS Flow can support
the requested QoS, but is still allowed to proceed instead with binding the
selected SDF(s) on an existing QoS Flow.
If the PCC rule is removed, the SMF shall remove the association of the PCC
rule to the QoS flow. Whenever the authorized QoS of a PCC rule changes, the
existing QFI allocation shall be re-evaluated, i.e. the allocation procedure,
is performed. The re-evaluation may, for a service data flow, require a new
binding with another QoS flow.
NOTE 4: A QoS change of the default 5QI/ARP values doesn\'t cause the QoS flow
rebinding for PCC rules previously bound to the QoS flow associated with the
default QoS rule, with the \"defQosFlowIndication\" attribute set to true.
When a QoS flow is removed the SMF shall report to the PCF that the PCC rules
bound to the corresponding QoS flow are removed.
# 7 QoS Parameters Mapping
## 7.1 Overview
Several QoS parameters mapping functions are needed during PCC interaction.
These functions are located at the AF, PCF, SMF and UE. The main purpose of
these mapping functions is the conversion of QoS parameters from one format to
another. QoS information may be:
\- parts of a session description language (SDI), e.g. SDP, MPD;
\- QoS parameters; and
\- access specific QoS parameters.
One QoS mapping function is located at the AF, which maps the application
specific information into the appropriate information that are carried over
the Rx as specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [18] or N5 interface as specified in
3GPP TS 29.514 [10].
For IMS, the AF may pass service information to the PCF over the Rx interface.
The AF derives information about the service from the SDI or from other
sources. The mapping is application specific. If SDP (IETF RFC 4566 [16]) is
used as SDI, the AF should apply the mapping described in subclause 7.2. If
MPD (3GPP TS 26.247 [17]) is used, the AF may apply the mapping described in
Annex I in 3GPP TS 26.247 [17]. Subclause 7.2 specifies the QoS parameter
mapping functions at the AF. For IMS, the mapping rules in subclause 7.2 shall
be used at the P-CSCF.
One QoS mapping function is located at the PCF, which maps the service
information received over the Rx or N5 interface into QoS parameters (e.g.
5QI, GBR, MBR, and ARP). This mapping is access independent. Subclause 7.3
specifies the QoS mapping functions at the PCF applicable for all accesses.
The mapping functions located at SMF is specified in subclause 7.4. The
mapping function in UE is implementation dependent and not specified within
this specification.
The PCF notes and authorizes the service data flows described within this
service information by mapping from service information to Authorized QoS
parameters for transfer to the SMF via the N7 interface. The SMF will map from
the Authorized QoS parameters to the access specific QoS parameters.
For 3GPP 5GS, the network sets up QoS flow(s) with a suitable QoS and
indicates to the UE the QoS characteristics of those QoS flow(s). Therefore
the flow of QoS related information will be unidirectional as indicated in the
figure 7.1-1.
EMBED Word.Picture.8
NOTE: Access Specific QoS parameters with Authorized Access-Specific QoS
parameters comparison.
Figure 7.1-1: QoS mapping framework
1\. The AF shall perform mapping from an SDI received within the AF session
signalling to service information passed to the PCF over the Rx or N5
interface (see subclause 7.2 if SDP is used as SDI).
2\. The PCF shall perform mapping from the service information received over
the Rx or N5 interface to the Authorized QoS parameters that shall be passed
to the SMF via the N7 interface. The mapping is performed for each service
data flow. The PCF combines per direction the individual Authorized QoS
parameters per flow (see subclause 7.3).
3\. The SMF shall perform mapping from the Authorized QoS parameters received
from PCF to the access specific QoS parameters.
## 7.2 QoS parameter mapping Functions at AF
### 7.2.1 Introduction
The mapping described in this clause is mandatory for the P-CSCF and should
also be applied by other AFs, if the SDI is SDP.
When a session is initiated or modified the AF shall derive a Media-Component-
Description AVP from the SDP Parameters.
### 7.2.2 AF supporting Rx interface
When the AF interworks with the PCF using the Rx interface, it shall derive a
Media-Component-Description AVP from the SDP parameters for each SDP media
component using the same mapping rules as defined in subclause 6.2 of 3GPP TS
29.213 [30].
### 7.2.3 AF supporting N5 interface
No QoS parameter mapping functions at AF is required in this Release.
## 7.3 QoS parameter mapping Functions at PCF
### 7.3.1 Introduction
The QoS authorization process consists of the derivation of the parameters
Authorized 5G QoS Identifier (5QI), Authorized Allocation and Retention
Priority (ARP) and Authorized Maximum/Guaranteed Data Rate UL/DL. And such
process also includes the derivation of the QoS Notification Control (QNC),
Reflective QoS Indication (RQI), Priority Level (PL), Averaging Window (AW)
and Maximum Data Burst Volume (MDBV).
When a session is initiated or modified the PCF shall derive Authorized QoS
parameters from the service information received from an AF supporting Rx
interface or from an AF supporting N5 interface.
### 7.3.2 PCF Interworking with an AF supporting Rx interface
When the AF interworks with the PCF using the Rx interface, the session
binding in the PCF shall be always associated to an IP session and the PCF
shall derive IP QoS parameters for the related IP flows.
In the case of SIP forking, the various forked responses may have different
QoS requirements for the IP flows of the same media component. Each Authorized
IP QoS Parameter should be set to the highest value requested for the IP
flow(s) of that media component by any of the active forked responses.
Table 7.3.2-1: Rules for derivation of the Maximum Authorized Data Rates,
Authorized Guaranteed Data Rates and Maximum Authorized QoS Class per service
data flow or bidirectional combination of service data flows in the PCF
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Authorized QoS Parameter | Derivation from service | | | information\ | | | (see NOTE 4) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Maximum Authorized Data Rate | IF operator special policy | | DL (Max_DR_DL) and UL | exists THEN | | (Max_DR_UL)** | | | | Max_DR_UL:= as defined by | | | operator specific algorithm; | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= as defined by | | | operator specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | IF AF Application Identifier | | | demands application specific | | | data rate | | | | | | handling THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= as defined by | | | application specific algorithm; | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= as defined by | | | application specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE IF Codec Data provides | | | Codec information for a codec | | | that is | | | | | | supported by a specific | | | algorithm (NOTE 5, 12 and 13) | | | THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= as defined by | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= as defined by | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | IF not RTCP flow(s) according to | | | Flow Usage THEN | | | | | | IF **Flow Status** indicates | | | "REMOVED" THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= **0** ; | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= 0; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | IF Uplink Flow Description is | | | supplied THEN | | | | | | IF Maximum UL Supported | | | Bandwidth is present and | | | supported THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= Maximum UL | | | Supported Bandwidth; | | | | | | ELSE IF **Maximum UL Requested | | | Bandwidth** is present THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= **Maximum UL | | | Requested Bandwidth** ; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= as set by the | | | operator; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= 0; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF Downlink Flow Description is | | | supplied THEN | | | | | | IF Maximum DL Supported | | | Bandwidth is present and | | | supported THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= Maximum DL | | | Supported Bandwidth; | | | | | | ELSE IF **Maximum DL Requested | | | Bandwidth** is present THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= **Maximum DL | | | Requested Bandwidth** ; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= as set by the | | | operator; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= 0; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE /* RTCP IP flow(s) */ | | | | | | IF RS Bandwidth is present and | | | RR Bandwidth is present THEN\ | | | Max_DR_UL:= (RS Bandwidth + RR | | | Bandwidth);\ | | | Max_DR_DL:= (RS Bandwidth + RR | | | Bandwidth);\ | | | ELSE\ | | | IF Maximum UL Requested | | | Bandwidth is present THEN | | | | | | IF RS Bandwidth is present and | | | RR Bandwidth is not present THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= MAX[0.05 * | | | Maximum UL Requested Bandwidth, | | | RS Bandwidth]; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF RS Bandwidth is not present | | | and RR Bandwidth is present THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= MAX[0.05 * | | | Maximum UL Requested Bandwidth, | | | RR Bandwidth]; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF RS Bandwidth and RR Bandwidth | | | are not present THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= 0.05 * Maximum UL | | | Requested Bandwidth; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= as set by the | | | operator; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF Maximum DL Requested | | | Bandwidth is present THEN | | | | | | IF RS Bandwidth is present and | | | RR Bandwidth is not present THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= MAX[0.05 * | | | Maximum DL Requested Bandwidth, | | | RS Bandwidth]; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF RS Bandwidth is not present | | | and RR Bandwidth is present THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= MAX[0.05 * | | | Maximum DL Requested Bandwidth, | | | RR Bandwidth]; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF RS Bandwidth and RR Bandwidth | | | are not present THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= 0.05 * Maximum DL | | | Requested Bandwidth;\ | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= as set by the | | | operator; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF SIP Forking Indication | | | indicates "SEVERAL DIALOGUES" | | | THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL = MAX[Max_DR_UL, | | | previous Max_DR_UL] | | | | | | Max_DR_DL = MAX[Max_DR_DL, | | | previous Max_DR_DL] | | | | | | ENDIF; | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Authorized Guaranteed Data | IF operator special policy | | Rate DL (Gua_DR_DL) and UL | exists THEN | | (Gua_DR_UL)** | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= as defined by | | **(see NOTE 6, 8, 9 and 10)** | operator specific algorithm; | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= as defined by | | | operator specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | IF AF Application Identifier | | | demands application specific | | | data rate | | | | | | handling THEN | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= as defined by | | | application specific algorithm; | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= as defined by | | | application specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE IF Codec Data provides | | | Codec information for a codec | | | that is | | | | | | supported by a specific | | | algorithm (NOTE 5, 12 and 13) | | | THEN | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= as defined by | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= as defined by | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | IF Uplink Flow Description is | | | supplied THEN | | | | | | IF Minimum UL Desired Bandwidth | | | is present and supported THEN | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= Minimum UL Desired | | | Bandwidth; | | | | | | ELSE IF Minimum UL Requested | | | Bandwidth is present THEN | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= Minimum UL | | | Requested Bandwidth; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= as set by the | | | operator; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= **Max_DR_UL** ; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF Downlink Flow Description is | | | supplied THEN | | | | | | IF Minimum DL Desired Bandwidth | | | is present and supported THEN | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= Minimum DL Desired | | | Bandwidth; | | | | | | ELSE IF Minimum DL Requested | | | Bandwidth is present THEN | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= Minimum DL | | | Requested Bandwidth; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= as set by the | | | operator; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= **Max_DR_DL** ; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF SIP Forking Indication | | | indicates "SEVERAL DIALOGUES" | | | THEN | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL = MAX[Gua_DR_UL, | | | previous Gua_DR_UL] | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL = MAX[Gua_DR_DL, | | | previous Gua_DR_DL] | | | | | | ENDIF; | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Authorized 5G QoS Identifier | IF an operator special policy | | (5QI)** | exists THEN | | | | | **(see NOTE 1, 2, 3 7 and 14)** | 5QI:= as defined by operator | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE IF MPS Identifier demands | | | MPS specific QoS Class handling | | | THEN | | | | | | 5QI:= as defined by MPS specific | | | algorithm (NOTE 11); | | | | | | ELSE IF AF Application | | | Identifier demands application | | | specific QoS Class handling THEN | | | | | | 5QI:= as defined by application | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE IF Codec Data provides | | | Codec information for a codec | | | that is supported by a specific | | | algorithm THEN | | | | | | 5QI:= as defined by specific | | | algorithm; (NOTE 5) | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | /* The following 5QI derivation | | | is an example of how to obtain | | | the 5QI | | | | | | values in a 5GS network */ | | | | | | IF Media Type is present THEN | | | | | | CASE Media Type OF | | | | | | "audio": 5QI := 1; | | | | | | "video": 5QI := 2; | | | | | | "application": 5QI := 1 OR 2; | | | | | | /* NOTE: include new media | | | types here */ | | | | | | OTHERWISE: 5QI := 9; | | | | | | /*e.g. for TCP-based generic | | | traffic */ | | | | | | END; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF SIP Forking Indication | | | indicates "SEVERAL DIALOGUES" | | | THEN | | | | | | 5QI = MAX[5QI, previous 5QI] | | | | | | ENDIF ; | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The 5QI assigned to a | | | RTCP IP flow is the same as for | | | the corresponding RTP media IP | | | flow. | | | | | | NOTE 2: When audio or video IP | | | flow(s) are removed from a | | | session, the 5QI shall keep the | | | originally assigned value. | | | | | | NOTE 3: When audio or video IP | | | flow(s) are added to a session, | | | the PCF shall derive the 5QI | | | taking into account the already | | | existing media IP flow(s) within | | | the session. | | | | | | NOTE 4: The encoding of the | | | service information is defined | | | in 3GPP TS 29.214 [18] and | | | 3GPP TS 29.201 [15]. If AVPs | | | are omitted within a Media | | | Component Description or Media | | | Subcomponent of the service | | | information, the corresponding | | | information from previous | | | service information shall be | | | used, as specified in | | | 3GPP TS 29.214 [18] and | | | 3GPP TS 29.201 [15]. | | | | | | NOTE 5: 3GPP TS 26.234 [19], | | | 3GPP TS 26.114 [14], 3GPP2 | | | C.S0046 [20], and 3GPP2 | | | C.S0055 [21] contain examples | | | of QoS parameters for codecs of | | | interest. The support of any | | | codec specific algorithm in the | | | PCF is optional. | | | | | | NOTE 6: Authorized Guaranteed | | | Data Rate DL and UL shall not be | | | derived for non-GBR 5QI values. | | | | | | NOTE 7: Recommended 5QI values | | | for standardised 5QI | | | characteristics are shown in | | | table 5.7.4-1 in | | | 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. | | | | | | NOTE 8: The PCF may be | | | configured with operator | | | specific preconditions for | | | setting the Authorized | | | Guaranteed Data Rate lower than | | | the corresponding Maximum | | | Authorized Data Rate. | | | | | | NOTE 9: For certain services | | | (e.g. DASH services according to | | | 3GPP TS 26.247 [17]), the AF | | | may also provide a minimum | | | required bandwidth so that the | | | PCF can derive an Authorized | | | Guaranteed Data Rate lower than | | | the Maximum Authorized Data | | | Rate. | | | | | | NOTE 10: For 5GS, the PCF shall | | | assign an Authorized Guaranteed | | | Data Rate UL/DL value within the | | | limit supported by the serving | | | network. | | | | | | NOTE 11: The MPS specific | | | algorithm shall consider various | | | inputs, including the received | | | MPS Identifier and Reservation | | | Priority, for deriving the 5QI. | | | | | | NOTE 12: When multiple codecs | | | are supported per media stream | | | (e.g. as part of multi-stream | | | multiparty conferencing media | | | handling are negotiated as | | | described in | | | 3GPP TS 26.114 [14]) the codec | | | specific algorithm shall | | | consider the bandwidth related | | | to each codec when calculating | | | the total bandwidth. | | | | | | NOTE 13: 3GPP TS 26.114 [14] | | | contains examples of how the | | | Authorized Guaranteed Data Rate | | | and Maximum Authorized Data Rate | | | are assumed to be derived for | | | multi-party multimedia | | | conference media handling | | | support. The support of this | | | behaviour is optional. | | | | | | NOTE 14: The PCF may authorize a | | | non-standardized 5QI with | | | explicitly signalled QoS | | | characteristics as defined in | | | subclause 4.2.6.6.3 of | | | 3GPP TS 29.512 [9] or may | | | assign QoS characteristics (e.g. | | | Priority Level, Averaging | | | Window, and Maximum Data Burst | | | Volume) to be used instead of | | | the default QoS characteristics | | | associated with a standardised | | | 5QI value as shown in | | | table 5.7.4-1 in | | | 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The PCF should per ongoing session store the Authorized QoS parameters for
each service data flow or bidirectional combination of service data flows (as
described within a Media Subcomponent).
If the PCF provides a QoS information associated to a PCC rule it may apply
the rules in table 7.3.2-2 to combine the Authorized QoS per service data flow
or bidirectional combination of service data flows (as derived according to
table 7.3.2-1) for all service data flows described by the corresponding PCC
rule.
If the PCF provides a QoS information associated to a PDU session (i.e. QoS
flow with default QoS rule), it may apply the rules in table 7.3.2-2 to
combine the Authorized QoS per service data flow or bidirectional combination
of service data flows (as derived according to table 7.3.2-1) for all service
data flows allowed to be transported within the PDU session. It is recommended
that the rules in table 7.3.2-2 are applied for all service data flows with
corresponding AF session. The PCF may increase the authorized QoS further to
take into account the requirements of predefined PCC rules without ongoing AF
sessions.
NOTE 1: QoS Information related to Maximum Authorized UL/DL Data Rate provided
at PDU session level is not derived based on mapping tables in this subclause,
but based on subscription and operator specific policies.
NOTE 2: ARP is always calculated at PCC rule level according to table 7.3.2-2.
Table 7.3.2-2: Rules for calculating the Maximum Authorized/Guaranteed Data
Rates,\ 5QI and ARP in the PCF
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Authorized QoS Parameter | Calculation Rule | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Maximum Authorized Data Rate | Maximum Authorized Data Rate | | DL and UL** | DL/UL is the sum of all Maximum | | | Authorized Data Rate DL/UL for | | | all the service data flows or | | | bidirectional combinations of | | | service data flows (as according | | | to table 7.3.2-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Guaranteed Authorized Data | Guaranteed Authorized Data Rate | | Rate DL and UL** | DL/UL is the sum of all | | | Guaranteed Authorized Data Rate | | **(NOTE 3)** | DL/UL for all the service data | | | flows or bidirectional | | | combinations of service data | | | flows (as according to | | | table 7.3.2-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **5QI** | 5QI = MAX [needed QoS | | | parameters per service data flow | | | or bidirectional combination of | | | service data flows (as | | | operator\'s defined criteria) | | | among all the service data flows | | | or bidirectional combinations of | | | service data flows.] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **ARP** | IF an operator special policy | | | exists THEN | | **(NOTE 1)** | | | | ARP:= as defined by operator | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE IF MPS Identifier demands | | | MPS specific ARP handling THEN | | | | | | ARP:= as defined by MPS specific | | | algorithm (NOTE 2); | | | | | | ELSE IF AF Application | | | Identifier demands application | | | specific ARP | | | | | | handling THEN | | | | | | ARP:= as defined by application | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE IF Reservation Priority | | | demands application specific ARP | | | handling THEN | | | | | | ARP:= as defined by application | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ENDIF; | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The ARP priority levels | | | 1-8 should only be assigned to | | | resources for services that are | | | authorized to receive | | | prioritized treatment within an | | | operator domain. | | | | | | NOTE 2: The MPS specific | | | algorithm shall consider various | | | inputs, including the received | | | MPS Identifier and Reservation | | | Priority, for deriving the ARP. | | | | | | NOTE 3: The PCF may check that | | | the Guaranteed Authorized Data | | | Rate DL/UL does not exceed the | | | limit supported by the serving | | | network to minimize the risk of | | | rejection of the bearer by the | | | serving network. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 7.3.3 PCF Interworking with an AF supporting N5 interface
When the AF interworks with the PCF using the N5 interface, the session
binding in the PCF shall be associated to an IP session or an Ethernet
session, and the PCF shall derive QoS parameters for the related data flows.
Table 7.3.3-1: Rules for derivation of the Maximum Authorized Data Rates,
Authorized Guaranteed Data Rates and Maximum Authorized QoS Class per service
data flow or bidirectional combination of service data flows in the PCF
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Authorized QoS Parameter | Derivation from service | | | information\ | | | (NOTE 4) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Maximum Authorized Data Rate | IF operator special policy | | DL (Max_DR_DL) and UL | exists THEN | | (Max_DR_UL)** | | | | Max_DR_UL:= as defined by | | | operator specific algorithm; | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= as defined by | | | operator specific algorithm; | | | | | | (NOTE 8, 9 and 10) | | | | | | ELSE IF afAppId attribute of | | | MediaComponent data type demands | | | application | | | | | | specific data rate handling THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= as defined by | | | application specific algorithm; | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= as defined by | | | application specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE IF codecs attribute of | | | MediaComponent data type | | | provides Codec | | | | | | information for a codec that is | | | supported by a specific | | | algorithm | | | | | | (NOTE 5) THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= as defined by | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= as defined by | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | IF not RTCP flow(s) according to | | | flowUsage attribute of | | | | | | MediaSubComponent data type THEN | | | | | | IF **fStatus attribute** | | | indicates "REMOVED" THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= **0** ; | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= 0; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | IF Uplink Flow Description is | | | supplied within the fDescs | | | attribute\ | | | of the MediaSubComponent data | | | type THEN | | | | | | IF marBwUl attribute is present | | | THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= marBwUl value; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= as set by the | | | operator; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= 0; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF Downlink Flow Description is | | | supplied within the fDescs | | | attribute\ | | | of the MediaSubComponent data | | | type THEN | | | | | | IF marBwDl attribute is present | | | THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= marBwDl value; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= as set by the | | | operator; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= 0; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE /* RTCP IP flow(s) */ | | | | | | IF **fStatus attribute** | | | indicates "REMOVED" THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= **0** ; | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= 0; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | IF Uplink Flow Description is | | | supplied within the fDescs | | | attribute\ | | | of the MediaSubComponent data | | | type THEN | | | | | | IF marBwUl attribute is present | | | within the MediaSubComponent | | | data | | | | | | type THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= marBwUl; | | | | | | ELSEIF marBwUl attribute is | | | present within the | | | MediaComponent | | | | | | data type THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= 0.05 * marBwUl | | | value; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= as set by the | | | operator; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= 0; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF Downlink Flow Description is | | | supplied within the fDescs | | | attribute\ | | | of the MediaSubComponent data | | | type THEN | | | | | | IF marBwDl attribute is present | | | within the MediaSubComponent | | | data | | | | | | type THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= marBwDl; | | | | | | ELSEIF marBwDl attribute is | | | present within the | | | MediaComponent | | | | | | data type THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= 0.05 * marBwDl | | | value; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= as set by the | | | operator; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= 0; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Authorized Guaranteed Data | IF operator special policy | | Rate DL (Gua_DR_DL) and UL | exists THEN | | (Gua_DR_UL)** | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= as defined by | | | operator specific algorithm; | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= as defined by | | | operator specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSEIF afAppId attribute of | | | MediaComponent data type demands | | | application | | | | | | specific data rate handling THEN | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= as defined by | | | application specific algorithm; | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= as defined by | | | application specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE IF codecs attribute of | | | MediaComponent data type | | | provides Codec | | | | | | information for a codec that is | | | supported by a specific | | | algorithm | | | | | | (NOTE 5) THEN | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= as defined by | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= as defined by | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | IF **fStatus attribute** | | | indicates "REMOVED" THEN | | | | | | Max_DR_UL:= **0** ; | | | | | | Max_DR_DL:= 0; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | IF Uplink Flow Description is | | | supplied within the fDescs | | | attribute\ | | | of the MediaSubComponent data | | | type THEN | | | | | | IF mirBwUl attribute is present | | | THEN | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= mirBwUl value; | | | | | | ELSE IF corresponding operator | | | policy exists | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= as set by the | | | operator; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= **Max_DR_UL** ; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Gua_DR_UL:= 0; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | IF Downlink Flow Description is | | | supplied within the fDescs | | | attribute\ | | | of the MediaSubComponent data | | | type THEN | | | | | | IF mirBwDl attribute is present | | | THEN | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= mirBwDl value; | | | | | | ELSE IF corresponding operator | | | policy exists | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= as set by the | | | operator; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= **Max_DR_DL** ; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | Gua_DR_DL:= 0; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Authorized 5G QoS Identifier | IF an operator special policy | | (5QI)** | exists THEN | | | | | | 5QI:= as defined by operator | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE IF mpsId attribute demands | | | MPS specific QoS Class handling | | | THEN | | | | | | 5QI:= as defined by MPS specific | | | algorithm (NOTE 11); | | | | | | ELSE IF AF Application | | | Identifier demands application | | | specific QoS Class\ | | | handling THEN | | | | | | 5QI:= as defined by application | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE IF codecs attribute of | | | MediaComponent data type | | | provides Codec | | | | | | information for a codec that is | | | supported by a specific | | | algorithm THEN | | | | | | 5QI:= as defined by specific | | | algorithm; (NOTE 5) | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | /* The following 5QI derivation | | | is an example of how to obtain | | | the 5QI | | | | | | values in a 5GS network */ | | | | | | IF the medType attribute of | | | MediaComponent data type is | | | present THEN | | | | | | CASE medType value OF | | | | | | "audio": 5QI := 1; | | | | | | "video": 5QI := 2; | | | | | | "application": 5QI := 1 OR 2; | | | | | | OTHERWISE: 5QI := 9; /*e.g. for | | | TCP-based generic traffic */ | | | | | | END; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | (NOTE 1, 2, 3, 7 and 12) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The 5QI assigned to a | | | RTCP IP flow is the same as for | | | the corresponding RTP media IP | | | flow. | | | | | | NOTE 2: When audio or video IP | | | flow(s) are removed from a | | | session, the 5QI shall keep the | | | originally assigned value. | | | | | | NOTE 3: When audio or video IP | | | flow(s) are added to a session, | | | the PCF shall derive the 5QI | | | taking into account the already | | | existing media IP flow(s) within | | | the session. | | | | | | NOTE 4: The encoding of the | | | service information is defined | | | in 3GPP TS 29.514 [10]. | | | | | | NOTE 5: 3GPP TS 26.234 [19], | | | 3GPP TS 26.114 [14], 3GPP2 | | | C.S0046 [20], and 3GPP2 | | | C.S0055 [21] contain examples | | | of QoS parameters for codecs of | | | interest. The support of any | | | codec specific algorithm in the | | | PCF is optional. | | | | | | NOTE 6: Authorized Guaranteed | | | Data Rate DL and UL shall not be | | | derived for non-GBR 5QI values. | | | | | | NOTE 7: Recommended 5QI values | | | for standardised 5QI | | | characteristics are shown in | | | table 5.7.4-1 in | | | 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. | | | | | | NOTE 8: The PCF may be | | | configured with operator | | | specific preconditions for | | | setting the Authorized | | | Guaranteed Data Rate lower than | | | the corresponding Maximum | | | Authorized Data Rate. | | | | | | NOTE 9: For certain services | | | (e.g. DASH services according to | | | 3GPP TS 26.247 [17]), the AF | | | may also provide a minimum | | | required bandwidth so that the | | | PCF can derive an Authorized | | | Guaranteed Data Rate lower than | | | the Maximum Authorized Data | | | Rate. | | | | | | NOTE 10: The PCF shall assign an | | | Authorized Guaranteed Data Rate | | | UL/DL value within the limit | | | supported by the serving | | | network. | | | | | | NOTE 11: The MPS specific | | | algorithm shall consider various | | | inputs, including the received | | | mpsId and resPrio attributes, | | | for deriving the 5QI. | | | | | | NOTE 12: The PCF may authorize a | | | non-standardized 5QI with | | | explicitly signalled QoS | | | characteristics as defined in | | | subclause 4.2.6.6.3 of | | | 3GPP TS 29.512 [9] or may | | | assign QoS characteristics (e.g. | | | Priority Level, Averaging | | | Window, and Maximum Data Burst | | | Volume) to be used instead of | | | the default QoS characteristics | | | associated with a standardised | | | 5QI value as shown in | | | table 5.7.4-1 in | | | 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The PCF should per ongoing session store the Authorized QoS parameters for
each service data flow or bidirectional combination of service data flows (as
described within a medComponents attribute).
If the PCF provides a QoS information associated to a PCC rule it may apply
the rules in table 7.3.3-2 to combine the Authorized QoS per service data flow
or bidirectional combination of service data flows (as derived according to
table 7.3.3-1) for all service data flows described by the corresponding PCC
rule.
If the PCF provides a QoS information associated to a PDU session (i.e. QoS
flow with default QoS rule), it may apply the rules in table 7.3.3-2 to
combine the Authorized QoS per service data flow or bidirectional combination
of service data flows (as derived according to table 7.3.3-1) for all service
data flows allowed to be transported within the PDU session. It is recommended
that the rules in table 7.3.3-2 are applied for all service data flows with
corresponding AF session. The PCF may increase the authorized QoS further to
take into account the requirements of predefined PCC rules without ongoing AF
sessions.
NOTE 1: QoS Information related to Maximum Authorized UL/DL Data Rate provided
at PDU session level is not derived based on mapping tables in this subclause,
but based on subscription and operator specific policies.
NOTE 2: ARP is always calculated at PCC rule level according to table 7.3.3-2.
Table 7.3.3-2: Rules for calculating the Maximum Authorized/Guaranteed Data
Rates,\ 5QI and ARP in the PCF
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Authorized QoS Parameter | Calculation Rule | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Maximum Authorized Data Rate | Maximum Authorized Data Rate | | DL and UL** | DL/UL is the sum of all Maximum | | | Authorized Data Rate DL/UL for | | | all the service data flows or | | | bidirectional combinations of | | | service data flows (as according | | | to table 7.3.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Guaranteed Authorized Data | Guaranteed Authorized Data Rate | | Rate DL and UL** | DL/UL is the sum of all | | | Guaranteed Authorized Data Rate | | | DL/UL for all the service data | | | flows or bidirectional | | | combinations of service data | | | flows (as according to | | | table 7.3.3-1). (NOTE 3) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **5QI** | 5QI = MAX [needed QoS | | | parameters per service data flow | | | or bidirectional combination of | | | service data flows (as | | | operator\'s defined criteria) | | | among all the service data flows | | | or bidirectional combinations of | | | service data flows.] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **ARP** | IF an operator special policy | | | exists THEN | | | | | | ARP:= as defined by operator | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE IF mpsId attribute demands | | | MPS specific ARP handling THEN | | | | | | ARP:= as defined by MPS specific | | | algorithm (NOTE 2); | | | | | | ELSE IF AF Application | | | Identifier demands application | | | specific ARP | | | | | | handling THEN | | | | | | ARP:= as defined by application | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ELSE IF Reservation Priority | | | demands application specific ARP | | | handling THEN | | | | | | ARP:= as defined by application | | | specific algorithm; | | | | | | ENDIF; | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The ARP priority levels | | | 1-8 should only be assigned to | | | resources for services that are | | | authorized to receive | | | prioritized treatment within an | | | operator domain. | | | | | | NOTE 2: The MPS specific | | | algorithm shall consider various | | | inputs, including the received | | | mpsId and resPrio attributes, | | | for deriving the ARP. | | | | | | NOTE 3: The PCF may check that | | | the Guaranteed Authorized Data | | | Rate DL/UL does not exceed the | | | limit supported by the serving | | | network to minimize the risk of | | | rejection of the bearer by the | | | serving network. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 7.4 QoS parameter mapping Functions at SMF
Table 7.4.1: Rules for derivation of the Authorized QoS Parameters per QoS
flow\ from the Authorized QoS Parameters in SMF
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Authorized QoS Parameter per QoS | Derivation from Authorized QoS | | flow (NOTE 1) | Parameters | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Maximum Authorized Bandwidth | Maximum Authorized Bandwidth | | DL and UL per QoS flow** | DL/UL per QoS flow = Sum of | | | Maximum Authorized Data Rate | | | DL/UL for all PCC rules bound to | | | that Qos flow | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Guaranteed Authorized Data | Guaranteed Authorized Data Rate | | Rate DL and UL per QoS flow** | DL/UL per QoS flow = Sum of | | | Guaranteed Authorized Data Rate | | | DL/UL for all PCC rules bound to | | | that QoS flow | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Session-AMBR DL and UL** | For all non-GBR QoS flows, | | | Session-AMBR DL/UL is applied. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **5QI** | 5QI from PCC rules having the | | | same value combination of | | | 5QI/ARP/QNC/PL/AW/MDBV | | | | | | is used. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **ARP** | ARP from PCC rules having the | | | same value combination of | | | 5QI/ARP/QNC/PL/AW/MDBV | | | | | | is used. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **QNC** | QNC from PCC rules having the | | | same value combination of | | | 5QI/ARP/QNC/PL/AW/MDBV | | | | | | is used. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Priority Level (PL)** | PL from PCC rules having the | | | same value combination of | | | 5QI/ARP/QNC/PL/AW/MDBV | | | | | | is used. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Averaging Window (AW)** | AW from PCC rules having the | | | same value combination of | | | 5QI/ARP/QNC/PL/AW/MDBV | | | | | | is used. Applicable for GBR QoS | | | flow. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Maximum Data Burst Volume | MDBV from PCC rules having the | | (MDBV)** | same value combination of | | | 5QI/ARP/QNC/PL/AW/MDBV | | | | | | is used. Applicable for GBR QoS | | | flow of delay critical type. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **RQI** | RQI from PCC rules is used per | | | service data flow. Applicable | | | for non-GBR QoS flows. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Maximum Packet Loss Rate DL | Minimum maximum packet loss rate | | and UL per QoS flow** | DL/UL among all PCC rules bound | | | to that QoS flow. Applicable for | | | GBR QoS flows. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: For unstructured PDU | | | session type, only default 5QI | | | and ARP of the QoS Flow | | | associated with the default QoS | | | rule, and Session-AMBR are | | | applicable. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# 8 PCF addressing
## 8.1 General
The PCF discovery and selection procedures are needed when there are multiple
and separately addressable PCFs in a PLMN. It is also possible that a PCF may
serve only specific DN(s).
These procedures correlate the AF service session establishment over N5 or Rx
with the associated PDU session (Session binding) handled over N7.
These procedures enable the AMF and SMF to address the PCF.
These procedures enable the NEF to address the PCF.
## 8.2 PCF discovery and selection by the AMF
The AMF selects the PCF for a UE.
The AMF may utilize the Nnrf_NFDiscovery service of the NRF to discover the
candidate PCF instance(s). In addition, PCF information may also be locally
configured on AMF. The AMF selects a PCF instance, or two when roaming, based
on the available PCF instances (obtained from the NRF or locally configured in
the AMF), depending on operator\'s policies.
In the non-roaming case, the AMF selects a PCF instance for AM policy
association and selects the same PCF instance for UE policy association. In
the roaming case, the AMF selects a V-PCF instance for AM policy association
and selects the same V-PCF instance for UE policy association.
The following factors may be considered at PCF discovery and selection by the
AMF:
\- SUPI; the AMF selects a PCF instance based on the SUPI range the UE\'s SUPI
belongs to or based on the results of a discovery procedure with NRF using the
UE\'s SUPI as input for PCF discovery.
\- S-NSSAIs.
In the following scenarios, information about the PCF that has been selected
by the AMF (e.g. the selected PCF instance Id) can be forwarded to another NF
and used instead of performing PCF selection as described above (discovery may
still be needed depending on what level of information is sent by the AMF,
e.g. the address of the PCF instance may not be present):
\- During AMF relocation, the target AMF may receive a resource URI of AM
Policy association and/or a resource URI of UE Policy association from the
source AMF to enable the target AMF to reuse the same PCF instance (i.e. reuse
the resource of the AM Policy association and/or UE Policy association), and
the target AMF may decide based on operator policy either to use the same PCF
instance or select a new PCF instance.
\- In the roaming case, the AMF may, based on operator policies, e.g. roaming
agreement, select the H-PCF in addition to the V-PCF for a UE by performing
the PCF discovery and selection as described above. The AMF sends the selected
H-PCF instance Id to the V-PCF during the UE Policy association establishment
procedure.
## 8.3 PCF discovery and selection by the SMF
The SMF selects the PCF for a PDU session. The selected PCF instance may be
the same or a different one than the PCF instance selected by the AMF.
The SMF may utilize the Nnrf_NFDiscovery service of the Network Repository
Function to discover the candidate PCF instance(s). In addition, PCF
information may also be locally configured on SMF. The SMF selects a PCF
instance based on the available PCF instances (obtained from the NRF or
locally configured in the SMF). The following factors may be considered during
the PCF selection.
\- Local operator policies.
\- Selected Data Network Name (DNN).
\- S-NSSAI of the PDU session.
\- SUPI; the SMF selects a PCF instance based on the SUPI range the UE\'s SUPI
belongs to or based on the results of a discovery procedure with NRF using the
UE\'s SUPI as input for PCF discovery.
The AMF may, based on operator policies, forward the selected PCF instance to
the SMF during the PDU Session Establishment procedure to enable the usage of
the same PCF instance for the AMF and the SMF. The SMF may decide based on
operator policy either to use the same PCF instance or select a new PCF
instance. If the same PCF instance is selected by the SMF, the PCF discovery
and selection procedure described above is not performed.
## 8.4 PCF discovery and selection by the AF
### 8.4.1 General
When multiple and separately addressable PCFs have been deployed, the BSF is
required in order to ensure that an AF for a certain PDU session reaches over
N5/Rx the PCF holding the PDU session information. The AF can also select a
PCF based on local configuration for Ethernet PDU sessions.
### 8.4.2 Binding Support Function (BSF)
The BSF has the following characteristics:
a) The BSF has information about the user identity, the DNN, the UE (IP or
Ethernet) address(es) , S-NSSAI, the IPv4 address domain (if applicable) and
the selected PCF address for a certain PDU session. This information is stored
internally in the BSF.
b) For the storage of binding information, the PCF utilizes the
Nbsf_Management service of the BSF to register, update or remove the binding
information from the BSF. The PCF ensures that the binding information is
updated each time an IP address is allocated or released for the PDU Session
or, for Ethernet PDU Sessions, each time the PCF is notified that a MAC
address is taken into use or no more used in the PDU Session.
c) For the retrieval of binding information, any NF, such as NEF or AF, that
needs to discover the selected PCF for the tuple (UE address, DNN, SUPI, GPSI,
S-NSSAI, IPv4 address domain) (or for a subset of this tuple) uses the
Nbsf_Management_Discovery service operation as defined in 3GPP TS 29.521 [22].
d) The BSF is able to proxy or redirect Rx requests based on the IP address of
a UE. For any AF using Rx, such as P-CSCF, the BSF determines the selected PCF
address according to the information carried by the incoming Rx requests.
It shall support the functionality of a proxy agent and a redirect agent as
defined in IETF RFC 6733 [29]. The mode in which it operates (i.e. proxy or
redirect) shall be based on operator's requirements.
e) The BSF may be deployed standalone or may be collocated with other network
functions such as the PCF, UDR, NRF, and SMF.
NOTE: Collocation allows combined implementation.
f) The NF may discover the BSF via NRF by invoking the Nnrf_NFDiscovery
service operation or based on local configuration. In case of via NRF the BSF
registers the NF profile in NRF. The Range(s) of UE IPv4 addresses, Range(s)
of UE IPv6 prefixes supported by the BSF may be provided to NRF.
## 8.5 BSF procedures
### 8.5.1 General
These procedures concern the storage of binding information in the BSF and the
retrieval of binding information from the BSF.
This subclause also concerns the BSF procedures over Rx reference point.
Subclause 8.5.5 is for the BSF implemented as a Diameter Proxy Agent, and
subclause 8.5.6 is for the BSF implemented as a Diameter Redirect Agent.
### 8.5.2 Binding information Creation
Figure 8.5.2-1: Binding information Creation procedure
1\. When an IP address is allocated for the IP PDU session, or a MAC address
is used for the Ethernet PDU session, the PCF invokes the
Nbsf_Management_Register service operation by sending the HTTP POST request
with Resource URI of the resource \"PCF Session Bindings\" to store the
binding information in the BSF. The binding information provided in the HTTP
POST request is defined in subclause 4.2.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.521 [22].
2\. The BSF sends an HTTP \"201 Created\" response to the PCF and stores the
binding information.
### 8.5.3 Binding information Deletion
Figure 8.5.3-1: Binding information Deletion procedure
1\. When the IP address is released or the MAC address is not used for a
certain PDU session, the PCF invokes the Nbsf_Management_Deregister service
operation by sending the HTTP DELETE request with Resource URI of the resource
\"Individual PCF Session Binding\" to request the BSF to remove the binding
information.
2\. The BSF sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the PCF and removes
the stored binding information.
### 8.5.4 Binding information Retrieval
Figure 8.5.4-1: Binding information Retrieval procedure
1\. AF/NEF invokes the Nbsf_Management_Discovery service operation by sending
the HTTP GET request with Resource URI of the resource \"PCF Session
Bindings\" to the BSF to obtain the address information of the selected PCF
for a certain PDU session. The URI query parameters in the HTTP GET request
are specified in subclause 4.2.4.2 of TS 29.521 [22].
2\. The BSF sends an HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the AF/NEF with the address
information of the selected PCF (FQDN and/or IP address(es) and port
information of the selected PCF, or if the PCF supports the Rx interface the
Diameter host and realm for the selected PCF).
### 8.5.5 Proxy BSF
#### 8.5.5.1 General
When the BSF receives a request from an AF, it shall check whether it already
has selected a PCF for the Rx session; if it does have a PCF already selected
for the Rx session, it shall proxy the request to the corresponding PCF. If
the BSF does not have a PCF already selected, it shall select a PCF to handle
the Rx session and then proxy the request to the selected PCF.
#### 8.5.5.2 Rx Session Establishment
Figure 8.5.5.2-1: Rx Session Establishment procedure using BSF (proxy)
1\. A Diameter AAR indicating establishment of an AF session is sent by the AF
and received by a BSF (proxy).
2\. The BSF (proxy) shall select a PCF from the binding for the AF.
3\. The BSF (proxy) proxies the Diameter AAR to the target PCF. The proxied
Diameter AAR maintains the same Session-Id AVP value.
4\. The PCF returns a Diameter AAA to the BSF (proxy).
5\. BSF (proxy) proxies the Diameter AAA to the AF. The proxied Diameter AAA
maintains the same Session-Id AVP value.
#### 8.5.5.3 Rx Session Modification
##### 8.5.5.3.1 AF-initiated
Figure 8.5.5.3.1-1: AF-initiated Rx Session Modification procedure using BSF
(proxy)
1\. A subsequent Diameter AAR indicating modification of an existing Rx
session is sent by the AF and received by the BSF (proxy).
2\. The BSF (proxy) proxies the Diameter AAR to the target PCF.
3\. PCF returns a Diameter AAA to the BSF (proxy).
4\. BSF (proxy) proxies the Diameter AAA to the AF.
##### 8.5.5.3.2 PCF-initiated
Figure 8.5.5.3.2-1: PCF-initiated Rx Session Modification procedure using BSF
(proxy)
1\. A PCF-initiated Diameter RAR indicating an Rx specific action is sent to
the AF and received by the BSF (proxy).
2\. The BSF (proxy) proxies the Diameter RAR to the AF. The proxied Diameter
Request maintains the same Session-Id AVP value.
3\. AF returns a Diameter RAA to the BSF (proxy).
4\. BSF (proxy) proxies the Diameter RAA to the PCF.
#### 8.5.5.4 Rx Session Termination
##### 8.5.5.4.1 AF-initiated
Figure 8.5.5.4.1-1: AF-initiated Rx Session Termination procedure using BSF
(proxy)
1\. A Diameter STR indicating termination of an Rx session is sent by the AF
to the BSF (proxy). The message uses the same Session-Id AVP value of the
active Rx session established between the AF and PCF.
2\. The BSF (proxy) proxies the Diameter STR to the target PCF. The proxied
Diameter Request maintains the same Session-Id AVP value.
3\. PCF sends BSF (proxy) a Diameter STA to acknowledge termination of the
session.
4\. The BSF marks the Rx session terminated and proxies the Diameter STA to
the AF. The proxied Diameter Answer maintains the same Session-Id AVP value.
##### 8.5.5.4.2 PCF-initiated
Figure 8.5.5.4.2-1: PCF-initiated Rx Session Termination procedure using BSF
(proxy)
1\. A PCF-initiated Diameter ASR requesting the termination of an Rx session
is sent to the AF and received by the BSF (proxy).
2\. The BSF (proxy) proxies the Diameter ASR to the AF. The proxied Diameter
ASR maintains the same Session-Id AVP value.
3\. AF returns a Diameter ASA to the BSF (proxy).
4\. BSF (proxy) proxies the Diameter ASA to the PCF.
### 8.5.6 Redirect BSF
#### 8.5.6.1 General
A BSF implemented as a Diameter redirect agent shall redirect the received
Diameter request message by carrying out the procedures defined in subclause
6.1.7 of IETF RFC 6733 [29]. The Client shall use the value within the
Redirect-Host AVP of the redirect response in order to obtain the PCF
identity. The BSF may provide the Redirect-Host-Usage AVP in the redirect
response to provide a hint to the Client about how the cached route table
entry created from the Redirect-Host AVP is to be used as described in
subclause 6.13 of IETF RFC 6733 [29].
The BSF may also provide the Redirect-Max-Cache-Time AVP in the redirect
response to indicate to the Client the lifetime of the cached route table
entry created from the Redirect-Host and Redirect-Host-Usage AVP values as
described in subclause 6.14 of IETF RFC 6733 [29].
The BSF clients shall use cached route table entry created from the Redirect-
Host, Redirect-Host-Usage and Redirect-Max-Cache-Time AVPs to determine
whether BSF interaction is required.
The AF shall contact the BSF on Rx session establishment to retrieve the PCF
address. The BSF (redirect) does not need to maintain Diameter sessions and
Diameter Base redirect procedures are applicable. Therefore, an AF should not
send an Rx session modification or termination request to the BSF.
#### 8.5.6.2 Rx Session Establishment
Figure 8.5.6.2-1: Rx Session Establishment procedure using BSF (redirect)
1\. A Diameter AAR indicating establishment of a new Rx Diameter session with
the PCF is sent by the AF and received by a BSF (redirect).
2\. The BSF shall select the PCF from the binding for the AF.
3\. The BSF sends a Diameter AAA indicating redirection as defined in IETF RFC
6733 [29]. The target PCF identity is included in the Redirect-Host AVP.
4\. The AF re-sends the Diameter AAR of step 1 to the target PCF.
5\. PCF returns a Diameter AAA to the AF.
###### ## Annex A (informative): DRA and BSF coexistence
During the network migration, DRA and BSF may coexist in operator\'s network.
When the AF sends Rx request to the DRA, the DRA can utilize the
Nbsf_Management_Discovery service operation to obtain the relevant PCF address
as depicted in figure A-1. The DRA only applies this operation if it has no
stored binding information derived from an ongoing Gx session for that
subscriber.
NOTE 1: For a UE in the EPC there is a Gx session and the DRA stores the
binding information. For a UE in the 5GC the Npcf_SmPolicyControl service is
used and the BSF stores the binding information.
Figure A-1: PCF discovery by DRA via BSF
1\. The AF sends a Diameter AAR to the DRA to establish a new Rx diameter
session.
2\. When receiving the request in step 1, if the DRA has no stored binding
information derived from an ongoing Gx session for the subscriber, the DRA
invokes the Nbsf_Management_Discovery service operation to the BSF to obtain
the selected PCF ID for a certain PDU session.
3\. The BSF replies to the DRA with the PCF ID.
NOTE 2: If the DRA has no stored binding information derived from an ongoing
Gx session for a subscriber, the DRA needs to request new binding information
for each Rx session establishment because the information in the BSF could
have changed compared to any previous binding information the DRA requested.
#