# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present specification provides the stage 3 definition of the Network Data
Analytics Function Services of the 5G System.
The 5G System Architecture is defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. The stage 2
definition and related procedures for Network Data Analytics Function Services
are specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [4].
The 5G System stage 3 call flows are provided in 3GPP TS 29.513 [5].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [6] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [7].
The Network Data Analytics Function Services are provided by the Network Data
Analytics Function (NWDAF). These services provide NWDAF slice congestion
events notification and NWDAF specific analytics.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and Charging Control Framework for the 5G System;
Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.513: \"5G System; Policy and Charging Control signalling flows
and QoS parameter mapping; Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[9] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[10] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[11] OpenAPI, \"OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification\",
[https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-
Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md]{.underline}.
[12] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[13] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[14] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[15] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[16] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
API Application Programming Interface
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol
NF Network Function
NRF Network Repository Function
NWDAF Network Data Analytics Function
NSSF Network Slice Selection Function
PCF Policy Control Function
# 4 Services offered by the NWDAF
## 4.1 Introduction
The Nnwdaf services are used for the NWDAF to provide network data analytics
(i.e. load level information). These services provide NWDAF slice congestion
events notification and NWDAF specific analytics.
The following services are specified for NWDAF:
Table 4.1-1: Services provided by NWDAF
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Service |** De | **Service | ** |** Example | | Name**| scription** | O | Operation**| Co | | | | perations** | | nsumer(s)**| | | | | ** | | | | | | Semantics** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Nnwd | This | Subscribe | Subscribe / | PCF, NSSF | | af_EventsS | service | | Notify | | | ubscription | enables the | | | | | | NF service | | | | | | consumers | | | | | | to | | | | | | subscribe/ | | | | | | unsubscribe | | | | | | for network | | | | | | slice | | | | | | specific | | | | | | congestion | | | | | | events | | | | | | n | | | | | | otification | | | | | | from the | | | | | | NWDAF. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Unsubscribe | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Notify | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Nnwdaf_An | This | Request | Request / | PCF, NSSF | | alyticsInfo | service | | Response | | | | enables the | | | | | | NF service | | | | | | consumers | | | | | | to request | | | | | | and get | | | | | | specific | | | | | | analytics | | | | | | from NWDAF. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 4.2 Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service
### 4.2.1 Service Description
#### 4.2.1.1 Overview
The Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2], 3GPP
TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [4], is provided by the Network Data
Analytics Function (NWDAF).
This service:
\- allows NF consumers to subscribe to and unsubscribe from load events of
network slice; and
\- notifies NF consumers with a corresponding subscription about observed
events.
The types of observed events include:
\- Load level of network slice.
#### 4.2.1.2 Service Architecture
The 5G System Architecture is defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. The Policy and
Charging related 5G architecture is also described in 3GPP TS 23.503 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.513 [5].
The Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription service is part of the Nnwdaf service-based
interface exhibited by the Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF).
Known consumers of the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription service are:
\- Policy Control Function (PCF)
\- Network Slice Selection Function (NSSF)
The PCF accesses the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription service at the NWDAF via the
N23 Reference point. The NSSF accesses the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription service
at the NWDAF via the N34 Reference point.
Figure 4.2.1.2-1: Reference Architecture for the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription
Service; SBI representation
Figure 4.2.1.2-2: Reference Architecture for the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription
Service: reference point representation
#### 4.2.1.3 Network Functions
##### 4.2.1.3.1 Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF)
The Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF) provides:
\- Identifier of network slice; and
\- load level information for that network slice.
The Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF) allows NF consumers to subscribe
to and unsubscribe from periodic notification and/or notification when a
threshold is exceeded.
##### 4.2.1.3.2 NF Service Consumers
The Policy Control Function (PCF):
\- Supports taking input from Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF) into
consideration for policies on assignment of network resources and for traffic
steering policies.
NOTE: How this information is used by the PCF is not standardized in this
release of the specification.
The Network Slice Selection Function (NSSF):
\- supports taking load level information from Network Data Analytics Function
(NWDAF) into consideration for slice selection.
### 4.2.2 Service Operations
#### 4.2.2.1 Introduction
Table 4.2.2.1-1: Operations of the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Service operation |** Description**|** Initiated by**| | name** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Nnwdaf_EventsSub | This service | NF consumer (PCF, | | scription_Subscribe | operation is used by | NSSF) | | | an NF to subscribe | | | | or update | | | | subscription for | | | | event notifications | | | | for a specified | | | | network slice. | | | | | | | | Periodic | | | | notification and | | | | notification upon | | | | threshold exceeded | | | | can be subscribed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Nnwdaf_EventsSubsc | This service | NF consumer (PCF, | | ription_UnSubscribe | operation is used by | NSSF) | | | an NF to unsubscribe | | | | from event | | | | notifications. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Nnwdaf_Events | This service | NWDAF | | Subscription_Notify | operation is used by | | | | an NWDAF to notify | | | | NF consumers about | | | | subscribed events. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 4.2.2.2 Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Subscribe service operation
##### 4.2.2.2.1 General
The Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Subscribe service operation is used by an NF
service consumer to subscribe or update subscription for event notifications.
The following are the types of events for which a subscription may be made:
> \- Load level of network slice.
##### 4.2.2.2.2 Subscription for event notifications
Figure 4.2.2.2.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the NWDAF to subscribe for event notifications (see also 3GPP TS
23.502 [3] figure 4.19.1-1 step 1).
{width="6.0256944444444445in" height="1.64375in"}
Figure 4.2.2.2.2-1: NF service consumer subscribes to notifications
The NF service consumer shall invoke the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Subscribe
service operation to subscribe to event notification(s). The NF service
consumer shall send an HTTP POST request with \"{apiRoot}/nnwdaf-
eventssubscription/v1/subscriptions\" as Resource URI representing the \"NWDAF
Events Subscriptions\", as shown in figure 4.2.2.2.2-1, step 1, to create a
subscription for an \"Individual NWDAF Event Subscription\" according to the
information in message body. The NnwdafEventsSubscription data structure
provided in the request body shall include:
\- a description of the subscribed events as \"eventSubscriptions\" attribute
that for each event shall include
a) an event identifier as \"event\" attribute;
b) identification of network slice(s) to which the subscription applies via:
1) identification of network slice(s) by \"snssais\" attribute; or
2) any slices indication via the \"anySlice\" attribute;
and that may include:
a) event notification method (periodic, upon threshold exceeded) as
\"notificationMethod\" attribute;
NOTE: If the event notification method is not supplied, the default value
\"upon threshold exceed\" applies.
\- an URI where to receive the requested notifications as \"notificationURI\"
attribute; and
\- a list of supported features by the service consumer as
\"supportedFeatures\" attribute.
Upon the reception of an HTTP POST request with: \"{apiRoot}/nnwdaf-
eventssubscription/v1/subscriptions\" as Resource URI and
NnwdafEventsSubscription data structure as request body, the NWDAF shall:
\- create a new subscription;
\- assign an event subscriptionId;
\- store the subscription.
If the NWDAF created an \"Individual NWDAF Event Subscription\" resource, the
NWDAF shall respond with \"201 Created\" with the message body containing a
representation of the created subscription, as shown in figure 4.2.2.2.2-1,
step 2. The NWDAF shall include a Location HTTP header field. The Location
header field shall contain the URI of the created subscription i.e.
\"{apiRoot}/nnwdaf-eventssubscription/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}\".
##### 4.2.2.2.3 Update subscription for event notifications
Figure 4.2.2.2.3-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the NWDAF to update the subscription for event notifications (see
also 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] figure 4.19.1-1 step 1).
Figure 4.2.2.2.3-1: NF service consumer updates subscription to notifications
The NF service consumer shall invoke the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Subscribe
service operation to update subscription to event notifications. The NF
service consumer shall send an HTTP PUT request with \"{apiRoot}/nnwdaf-
eventssubscription/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}\" as Resource URI
representing the \"Individual NWDAF Event Subscription\", as shown in figure
4.2.2.2.3-1, step 1, to update the subscription for an \"Individual NWDAF
Event Subscription\" resource identified by the {subscriptionId}. The
NnwdafEventsSubscription data structure provided in the request body shall
include the same contents as described in subclause 4.2.2.2.2:
Upon the reception of an HTTP PUT request with: \"{apiRoot}/nnwdaf-
eventssubscription/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}\" as Resource URI and
NnwdafEventsSubscription data structure as request body, the NWDAF shall:
\- update the subscription of corresponding subscriptionId; and
\- store the subscription.
If the NWDAF updated an \"Individual NWDAF Event Subscription\" resource, the
NWDAF shall respond with:
a) HTTP \"200 OK\" status code with the message body containing a
representation of the updated subscription, as shown in figure 4.2.2.2.3-1,
step 2a; or
b) HTTP \"204 No Content\" status code, as shown in figure 4.2.2.2.3-1, step
2b.
If the Individual NWDAF Event Subscription resource does not exist, the NWDAF
shall respond with \"404 Not Found\".
#### 4.2.2.3 Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Unsubscribe service operation
##### 4.2.2.3.1 General
The Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Unsubscribe service operation is used by an NF
service consumer to unsubscribe from event notifications.
##### 4.2.2.3.2 Unsubscribe from event notifications
Figure 4.2.2.3.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the NWDAF to unsubscribe from event notifications (see also 3GPP TS
23.502 [3] figure 4.19.1-1 step 1).
{width="6.0256944444444445in" height="1.64375in"}
Figure 4.2.2.3.2-1: NF service consumer unsubscribes from notifications
The NF service consumer shall invoke the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_UnSubscribe
service operation to unsubscribe to event notifications. The NF service
consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request with: \"{apiRoot}/nnwdaf-
eventssubscription/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}\" as Resource URI, where
\"{subscriptionId}\" is the event subscriptionId of the existing subscription
that is to be deleted.
Upon the the reception of an HTTP DELETE request with: \"{apiRoot}/nnwdaf-
eventssubscription/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}\" as Resource URI, the
NWDAF shall:
\- remove the corresponding subscription.
If the HTTP request message from the NF service consumer is accepted, the
NWDAF shall respond with \"204 No Content\".
If the Individual NWDAF Event Subscription resource does not exist, the NWDAF
shall respond with \"404 Not Found\".
#### 4.2.2.4 Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Notify service operation
##### 4.2.2.4.1 General
The Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Notify service operation is used by an NWDAF to
notify NF consumers about subscribed events.
##### 4.2.2.4.2 Notification about subscribed event
Figure 4.2.2.4.2-1 shows a scenario where the NWDAF sends a request to the NF
Service Consumer to notify for event notifications (see also 3GPP TS 23.502
[3] figure 4.19.1-1 step 2).
{width="6.65in" height="1.8416666666666666in"}
Figure 4.2.2.4.2-1: NWDAF notifies the subscribed event
The NWDAF shall invoke the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Notify service operation
to notify the subscribed event. The NWDAF shall sends an HTTP POST request
with \"{notificationURI}\" received in the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription_Subscribe
service operation as Resource URI, as shown in figure 4.2.2.2.2-1, step 1. The
NnwdafEventsSubscriptionNotification data structure provided in the request
body that shall include:
\- a description of the notified event as \"eventNotifications\" attribute
that for each event shall include:
a) an event identifier as \"event\" attribute;
b) identification of network slice(s) to which the notification applies as
\"snssais\" attribute;
c) load level information as \"loadLevelInformation\" attribute; and
\- an event subscriptionId as \"subscriptionId\" attribute.
Upon the reception of an HTTP POST request with: \"{notificationURI}\" as
Resource URI and NnwdafEventsSubscriptionNotification data structure as
request body, the NF Service Consumer shall:
\- store the notification.
If the HTTP request message from the NWDAF is accepted, the NF Service
Consumer shall respond with \"204 No Content\".
## 4.3 Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo Service
### 4.3.1 Service Description
#### 4.3.1.1 Overview
The Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo Service as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2], 3GPP TS
23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [4], is provided by the Network Data Analytics
Function (NWDAF).
This service:
\- allows NF consumers to request and get load level information of network
slice.
#### 4.3.1.2 Service Architecture
The 5G System Architecture is defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. The Policy and
Charging related 5G architecture is also described in 3GPP TS 23.503 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.513 [5].
The Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo service is part of the Nnwdaf service-based interface
exhibited by the Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF).
Known consumers of the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo service are:
\- Policy Control Function (PCF)
\- Network Slice Selection Function (NSSF)
The PCF accesses the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo service at the NWDAF via the N23
Reference point. The NSSF accesses the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo service at the
NWDAF via the N34 Reference point.
Figure 4.3.1.2-1: Reference Architecture for the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo Service;
SBI representation
Figure 4.3.1.2-2: Reference Architecture for the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo Service:
reference point representation
#### 4.3.1.3 Network Functions
##### 4.3.1.3.1 Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF)
The Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF) provides specific analytics:
\- Identifier of network slice; and
\- load level information for that network slice.
##### 4.3.1.3.2 NF Service Consumers
The Policy Control Function (PCF):
\- Supports taking input from Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF) into
consideration for policies on assignment of network resources and for traffic
steering policies.
NOTE: How this information is used by the PCF is not standardized in this
release of the specification.
The Network Slice Selection Function (NSSF):
\- supports taking load level information from Network Data Analytics Function
(NWDAF) into consideration for slice selection.
### 4.3.2 Service Operations
#### 4.3.2.1 Introduction
Table 4.3.2.1-1: Operations of the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo Service
* * *
**Service operation name** **Description** **Initiated by**
Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo_Request This service operation is used by an NF to
request and get specific analytics from NWDAF. NF consumer (PCF, NSSF)
* * *
#### 4.3.2.2 Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo_Request service operation
##### 4.3.2.2.1 General
The Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo_Request service operation is used by an NF service
consumer to request and get specific analytics information from the NWDAF.
##### 4.3.2.2.2 Request and get from NWDAF Analytics information
Figure 4.3.2.2.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer (e.g. PCF)
sends a request to the NWDAF to request and get from NWDAF analytics
information (see also 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] figure 4.19.2-1 step 1).
Figure 4.3.2.2.2-1: Requesting a NWDAF Analytics information
The NF service consumer (e.g. PCF) shall invoke the
Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo_Request service operation when requesting the NWDAF
analytics information of particular network slice. The NF service consumer
shall send an HTTP GET request on the resource URI \"{apiRoot}/nnwdaf-
analyticsinfo/v1/analytics\" representing the \"NWDAF Analytics\" (as shown in
figure 4.3.2.2.2-1, step 1), to request analytics data according to the query
parameter value of the \"event-id\" attribute. The \"event-filter\" attribte
provided as a query parameter in the request shall include:
\- identification of network slice(s) when the event-id is
\"LOAD_LEVEL_INFORMATION\" via:
1) identification of network slice(s) by \"snssais\" attribute; or
2) any slices indication via the \"anySlice\" attribute.
The request may include the \"supported-features\" attribute as query
parameter to indicate the features supported by the service consumer.
Upon the the reception of the HTTP GET request, the NWDAF shall:
\- analyse the requested analytic data. For event-id of
\"LOAD_LEVEL_INFORMATION\", the NWDAF shall analyse the load level information
of corresponding network slice(s).
If the HTTP request message from the NF service consumer is accepted, the
NWDAF shall respond with \"200 OK\" status code with the message body
containing the analytics with parameters as relevant for the requesting NF
service consumer. The AnalyticsData data structure in the response body shall
include:
\- analytics with parameters indicated in the request. For event-id of
\"LOAD_LEVEL_INFORMATION \", the analytics shall include the load level
information of corresponding network slice.
If the request NWDAF Analytics data does not exist, the NWDAF shall respond
with \"204 No Content\".
# 5 API Definitions
## 5.1 Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service API
### 5.1.1 Introduction
The Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service shall use the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription
API.
The request URI used in each HTTP request from the NF service consumer towards
the NWDAF shall have the structure defined in subclause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS
29.501 [7], i.e.:
> **{apiRoot}/{apiName}/{apiVersion}/{apiSpecificResourceUriPart}**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [7].
\- The {apiName} shall be \"nnwdaf-eventssubscription\".
\- The {apiVersion} shall be \"v1\".
\- The {apiSpecificResourceUriPart} shall be set as described in subclause
5.1.3.
### 5.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 5.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [9], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [6].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in subclause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500
[6].
The OpenAPI [11] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription is contained in Annex A.
#### 5.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 5.1.2.2.1 General
See subclause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6] for the usage of HTTP standard
headers.
##### 5.1.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [10], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in subclause 5.4 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [6]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [15].
#### 5.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service API shall support HTTP custom header
fields specified in subclause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6].
In this release of the specification, no specific custom headers are defined
for the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service API.
### 5.1.3 Resources
#### 5.1.3.1 Resource Structure
Figure 5.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription API
Table 5.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 5.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description
NWDAF Events Subscriptions {apiRoot}/\ POST Creates a new Individual NWDAF
Events Subscription resource. nnwdaf-eventssubscription/v1\  
/subscriptions
Individual NWDAF Event Subscription {apiRoot}/\ DELETE Deletes an Individual
NWDAF Events Subscription identified by subresource {subscriptionId}. nnwdaf-
eventssubscription/v1\  
/subscriptions\  
/{subscriptionId}
                                                                        PUT                               Modifies an existing Events Subscription subresource.
* * *
#### 5.1.3.2 Resource: NWDAF Events Subscriptions
##### 5.1.3.2.1 Description
The NWDAF Events Subscriptions resource represents all subscriptions to the
Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service at a given NWDAF.
##### 5.1.3.2.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nnwdaf-eventssubscription/v1/subscriptions**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
5.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 5.1.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Definition apiRoot See subclause 5.1.1
* * *
##### 5.1.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 5.1.3.2.3.1 POST
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.1.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 5.1.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 5.1.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description NnwdafEventsSubscription M 1 Create a new
Individual NWDAF Event Subscription resource.
* * *
Table 5.1.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | NnwdafEvent | M | 1 | 201 Created | The creation | | sSubscription | | | | of an | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | NWDAF Event | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | confirmed and | | | | | | a | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation | | | | | | of that | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [6] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+
##### 5.1.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None in this release of the specification.
#### 5.1.3.3 Resource: Individual NWDAF Event Subscription
##### 5.1.3.3.1 Description
The Individual NWDAF Events Subscription resource represents a single
subscription to the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service at a given NWDAF.
##### 5.1.3.3.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/nnwdaf-
eventssubscription/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
5.1.3.3.2-1.
Table 5.1.3.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
**Name** **Definition** apiRoot See subclause 5.1.1 subscriptionId String
identifying a subscription to the NnwdafEventsSubscription Service
* * *
##### 5.1.3.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 5.1.3.3.3.1 DELETE
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.1.3.3.3.1-1.
Table 5.1.3.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
* * *
**Name** **Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.1.3.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.1.3.3.3.1-3.
Table 5.1.3.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
**Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** n/a
* * *
Table 5.1.3.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body on
this resource
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | **Data |** P**|** C | **Response** | **D | | type** | | ardinality**| | escription** | | | | | **codes** | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Successful | | | | | Content | case: The | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | NWDAF Event | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource | | | | | | matching the | | | | | | su | | | | | | bscriptionId | | | | | | was deleted. | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Pr | M | 1 | 404 Not | The | | oblemDetails | | | Found | Individual | | | | | | NWDAF Event | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource | | | | | | does not | | | | | | exist. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the | | | | | | DELETE | | | | | | method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | tab | | | | | | le 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [6] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Failure | | | | | | cases are | | | | | | described in | | | | | | subc | | | | | | lause 5.1.7. | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
###### 5.1.3.3.3.2 PUT
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.1.3.3.3.2-1.
Table 5.1.3.3.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PUT method on this
resource
* * *
**Name** **Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.1.3.3.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.1.3.3.3.2-3.
Table 5.1.3.3.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the PUT Request Body on this
resource
* * *
**Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** NnwdafEventsSubscription M
1 Parameters to replace a subscription to NWDAF Event Subscription resource.
* * *
Table 5.1.3.3.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the PUT Response Body on
this resource
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | **Data |** P**|** C | **Response |** D | | type**| | ardinality** | codes**| escription** | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | NnwdafEvents | M | 1 | 200 OK | The | | Subscription | | | | Individual | | | | | | NWDAF Event | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource was | | | | | | modified | | | | | | successfully | | | | | | and a | | | | | | re | | | | | | presentation | | | | | | of that | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | returned. | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | The | | | | | Content | Individual | | | | | | NWDAF Event | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource was | | | | | | modified | | | | | | s | | | | | | uccessfully. | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Pr | M | 1 | 404 Not | The | | oblemDetails | | | Found | Individual | | | | | | NWDAF Event | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource | | | | | | does not | | | | | | exist. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the PUT | | | | | | method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | tab | | | | | | le 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [6] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Failure | | | | | | cases are | | | | | | described in | | | | | | subc | | | | | | lause 5.1.7. | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
##### 5.1.3.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None in this release of the specification.
### 5.1.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
None in this release of the specification.
### 5.1.5 Notifications
#### 5.1.5.1 General
Notifications shall comply with subclause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6] and
subclause 4.6.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [7].
Table 5.3.3.4.1-1: Notifications
* * *
**Custom operation URI** **Mapped HTTP method** **Description**
{notificationURI} POST Report one or several observed Events.
* * *
#### 5.1.5.2 Event Notification
##### 5.1.5.2.1 Description
The Event Notification is used by the NWDAF to report one or several observed
Events to a NF service consumer that has subscribed to such Notifications via
the Individual NWDAF Event Subscription Resource.
##### 5.1.5.2.2 Operation Definition
URI: **{notificationURI}**
The operation shall support the URI variables defined in table 5.1.5.2.2-1,
the request data structures specified in table 5.1.5.2.2-2 and the response
data structure and response codes specified in table 5.1.5.2.2-3.
Table 5.1.5.2.2-1: URI variables
* * *
**Name** **Definition** notificationURI String formatted as URI with the
Notification Uri as assigned within the Individual NWDAF Event Subscription
and described within the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription type (see table
5.1.6.2.2-1).
* * *
Table 5.1.5.2.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on this
resource
* * *
**Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description**
array(NnwdafEventsSubscriptionNotification) M 1..N Provides Information about
observed events
* * *
Table 5.1.5.2.2-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on this
resource
* * *
**Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Response codes** **Description** n/a 204
No Content The receipt of the Notification is acknowledged. NOTE: The
mandatory HTTP error status codes for the POST method listed in table
5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6] also apply.
* * *
### 5.1.6 Data Model
#### 5.1.6.1 General
This subclause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 5.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the
Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription service based interface protocol.
Table 5.1.6.1-1: Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Section defined Description Applicability AnySlice 5.1.6.3.2
Represents the any slices.  
EventNotification 5.1.6.2.5 Describes Notifications about events that
occurred.  
EventSubscription 5.1.6.2.3 Represents the subscription to a single event.  
LoadLevelInformation 5.1.6.3.2 Represents load level information of the
network slice.  
NwdafEvent 5.1.6.3.4 Describes the NWDAF Events.  
NnwdafEventsSubscription 5.1.6.2.2 Represents an Individual NWDAF Event
Subscription resource.  
NnwdafEventsSubscriptionNotification 5.1.6.2.4 Represents an Individual NWDAF
Event Subscription Notification resource.  
NotificationMethod 5.1.6.3.3 Represents the notification methods that can be
subscribed.  
SliceLoadLevelInformation 5.1.6.2.6 Represents the slices and thier load level
information.
* * *
Table 5.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription
service based interface protocol from other specifications, including a
reference to their respective specifications and when needed, a short
description of their use within the Nnwdaf service based interface.
Table 5.1.6.1-2: Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments Applicability DurationSec 3GPP TS 29.571 [8]  
ProblemDetails 3GPP TS 29.571 [8] Used in error responses to provide more
detailed information about an error. ProblemDetails Snssai 3GPP TS 29.571 [8]
Identifies the S-NSSAI (Single Network Slice Selection Assistance
Information).  
SupportedFeature 3GPP TS 29.571 [8] Used to negotiate the applicability of the
optional features defined in table 5.1.8-1.  
Uri 3GPP TS 29.571 [8]
* * *
#### 5.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 5.1.6.2.1 Introduction
This subclause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 5.1.6.2.2 Type NnwdafEventsSubscription
Table 5.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type NnwdafEventsSubscription
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | eventSubs | array( | M | 1..N | S | | | criptions | EventSubs | | | ubscribed | | | | cription) | | | events | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | notifi | Uri | C | 0..1 | I | | | cationURI | | | | dentifies | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | recipient | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | Noti | | | | | | | fications | | | | | | | sent by | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | NWDAF. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | supplied | | | | | | | by the NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | HTTP POST | | | | | | | requests | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | create | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | criptions | | | | | | | for event | | | | | | | noti | | | | | | | fications | | | | | | | and in | | | | | | | the HTTP | | | | | | | PUT | | | | | | | requests | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | update | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | criptions | | | | | | | for event | | | | | | | notif | | | | | | | ications. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | supporte | Supporte | C | 0..1 | List of | | | dFeatures | dFeatures | | | Supported | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | used as | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | subclau | | | | | | | se 5.1.8. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | supplied | | | | | | | by NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | creation | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | NWDAF | | | | | | | Event | | | | | | | Subs | | | | | | | criptions | | | | | | | resource, | | | | | | | and shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | supplied | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | NWDAF in | | | | | | | the reply | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | corr | | | | | | | esponding | | | | | | | request. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 5.1.6.2.3 Type EventSubscription
Table 5.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type EventSubscription
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | **A |** Data | **P** | **Cardi |** Descr | * | | ttribute | type**| | nality** | iption**| *Applica | | name** | | | | | bility** | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | anySlice | AnySlice | C | 0..1 | Default | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | false\". | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | event | Nw | M | 1 | Event | | | | dafEvent | | | that is | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | scribed. | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | lo | integer | C | 0..1 | Shall be | | | adLevelT | | | | supplied | | | hreshold | | | | for | | | | | | | noti | | | | | | | fication | | | | | | | method | | | | | | | \"THRE | | | | | | | SHOLD\". | | | | | | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | ndicates | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | NWDAF | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | report | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | sponding | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | slice | | | | | | | load | | | | | | | level to | | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | the load | | | | | | | level of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | slice | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entified | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | snssai | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | reached. | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | no | No | O | 0..1 | Indicate | | | tificati | tificati | | | the | | | onMethod | onMethod | | | noti | | | | | | | fication | | | | | | | method. | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | repetiti | Dur | C | 0..1 | Shall be | | | onPeriod | ationSec | | | supplied | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | noti | | | | | | | fication | | | | | | | Method | | | | | | | \"PER | | | | | | | IODIC\". | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | snssais | array | C | 1..N | I | | | | (Snssai) | | | dentific | | | | | | | ation(s) | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | slice to | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | cription | | | | | | | applies. | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | bscribed | | | | | | | event is | | | | | | | \"SLICE | | | | | | | _LOAD_ | | | | | | | LEVEL\", | | | | | | | either | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | about | | | | | | | slice(s) | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entified | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | snssais, | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | anySlice | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | \"true\" | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ncluded. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | tificati | | | | | | | onMethod | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | upplied, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | default | | | | | | | value is | | | | | | | \"THRE | | | | | | | SHOLD\". | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
##### 5.1.6.2.4 Type NnwdafEventsSubscriptionNotification
Table 5.1.6.2.4-1: Definition of type NnwdafEventsSubscriptionNotification
* * *
**Attribute name** **Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description**
**Applicability** eventNotifications array(EventNotification) M 1..N
Notifications about Individual Events  
subscriptionId string M 1 String identifying a subscription to the
Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service
* * *
##### 5.1.6.2.5 Type EventNotification
Table 5.1.6.2.5-1: Definition of type EventNotification
* * *
**Attribute name** **Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description**
**Applicability** event NwdafEvent M 1 Event that is notified.  
sliceLoadLevelInfo SliceLoadLevelInformation M 1 The slices and there load
level information.
* * *
##### 5.1.6.2.6 Type SliceLoadLevelInformation
Table 5.1.6.2.6-1: Definition of type SliceLoadLevelInformation
* * *
**Attribute name** **Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description**
**Applicability** loadLevelInformation LoadLevelInformation M 1 Load level
information of the network slice identified by snssais.  
snssais array(Snssai) M 1..N Identification(s) of network slice to which the
subscription applies.
* * *
#### 5.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 5.1.6.3.1 Introduction
This subclause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be
referenced from data structures defined in the previous subclauses.
##### 5.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 5.1.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 5.1.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
+----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Type Name | Type | Description | Applicability | | | Definition | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | AnySlice | boolean | \"false\" | | | | | represents not | | | | | applicable for | | | | | all slices. | | | | | | | | | | \"true\" | | | | | represents | | | | | applicable for | | | | | all slices. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | LoadLe | integer | Load level | | | velInformation | | information of | | | | | the network | | | | | slice. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+
##### 5.1.6.3.3 Enumeration: NotificationMethod
Table 5.1.6.3.3-1: Enumeration NotificationMethod
* * *
Enumeration value Description Applicability PERIODIC The subscribe of NWDAF
Event is peridodicly. The periodic of the notification is identified by
repetitionPeriod defined in subclause 5.1.6.2.3.  
THRESHOLD The subscribe of NWDAF Event is upon threshold exceeded. The
threshold of the notification is identified by loadLevelThreshold defined in
subclause 5.1.6.2.3.
* * *
##### 5.1.6.3.4 Enumeration: NwdafEvent
Table 5.1.6.3.4-1: Enumeration NwdafEvent
* * *
**Enumeration value** **Description** **Applicability** SLICE_LOAD_LEVEL
Indicates that the event subscribed is load level information of Network
Slice.
* * *
### 5.1.7 Error handling
#### 5.1.7.1 General
HTTP error handling shall be supported as specified in subclause 5.2.4 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [6].
For the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription API, HTTP error responses shall be supported
as specified in subclause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [7]. Protocol errors and
application errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6] shall be
supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are
specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [6]. In addition, the requirements in the following subclauses shall
apply.
#### 5.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
In this Release of the specification, there are no additional protocol errors
applicable for the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription API.
#### 5.1.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription API are
listed in table 5.1.7.3-1. The NWDAF shall include in the HTTP status code a
\"ProblemDetails\" data structure with the \"cause\" attribute indicating the
application error as listed in table 5.1.7.3-1.
Table 5.1.7.3-1: Application errors
* * *
**Application Error** **HTTP status code** **Description**
SUBSCRIPTION_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found Indicates the Individual NWDAF Event
Subscription resource does not exist. (NOTE) NOTE: This application error is
included in the responses to the PUT request (see subclause 4.2.2.2.3) and the
DELETE request (see subclause 4.2.2.3.2).
* * *
### 5.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 5.1.8-1 are defined for the
Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription API. They shall be negotiated using the
extensibility mechanism defined in subclause 6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6].
Table 5.1.8-1: Supported Features
* * *
**Feature number** **Feature Name** **Description**
* * *
### 5.1.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [13] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [6], the access to the
Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2
protocol (see IETF RFC 6749 [14]), based on local configuration, using the
\"Client Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510
[12]) plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, a n NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services
offered by the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription API, shall obtain a \"token\" from
the authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as
described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [12], subclause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription service.
The Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription API defines a single scope \"nnwdaf-
eventssubscription\" for the entire service, and it does not define any
additional scopes at resource or operation level.
## 5.2 Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo Service API
### 5.2.1 Introduction
The Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo Service shall use the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo API.
The request URI used in each HTTP request from the NF service consumer towards
the NWDAF shall have the structure defined in subclause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS
29.501 [7], i.e.:
> **{apiRoot}/{apiName}/{apiVersion}/{apiSpecificResourceUriPart}**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [7].
\- The {apiName} shall be \"nnwdaf-analyticsinfo\".
\- The {apiVersion} shall be \"v1\".
\- The {apiSpecificResourceUriPart} shall be set as described in subclause
5.2.3.
### 5.2.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 5.2.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [9], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [6].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in subclause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500
[6].
The OpenAPI [11] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo is contained in Annex A.
#### 5.2.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
See subclause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6] for the usage of HTTP standard
headers.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [10], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in subclause 5.4 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [6]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [15].
#### 5.2.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo Service API shall support HTTP custom header fields
specified in subclause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6].
In this release of the specification, no specific custom headers are defined
for the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo Service API.
### 5.2.3 Resources
#### 5.2.3.1 Resource Structure
Figure 5.2.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo API
Table 5.2.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 5.2.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description
NWDAF Analytics {apiRoot}/\ GET Retrieve the NWDAF analytics nnwdaf-
analyticsinfo/v1\  
/analytics
* * *
#### 5.2.3.2 Resource: NWDAF Analytics
##### 5.2.3.2.1 Description
The NWDAF Analytics resource represents the analytics to the
Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo Service at a given NWDAF.
##### 5.2.3.2.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/nnwdaf-analyticsinfo/v1/analytics
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
5.2.3.2.2-1.
Table 5.2.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Definition apiRoot See subclause 5.2.1
* * *
##### 5.2.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 5.2.3.2.3.1 GET
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.2.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 5.2.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description event-id EventId M 1 Shall be
included to identify the analytics. event-filter EventFilter C 0..1 Shall be
included to identify the analytics when the event-id is
\"LOAD_LEVEL_INFORMATION\". supported-features SupportedFeatures O 0..1 To
filter irrelevant responses related to unsupported features.
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.2.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.2.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 5.2.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 5.2.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | AnalyticsData | M | 1 | 200 OK | Containing | | | | | | the analytics | | | | | | with | | | | | | parameters as | | | | | | relevant for | | | | | | the | | | | | | requesting NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | If the | | | | | Content | request NWDAF | | | | | | Analytics | | | | | | data does not | | | | | | exist, the | | | | | | NWDAF shall | | | | | | respond with | | | | | | \"204 No | | | | | | Content \". | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [6] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
##### 5.2.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None in this release of the specification.
### 5.2.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
None in this release of the specification.
### 5.2.5 Notifications
None in this release of the specification.
### 5.2.6 Data Model
#### 5.2.6.1 General
This subclause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 5.2.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo
service based interface protocol.
Table 5.2.6.1-1: Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Section defined Description Applicability EventId 5.2.6.3.3
Describes the type of analytics.  
EventFilter 5.2.6.2.3 Represents the event filters used to identify the
requested analytics.  
AnalyticsData 5.2.6.2.2 Describes analytics with parameters indicated in the
request
* * *
Table 5.2.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo
service based interface protocol from other specifications, including a
reference to their respective specifications and when needed, a short
description of their use within the Nnwdaf service based interface.
Re-used data types of clause 5.1.6 refer here to requests instead of
subscriptions.
Table 5.2.6.1-2: Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments Applicability AnySlice 5.1.6.3.2  
ProblemDetails 3GPP TS 29.571 [8] Used in error responses to provide more
detailed information about an error.  
SupportedFeatures 3GPP TS 29.571 [8] Used to negotiate the applicability of
the optional features defined in table 5.2.8-1.  
Snssai 3GPP TS 29.571 [8]  
SliceLoadLevelInformation 5.1.6.2.6
* * *
#### 5.2.6.2 Structured data types
##### 5.2.6.2.1 Introduction
This subclause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 5.2.6.2.2 Type AnalyticsData
Table 5.2.6.2.2-1: Definition of type AnalyticsData
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
sliceLoadLevelInfos array(SliceLoadLevelInformation) C 1..N The slices and the
load level information. Shall be present when the requested event is
\"LOAD_LEVEL_INFORMATION\".
* * *
##### 5.2.6.2.3 Type EventFilter
Table 5.2.6.2.3-1: Definition of type EventFilter
* * *
**Attribute name** **Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description**
**Applicability** anySlice AnySlice C 0..1 Default is \"false\". (NOTE)  
snssais array(Snssai) C 1..N Identification(s) of network slice to which the
subscription belongs. (NOTE)  
NOTE: When event-id in the request is \"LOAD_LEVEL_INFORMATION \", either
information about slice(s) identified by snssais, or anySlice set to \"true\"
shall be included.
* * *
#### 5.2.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 5.2.6.3.1 Introduction
This subclause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be
referenced from data structures defined in the previous subclauses.
##### 5.2.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 5.2.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 5.2.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability n/a
* * *
##### 5.2.6.3.3 Enumeration: EventId
Table 5.2.6.3.3-1: Enumeration EventId
* * *
Enumeration value Description Applicability LOAD_LEVEL_INFORMATION Represent
the analytics of load level information of corresponding network slice.
* * *
### 5.2.7 Error handling
#### 5.2.7.1 General
HTTP error handling shall be supported as specified in subclause 5.2.4 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [6].
For the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in subclause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [7]. Protocol errors and
application errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6] shall be
supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are
specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [6]. In addition, the requirements in the following subclauses shall
apply.
#### 5.2.7.2 Protocol Errors
In this Release of the specification, there are no additional protocol errors
applicable for the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo API.
#### 5.2.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo API are listed in
table 5.2.7.3-1. The NWDAF shall include in the HTTP status code a
\"ProblemDetails\" data structure with the \"cause\" attribute indicating the
application error as listed in table 5.2.7.3-1.
Table 5.2.7.3-1: Application errors
* * *
**Application Error** **HTTP status code** **Description** n/a
* * *
### 5.2.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 5.2.8-1 are defined for the
Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo API. They shall be negotiated using the extensibility
mechanism defined in subclause 6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6].
Table 5.2.8-1: Supported Features
* * *
**Feature number** **Feature Name** **Description**
* * *
### 5.2.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [13] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [6], the access to the
Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol
(see IETF RFC 6749 [14]), based on local configuration, using the \"Client
Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [12])
plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, a n NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services
offered by the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the
authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as
described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [12], subclause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo service.
The Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo API defines a single scope \"nnwdaf-analyticsinfo\"
for the entire service, and it does not define any additional scopes at
resource or operation level.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
The present Annex contains an OpenAPI [11] specification of HTTP messages and
content bodies used by the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription and the
Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo API.
This Annex shall take precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE 1: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on the public 3GPP file server in the
following locations (see clause 5B of the 3GPP TR 21.900 [16] for further
information):
\- [https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/OpenAPI/\/]{.underline},
and
\-
[https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/\/\/OpenAPI/]{.underline}.
NOTE 2: To fetch the OpenAPI specification file after CT#83 plenary meeting
for Release 15 in the above links \ must be replaced with the date
the CT Plenary occurs, in the form of year-month (yyyy-mm), e.g. for CT#83
meeting \ must be replaced with value \"2019-03\" and \ must
be replaced with value \"Rel-15\".
# A.2 Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
version: 1.0.5
title: Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription
description: \|
Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service API.
© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.520 V15.11.0; 5G System; Network Data Analytics
Services.
url: \'http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.520/\'
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nnwdaf-eventssubscription
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nnwdaf-eventssubscription/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in subclause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501.
paths:
/subscriptions:
post:
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NnwdafEventsSubscription\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: Create a new Individual NWDAF Event Subscription resource.
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the newly created resource, according to
the structure: {apiRoot}/nnwdaf-
eventssubscription/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NnwdafEventsSubscription\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
callbacks:
myNotification:
\'{\$request.body#/notificationURI}\':
post:
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NnwdafEventsSubscriptionNotification\'
minItems: 1
responses:
\'204\':
description: The receipt of the Notification is acknowledged.
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}:
delete:
parameters:
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: String identifying a subscription to the
Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content. The Individual NWDAF Event Subscription resource
matching the subscriptionId was deleted.
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
description: The Individual NWDAF Event Subscription resource does not exist.
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'501\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/501\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
put:
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NnwdafEventsSubscription\'
parameters:
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: String identifying a subscription to the
Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'200\':
description: The Individual NWDAF Event Subscription resource was modified
successfully and a representation of that resource is returned.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NnwdafEventsSubscription\'
\'204\':
description: The Individual NWDAF Event Subscription resource was modified
successfully.
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
description: The Individual NWDAF Event Subscription resource does not exist.
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'501\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/501\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nnwdaf-eventssubscription: Access to the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription API
schemas:
NnwdafEventsSubscription:
type: object
properties:
eventSubscriptions:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EventSubscription\'
minItems: 1
description: Subscribed events
notificationURI:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
supportedFeatures:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
required:
\- eventSubscriptions
EventSubscription:
type: object
properties:
anySlice:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AnySlice\'
event:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NwdafEvent\'
loadLevelThreshold:
type: integer
description: Shall be supplied for notification method \"THRESHOLD\".
Indicates that the NWDAF shall report the corresponding network slice load
level to the NF service consumer where the load level of the network slice
identified by snssai is reached.
notificationMethod:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NotificationMethod\'
repetitionPeriod:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DurationSec\'
snssaia:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
minItems: 1
description: Identification(s) of network slice to which the subscription
applies. When subscribed event is \"SLICE_LOAD_LEVEL\", either information
about slice(s) identified by snssai, or anySlice set to \"true\" shall be
included. It corresponds to snssais in the data model definition of 3GPP TS
29.520.
required:
\- event
NnwdafEventsSubscriptionNotification:
type: object
properties:
eventNotifications:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EventNotification\'
minItems: 1
description: Notifications about Individual Events
subscriptionId:
type: string
description: String identifying a subscription to the
Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service
required:
\- eventNotifications
\- subscriptionId
EventNotification:
type: object
properties:
event:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NwdafEvent\'
sliceLoadLevelInfo:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SliceLoadLevelInformation\'
required:
\- event
\- sliceLoadLevelInfo
SliceLoadLevelInformation:
type: object
properties:
loadLevelInformation:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/LoadLevelInformation\'
snssais:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
minItems: 1
description: Identification(s) of network slice to which the subscription
applies.
required:
\- loadLevelInformation
\- snssais
AnySlice:
type: boolean
description: false represents not applicable for all slices. true represents
applicable for all slices.
LoadLevelInformation:
type: integer
description: Load level information of the network slice.
NotificationMethod:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- PERIODIC
\- THRESHOLD
\- type: string
description: >
This string provides forward-compatibility with future
extensions to the enumeration but is not used to encode
content defined in the present version of this API.
description: >
Possible values are
\- PERIODIC: The subscribe of NWDAF Event is peridodicly. The periodic of the
notification is identified by repetitionPeriod defined in subclause 5.1.6.2.3.
\- THRESHOLD: The subscribe of NWDAF Event is upon threshold exceeded. The
threshold of the notification is identified by loadLevelThreshold defined in
subclause 5.1.6.2.3.
NwdafEvent:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- SLICE_LOAD_LEVEL
\- type: string
description: >
This string provides forward-compatibility with future
extensions to the enumeration but is not used to encode
content defined in the present version of this API.
description: >
Possible values are
\- SLICE_LOAD_LEVEL: Indicates that the event subscribed is load level
information of Network Slice.
# A.3 Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
version: 1.0.4
title: Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo
description: \|
Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo Service API.
© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.520 V15.10.0; 5G System; Network Data Analytics
Services.
url: \'http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.520/\'
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nnwdaf-analyticsinfo
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nnwdaf-analyticsinfo/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in subclause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501.
paths:
/analytics:
get:
parameters:
\- name: event-id
in: query
description: Identify the analytics.
required: true
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EventId\'
\- name: event-filter
in: query
description: Identify the analytics.
required: false
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EventFilter\'
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: To filter irrelevant responses related to unsupported features
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Containing the analytics with parameters as relevant for the
requesting NF service consumer.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AnalyticsData\'
\'204\':
description: No Content (The request NWDAF Analytics data does not exist)
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
description: Indicates that the NWDAF Analytics resource does not exist.
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/406\'
\'414\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/414\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nnwdaf-analyticsinfo: Access to the Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo API
schemas:
AnalyticsData:
type: object
properties:
sliceLoadLevelInfos:
type: array
items:
\$ref:
\'TS29520_Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription.yaml#/components/schemas/SliceLoadLevelInformation\'
minItems: 1
description: The slices and their load level information.
EventFilter:
type: object
properties:
anySlice:
\$ref: \'TS29520_Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription.yaml#/components/schemas/AnySlice\'
snssais:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
minItems: 1
description: Identification(s) of network slice.
not:
required: [anySlice, snssais]
EventId:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- LOAD_LEVEL_INFORMATION
\- type: string
description: >
This string provides forward-compatibility with future
extensions to the enumeration but is not used to encode
content defined in the present version of this API.
description: >
Possible values are
\- LOAD_LEVEL_INFORMATION: Represent the analytics of load level information
of corresponding network slice.
#