# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present specification provides the stage 3 definition of the Background
Data Transfer (BDT) Policy Control Service (Npcf_BDTPolicyControl) of the 5G
System.
The 5G System Architecture is defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. The stage 2
definition and related procedures for BDT Policy Control Service are specified
in 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [4].
The 5G System stage 3 call flows are provided in 3GPP TS 29.513 [5].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [6] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [7].
The Policy Control Function (PCF) provides the BDT Policy Control Service.
This service provides background data transfer policy negotiation function.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and Charging Control Framework for the 5G System;
Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.513: \"5G System; Policy and Charging Control signalling flows
and QoS parameter mapping; Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[8] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[9] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[10] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification\", https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-
Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md.
[11] 3GPP TS 29.504: \"5G System; Unified Data Repository Services; Stage 3\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.519: \"5G System; Usage of the Unified Data Repository service
for Policy Data, Application Data and Structured Data for exposure; Stage 3\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.122: \"**T8 reference point for Northbound APIs** \".
[15] IETF RFC 7396: \"JSON Merge Patch\".
[16] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[17] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[18] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[19] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[20] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[21] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Background data transfer:** feature that enables a 3rd party service
provider to keep their costs lower by favouring time windows for data transfer
to specific UEs in a geographical area during non-busy hours that are less
costly and able to handle larger bitrates.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2], subclause 3.1 apply:
**5G System**
**Network Function**
**NF service**
**NF service operation**
**Service based interface**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AF Application Function
ASP Application Service Provider
BDT Background Data Transfer
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
NEF Network Exposure Function
NG-RAN Next Generation - Radio Access Network
NRF Network Repository Function
PCF Policy Control Function
SBI Service Based Interface
TAI Tracking Area Identity
UDR Unified Data Repository
# 4 Background Data Transfer Policy Control Service
## 4.1 Service Description
### 4.1.1 Overview
The BDT Policy Control Service, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS
23.503 [4], is provided by the Policy Control Function (PCF).
This service enables the NF service consumer to negotiate policy for a future
background data transfer and offers the following functionalities:
\- get background data transfer policies based on the request from the NEF;
and
\- update background data transfer policies based on the selection provided by
the NEF.
### 4.1.2 Service Architecture
The 5G System Architecture is defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. The Policy and
Charging related 5G architecture is also described in 3GPP TS 29.513 [5].
The BDT Policy Control Service (Npcf_BDTPolicyControl) is part of the Npcf
service-based interface exhibited by the Policy Control Function (PCF).
The only known NF service consumer of the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl service is the
Network Exposure Function (NEF).
The NEF accesses the BDT Policy Control Service at the PCF via the N30
Reference point. In the roaming scenario, the N30 reference point is located
between the PCF and the NEF in the home network only.
Figure 4.1.2-1: Reference Architecture for the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl Service;
SBI representation
Figure 4.1.2-2: Reference Architecture for the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl Service;
reference point representation
### 4.1.3 Network Functions
#### 4.1.3.1 Policy Control Function (PCF)
The Policy Control Function (PCF):
\- Provides background data transfer policies based on the request from the
NEF. The PCF determines, based on information provided by the NEF and other
available information (e.g. network policy, load status estimation for the
requested time window, network area, etc.) one or more transfer policies.
\- Updates background data transfer policy based on the selection provided by
the NEF.
#### 4.1.3.2 NF Service Consumers
The Network Exposure Function (NEF):
\- requests the PCF to provide background data transfer policies; and
\- provides the selected background data transfer policy to the PCF.
## 4.2 Service Operations
### 4.2.1 Introduction
Table 4.2.1-1: Operations of the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl Service
* * *
Service operation name Description Initiated by Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Create
Provides the requested background data transfer policies to the NF service
consumer. NF service consumer (NEF) Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Update Updates the
PCF with the background data transfer policy selected by the NF service
consumer. NF service consumer (NEF)
* * *
### 4.2.2 Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Create service operation
#### 4.2.2.1 General
The Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Create service operation is used by an NF service
consumer to retrieve BDT policies from the PCF.
The following procedure using the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Create service
operation is supported:
\- retrieval of BDT policies.
#### 4.2.2.2 Retrieval of BDT policies
This procedure is used by the NEF to request BDT policies from the PCF, as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2], 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [4].
Figure 4.2.2.2-1 illustrates a retrieval of BDT policies.
Figure 4.2.2.2-1: Retrieval of BDT policies
Upon reception of a Background Data Transfer request from the AF indicating a
transfer policy request, the NEF shall invoke the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Create
service operation by sending an HTTP POST request to the URI representing a
\"BDT policies\" collection resource of the PCF (as shown in figure 4.2.2.2-1,
step 1). The NEF shall include a \"BdtReqData\" data type in a payload body of
the HTTP POST request. The \"BdtReqData\" data type shall contain:
\- an ASP identifier in the \"aspId\" attribute;
\- a volume of data per UE in the \"volPerUe\" attribute;
\- an expected number of UEs in the \"numOfUes\" attribute; and
\- a desired time window in the \"desTimeInt\" attribute,
and may include a network area information (e.g. list of TAIs and/or NG-RAN
nodes and/or cells identifiers) in the \"nwAreaInfo\" attribute.
If the PCF cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP POST request due to
the internal PCF error or due to the error in the HTTP POST request, the PCF
shall send the HTTP error response as specified in subclause 5.7.
Otherwise, upon the reception of the HTTP POST request from the NEF indicating
a BDT policies request, the PCF:
\- may invoke the Nudr_DataRepository_Query service operation, as described in
3GPP TS 29.504 [11] and 3GPP TS 29.519 [12], to request from the UDR all
stored transfer policies;
NOTE 1: In case only one PCF is deployed in the network, transfer policies can
be locally stored in the PCF and the interaction with the UDR is not required.
\- shall determine one or more acceptable transfer policies based on:
a) information provided by the NEF; and
b) other available information (e.g. the existing transfer policies, network
policy, load status estimation for the desired time window); and
\- shall create a BDT Reference ID.
The PCF shall send to the NEF a \"201 Created\" response to the HTTP POST
request, as shown in figure 4.2.2.2-1, step 2. The PCF shall include in the
\"201 Created\" response:
\- a Location header field; and
\- a \"BdtPolicy\" data type in the payload body containing the BDT Reference
ID in the \"bdtRefId\" attribute and acceptable transfer policy/ies in the
\"transfPolicies\" attribute.
The Location header field shall contain the URI of the created individual BDT
policy resource i.e. \"{apiRoot}/npcf-
bdtpolicycontrol/v1/bdtpolicies/{bdtPolicyId}\".
For each included transfer policy, the PCF shall provide:
\- a transfer policy ID in the \"transPolicyId\" attribute;
\- a recommended time window in the \"recTimeInt\" attribute; and
\- a reference to charging rate for the recommended time window in the
\"ratingGroup\" attribute,
and may provide a maximum aggregated bitrate for the uplink direction in the
\"maxBitRateUl\" attribute and/or a maximum aggregated bitrate for the
downlink direction in the \"maxBitRateDl\" attribute.
If the PCF included in the \"BdtPolicy\" data type:
\- more than one transfer policy, the PCF shall wait for the transfer policy
selected by the NEF as described in subclause 4.2.3; or
\- only one transfer policy, the PCF may invoke the Nudr_DataRepository_Update
service operation, as described in 3GPP TS 29.504 [11] and 3GPP TS 29.519
[12], to update the UDR with the selected transfer policy, the corresponding
BDT Reference ID, the volume of data per UE, the expected number of UEs and if
available a network area information for the provided ASP identifier.
NOTE 2: In case only one PCF is deployed in the network, transfer policies can
be locally stored in the PCF and the interaction with the UDR is not required.
### 4.2.3 Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Update service operation
#### 4.2.3.1 General
The Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Update service operation is used by an NF service
consumer to update a BDT policy to the PCF.
The following procedure using the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Update service
operation is supported:
\- indication about selected transfer policy.
#### 4.2.3.2 Indication about selected transfer policy
When the feature \"PatchCorrection\" is supported, this procedure is used by
the NEF to inform the PCF about selected transfer policy, as defined in 3GPP
TS 23.501 [2], 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [4].
Figure 4.2.3.2-1 illustrates an indication about selected transfer policy.
Figure 4.2.3.2-1: Indication about selected transfer policy
Upon reception of a Background Data Transfer request from the AF indicating
transfer policy selection, the NEF shall invoke the
Npcf_BDTPolicyControl_Update service operation by sending an HTTP PATCH
request to the PCF, as shown in figure 4.2.3.2-1, step 1. The NEF shall set
the request URI to \"{apiRoot}/npcf-
bdtpolicycontrol/v1/bdtpolicies/{bdtPolicyId}\".
The NEF shall include a \"PatchBdtPolicy\" data type in a payload body of the
HTTP PATCH request. The \"PatchBdtPolicy\" data type shall contain a
\"bdtPolData\" attribute which shall encode a transfer policy ID of the
selected transfer policy in the \"selTransPolicyId\" attribute.
If the PCF cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP PATCH request due to
the internal PCF error or due to the error in the HTTP PATCH request, the PCF
shall send the HTTP error response as specified in subclause 5.7.
Otherwise, upon the reception of the HTTP PATCH request from the NEF
indicating a selected transfer policy, the PCF:
\- may invoke the Nudr_DataRepository_Update service operation, as described
in 3GPP TS 29.504 [11] and 3GPP TS 29.519 [12], to update the UDR with the
selected transfer policy, the corresponding BDT Reference ID, the volume of
data per UE, the expected number of UEs and if available a network area
information for the provided ASP identifier;
NOTE: In case only one PCF is deployed in the network, transfer policies can
be locally stored in the PCF and the interaction with the UDR is not required.
\- shall send:
a) a \"204 No Content\" response (as shown in figure 4.2.3.2-1, step 2a); or
b) a \"200 OK\" response (as shown in figure 4.2.3.2-1, step 2b) with a
\"BdtPolicy\" data type in the payload body,
to the HTTP PATCH request to the NEF.
# 5 Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API
## 5.1 Introduction
The BDT Policy Control Service shall use the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API.
The request URI used in each HTTP request from the NF service consumer towards
the PCF shall have the structure defined in subclause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501
[7], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/{apiName}/{apiVersion}/{apiSpecificResourceUriPart}**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [7].
\- The {apiName} shall be \"npcf-bdtpolicycontrol\".
\- The {apiVersion} shall be \"v1\".
\- The {apiSpecificResourceUriPart} shall be set as described in subclause
5.3.
## 5.2 Usage of HTTP
### 5.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [8], shall be used as specified in subclause 5.2 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [6].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in subclause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500
[6].
The OpenAPI [10] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Npcf_BDTPolicyControl is contained in Annex A.
### 5.2.2 HTTP standard headers
#### 5.2.2.1 General
See subclause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6] for the usage of HTTP standard
headers.
#### 5.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [9], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in subclause 5.4 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [6]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/json\".
JSON object used in the HTTP PATCH request shall be encoded according to
\"JSON Merge Patch\" and shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/merge-patch+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7396 [15].
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [17].
### 5.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API shall support HTTP custom header fields
specified in subclause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6].
In this Release of the specification, no specific custom headers are defined
for the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API.
## 5.3 Resources
### 5.3.1 Resource Structure
Figure 5.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API
Table 5.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 5.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Resource name | Resource URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | BDT policies | {apiRoot | POST | Npc | | | }/npcf-bdtpoli | | f_BDTPolicyCo | | | cycontrol/v1/\ | | ntrol_Create. | | | bdtpolicies | | Creates a new | | | | | Individual BDT | | | | | policy | | | | | resource. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Individual BDT | {apiRoot | GET | Reads an | | policy | }/npcf-bdtpoli | | Individual BDT | | | cycontrol/v1/\ | | policy | | | bdtpolicies | | resource. | | | /{bdtPolicyId} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | PATCH | Npc | | | | | f_BDTPolicyCo | | | | | ntrol_Update. | | | | | | | | | | Modifies an | | | | | existing | | | | | Individual BDT | | | | | policy | | | | | resource by | | | | | selecting or | | | | | reselecting a | | | | | transfer | | | | | policy. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.3.2 Resource: BDT policies (Collection)
#### 5.3.2.1 Description
The BDT policies resource represents all the transfer policies that exist in
the BDT Policy Control service at a given PCF instance.
#### 5.3.2.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/npcf-bdtpolicycontrol/v1/bdtpolicies**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
5.3.2.2-1.
Table 5.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Definition apiRoot See subclause 5.1.
* * *
#### 5.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
##### 5.3.2.3.1 POST
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 5.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 5.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description BdtReqData M 1 Contains information for
the creation of a new Individual BDT policy resource.
* * *
Table 5.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on this
resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | Codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | BdtPolicy | M | 1 | 201 Created | Successful | | | | | | case. | | | | | | | | | | | | The creation | | | | | | of an | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | BDT policy | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | confirmed and | | | | | | a | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation | | | | | | of that | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 303 See Other | The result of | | | | | | the HTTP POST | | | | | | request would | | | | | | be equivalent | | | | | | to the | | | | | | existing | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | BDT policy | | | | | | resource. The | | | | | | HTTP response | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | set to the | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | existing | | | | | | individual | | | | | | BDT policy | | | | | | resource. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: In | | | | | | addition, the | | | | | | HTTP status | | | | | | codes which | | | | | | are specified | | | | | | as mandatory | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [6] | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method shall | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
#### 5.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
### 5.3.3 Resource: Individual BDT policy (Document)
#### 5.3.3.1 Description
The Individual BDT policy resource represents the transfer policies that exist
in the BDT Policy Control service at a given PCF instance.
#### 5.3.3.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/npcf-bdtpolicycontrol/v1/bdtpolicies/{bdtPolicyId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
5.3.3.2-1.
Table 5.3.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
+-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | apiRoot | See subclause 5.1. | +-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | bdtPolicyId | String identifying the individual BDT policy resource | | | in the PCF. | | | | | | To enable the value to be used as part of a URI, the | | | string shall only contain allowed characters | | | according to the \"lower-with-hyphen\" naming | | | convention defined in subclause 5.1.3 of | | | 3GPP TS 29.501 [7] and rules for a path segment | | | defined in IETF RFC 3986 [16]. | +-------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
#### 5.3.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
##### 5.3.3.3.1 GET
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.3.3.3.1-1.
Table 5.3.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.3.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.3.3.3.1-3.
Table 5.3.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 5.3.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on this
resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | BdtPolicy | M | 1 | 200 OK | A | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation | | | | | | of an | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | BDT policy | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 404 Not Found | (NOTE 2) | | roblemDetails | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: In | | | | | | addition, the | | | | | | HTTP status | | | | | | codes which | | | | | | are specified | | | | | | as mandatory | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [6] | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method shall | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Failure cases | | | | | | are described | | | | | | in | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubclause 5.7. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
##### 5.3.3.3.2 PATCH
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.3.3.3.2-1.
Table 5.3.3.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PATCH method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.3.3.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.3.3.3.2-3.
Table 5.3.3.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the PATCH Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description PatchBdtPolicy M 1 Contains modification
instructions to be performed on the BdtPolicy data structure to select a
transfer policy.
* * *
Table 5.3.3.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the PATCH Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | Codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | BdtPolicy | M | 1 | 200 OK | Successful | | | | | | case. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | BDT Policy | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | modified and | | | | | | a | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation | | | | | | of that | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Successful | | | | | Content | case. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | BDT Policy | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | modified. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | M | 1 | 404 Not Found | (NOTE 2) | | roblemDetails | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: In | | | | | | addition, the | | | | | | HTTP status | | | | | | codes which | | | | | | are specified | | | | | | as mandatory | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [6] | | | | | | for the PATCH | | | | | | method shall | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Failure cases | | | | | | are described | | | | | | in | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubclause 5.7. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
## 5.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
No custom operation is defined in this Release of the specification.
## 5.5 Notifications
Notifications are not applicable for the current Release.
## 5.6 Data Model
### 5.6.1 General
This subclause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 5.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl
service based interface protocol.
Table 5.6.1-1: Npcf_BDTPolicyControl specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Section defined Description Applicability BdtPolicy 5.6.2.2
Represents an Individual BDT policy resource.  
BdtPolicyData 5.6.2.4 Describes an Individual BDT policy resource.  
BdtPolicyDataPatch 5.6.2.6 Contains modification instructions to be performed
on the \"bdtPolData\" property of the BdtPolicy data structure to select a
transfer policy.  
BdtReqData 5.6.2.3 Contains information for creation a new Individual BDT
policy resource.  
NetworkAreaInfo 5.6.2.8 Describes a network area information in which the NF
service consumer requests the number of UEs.  
PatchBdtPolicy 5.6.2.11 Describes the modifications to an Individual BDT
policy resource. PatchCorrection TransferPolicy 5.6.2.5 Describes a transfer
policy.
* * *
Table 5.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl
service based interface protocol from other specifications, including a
reference to their respective specifications and when needed, a short
description of their use within the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl service based
interface.
Table 5.6.1-2: Npcf_BDTPolicyControl re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments Applicability BdtReferenceId 3GPP TS 29.122 [14]
Identifies transfer policy of background data transfer for provided ASP.  
BitRate 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] Specifies bitrate in kbits per second.  
Ecgi 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] Represents an EUTRA cell identifier.  
GlobalRanNodeId 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] Represents an identity of the NG-RAN node.  
Ncgi 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] Represents an NR cell identifier.  
ProblemDetails 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] Used in error responses to provide more
detailed information about an error.  
SupportedFeatures 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] Used to negotiate the applicability of
the optional features defined in table 5.8-1.  
Tai 3GPP TS 29.571 [13] Represents a tracking area identity.  
TimeWindow 3GPP TS 29.122 [14] Specifies a time interval.  
UsageThreshold 3GPP TS 29.122 [14] Represents a data volume expected to be
transferred per UE.
* * *
### 5.6.2 Structured data types
#### 5.6.2.1 Introduction
This subclause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
#### 5.6.2.2 Type BdtPolicy
Table 5.6.2.2-1: Definition of type BdtPolicy
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | b | BdtP | C | 0..1 | Describes | | | dtPolData | olicyData | | | the | | | | | | | auth | | | | | | | orization | | | | | | | data of | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | ndividual | | | | | | | BDT | | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | | created | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | PCF. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | requests | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | creation | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | ndividual | | | | | | | BDT | | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | and in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | to GET | | | | | | | request. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | b | B | C | 0..1 | I | | | dtReqData | dtReqData | | | dentifies | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirements | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | ndividual | | | | | | | BDT | | | | | | | Policy. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | requests | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | creation | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | ndividual | | | | | | | BDT | | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | and in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | to GET | | | | | | | request. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 5.6.2.3 Type BdtReqData
Table 5.6.2.3-1: Definition of type BdtReqData
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | aspId | AspId | M | 1 | This IE | | | | | | | contains | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | identity | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | provider. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | d | T | M | 1 | This IE | | | esTimeInt | imeWindow | | | indicates | | | | | | | a desired | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | window | | | | | | | for BDT. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | n | Networ | O | 0..1 | This IE | | | wAreaInfo | kAreaInfo | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | a network | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | in which | | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | requests | | | | | | | a number | | | | | | | of UEs. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It may be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | requests | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | creation | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | ndividual | | | | | | | BDT | | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | | and in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | to GET | | | | | | | request. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | numOfUes | integer | M | 1 | This IE | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | a number | | | | | | | of UEs. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | suppFeat | Supporte | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | dFeatures | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | a list of | | | | | | | Supported | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | used as | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | subcl | | | | | | | ause 5.8. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | supplied | | | | | | | by the NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | request a | | | | | | | creation | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | ndividual | | | | | | | BDT | | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | | resource. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | volPerUe | Usage | M | 1 | This IE | | | | Threshold | | | indicates | | | | | | | a data | | | | | | | volume | | | | | | | expected | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | ansferred | | | | | | | per UE. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 5.6.2.4 Type BdtPolicyData
Table 5.6.2.4-1: Definition of type BdtPolicyData
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | bdtRefId | BdtRe | M | 1 | This IE | | | | ferenceId | | | indicates | | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | | policies | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | ackground | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | ASP. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | selTran | integer | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | sPolicyId | | | | contains | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | identity | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | selected | | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | | policy. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | PATCH | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | modifies | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | ndividual | | | | | | | BDT | | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | selected | | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | | policy. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | suppFeat | Supporte | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | dFeatures | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | a list of | | | | | | | Supported | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | used as | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | subcl | | | | | | | ause 5.8. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | supplied | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | PCF in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | requests | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | creation | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | ndividual | | | | | | | BDT | | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | | resource. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | trans | arr | M | 1..N | This IE | | | fPolicies | ay(Transf | | | contains | | | | erPolicy) | | | transfer | | | | | | | policies. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | supplied | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | PCF in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | requests | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | creation | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | ndividual | | | | | | | BDT | | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | | resource. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 5.6.2.5 Type TransferPolicy
Table 5.6.2.5-1: Definition of type TransferPolicy
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability maxBitRateDl
BitRate O 0..1 This IE indicates a maximum aggregated bitrate in the downlink
direction authorized by the PCF.  
maxBitRateUl BitRate O 0..1 This IE indicates a maximum aggregated bitrate in
the uplink direction authorized by the PCF.  
ratingGroup integer M 1 This IE indicates a rating group for the recommended
time window.  
recTimeInt TimeWindow M 1 This IE indicates a recommended time window of a
transfer policy.  
transPolicyId integer M 1 This IE contains an identity of a transfer policy.
* * *
#### 5.6.2.6 Type BdtPolicyDataPatch
Table 5.6.2.6-1: Definition of type BdtPolicyDataPatch
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
selTransPolicyId integer M 1 This IE contains an identity (i.e. the
transPolicyId value) of a selected transfer policy.
* * *
#### 5.6.2.7 Void
#### 5.6.2.8 Type NetworkAreaInfo
Table 5.6.2.8-1: Definition of type NetworkAreaInfo
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ecgis | ar | O | 1..N | This IE | | | | ray(Ecgi) | | | contains | | | | | | | a list of | | | | | | | E‑UTRA | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entities. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ncgis | ar | O | 1..N | This IE | | | | ray(Ncgi) | | | contains | | | | | | | a list of | | | | | | | NR cell | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entities. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | gR | arra | O | 1..N | This IE | | | anNodeIds | y(GlobalR | | | contains | | | | anNodeId) | | | a list of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | NG‑RAN | | | | | | | nodes. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | n3IwfId\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "GlobalRa | | | | | | | nNodeId\" | | | | | | | data type | | | | | | | shall not | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | supplied. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | tais | a | O | 1..N | This IE | | | | rray(Tai) | | | contains | | | | | | | a list of | | | | | | | tracking | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entities. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | | Networ | | | | | | | kAreaInfo | | | | | | | data type | | | | | | | allows | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | mbination | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | operties. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 5.6.2.9 Void
#### 5.6.2.10 Void
#### 5.6.2.11 Type PatchBdtPolicy
Table 5.6.2.11-1: Definition of type PatchBdtPolicy
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability bdtPolData
BdtPolicyDataPatch O 0..1 Describes the updates in BDT policy data of an
Individual BDT Policy resource, e.g., describes the selected BDT policy.
* * *
### 5.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
#### 5.6.3.1 Introduction
This subclause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be
referenced from data structures defined in the previous subclauses.
#### 5.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 5.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 5.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability AspId string This IE
contains an identity of an application service provider.
* * *
## 5.7 Error handling
### 5.7.1 General
HTTP error handling shall be supported as specified in subclause 5.2.4 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [6].
For the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in subclause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [7]. Protocol errors and
application errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6] shall be
supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are
specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [6]. In addition, the requirements in the following subclauses shall
apply.
### 5.7.2 Protocol Errors
In this Release of the specification, there are no additional protocol errors
applicable for the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API.
### 5.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API are listed in
table 5.7.3-1. The PCF shall include in the HTTP status code a
\"ProblemDetails\" data structure with the \"cause\" attribute indicating the
application error as listed in table 5.7.3-1.
Table 5.7.3-1: Application errors
* * *
Application Error HTTP status code Description BDT_POLICY_NOT_FOUND 404 Not
Found The HTTP request is rejected because the specified Individual BDT policy
resource does not exist. (NOTE) NOTE: This application error is included in
the responses to the GET and PATCH requests.
* * *
## 5.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 5.8-1 are defined for the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl
API. They shall be negotiated using the extensibility mechanism defined in
subclause 6.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6].
When requesting the PCF to create an Individual BDT policy resource the NF
service consumer shall indicate the optional features the NF service consumer
supports for the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl service by including the \"suppFeat\"
attribute in the \"BdtReqData\" data type of the HTTP POST request.
The PCF shall determine the supported features for the created Individual BDT
policy resource as specified in subclause 6.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [6]. The PCF
shall indicate the supported features in the HTTP response confirming the
creation of the Individual BDT policy resource by including the \"suppFeat\"
attribute in the \"BdtPolicyData\" data type.
Table 5.8-1: Supported Features
+----------------+-----------------+---------------------------------+ | Feature number | Feature Name | Description | +----------------+-----------------+---------------------------------+ | 3 | PatchCorrection | Indicates support of the | | | | correction to the PATCH method. | | | | | | | | When this feature is not | | | | supported, the interoperability | | | | between a NF service consumer | | | | and the PCF can only be ensured | | | | when it is not required the | | | | update of the Individual BDT | | | | policy resource. | +----------------+-----------------+---------------------------------+
## 5.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [18] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [6], the access to the
Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API, based on local configuration, may be authorized by
means of the OAuth2 protocol (see IETF RFC 6749 [19]), using the \"Client
Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [20])
plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 authorization is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming
services offered by the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API, shall obtain a \"token\"
from the authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service,
as described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [20], subclause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl service.
The Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API defines a single scope \"npcf-bdtpolicycontrol\"
for OAuth2 authorization (as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501 [18]) for the entire
API, and it does not define any additional scopes at resource or operation
level.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
The present Annex contains an OpenAPI [10] specification of HTTP messages and
content bodies used by the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API.
This Annex shall take precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API.
NOTE 1: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification file contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on the public 3GPP file server in the
following locations (see clause 5B of the 3GPP TR 21.900 [21] for further
information):
\- https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/OpenAPI/\/; and
\- https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/\/\/OpenAPI/.
NOTE 2: To fetch the OpenAPI specification file after CT#83 plenary meeting
for Release 15 in the above links \ must be replaced with the date
the CT Plenary occurs, in the form of year-month (yyyy-mm), e.g. for CT#83
meeting \ must be replaced with value \"2019-03\" and \ must
be replaced with value \"Rel-15\".
# A.2 Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: Npcf_BDTPolicyControl Service API
version: 1.0.3
description: \|
PCF BDT Policy Control Service.
© 2021, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
#
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.554 V15.6.0; 5G System; Background Data Transfer
Policy Control Service.
url: \'http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.554/\'
#
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/npcf-bdtpolicycontrol/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in subclause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501.
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- npcf-bdtpolicycontrol
paths:
/bdtpolicies:
post:
summary: Create a new Individual BDT policy
operationId: CreateBDTPolicy
tags:
\- BDT policies (Collection)
requestBody:
description: Contains information for the creation of a new Individual BDT
policy resource.
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BdtReqData\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: Background data transfer policies offered to an ASP.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BdtPolicy\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the created individual BDT policy resource,
according to the structure: {apiRoot}/npcf-
bdtpolicycontrol/v1/bdtpolicies/{bdtPolicyId}\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
#
# Error scenarios POST
#
\'303\':
description: See Other. The result of the POST request would be equivalent to
the existing Individual BDT policy resource.
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the existing individual BDT policy
resource.\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
#
# End error scenarios POST
#
/bdtpolicies/{bdtPolicyId}:
get:
summary: Read an Individual BDT policy
operationId: GetBDTPolicy
tags:
\- Individual BDT policy (Document)
parameters:
\- name: bdtPolicyId
description: String identifying the individual BDT policy resource in the PCF.
in: path
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'200\':
description: Background data transfer policies offered to and selected by an
ASP.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BdtPolicy\'
#
# Error scenarios GET
#
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/406\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
#
# End error scenarios GET
#
patch:
summary: Update an Individual BDT policy
operationId: UpdateBDTPolicy
tags:
\- Individual BDT policy (Document)
parameters:
\- name: bdtPolicyId
description: String identifying the individual BDT policy resource in the PCF.
in: path
required: true
schema:
type: string
requestBody:
description: Contains modification instruction to be performed on the
BdtPolicy data structure to select a transfer policy.
required: true
content:
application/merge-patch+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PatchBdtPolicy\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: The Individual BDT Policy resource is modified and a
representation of that resource is returned.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BdtPolicy\'
\'204\':
description: The Individual BDT Policy resource is modified.
#
# Error scenarios PATCH
#
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
#
# End error scenarios PATCH
#
#
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
npcf-bdtpolicycontrol: Access to the Npcf_BDTPolicyControl API
schemas:
#
# Structured data types
#
BdtPolicy:
description: Represents an Individual BDT policy resource.
type: object
properties:
bdtPolData:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BdtPolicyData\'
bdtReqData:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BdtReqData\'
#
BdtReqData:
description: Contains service requirements for creation a new Individual BDT
policy resource.
type: object
required:
\- aspId
\- desTimeInt
\- numOfUes
\- volPerUe
properties:
aspId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AspId\'
desTimeInt:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/TimeWindow\'
nwAreaInfo:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NetworkAreaInfo\'
numOfUes:
description: Indicates a number of UEs.
type: integer
volPerUe:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/UsageThreshold\'
suppFeat:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
#
BdtPolicyData:
description: Describes the authorization data of an Individual BDT policy
resource.
type: object
required:
\- bdtRefId
\- transfPolicies
properties:
bdtRefId:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/BdtReferenceId\'
transfPolicies:
description: Contains transfer policies.
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/TransferPolicy\'
minItems: 1
selTransPolicyId:
description: Contains an identity of the selected transfer policy.
type: integer
suppFeat:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
#
PatchBdtPolicy:
description: Describes the updates in authorization data of an Individual BDT
Policy created by the PCF.
type: object
properties:
bdtPolData:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BdtPolicyDataPatch\'
#
BdtPolicyDataPatch:
description: A JSON Merge Patch body schema containing modification
instruction to be performed on the bdtPolData attribute of the BdtPolicy data
structure to select a transfer policy. Adds selTransPolicyId to BdtPolicyData
data structure.
type: object
required:
\- selTransPolicyId
properties:
selTransPolicyId:
description: Contains an identity (i.e. transPolicyId value) of the selected
transfer policy.
type: integer
#
TransferPolicy:
description: Describes a transfer policy.
type: object
required:
\- ratingGroup
\- recTimeInt
\- transPolicyId
properties:
maxBitRateDl:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/BitRate\'
maxBitRateUl:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/BitRate\'
ratingGroup:
description: Indicates a rating group for the recommended time window.
type: integer
recTimeInt:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/TimeWindow\'
transPolicyId:
description: Contains an identity of a transfer policy.
type: integer
NetworkAreaInfo:
description: Describes a network area information in which the NF service
consumer requests the number of UEs.
type: object
properties:
ecgis:
description: Contains a list of E-UTRA cell identities.
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Ecgi\'
minItems: 1
ncgis:
description: Contains a list of NR cell identities.
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Ncgi\'
minItems: 1
gRanNodeIds:
description: Contains a list of NG RAN nodes.
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/GlobalRanNodeId\'
minItems: 1
tais:
description: Contains a list of tracking area identities.
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Tai\'
minItems: 1
#
# Simple data types
#
AspId:
description: Contains an identity of an application service provider.
type: string
#
#
#