# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for common
data types that are used or may be expected to be used by multiple Service
Based Interface APIs supported by the same or different Network Function(s).
The Principles and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS
29.501 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[3] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification\", https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-
Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md.
[4] IETF RFC 1166: \"Internet Numbers\".
[5] IETF RFC 5952: \"A recommendation for IPv6 address text representation\".
[6] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[9] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[10] IETF RFC 3339: \"Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps\".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG-RAN; NG Application Protocol (NGAP) \".
[12] IETF RFC 6901: \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Pointer\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[14] IETF RFC 6902: \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Patch\".
[15] IETF RFC 4122: \"A Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID) URN Namespace\".
[16] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[17] IETF RFC 7042: \"IANA Considerations and IETF Protocol and Documentation
Usage for IEEE 802 Parameters\".
[18] IETF RFC 6733: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[19] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) Protocol for 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
[21] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[22] Void.
[23] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
[24] ITU-T Recommendation Q.763 (1999): \"Specifications of Signalling System
No.7; Formats and codes\".
[25] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[26] 3GPP TS 23.015: \"Technical Realization of Operator Determined Barring\".
[27] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core Network
DNAI Data Network Access Identifier
GPSI Generic Public Subscription Identifier
GUAMI Globally Unique AMF Identifier
PEI Permanent Equipment Identifier
SBI Service Based Interface
SUPI Subscription Permanent Identifier
# 4 Overview
For the different 5GC SBI API, data types shall be defined. Data types
identified as common data types shall be defined in this Technical
specification and should be referenced from individual 5GC SBI API
specifications.
Data types applicable or intended to be applicable to several 5GC SBI API
specifications should be interpreted as common data types.
# 5 Common Data Types
## 5.1 Introduction
In the following clauses, common data types for the following areas are
defined:
\- Data types for generic usage;
\- Data types for Subscription, Identification and Numbering;
\- Data types related to 5G Network;
\- Data types related to 5G QoS;
\- Data types related to 5G Trace;
\- Data types related to 5G ODBs.
## 5.2 Data Types for Generic Usage
### 5.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines common data types for generic usage.
### 5.2.2 Simple Data Types
This clause specifies common simple data types.
Table 5.2.2-1: Simple Data Types
+--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Type Name | Type Definition | Description | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Binary | string | String with format | | | | \"binary\" as defined in | | | | OpenAPI Specification [3] | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | BinaryRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Binary\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Bytes | string | String with format \"byte\" | | | | as defined in | | | | O | | | | penAPI Specification [3], | | | | i.e, base64-encoded | | | | characters, | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | BytesRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Bytes\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Date | string | String with format \"date\" | | | | as defined in | | | | OpenAPI Specification [3] | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | DateRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Date\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | DateTime | string | String with format | | | | \"date-time\" as defined in | | | | OpenAPI Specification [3] | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | DateTimeRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"DateTime\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | DiameterIdentity | string | String containing a | | | | Diameter Identity, | | | | according to clause 4.3 of | | | | IETF RFC 6733 [18]. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \' | | | | \^([A-Za-z0-9]+([-A-Za-z | | | | 0-9]+)\\.)+[a-z]{2,}\$\' | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | DiameterIdentityRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"DiameterIdentity\" data | | | | type, but with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Double | number | Number with format | | | | \"double\" as defined in | | | | OpenAPI Specification [3] | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | DoubleRm | number | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Double\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | DurationSec | integer | Unsigned integer | | | | identifying a period of | | | | time in units of seconds. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | DurationSecRm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"DurationSec\" data type, | | | | but with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Float | number | Number with format | | | | \"float\" as defined in | | | | OpenAPI Specification [3] | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | FloatRm | number | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Float\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Uint16 | integer | Unsigned 16-bit integers, | | | | i.e. only value between 0 | | | | and 65535 are permissible. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Uint16Rm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Uint16\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Int32 | integer | Integer with format | | | | \"int32\" as defined in | | | | OpenAPI Specification [3] | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Int32Rm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Int32\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Int64 | integer | Integer with format | | | | \"int64\" as defined in | | | | OpenAPI Specification [3] | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Int64Rm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Int64\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Ipv4Addr | string | String identifying a IPv4 | | | | address formatted in the | | | | \"dotted decimal\" notation | | | | as defined in in | | | | IETF RFC 1166 [4]. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^(([0-9]\|[1-9\ | | | | ][0-9]\|1[0-9][0-9]\| | | | | 2[0-4][0-9]\|25[0-5]) | | | | \\.){3}([0-9]\|[1-9][0 | | | | -9]\|1[0-9][0-9]\|2[0 | | | | -4][0-9]\|25[0-5])\$\' | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Ipv4AddrRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Ipv4Addr\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Ipv6Addr | string | String identifying an IPv6 | | | | address formatted according | | | | to clause 4 of | | | | IETF RFC 5952 [5]. The | | | | mixed IPv4 IPv6 notation | | | | according to clause 5 of | | | | IETF RFC 5952 [5] shall | | | | not be used. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^((:\|(0?\|([1-9 | | | | a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3}))):)(( | | | | 0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0 | | | | ,3})):){0,6}(:\|(0?\|([1-9 | | | | a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3})))\$\' | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^((([ | | | | \^:]+:){7}([\^:]+))\|((( | | | | [\^:]+:)*[\^:]+)?::((\ | | | | [\^:]+:)*[\^:]+)?))\$\' | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Ipv6AddrRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Ipv6Addr\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Ipv6Prefix | string | String identifying an IPv6 | | | | address prefix formatted | | | | according to clause 4 of | | | | IETF RFC 5952 [5]. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \ | | | | '\^((:\|(0?\|([1-9a-f][0 | | | | -9a-f]{0,3}))):)((0?\|([1 | | | | -9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3})):){ | | | | 0,6}(:\|(0?\|([1-9a-f][0 | | | | -9a-f]{0,3})))(\/(([0-9\ | | | | ])\|([0-9]{2})\|(1[0-1] | | | | [0-9])\|(12[0-8])))\$\' | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^((([\^:]+: | | | | ){7}([\^:]+))\|((([\^:] | | | | +:)*[\^:]+)?::(([\^:]+ | | | | :)*[\^:]+)?))(\/.+)\$\' | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Ipv6PrefixRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Ipv6Prefix\" data type, | | | | but with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | MacAddr48 | string | String identifying a MAC | | | | address formatted in the | | | | hexadecimal notation | | | | according to clause 1.1 and | | | | clause 2.1 of | | | | IETF RFC 7042 [17]. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^([0-9a-fA-F]{2})( | | | | (-[0-9a-fA-F]{2}){5})\$\' | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | MacAddr48Rm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"MacAddr48\" data type, | | | | but with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | SupportedFeatures | string | A string used to indicate | | | | the features supported by | | | | an API that is used as | | | | defined in clause 6.6 in | | | | 3GPP TS 29.500 [25].\ | | | | The string shall contain a | | | | bitmask indicating | | | | supported features in | | | | hexadecimal representation: | | | | | | | | Each character in the | | | | string shall take a value | | | | of \"0\" to \"9\" or \"A\" | | | | to \"F\" and shall | | | | represent the support of 4 | | | | features as described in | | | | table 5.2.2-3. The most | | | | significant character | | | | representing the | | | | highest-numbered features | | | | shall appear first in the | | | | string, and the character | | | | representing features 1 to | | | | 4 shall appear last in the | | | | string. The list of | | | | features and their | | | | numbering (starting with 1) | | | | are defined separately for | | | | each API. If the string | | | | contains a lower number of | | | | characters than there are | | | | defined features for an | | | | API, all features that | | | | would be represented by | | | | characters that are not | | | | present in the string are | | | | not supported. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Uinteger | integer | Unsigned Integer, i.e. only | | | | value 0 and integers above | | | | 0 are permissible. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | UintegerRm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Uinteger\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Uint32 | integer | Unsigned 32-bit integers, | | | | i.e. only value 0 and | | | | 32-bit integers above 0 are | | | | permissible. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Uint32Rm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"UInt32\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Uint64 | integer | Unsigned 64-bit integers, | | | | i.e. only value 0 and | | | | 64-bit integers above 0 are | | | | permissible. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Uint64Rm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Uint64\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Uri | string | String providing an URI | | | | formatted according to | | | | IETF RFC 3986 [6]. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | UriRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Uri\" data type, but with | | | | the OpenAPI \"nullable: | | | | true\" property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | VarUeId | string | String represents the SUPI | | | | or GPSI. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \"\^(im | | | | si-[0-9]{5,15}\|nai-.+\|m | | | | sisdn-[0-9]{5,15}\|extid- | | | | [\^@]+@[\^@]+\|.+)\$\". | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | VarUeIdRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"VarUeId\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | TimeZone | string | String with format | | | | \"\\" | | | | optionally appended by | | | | \"\\", | | | | where: | | | | | | | | - \ shall | | | | represent the time zone | | | | adjusted for daylight | | | | saving time and be encoded | | | | as time-numoffset as | | | | defined in clause 5.6 of | | | | IETF RFC 3339 [10]; | | | | | | | | - \ | | | | shall represent the | | | | adjustment that has been | | | | made and shall be encoded | | | | as \"+1\" or \"+2\" for a | | | | +1 or +2 hours adjustment. | | | | | | | | Example: \"-08:00+1\" (for | | | | 8 hours behind UTC, +1 hour | | | | adjustment for Daylight | | | | Saving Time). | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | TimeZoneRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"TimeZone\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+
Table 5.2.2-2: Reused OpenAPI data types
* * *
Type Name Description boolean As defined in OpenAPI Specification [3] integer
As defined in OpenAPI Specification [3] number As defined in OpenAPI
Specification [3] string As defined in OpenAPI Specification [3] NOTE Data
types defined in OpenAPI Specification [3] do not follow the UpperCamel
convention for data types in 3GPP TS 29.501 [2]
* * *
Table 5.2.2-3: Meaning of a Hexadecimal Character in SupportedFeatures Type
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | Character | Feature | Feature | Feature | Feature n\ | | | n+3\ | n+2\ | n+1\ | supported | | | supported | supported | supported | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"0\" | no | no | no | no | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"1\" | no | no | no | yes | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"2\" | no | no | yes | no | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"3\" | no | no | yes | yes | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"4\" | no | yes | no | no | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"5\" | no | yes | no | yes | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"6\" | no | yes | yes | no | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"7\" | no | yes | yes | yes | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"8\" | yes | no | no | no | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"9\" | yes | no | no | yes | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"A\" | yes | no | yes | no | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"B\" | yes | no | yes | yes | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"C\" | yes | yes | no | no | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"D\" | yes | yes | no | yes | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"E\" | yes | yes | yes | no | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | \"F\" | yes | yes | yes | yes | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1 | | | | | | \"n\" shall | | | | | | be i * 4 + | | | | | | 1, where | | | | | | \"i\" is | | | | | | zero or a | | | | | | natural | | | | | | number, i.e | | | | | | permissible | | | | | | values of | | | | | | \"n\" are | | | | | | 1, 5, 9, | | | | | | ... | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2 If a | | | | | | feature is | | | | | | not | | | | | | defined, it | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | indicated | | | | | | with value | | | | | | \"no\". | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
For example, if only the first feature defined in the feature list is set to
1, the corresponding SupportedFeatures attribute would have a value of \"1\",
or \"001\" (any amount of 0\'s to the left of the 1 would result into an
equivalent feature list). If we have 32 features defined, and only the last
feature in a feature list is set to 1, the corresponding SupportedFeatures
attribute would have a value of \"80000000\".
### 5.2.3 Enumerations
#### 5.2.3.1 Enumeration: PatchOperation
Table 5.2.3.1-1: Enumeration PatchOperation
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"add\" Add operation as defined in IETF RFC 6902 [14]. \"copy\" Copy
operation as defined in IETF RFC 6902 [14]. \"move\" Move operation as defined
in IETF RFC 6902 [14]. \"remove\" Remove operation as defined in IETF RFC 6902
[14]. \"replace\" Replace operation as defined in IETF RFC 6902 [14]. \"test\"
Test operation as defined in IETF RFC 6902 [14].
#### 5.2.3.2 Enumeration: UriScheme
Table 5.2.3.2-1: Enumeration UriScheme
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"http\" HTTP URI scheme \"https\" HTTPS URI scheme
#### 5.2.3.3 Enumeration: ChangeType
Table 5.2.3.3-1: Enumeration ChangeType
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"ADD\" This value indicates new attribute has been added to the resource
\"MOVE\" This value indicates existing attribute has been moved to a different
path in the resource. \"REMOVE\" This value indicates existing attribute has
been deleted from the resource. \"REPLACE\" This value indicates existing
attribute has been updated with new value.
### 5.2.4 Structured Data Types
#### 5.2.4.1 Type: ProblemDetails
Table 5.2.4-1: Definition of type ProblemDetails
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | type | Uri | O | 0..1 | A URI | | | | | | reference | | | | | | according to | | | | | | IETF R | | | | | | FC 3986 [6] | | | | | | that | | | | | | identifies | | | | | | the problem | | | | | | type. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | title | string | O | 0..1 | A short, | | | | | | h | | | | | | uman-readable | | | | | | summary of | | | | | | the problem | | | | | | type. It | | | | | | should not | | | | | | change from | | | | | | occurrence to | | | | | | occurrence of | | | | | | the problem. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | status | integer | O | 0..1 | The HTTP | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for this | | | | | | occurrence of | | | | | | the problem. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | detail | string | O | 0..1 | A | | | | | | h | | | | | | uman-readable | | | | | | explanation | | | | | | specific to | | | | | | this | | | | | | occurrence of | | | | | | the problem. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | instance | Uri | O | 0..1 | A URI | | | | | | reference | | | | | | that | | | | | | identifies | | | | | | the specific | | | | | | occurrence of | | | | | | the problem. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | cause | string | C | 0..1 | A | | | | | | mac | | | | | | hine-readable | | | | | | application | | | | | | error cause | | | | | | specific to | | | | | | this | | | | | | occurrence of | | | | | | the problem | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE | | | | | | should be | | | | | | present and | | | | | | provide | | | | | | applic | | | | | | ation-related | | | | | | error | | | | | | information, | | | | | | if available. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | invalidParams | array( | O | 1..N | Description | | | InvalidParam) | | | of invalid | | | | | | parameters, | | | | | | for a request | | | | | | rejected due | | | | | | to invalid | | | | | | parameters. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | supp | Supp | C | 0..1 | Features | | ortedFeatures | ortedFeatures | | | supported by | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Producer. | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE shall | | | | | | be present | | | | | | when | | | | | | rejecting a | | | | | | request due | | | | | | to an | | | | | | unsupported | | | | | | query | | | | | | parameter, if | | | | | | at least one | | | | | | feature is | | | | | | defined for | | | | | | the | | | | | | corresponding | | | | | | service in | | | | | | the version | | | | | | of the | | | | | | specification | | | | | | that the NF | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Producer | | | | | | implements | | | | | | (see clause | | | | | | 5.2.x of 3GPP | | | | | | TS29. | | | | | | 500 [25]). | | | | | | | | | | | | When present, | | | | | | this IE shall | | | | | | indicate the | | | | | | features | | | | | | supported by | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Producer; if | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Producer | | | | | | supports no | | | | | | features, | | | | | | this IE shall | | | | | | be set to the | | | | | | character | | | | | | \"0\". | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: See | | | | | | IETF R | | | | | | FC 7807 [9] | | | | | | for detailed | | | | | | information | | | | | | and guidance | | | | | | for each | | | | | | attribute, | | | | | | and | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.501 [2] | | | | | | for | | | | | | guidelines on | | | | | | error | | | | | | handling | | | | | | support by | | | | | | 5GC SBI APIs. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Additional | | | | | | attributes | | | | | | may be | | | | | | defined per | | | | | | API. | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
#### 5.2.4.2 Type: Link
Table 5.2.4.2-1: Definition of type link
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
href Uri M 1 It contains the URI of the linked resource.
#### 5.2.4.3 Type PatchItem
Table 5.2.4.3-1: Definition of type PatchItem
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | op | Patch | M | 1 | This IE | | | | Operation | | | indicates | | | | | | | the patch | | | | | | | operation | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | | TF RFC 69 | | | | | | | 02 [14] | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | performed | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | resource. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | path | string | M | 1 | This IE | | | | | | | contains | | | | | | | a JSON | | | | | | | pointer | | | | | | | value (as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | IET | | | | | | | F RFC 690 | | | | | | | 1 [12]) | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eferences | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | on which | | | | | | | the patch | | | | | | | operation | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | erformed. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | from | string | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | the path | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | JSON | | | | | | | element | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | according | | | | | | | to JSON | | | | | | | Pointer | | | | | | | syntax) | | | | | | | being | | | | | | | moved or | | | | | | | copied to | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | indicated | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | \"path\" | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | patch | | | | | | | operation | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | \"move\" | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | \"copy\". | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | value | Any type | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | a new | | | | | | | value for | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | patch | | | | | | | operation | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | \"add\", | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | replace\" | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | \"test\". | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The data | | | | | | | type of | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | the same | | | | | | | as the | | | | | | | type of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | on which | | | | | | | the patch | | | | | | | operation | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | erformed. | | | | | | | The null | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | allowed. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 5.2.4.4 Type: LinksValueSchema
Table 5.2.4.4-1: Definition of type LinksValueSchema as a list of mutually
exclusive alternatives
Data type Cardinality Description
* * *
array(Link) 1..N Array of links Link 1 link
#### 5.2.4.5 Type: SelfLink
Table 5.2.4.5-1: Definition of type SelfLink
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
self Link M 1 It contains the URI of the linked resource.
#### 5.2.4.6 Type: InvalidParam
Table 5.2.4.6-1: Definition of type InvalidParam
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
param string M 1 Attribute\'s name encoded as a JSON Pointer. reason string O
0..1 A human-readable reason, e.g. \"must be a positive integer\".
#### 5.2.4.7 Type: LinkRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"Link\" data type, but with
the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.2.4.8 Type ChangeItem
Table 5.2.4.8-1: Definition of type ChangeItem
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | op | C | M | 1 | This IE | | | | hangeType | | | indicates | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | change | | | | | | | type | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | happens | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | resource. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | path | string | M | 1 | This IE | | | | | | | contains | | | | | | | a JSON | | | | | | | pointer | | | | | | | value (as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | IET | | | | | | | F RFC 690 | | | | | | | 1 [12]) | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eferences | | | | | | | a target | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | on which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | change | | | | | | | has been | | | | | | | applied. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (See | | | | | | | Note) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | from | string | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | the path | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | JSON | | | | | | | element | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | according | | | | | | | to JSON | | | | | | | Pointer | | | | | | | syntax) | | | | | | | being | | | | | | | moved or | | | | | | | copied to | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | indicated | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | \"path\" | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | \"op\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is of | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"MOVE\". | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | origValue | Any type | O | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | original | | | | | | | value at | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | target | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | \"op\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is of | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | REMOVE\", | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | REPLACE\" | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | \"MOVE\" | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Based on | | | | | | | the use | | | | | | | case, | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | included. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | newValue | Any type | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | a new | | | | | | | value at | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | target | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | \"op\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is of | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"ADD\", | | | | | | | \"R | | | | | | | EPLACE\". | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The data | | | | | | | type of | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | the same | | | | | | | as the | | | | | | | type of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | on which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | change | | | | | | | has | | | | | | | happened. | | | | | | | The null | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | allowed. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE: As | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | IET | | | | | | | F RFC 690 | | | | | | | 1 [12], | | | | | | | the value | | | | | | | \"\" | | | | | | | (empty | | | | | | | JSON | | | | | | | string) | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | JSON | | | | | | | Pointer | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | xpression | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | represent | | | | | | | \"the | | | | | | | whole | | | | | | | JSON | | | | | | | do | | | | | | | cument\"; | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | herefore, | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | \"path\" | | | | | | | takes | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | \"\" and | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | \"op\" | | | | | | | takes | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | \"ADD\" | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | REMOVE\", | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terpreted | | | | | | | as the | | | | | | | creation | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | deletion | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | pectively | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | to which | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | \"Cha | | | | | | | ngeItem\" | | | | | | | refers | | | | | | | to. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 5.2.4.9 Type NotifyItem
Table 5.2.4.9-1: Definition of type NotifyItem
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
resourceId Uri M 1 This IE contains the URI of the resource which has been
changed.  
changes array(ChangeItem) M 1..N This IE contains the changes which have been
applied on the resource identified by the resourceId attribute.
#### 5.2.4.10 Type: ComplexQuery
Table 5.2.4.10-1: Definition of type ComplexQuery as a list of mutually
exclusive alternatives
Data type Cardinality Description
* * *
Cnf 1 A conjunctive normal form Dnf 1 A disjunctive normal form
The ComplexQuery data type is either a conjunctive normal form or a
disjunctive normal form. The attribute names \"cnfUnits\" and \"dnfUnits\"
(see clause 5.2.4.11 and clause 5.2.4.12) serve as discriminator.
#### 5.2.4.11 Type: Cnf
Table 5.2.4.11-1: Definition of type Cnf
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
cnfUnits array(CnfUnit) M 1..N During the processing of cnfUnits attribute,
all the members in the array shall be interpreted as logically concatenated
with logical \"AND\".
#### 5.2.4.12 Type: Dnf
Table 5.2.4.12-1: Definition of type Dnf
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
dnfUnits array(DnfUnit) M 1..N During the processing of dnfUnits attribute,
all the members in the array shall be interpreted as logically concatenated
with logical \"OR\".
#### 5.2.4.13 Type: CnfUnit
Table 5.2.4.13-1: Definition of type CnfUnit
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
cnfUnit array(Atom) M 1..N During the processing of cnfUnit attribute, all the
members in the array shall be interpreted as logically concatenated with
logical \"OR\".
#### 5.2.4.14 Type: DnfUnit
Table 5.2.4.14-1: Definition of type DnfUnit
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
dnfUnit array(Atom) M 1..N During the processing of dnfUnit attribute, all the
members in the array shall be interpreted as logically concatenated with
logical \"AND\".
#### 5.2.4.15 Type: Atom
Table 5.2.4.15-1: Definition of type Atom
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
attr string M 1 This attribute contains the name of a defined query parameter.  
value any type M 1 This attribute contains the value of the query parameter as
indicated by attr attribute.  
negative boolean O 0..1 This attribute indicates whether the negative
condition applies for the query condition.
## 5.3 Data Types related to Subscription, Identification and Numbering
### 5.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines common data types related to subscription, identification
and numbering information.
### 5.3.2 Simple Data Types
This clause specifies common simple data types.
Table 5.3.2-1: Simple Data Types
+------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Type Name | Type Definition | Description | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Dnn | string | String representing a | | | | Data Network as | | | | defined in clause 9A | | | | of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 [7]. | | | | It shall be formatted | | | | as string in which the | | | | labels are separated | | | | by dots (e.g. | | | | \"La | | | | bel1.Label2.Label3\"). | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | DnnRm | string | This data type is | | | | defined in the same | | | | way as the \"Dnn\" | | | | data type, but with | | | | the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | WildcardDnn | string | String representing | | | | the Wildcard DNN. | | | | | | | | It shall contain the | | | | string \"*\". | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^[*]\$\' | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | WildcardDnnRm | string | This data type is | | | | defined in the same | | | | way as the | | | | \"WildcardDnn\" data | | | | type, but with the | | | | OpenAPI \"nullable: | | | | true\" property. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Gpsi | string | String identifying a | | | | Gpsi shall contain | | | | either an External Id | | | | or an MSISDN. It shall | | | | be formatted as | | | | follows: | | | | | | | | -External Identifier: | | | | \"extid-\, | | | | where \ shall | | | | be formatted according | | | | to clause 19.7.2 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 [7] | | | | that describes an | | | | External Identifier. | | | | | | | | -MSISDN: | | | | \"msisdn-\, | | | | where \ shall | | | | be formatted according | | | | to clause 3.3 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 [7] | | | | that describes an | | | | MSISDN. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\ | | | | ^(msisdn-[0-9]{5,15} | | | | \|extid-.+@.+\|.+)\$\' | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | GpsiRm | string | This data type is | | | | defined in the same | | | | way as the \"Gpsi\" | | | | data type, but with | | | | the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | GroupId | string | String identifying a | | | | group of devices | | | | network internal | | | | globally unique ID | | | | which identifies a set | | | | of IMSIs, as specified | | | | in clause 19.9 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 [7]. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{ | | | | 8}-[0-9]{3}-[0-9]{ | | | | 2,3}-([A-Fa-f0-9][A | | | | -Fa-f0-9]){1,10}\$\'. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | GroupIdRm | string | This data type is | | | | defined in the same | | | | way as the \"GroupId\" | | | | data type, but with | | | | the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Pei | string | String representing a | | | | Permanent Equipment | | | | Identifier, if it | | | | contains an IMEI or | | | | IMEISV it is defined | | | | as specified in | | | | clause 6.2 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 [7]. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^(im | | | | ei-[0-9]{15}\|imeisv | | | | -[0-9]{16}\|.+)\$\'. | | | | See NOTE. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | PeiRm | string | This data type is | | | | defined in the same | | | | way as the \"Pei\" | | | | data type, but with | | | | the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Supi | string | String identifying a | | | | Supi shall contain | | | | either an IMSI or an | | | | NAI. It shall be | | | | formatted as follows | | | | for: | | | | | | | | - IMSI | | | | \"imsi-\, | | | | \ shall be | | | | formatted according to | | | | clause 2.2 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 [7] | | | | that describes an | | | | IMSI. | | | | | | | | - NAI \"nai-\, | | | | \ shall be | | | | formatted according to | | | | clause 28.6.2 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 [7] | | | | that describes an NAI. | | | | | | | | To enable that the | | | | value is used as part | | | | of an URI, the string | | | | shall only contain | | | | characters allowed | | | | according to the | | | | \"lower-with-hyphen\" | | | | naming convention | | | | defined in | | | | 3GPP TS 29.501 [2]. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^(imsi-[0-9]{5 | | | | ,15}\|nai-.+\|.+)\$\'. | | | | See NOTE. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | SupiRm | string | This data type is | | | | defined in the same | | | | way as the \"Supi\" | | | | data type, but with | | | | the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | NfInstanceId | string | String uniquely | | | | identifying a NF | | | | instance. The format | | | | of the NF Instance ID | | | | shall be a Universally | | | | Unique Identifier | | | | (UUID) version 4, as | | | | described in | | | | IETF RFC 4122 [15]. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | AmfId | string | String identifying the | | | | AMF ID composed of AMF | | | | Region ID (8 bits), | | | | AMF Set ID (10 bits) | | | | and AMF Pointer (6 | | | | bits) as specified in | | | | clause 2.10.1 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 [7]. | | | | | | | | It is encoded as a | | | | string of 6 | | | | hexadecimal characters | | | | (i.e., 24 bits). | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \' | | | | \^[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}\$\' | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | AmfRegionId | string | String identifying the | | | | AMF Region ID (8 | | | | bits), as specified in | | | | clause 2.10.1 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 [7]. | | | | | | | | It is encoded as a | | | | string of 2 | | | | hexadecimal characters | | | | (i.e. 8 bits). | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \' | | | | \^[A-Fa-f0-9]{2}\$\' | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | AmfSetId | string | String identifying the | | | | AMF Set ID (10 bits) | | | | as specified in clause | | | | 2.10.1 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 [7]. | | | | | | | | It is encoded as a | | | | string of 3 | | | | hexadecimal characters | | | | where the first | | | | character is limited | | | | to values 0 to 3 (i.e. | | | | 10 bits). | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^[0-3 | | | | ][A-Fa-f0-9]{2}\$\' | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | RfspIndex | integer | Unsigned integer | | | | representing the | | | | \"Subscriber Profile | | | | ID for RAT/Frequency | | | | Priority\" as | | | | specified in | | | | 3GPP TS 36.413 [16]. | | | | | | | | Minimum = 1. Maximum = | | | | 256. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | RfspIndexRm | integer | This data type is | | | | defined in the same | | | | way as the | | | | \"RfspIndex\" data | | | | type, but with the | | | | OpenAPI \"nullable: | | | | true\" property. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | NfGroupId | string | Identifier of a group | | | | of NFs | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | NOTE: The encoding of | | | | 3GPP defined | | | | identifiers (e.g. | | | | IMSI, NAI) shall be | | | | prefixed with its | | | | corresponding prefix | | | | (e.g. | | | | \'imsi-\',\'nai-\'). | | | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+
### 5.3.3 Enumerations
For Data Types related to Subscription, Identification and Numbering, no
Enumerations data types are defined in this version of the specification.
### 5.3.4 Structured Data Types
#### 5.3.4.1 Type: Guami
Table 5.3.4.1-1: Definition of type Guami
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
plmnId PlmnId M 1 PLMN Identity amfId AmfId M 1 AMF Identity
#### 5.3.4.2 Type: NetworkId
Table 5.3.4.2-1: Definition of type NetworkId
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
mcc Mcc C 0..1 Mobile Country Code mnc Mnc C 0..1 Mobile Network Code NOTE: At
least one MNC or MCC shall be included.
#### 5.3.4.3 Type: GuamiRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"Guami\" data type, but with
the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
## 5.4 Data Types related to 5G Network
### 5.4.1 Introduction
This clause defines common data types related to 5G Network (other than
related to 5G QoS).
### 5.4.2 Simple Data Types
This clause specifies common simple data types.
Table 5.4.2-1: Simple Data Types
+-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | Type Name | Type Definition | Description | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | ApplicationId | string | String providing an | | | | application identifier. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | ApplicationIdRm | string | This data type is defined in | | | | the same way as the | | | | \"ApplicationId\" data type, | | | | but with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" property. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | PduSessionId | integer | Unsigned integer identifying a | | | | PDU session, within the range | | | | 0 to 255, as specified in | | | | clause 11.2.3.1b, bits 1 to 8, | | | | of 3GPP TS 24.007 [13]. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | Mcc | string | Mobile Country Code part of | | | | the PLMN, comprising 3 digits, | | | | as defined in clause 9.3.3.5 | | | | of 3GPP TS 38.413 [11]. | | | | | | | | Pattern: \'\^[0-9]{3}\$\' | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | MccRm | string | This data type is defined in | | | | the same way as the \"Mcc\" | | | | data type, but with the | | | | OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | Mnc | string | Mobile Network Code part of | | | | the PLMN, comprising 2 or 3 | | | | digits, as defined in | | | | clause 9.3.3.5 of | | | | 3GPP TS 38.413 [11]. | | | | | | | | Pattern: \'\^[0-9]{2,3}\$\' | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | MncRm | string | This data type is defined in | | | | the same way as the \"Mnc\" | | | | data type, but with the | | | | OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | Tac | string | 2 or 3-octet string | | | | identifying a tracking area | | | | code as specified in | | | | clause 9.3.3.10 of | | | | 3GPP TS 38.413 [11], in | | | | hexadecimal representation. | | | | Each character in the string | | | | shall take a value of \"0\" to | | | | \"9\" or \"A\" to \"F\" and | | | | shall represent 4 bits. The | | | | most significant character | | | | representing the 4 most | | | | significant bits of the TAC | | | | shall appear first in the | | | | string, and the character | | | | representing the 4 least | | | | significant bit of the TAC | | | | shall appear last in the | | | | string. | | | | | | | | Examples: | | | | | | | | A legacy TAC 0x4305 shall be | | | | encoded as \"4305\". | | | | | | | | An extended TAC 0x63F84B shall | | | | be encoded as \"63F84B\" | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | TacRm | string | This data type is defined in | | | | the same way as the \"Tac\" | | | | data type, but with the | | | | OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | EutraCellId | string | 28-bit string identifying an | | | | E-UTRA Cell Id as specified in | | | | clause 9.3.1.9 of | | | | 3GPP TS 38.413 [11], in | | | | hexadecimal representation. | | | | Each character in the string | | | | shall take a value of \"0\" to | | | | \"9\" or \"A\" to \"F\" and | | | | shall represent 4 bits. The | | | | most significant character | | | | representing the 4 most | | | | significant bits of the Cell | | | | Id shall appear first in the | | | | string, and the character | | | | representing the 4 least | | | | significant bit of the Cell Id | | | | shall appear last in the | | | | string. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{7}\$\' | | | | | | | | Example: | | | | | | | | An E-UTRA Cell Id 0x5BD6007 | | | | shall be encoded as | | | | \"5BD6007\". | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | EutraCellIdRm | string | This data type is defined in | | | | the same way as the | | | | \"EutraCellId\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI \"nullable: | | | | true\" property. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | NrCellId | string | 36-bit string identifying an | | | | NR Cell Id as specified in | | | | clause 9.3.1.7 of | | | | 3GPP TS 38.413 [11], in | | | | hexadecimal representation. | | | | Each character in the string | | | | shall take a value of \"0\" to | | | | \"9\" or \"A\" to \"F\" and | | | | shall represent 4 bits. The | | | | most significant character | | | | representing the 4 most | | | | significant bits of the Cell | | | | Id shall appear first in the | | | | string, and the character | | | | representing the 4 least | | | | significant bit of the Cell Id | | | | shall appear last in the | | | | string. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{9}\$\' | | | | | | | | Example: | | | | | | | | An NR Cell Id 0x225BD6007 | | | | shall be encoded as | | | | \"225BD6007\". | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | NrCellIdRm | string | This data type is defined in | | | | the same way as the | | | | \"NrCellId\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI \"nullable: | | | | true\" property. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | Dnai | string | DNAI (Data network access | | | | identifier), see clause 5.6.7 | | | | of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8]. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | DnaiRm | string | This data type is defined in | | | | the same way as the \"Dnai\" | | | | data type, but with the | | | | OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | 5GMmCause | Uinteger | This represents the 5GMM cause | | | | code values as specified in | | | | 3GPP TS 24.501 [20]. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | AreaCodeRm | string | This data type is defined in | | | | the same way as the | | | | \"AreaCode\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI \"nullable: | | | | true\" property. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | AmfName | string | FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain | | | | Name) of the AMF as defined in | | | | clause 28.3.2.5 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 [7]. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | AreaCode | string | Values are operator specific. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | N3IwfId | string | This represents the identifier | | | | of the N3IWF ID as specified | | | | in clause 9.3.1.57 of | | | | 3GPP TS 38.413 [11] in | | | | hexadecimal representation. | | | | Each character in the string | | | | shall take a value of \"0\" to | | | | \"9\" or \"A\" to \"F\" and | | | | shall represent 4 bits. The | | | | most significant character | | | | representing the 4 most | | | | significant bits of the N3IWF | | | | ID shall appear first in the | | | | string, and the character | | | | representing the 4 least | | | | significant bit of the N3IWF | | | | ID shall appear last in the | | | | string. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]+\$\' | | | | | | | | Example: | | | | | | | | The N3IWF Id 0x5BD6 shall be | | | | encoded as \"5BD6\". | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | NgeNbId | string | This represents the identifier | | | | of the ng-eNB ID as specified | | | | in clause 9.3.1.8 of | | | | 3GPP TS 38.413 [11].. | | | | | | | | The string shall be formatted | | | | with following pattern: | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^(\ | | | | 'MacroNGeNB-[A-Fa-f0-9]{5}\| | | | | | | | | LMacroNGeNB-[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}\| | | | | | | | | SMa | | | | croNGeNB-[A-Fa-f0-9]{5})\$\' | | | | | | | | The value of the ng-eNB ID | | | | shall be encoded in | | | | hexadecimal representation. | | | | Each character in the string | | | | shall take a value of \"0\" to | | | | \"9\" or \"A\" to \"F\" and | | | | shall represent 4 bits. The | | | | padding 0 shall be added to | | | | make multiple nibbles, so the | | | | most significant character | | | | representing the padding 0 if | | | | required together with the 4 | | | | most significant bits of the | | | | ng-eNB ID shall appear first | | | | in the string, and the | | | | character representing the 4 | | | | least significant bit of the | | | | ng-eNB ID (to form a nibble) | | | | shall appear last in the | | | | string. | | | | | | | | Examples: | | | | | | | | \" SMacroNGeNB-34B89\" | | | | indicates a Short Macro NG-eNB | | | | ID with value 0x34B89. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+
### 5.4.3 Enumerations
#### 5.4.3.1 Enumeration: AccessType
Table 5.4.3.1-1: Enumeration AccessType
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"3GPP_ACCESS\" 3GPP access \"NON_3GPP_ACCESS\" Non-3GPP access
#### 5.4.3.2 Enumeration: RatType
Table 5.4.3.2-1: Enumeration RatType
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"NR\" New Radio \"EUTRA\" (WB) Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
\"WLAN\" Wireless LAN \"VIRTUAL\" Virtual (see NOTE) NOTE: Virtual shall be
used if the N3IWF does not know the access technology used for an untrusted
non-3GPP access.
#### 5.4.3.3 Enumeration: PduSessionType
The enumeration PduSessionType indicates the type of a PDU session. It shall
comply with the provisions defined in table 5.4.3.3-1.
Table 5.4.3.3-1: Enumeration PduSessionType
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"IPV4\" IPv4 \"IPV6\" IPv6 \"IPV4V6\" IPv4v6 (see clause 5.8.2.2.1 of 3GPP TS
23.501 [8]) \"UNSTRUCTURED\" Unstructured \"ETHERNET\" Ethernet
#### 5.4.3.4 Enumeration: UpIntegrity
The enumeration UpIntegrity indicates whether UP integrity protection is
required, preferred or not needed for all the traffic on the PDU Session. It
shall comply with the provisions defined in table 5.4.3.4-1.
Table 5.4.3.4-1: Enumeration UpIntegrity
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"REQUIRED\" UP integrity protection shall apply for all the traffic on the
PDU Session. \"PREFERRED\" UP integrity protection should apply for all the
traffic on the PDU Session. \"NOT_NEEDED\" UP integrity protection shall not
apply on the PDU Session.
#### 5.4.3.5 Enumeration: UpConfidentiality
The enumeration UpConfidentiality indicates whether UP confidentiality
protection is required, preferred or not needed for all the traffic on the PDU
Session. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 5.4.3.5-1.
Table 5.4.3.5-1: Enumeration UpConfidentiality
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"REQUIRED\" UP confidentiality protection shall apply for all the traffic on
the PDU Session. \"PREFERRED\" UP confidentiality protection should apply for
all the traffic on the PDU Session. \"NOT_NEEDED\" UP confidentiality
protection shall not apply on the PDU Session.
#### 5.4.3.6 Enumeration: SscMode
The enumeration SscMode represents the service and session continuity mode.
Table 5.4.3.6-1: Enumeration SscMode
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"SSC_MODE_1\" see 3GPP TS 23.501 [8] \"SSC_MODE_2\" see 3GPP TS 23.501 [8]
\"SSC_MODE_3\" see 3GPP TS 23.501 [8]
#### 5.4.3.7 Enumeration: DnaiChangeType
The enumeration DnaiChangeType represents the type of a DNAI change. A NF
service consumer may subscribe to \"EARLY\", \"LATE\" or \"EARLY_LATE\" types
of DNAI change. The types of observed DNAI change the SMF may notify are
\"EARLY\" or \"LATE\". The DnaiChangeType data type shall comply with the
provisions defined in table 5.4.3.7-1.
Table 5.4.3.7-1: Enumeration DnaiChangeType
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
EARLY Early notification of UP path reconfiguration.  
EARLY_LATE Early and late notification of UP path reconfiguration. This value
shall only be present in the subscription to the DNAI change event.  
LATE Late notification of UP path reconfiguration.
#### 5.4.3.8 Enumeration: RestrictionType
Table 5.4.3.8-1: Enumeration RestrictionType
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"ALLOWED_AREAS\" This value indicates that areas are allowed.
\"NOT_ALLOWED_AREAS\" This value indicates that areas are not allowed.
#### 5.4.3.9 Enumeration: CoreNetworkType
Table 5.4.3.9-1: Enumeration CoreNetworkType
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"5GC\" 5G Core \"EPC\" Evolved Packet Core
#### 5.4.3.10 Enumeration: AccessTypeRm
This enumeration is defined in the same way as the \"AccessType\" enumeration,
but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.3.11 Enumeration: RatTypeRm
This enumeration is defined in the same way as the \"RatType\" enumeration,
but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.3.12 Enumeration: PduSessionTypeRm
This enumeration is defined in the same way as the \"PduSessionType\"
enumeration, but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.3.13 Enumeration: UpIntegrityRm
This enumeration is defined in the same way as the \"UpIntegrity\"
enumeration, but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.3.14 Enumeration: UpConfidentialityRm
This enumeration is defined in the same way as the \"UpConfidentiality\"
enumeration, but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.3.15 Enumeration: SscModeRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"SscMode\" enumeration, but
with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.3.17 Enumeration: DnaiChangeTypeRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"DnaiChangeType\"
enumeration, but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.3.18 Enumeration: RestrictionTypeRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"RestrictionType\"
enumeration, but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.3.19 Enumeration: CoreNetworkType
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"CoreNetworkType\"
enumeration, but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.3.20 Enumeration: PresenceState
Table 5.4.3.20-1: Enumeration PresenceState
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"IN_AREA\" Indicates that the UE is inside or enters the presence reporting
area. \"OUT_OF_AREA\" Indicates that the UE is outside or leaves the presence
reporting area. \"UNKNOWN\" Indicates it is unknown whether the UE is in the
presence reporting area or not. \"INACTIVE\" Indicates that the presence
reporting area is inactive in the serving node.
### 5.4.4 Structured Data Types
#### 5.4.4.1 Type: SubscribedDefaultQos
Table 5.4.4.1-1: Definition of type SubscribedDefaultQos
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | 5qi | 5Qi | M | 1 | Default 5G | | | | | | QoS | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | see | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.501 [8] | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 5.7.2.7. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | arp | Arp | M | 1 | Default | | | | | | Allocation | | | | | | and Retention | | | | | | Priority see | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.501 [8] | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 5.7.2.7. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | priorityLevel | 5Qi | O | 0..1 | Defines the | | | PriorityLevel | | | 5QI Priority | | | | | | Level. | | | | | | | | | | | | When present, | | | | | | it contains | | | | | | the 5QI | | | | | | Priority | | | | | | Level value | | | | | | that | | | | | | overrides the | | | | | | standardized | | | | | | or | | | | | | p | | | | | | re-configured | | | | | | value as | | | | | | described in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.501 [8]. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.4.2 Type: Snssai
Table 5.4.4.2-1: Definition of type Snssai
+----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +================+===========+===+=============+=================+ | sst | Uinteger | M | 1 | Unsigned | | | | | | integer, within | | | | | | the range 0 to | | | | | | 255, | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the | | | | | | Slice/Service | | | | | | Type. It | | | | | | indicates the | | | | | | expected | | | | | | Network Slice | | | | | | behaviour in | | | | | | terms of | | | | | | features and | | | | | | services. | | | | | | | | | | | | Values 0 to 127 | | | | | | correspond to | | | | | | the | | | | | | standardized | | | | | | SST range. | | | | | | Values 128 to | | | | | | 255 correspond | | | | | | to the | | | | | | Op | | | | | | erator-specific | | | | | | range. See | | | | | | clause 28.4.2 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 23.003 [7]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Standardized | | | | | | values are | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | clause 5.15.2.2 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 23.501 [8]. | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | sd | string | O | 0..1 | 3-octet string, | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the Slice | | | | | | Differentiator, | | | | | | in hexadecimal | | | | | | representation. | | | | | | Each character | | | | | | in the string | | | | | | shall take a | | | | | | value of \"0\" | | | | | | to \"9\" or | | | | | | \"A\" to \"F\" | | | | | | and shall | | | | | | represent 4 | | | | | | bits. The most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bits of the SD | | | | | | shall appear | | | | | | first in the | | | | | | string, and the | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 least | | | | | | significant bit | | | | | | of the SD shall | | | | | | appear last in | | | | | | the string. | | | | | | | | | | | | This is an | | | | | | optional | | | | | | parameter that | | | | | | complements the | | | | | | Slice/Service | | | | | | type(s) to | | | | | | allow to | | | | | | differentiate | | | | | | amongst | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | Network Slices | | | | | | of the same | | | | | | Slice/Service | | | | | | type. | | | | | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | | | \'\^[A-F | | | | | | a-f0-9]{6}\$\' | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
When Snssai needs to be converted to string (e.g. when used in maps as key),
the string shall be composed of one to three digits \"sst\" optionally
followed by \"-\" and 6 hexadecimal digits \"sd\", and shall match the
following pattern:
\^([0-9]\|[1-9][0-9]\|1[0-9][0-9]\|2([0-4][0-9]\|5[0-5]))(-[A-Fa-f0-9]{6})?\$
Example 1: \"255-19CDE0\"
Example 2: \"29\"
#### 5.4.4.3 Type: PlmnId
Table 5.4.4.3-1: Definition of type PlmnId
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
mcc Mcc M 1 Mobile Country Code mnc Mnc M 1 Mobile Network Code
#### 5.4.4.4 Type: Tai
Table 5.4.4.4-1: Definition of type Tai
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
plmnId PlmnId M 1 PLMN Identity tac Tac M 1 Tracking Area Code
#### 5.4.4.5 Type: Ecgi
Table 5.4.4.5-1: Definition of type Ecgi
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
plmnId PlmnId M 1 PLMN Identity eutraCellId EutraCellId M 1 E-UTRA Cell
Identity
#### 5.4.4.6 Type: Ncgi
Table 5.4.4.6-1: Definition of type Ncgi
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
plmnId PlmnId M 1 PLMN Identity nrCellId NrCellId M 1 NR Cell Identity
#### 5.4.4.7 Type: UserLocation
Table 5.4.4.7-1: Definition of type UserLocation
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
eutraLocation EutraLocation C 0..1 E-UTRA user location (see NOTE). nrLocation
NrLocation C 0..1 NR user location (see NOTE). n3gaLocation N3gaLocation C
0..1 Non-3GPP access user location (see NOTE). NOTE: At least one of
eutraLocation, nrLocation and n3gaLocation shall be present. Several of them
may be present.
#### 5.4.4.8 Type: EutraLocation
Table 5.4.4.8-1: Definition of type EutraLocation
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | tai | Tai | M | 1 | Tracking Area | | | | | | Identity | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ecgi | Ecgi | M | 1 | E-UTRA Cell | | | | | | Identity | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ageOfLocati | integer | O | 0 1 | The value | | onInformation | | | | represents | | | | | | the elapsed | | | | | | time in | | | | | | minutes since | | | | | | the last | | | | | | network | | | | | | contact of | | | | | | the mobile | | | | | | station. | | | | | | | | | | | | Value \"0\" | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that the | | | | | | location | | | | | | information | | | | | | was obtained | | | | | | after a | | | | | | successful | | | | | | paging | | | | | | procedure for | | | | | | Active | | | | | | Location | | | | | | Retrieval | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | is in idle | | | | | | mode or after | | | | | | a successful | | | | | | NG-RAN | | | | | | location | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | with the eNB | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | is in | | | | | | connected | | | | | | mode. | | | | | | | | | | | | Any other | | | | | | value than | | | | | | \"0\" | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that the | | | | | | location | | | | | | information | | | | | | is the last | | | | | | known one. | | | | | | | | | | | | See | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.002 [21] | | | | | | c | | | | | | lause 17.7.8. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ueLoca | DateTime | O | 0..1 | The value | | tionTimestamp | | | | represents | | | | | | the UTC time | | | | | | when the | | | | | | UeLocation | | | | | | information | | | | | | was acquired. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | geographic | string | O | 0..1 | Refer to | | alInformation | | | | geographical | | | | | | Information. | | | | | | | | | | | | See | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.032 [23] | | | | | | clause 7.3.2. | | | | | | Only the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of an | | | | | | ellipsoid | | | | | | point with | | | | | | uncertainty | | | | | | circle is | | | | | | allowed to be | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | | | | Allowed | | | | | | characters | | | | | | are 0-9 and | | | | | | A-F; | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | geodet | string | O | 0..1 | Refers to | | icInformation | | | | Calling | | | | | | Geodetic | | | | | | Location. | | | | | | | | | | | | See | | | | | | I | | | | | | TU-T Recommen | | | | | | dation Q.763 | | | | | | (1999) [24] | | | | | | c | | | | | | lause 3.88.2. | | | | | | Only the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of an | | | | | | ellipsoid | | | | | | point with | | | | | | uncertainty | | | | | | circle is | | | | | | allowed to be | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | | | | Allowed | | | | | | characters | | | | | | are 0-9 and | | | | | | A-F. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | globalNgenbId | Gl | O | 0..1 | It indicates | | | obalRanNodeId | | | the global | | | | | | identity of | | | | | | the ng-eNodeB | | | | | | in which the | | | | | | UE is | | | | | | currently | | | | | | located. | | | | | | | | | | | | See | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 38.413 [11] | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 9.3.1.8. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.4.9 Type: NrLocation
Table 5.4.4.9-1: Definition of type NrLocation
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | tai | Tai | M | 1 | Tracking Area | | | | | | Identity | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ncgi | Ncgi | M | 1 | NR Cell | | | | | | Identity | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ageOfLocati | integer | O | 0 1 | The value | | onInformation | | | | represents | | | | | | the elapsed | | | | | | time in | | | | | | minutes since | | | | | | the last | | | | | | network | | | | | | contact of | | | | | | the mobile | | | | | | station. | | | | | | | | | | | | Value \"0\" | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that the | | | | | | location | | | | | | information | | | | | | was obtained | | | | | | after a | | | | | | successful | | | | | | paging | | | | | | procedure for | | | | | | Active | | | | | | Location | | | | | | Retrieval | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | is in idle | | | | | | mode or after | | | | | | a successful | | | | | | NG-RAN | | | | | | location | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | with the gNB | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | is in | | | | | | connected | | | | | | mode. | | | | | | | | | | | | Any other | | | | | | value than | | | | | | \"0\" | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that the | | | | | | location | | | | | | information | | | | | | is the last | | | | | | known one. | | | | | | | | | | | | See | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.002 [21] | | | | | | c | | | | | | lause 17.7.8. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ueLoca | DateTime | O | 0..1 | The value | | tionTimestamp | | | | represents | | | | | | the UTC time | | | | | | when the | | | | | | UeLocation | | | | | | information | | | | | | was acquired. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | geographic | string | O | 0..1 | Refer to | | alInformation | | | | geographical | | | | | | Information. | | | | | | | | | | | | See | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.032 [23] | | | | | | clause 7.3.2. | | | | | | Only the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of an | | | | | | ellipsoid | | | | | | point with | | | | | | uncertainty | | | | | | circle is | | | | | | allowed to be | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | | | | Allowed | | | | | | characters | | | | | | are 0-9 and | | | | | | A-F; | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | geodet | string | O | 0..1 | Refers to | | icInformation | | | | Calling | | | | | | Geodetic | | | | | | Location. | | | | | | | | | | | | See | | | | | | I | | | | | | TU-T Recommen | | | | | | dation Q.763 | | | | | | (1999) [24] | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 3.88.2. Only | | | | | | the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of an | | | | | | ellipsoid | | | | | | point with | | | | | | uncertainty | | | | | | circle is | | | | | | allowed to be | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | | | | Allowed | | | | | | characters | | | | | | are 0-9 and | | | | | | A-F. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | globalGnbId | Gl | O | 0..1 | It indicates | | | obalRanNodeId | | | the global | | | | | | identity of | | | | | | the gNodeB in | | | | | | which the UE | | | | | | is currently | | | | | | located. | | | | | | | | | | | | See | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 38.413 [11] | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 9.3.1.6. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.4.10 Type: N3gaLocation
Table 5.4.4.10-1: Definition of type N3gaLocation
+----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +================+===========+===+=============+=================+ | n3gppTai | Tai | C | 0..1 | The unique non | | | | | | 3GPP TAI used | | | | | | in the PLMN. It | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present over | | | | | | the 3GPP PLMN | | | | | | internal | | | | | | interfaces, but | | | | | | shall not be | | | | | | present over | | | | | | the N5 | | | | | | interface. | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | n3IwfId | string | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | | | | | contain the | | | | | | N3IWF | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | received over | | | | | | NGAP and shall | | | | | | be encoded as a | | | | | | string of | | | | | | hexadecimal | | | | | | characters. | | | | | | Each character | | | | | | in the string | | | | | | shall take a | | | | | | value of \"0\" | | | | | | to \"9\" or | | | | | | \"A\" to \"F\" | | | | | | and shall | | | | | | represent 4 | | | | | | bits. The most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bits of the | | | | | | N3IWF ID shall | | | | | | appear first in | | | | | | the string, and | | | | | | the character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 least | | | | | | significant bit | | | | | | of the N3IWF ID | | | | | | shall appear | | | | | | last in the | | | | | | string. | | | | | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | | | \'\^[A | | | | | | -Fa-f0-9]+\$\' | | | | | | | | | | | | Example: | | | | | | | | | | | | The N3IWF Id | | | | | | 0x5BD6 shall be | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | \"5BD6\". | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | | present over | | | | | | the 3GPP PLMN | | | | | | internal | | | | | | interfaces, but | | | | | | shall not be | | | | | | present over | | | | | | the N5 | | | | | | interface. | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | ueIpv4Addr | Ipv4Addr | C | 0..1 | UE local IPv4 | | | | | | address (used | | | | | | to reach the | | | | | | N3IWF). | | | | | | | | | | | | The ueIPv4Addr | | | | | | or the | | | | | | ueIPv6Addr | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present. | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | ueIpv6Addr | Ipv6Addr | C | 0..1 | UE local IPv6 | | | | | | address (used | | | | | | to reach the | | | | | | N3IWF). | | | | | | | | | | | | The ueIPv4Addr | | | | | | or the | | | | | | ueIPv6Addr | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present. | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | portNumber | Uinteger | C | 0..1 | UDP or TCP | | | | | | source port | | | | | | number. It | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if NAT | | | | | | is detected. | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
#### 5.4.4.11 Type: UpSecurity
Table 5.4.4.11-1: Definition of type UpSecurity
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
upIntegr UpIntegrity M 1 This IE shall indicate whether UP integrity
protection is required, preferred or not needed for all the traffic on the PDU
Session. upConfid UpConfidentiality M 1 This IE shall indicate whether UP
confidentiality protection is required, preferred or not needed for all the
traffic on the PDU Session.
#### 5.4.4.12 Type: NgApCause
Table 5.4.4.12-1: Definition of type NgApCause
+----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +================+===========+===+=============+=================+ | group | Uinteger | M | 1 | This IE shall | | | | | | indicate the | | | | | | group of the | | | | | | NGAP cause. The | | | | | | value of this | | | | | | IE shall equal | | | | | | to the ASN.1 | | | | | | value of the | | | | | | specified NGAP | | | | | | cause group. | | | | | | | | | | | | NGAP supports | | | | | | following cause | | | | | | groups defined | | | | | | as separate | | | | | | enumerations, | | | | | | as specified in | | | | | | clause 9.4.5 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 38.413 [11], | | | | | | with following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | > 0 -- | | | | | | > radioNetwork | | | | | | > | | | | | | > 1 -- | | | | | | > transport | | | | | | > | | | | | | > 2 -- nas | | | | | | > | | | | | | > 3 -- protocol | | | | | | > | | | | | | > 4 -- misc | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | value | Uinteger | M | 1 | This IE shall | | | | | | carry the NG AP | | | | | | cause value in | | | | | | specific cause | | | | | | group | | | | | | identified by | | | | | | the \"group\" | | | | | | attribute, as | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | clause 9.4.5 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 38.413 [11]. | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
#### 5.4.4.13 Type: BackupAmfInfo
Table 5.4.4.13-1: Definition of type BackupAmfInfo
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
backupAmf AmfName M 1 This IE shall contain the AMF name of the backup AMF
related to the specific GUAMI(s) (see clause 5.21.2.3 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8]).
If no GUAMI is included in BackupAmfinfo, the AMF name of the backup AMF is
related to all the GUAMI(s) supported by the AMF. guamiList array(Guami) C
1..N If present, this IE shall contain the GUAMI(s).
#### 5.4.4.14 Type: RefToBinaryData
Table 5.4.4.14-1: Definition of type RefToBinaryData
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
contentId string M 1 This IE shall contain the value of the Content-ID header
of the referenced binary body part.
#### 5.4.4.15 Type RouteToLocation
Table 5.4.4.15-1: Definition of type RouteToLocation
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
dnai Dnai M 1 Identifies the location of the application. routeInfo
RouteInformation C 0..1 Includes the traffic routing information. routeProfId
string C 0..1 Identifies the routing profile Id. NOTE: At least one of the
\"routeInfo\" attribute and the \"routeProfId\" attribute shall be included in
the \"RouteToLocation\" data type.
#### 5.4.4.16 Type RouteInformation
Table 5.4.4.16-1: Definition of type RouteInformation
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
ipv4Addr Ipv4Addr C 0..1 Ipv4address of the tunnel end point in the data
network. ipv6Addr Ipv6Addr C 0..1 Ipv6 address of the tunnel end point in the
data network. portNumber Uinteger M 1 UDP port number of the tunnel end point
in the data network. NOTE: At least one of the \"ipv4Addr\" attribute and the
\"ipv6Addr\" attribute shall be included in the \"RouteInformation\" data
type.
#### 5.4.4.17 Type: Area
Table 5.4.4.17-1: Definition of type Area
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
tacs array(Tac) C 1..N List of TACs; shall be present if and only if areaCode
is absent. areaCode AreaCode C 0..1 Area Code; shall be present if and only if
tacs is absent.
#### 5.4.4.18 Type: ServiceAreaRestriction
Table 5.4.4.18-1: Definition of type ServiceAreaRestriction
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | re | Re | C | 0..1 | string\ | | strictionType | strictionType | | | \"ALL | | | | | | OWED_AREAS\" | | | | | | or\ | | | | | | \"NOT_ALL | | | | | | OWED_AREAS\" | | | | | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | and only if | | | | | | the areas | | | | | | attribute is | | | | | | present | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | areas | array(Area) | O | 0..N | A list of | | | | | | Areas.\ | | | | | (NOTE) | These areas | | | | | | are: | | | | | | | | | | | | > \- allowed | | | | | | > areas if | | | | | | > Re | | | | | | strictionType | | | | | | > is | | | | | | > \"ALL | | | | | | OWED_AREAS\" | | | | | | > | | | | | | > \- not | | | | | | > allowed | | | | | | > areas if | | | | | | > Re | | | | | | strictionType | | | | | | > is | | | | | | > \"NOT_ALL | | | | | | OWED_AREAS\" | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | maxNumOfTAs | Uinteger | C | 0..1 | Maximum | | | | | | number of | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | tracking | | | | | | areas for use | | | | | | when | | | | | | re | | | | | | strictionType | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | \"ALLO | | | | | | WED_AREAS\". | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | absent when | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | \"rest | | | | | | rictionType\" | | | | | | takes the | | | | | | value | | | | | | \"NOT_ALLO | | | | | | WED_AREAS\". | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | max | Uinteger | C | 0..1 | Maximum | | NumOfTAsForNo | | | | number of | | tAllowedAreas | | | | allowed | | | | | | tracking | | | | | | areas for use | | | | | | when | | | | | | re | | | | | | strictionType | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | \"NOT_ALLO | | | | | | WED_AREAS\". | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | absent when | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | \"rest | | | | | | rictionType\" | | | | | | takes the | | | | | | value | | | | | | \"ALLO | | | | | | WED_AREAS\". | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | empty array | | | | | | is used when | | | | | | service is | | | | | | allow | | | | | | ed/restricted | | | | | | nowhere. | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.4.19 Type: PlmnIdRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"PlmnId\" data type, but
with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.4.20 Type: TaiRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"Tai\" data type, but with
the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.4.21 Type: EcgiRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"Ecgi\" data type, but with
the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.4.22 Type: NcgiRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"Ncgi\" data type, but with
the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.4.23 Type: EutraLocationRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"EutraLocation\" data type,
but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.4.24 Type: NrLocationRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"NrLocation\" data type, but
with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.4.25 Type: UpSecurityRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"UpSecurity\" data type, but
with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.4.26 Type: RefToBinaryDataRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \" RefToBinaryData \" data
type, but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.4.4.27 Type: PresenceInfo
Table 5.4.4.27-1: Definition of type PresenceInfo
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | praId | String | C | 0..1 | Represents an | | | | | | identifier of | | | | | | the Presence | | | | | | Reporting | | | | | | Area (see | | | | | | clause 28.10 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 3.003 [7]). | | | | | | This IE shall | | | | | | be present if | | | | | | the Area of | | | | | | Interest | | | | | | subscribed or | | | | | | reported is a | | | | | | Presence | | | | | | Reporting | | | | | | Area. | | | | | | | | | | | | When present, | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | encoded as a | | | | | | string | | | | | | representing | | | | | | an integer in | | | | | | the following | | | | | | ranges: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 to 8 388 | | | | | | 607 for | | | | | | UE-dedicated | | | | | | PRA | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 388 608 to | | | | | | 16 777 215 | | | | | | for Core | | | | | | Network | | | | | | predefined | | | | | | PRA. | | | | | | | | | | | | Examples: | | | | | | | | | | | | PRA ID 123 is | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | \"123\". | | | | | | | | | | | | PRA ID 11 238 | | | | | | 660 is | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | \"11238660\" | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | presenceState | PresenceState | C | 0..1 | Indicates | | | | | | whether the | | | | | | UE is inside | | | | | | or outside of | | | | | | the area of | | | | | | interest (e.g | | | | | | presence | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | area or the | | | | | | LADN area), | | | | | | or if the | | | | | | presence | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | area is | | | | | | inactive in | | | | | | the serving | | | | | | node. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | tra | array(Tai) | C | 1..N | Represents | | ckingAreaList | | | | the list of | | | | | | tracking | | | | | | areas that | | | | | | constitutes | | | | | | the area. | | | | | | This IE shall | | | | | | be present if | | | | | | the | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | or the event | | | | | | report is for | | | | | | tracking UE | | | | | | presence in | | | | | | the tracking | | | | | | areas. For | | | | | | non 3GPP | | | | | | access the | | | | | | TAI shall be | | | | | | the N3GPP | | | | | | TAI. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ecgiList | array(Ecgi) | C | 1..N | Represents | | | | | | the list of | | | | | | EUTRAN cell | | | | | | Ids that | | | | | | constitutes | | | | | | the area. | | | | | | This IE shall | | | | | | be present if | | | | | | the Area of | | | | | | Interest | | | | | | subscribed is | | | | | | a list of | | | | | | EUTRAN cell | | | | | | Ids. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ncgiList | array(Ncgi) | C | 1..N | Represents | | | | | | the list of | | | | | | NR cell Ids | | | | | | that | | | | | | constitutes | | | | | | the area. | | | | | | This IE shall | | | | | | be present if | | | | | | the Area of | | | | | | Interest | | | | | | subscribed is | | | | | | a list of NR | | | | | | cell Ids. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | global | array(Glo | C | 1..N | Represents | | RanNodeIdList | balRanNodeId) | | | the list of | | | | | | NG RAN node | | | | | | identifiers | | | | | | that | | | | | | constitutes | | | | | | the area. | | | | | | This IE shall | | | | | | be present if | | | | | | the Area of | | | | | | Interest | | | | | | subscribed is | | | | | | a list of NG | | | | | | RAN node | | | | | | identifiers. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.4.28 Type: GlobalRanNodeId
Table 5.4.4.28-1: Definition of type GlobalRanNodeId
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +=================+===========+===+=============+=================+ | plmnId | PlmnId | M | 1 | Indicates the | | | | | | identity of the | | | | | | PLMN that the | | | | | | RAN node | | | | | | belongs to. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | n3IwfId | N3IwfId | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | | | | | be included if | | | | | | the RAN node | | | | | | belongs to non | | | | | | 3GPP access | | | | | | (i.e a N3IWF). | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE). | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | gNbId | GNbId | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | | | | | be included if | | | | | | the RAN Node Id | | | | | | represents a | | | | | | gNB. When | | | | | | present, this | | | | | | IE shall | | | | | | contain the | | | | | | identifier of | | | | | | the gNB. | | | | | | (NOTE 1). | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | ngeNbId | NgeNbId | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | | | | | be included if | | | | | | the RAN Node Id | | | | | | represents a | | | | | | NG-eNB. When | | | | | | present, this | | | | | | IE shall | | | | | | contain the | | | | | | identifier of | | | | | | an NG-eNB. | | | | | | (NOTE 1). | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | NOTE: At most | | | | | | one of the | | | | | | three | | | | | | attributes | | | | | | n3IwfId, | | | | | | gNbIdm, ngeNbId | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present. | | | | | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
#### 5.4.4.29 Type: GNbId
Table 5.4.4.29-1: Definition of type GNbId
+----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +================+===========+===+=============+=================+ | bitLength | integer | M | 1 | Unsigned | | | | | | integer | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the bit length | | | | | | of the gNB ID | | | | | | as defined in | | | | | | clause 9.3.1.6 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 38.413 [11], | | | | | | within the | | | | | | range 22 to 32 | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | gNBValue | string | M | 1 | This represents | | | | | | the identifier | | | | | | of the gNB. | | | | | | | | | | | | The string | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | formatted with | | | | | | following | | | | | | pattern: | | | | | | | | | | | | \'\^[A-Fa- | | | | | | f0-9]{6,8}\$\' | | | | | | | | | | | | The value of | | | | | | the gNB ID | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | encoded in | | | | | | hexadecimal | | | | | | representation. | | | | | | Each character | | | | | | in the string | | | | | | shall take a | | | | | | value of \"0\" | | | | | | to \"9\" or | | | | | | \"A\" to \"F\" | | | | | | and shall | | | | | | represent 4 | | | | | | bits. The | | | | | | padding 0 shall | | | | | | be added to | | | | | | make multiple | | | | | | nibbles, the | | | | | | most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the padding 0 | | | | | | if required | | | | | | together with | | | | | | the 4 most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bits of the gNB | | | | | | ID shall appear | | | | | | first in the | | | | | | string, and the | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 least | | | | | | significant bit | | | | | | of the gNB ID | | | | | | shall appear | | | | | | last in the | | | | | | string. | | | | | | | | | | | | Examples: | | | | | | | | | | | | A 30 bit value | | | | | | \"382A3F47\" | | | | | | indicates a gNB | | | | | | ID with value | | | | | | 0x382A3F47 | | | | | | | | | | | | A 22 bit value | | | | | | \"2A3F47\" | | | | | | indicates a gNB | | | | | | ID with value | | | | | | 0x2A3F47 | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
#### 5.4.4.30 Type: PresenceInfoRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"PresenceInfo\" data type,
but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
## 5.5 Data Types related to 5G QoS
### 5.5.1 Introduction
This clause defines common data types related to 5G QoS.
### 5.5.2 Simple Data Types
This clause specifies common simple data types.
Table 5.5.2-1: Simple Data Types
+--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Type Name | Type Definition | Description | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | Qfi | integer | Unsigned integer | | | | identifying a QoS flow, | | | | within the range 0 to 63. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | QfiRm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"Qfi\" data type, but with | | | | the OpenAPI \"nullable: | | | | true\" property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | 5Qi | integer | Unsigned integer | | | | representing a 5G QoS | | | | Identifier (see | | | | clause 5.7.2.1 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.501 [8]), | | | | within the range 0 to 255. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | 5QiRm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"5Qi\" data type, but with | | | | the OpenAPI \"nullable: | | | | true\" property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | BitRate | string | String representing a bit | | | | rate that shall be | | | | formatted as follows: | | | | | | | | Pattern: \'\^\d+(\\.\d+)? | | | | (bps\| | | | | Kbps\|Mbps\|Gbps\|Tbps)\$\' | | | | | | | | Examples: | | | | | | | | \"125 Mbps\", \"0.125 | | | | Gbps\", \"125000 Kbps\" | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | BitRateRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"BitRate\" data type, but | | | | with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | ArpPriorityLevel | integer | Unsigned integer indicating | | | | the ARP Priority Level (see | | | | clause 5.7.2.2 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.501 [8]), | | | | within the range 1 to 15. | | | | | | | | Values are ordered in | | | | decreasing order of | | | | priority, i.e. with 1 as | | | | the highest priority and 15 | | | | as the lowest priority. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | ArpPriorityLevelRm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"ArpPriorityLevel\" data | | | | type, but with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | 5QiPriorityLevel | integer | Unsigned integer indicating | | | | the 5QI Priority Level (see | | | | clauses 5.7.3.3 and 5.7.4 | | | | of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8]), | | | | within the range 1 to 127. | | | | | | | | Values are ordered in | | | | decreasing order of | | | | priority, i.e. with 1 as | | | | the highest priority and | | | | 127 as the lowest priority. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | 5QiPriorityLevelRm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"5QiPriorityLevel\" data | | | | type, but with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | PacketDelBudget | Integer | Unsigned integer indicating | | | | Packet Delay Budget (see | | | | clauses 5.7.3.4 and 5.7.4 | | | | of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8])), | | | | expressed in milliseconds. | | | | | | | | Minimum = 1. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | PacketDelBudgetRm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"PacketDelBudget\" data | | | | type, but with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | PacketErrRate | string | String representing Packet | | | | Error Rate (see | | | | clause 5.7.3.5 and 5.7.4 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.501 [8]), | | | | expressed as a \"_scalar_ x | | | | 10-k\" where the scalar and | | | | the _exponent k are each | | | | encoded as one decimal | | | | digit_.. | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | \'\^([0-9]E-[0-9])\$\' | | | | | | | | Examples: | | | | | | | | Packer Error Rate 4x10^-6^ | | | | shall be encoded as | | | | \"4E-6\". | | | | | | | | Packer Error Rate 10^-2^ | | | | shall be encoded as | | | | \"1E2\". | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | PacketErrRateRm | string | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"PacketErrRate\" data | | | | type, but with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | PacketLossRate | Integer | Unsigned integer indicating | | | | Packet Loss Rate (see | | | | clauses 5.7.2.8 and 5.7.4 | | | | of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8])), | | | | expressed in tenth of | | | | percent. | | | | | | | | Minimum = 0. Maximum = | | | | 1000. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | PacketLossRateRm | Integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"PacketLossRate\" data | | | | type, but with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | AverWindow | Integer | Unsigned integer indicating | | | | Averaging Window (see | | | | clause 5.7.3.6 and 5.7.4 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.501 [8]), | | | | expressed in milliseconds. | | | | | | | | Minimum = 1. Maximum = | | | | 4095. Default = 2000.. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | AverWindowRm | integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"AverWindow\" data type, | | | | but with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | MaxDataBurstVol | Integer | Unsigned integer indicating | | | | Maximum Data Burst Volume | | | | (see clauses 5.7.3.7 and | | | | 5.7.4 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.501 [8])), | | | | expressed in Bytes. | | | | | | | | Minimum = 1. Maximum = | | | | 4095. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+ | MaxDataBurstVolRm | Integer | This data type is defined | | | | in the same way as the | | | | \"MaxDataBurstVol\" data | | | | type, but with the OpenAPI | | | | \"nullable: true\" | | | | property. | +--------------------+-----------------+-----------------------------+
### 5.5.3 Enumerations
#### 5.5.3.1 Enumeration: PreemptionCapability
The enumeration PreemptionCapability indicates the pre-emption capability of a
request on other QoS flows. See clause 5.7.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8]. It shall
comply with the provisions defined in table 5.5.3.1-1.
Table 5.5.3.1-1: Enumeration PreemptionCapability
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"NOT_PREEMPT\" Shall not trigger pre-emption. \"MAY_PREEMPT\" May trigger
pre-emption.
#### 5.5.3.2 Enumeration: PreemptionVulnerability
The enumeration PreemptionVulnerability indicates the pre-emption
vulnerability of the QoS flow to pre-emption from other QoS flows. See clause
5.7.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8]. It shall comply with the provisions defined in
table 5.5.3.2-1.
Table 5.5.3.2-1: Enumeration PreemptionVulnerability
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"NOT_PREEMPTABLE\" Shall not be pre-empted. \"PREEMPTABLE\" May be pre-
empted.
#### 5.5.3.3 Enumeration: ReflectiveQosAttribute
The enumeration ReflectiveQosAttribute indicates whether certain traffic of
the QoS flow may be subject to Reflective QoS (see clause 5.7.2.3 of 3GPP TS
23.501 [8]). It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 5.5.3.3-1.
Table 5.5.3.3-1: Enumeration ReflectiveQosAttribute
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"RQOS\" Certain traffic of the Qos flow may be subject to Reflective QoS.
\"NO_RQOS\" Traffic of the Qos flow is not subject to Reflective QoS.
#### 5.5.3.4 Void
#### 5.5.3.5 Enumeration: NotificationControl
The enumeration NotificationControl indicates whether notifications are
requested from the RAN when the GFBR can no longer (or again) be fulfilled for
a QoS Flow during the lifetime of the QoS Flow (see clause 5.7.2.4 of 3GPP TS
23.501 [8]). It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 5.5.3.5-1.
Table 5.5.3.5-1: Enumeration NotificationControl
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"REQUESTED\" Notifications are requested from the RAN. \"NOT_REQUESTED\"
Notifications are not requested from the RAN.
#### 5.5.3.6 Enumeration: QosResourceType
The enumeration QosResourceType indicates whether a QoS Flow is non-GBR, delay
critical GBR, or non-delay critical GBR (see clauses 5.7.3.4 and 5.7.3.5 of
3GPP TS 23.501 [8]). It shall comply with the provisions defined in table
5.5.3.6-1.
Table 5.5.3.6-1: Enumeration QosResourceType
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"NON_GBR\" Non-GBR QoS Flow. \"NON_CRITICAL_GBR\" Non-delay critical GBR QoS
flow. \"CRITICAL_GBR\" Delay critical GBR QoS flow.
#### 5.5.3.7 Enumeration: PreemptionCapabilityRm
This enumeration is defined in the same way as the \"PreemptionCapability\"
enumeration, but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.5.3.8 Enumeration: PreemptionVulnerabilityRm
This enumeration is defined in the same way as the \"PreemptionVulnerability\"
enumeration, but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.5.3.9 Enumeration: ReflectiveQosAttributeRm
This enumeration is defined in the same way as the \"ReflectiveQosAttribute\"
enumeration, but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.5.3.10 Enumeration: NotificationControlRm
This enumeration is defined in the same way as the \"NotificationControl\"
enumeration, but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.5.3.11 Enumeration: QosResourceTypeRm
This enumeration is defined in the same way as the \"QosResourceType\"
enumeration, but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.5.3.12 Enumeration: AdditionalQosFlowInfo
The enumeration AdditionalQosFlowInfo provides additional QoS flow information
(see clause 9.3.1.12 3GPP TS 38.413 [11]). It shall comply with the provisions
defined in table 5.5.3.12-1.
Table 5.5.3.12-1: Enumeration AdditionalQosFlowInfo
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"MORE_LIKELY\" Traffic for the QoS flow is likely to appear more often than
traffic for other flows established for the PDU session.
### 5.5.4 Structured Data Types
#### 5.5.4.1 Type: Arp
Table 5.5.4.1-1: Definition of type Arp
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
priorityLevel ArpPriorityLevel M 1 Defines the relative importance of a
resource request. preemptCap PreemptionCapability M 1 Defines whether a
service data flow may get resources that were already assigned to another
service data flow with a lower priority level. preemptVuln
PreemptionVulnerability M 1 Defines whether a service data flow may lose the
resources assigned to it in order to admit a service data flow with higher
priority level.
#### 5.5.4.2 Type: Ambr
Table 5.5.4.2-1: Definition of type Ambr
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
uplink BitRate M 1 AMBR for uplink downlink BitRate M 1 AMBR for downlink
#### 5.5.4.3 Type: Dynamic5Qi
Table 5.5.4.3-1: Definition of type Dynamic5Qi
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | res | QosRes | M | 1 | Defines | | | ourceType | ourceType | | | the 5QI | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | type. See | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | 5.5.3.6. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | prio | 5QiPrio | M | 1 | Defines | | | rityLevel | rityLevel | | | the 5QI | | | | | | | Priority | | | | | | | Level. | | | | | | | See | | | | | | | clau | | | | | | | se 5.5.2. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | packetDe | Packet | M | 1 | Defines | | | layBudget | DelBudget | | | the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | budget. | | | | | | | See | | | | | | | clau | | | | | | | se 5.5.2. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | pack | Pack | M | 1 | Defines | | | etErrRate | etErrRate | | | the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | error | | | | | | | rate. See | | | | | | | clau | | | | | | | se 5.5.2. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | a | A | C | 0..1 | Defines | | | verWindow | verWindow | | | the | | | | | | | averaging | | | | | | | window. | | | | | | | See | | | | | | | clau | | | | | | | se 5.5.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | only for | | | | | | | a GBR QoS | | | | | | | flow or a | | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | | Critical | | | | | | | GBR QoS | | | | | | | flow. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | maxDat | MaxDat | C | 0..1 | Defines | | | aBurstVol | aBurstVol | | | the | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | burst | | | | | | | volume. | | | | | | | See | | | | | | | clau | | | | | | | se 5.5.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | | Critical | | | | | | | GBR QoS | | | | | | | flow. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 5.5.4.4 Type: NonDynamic5Qi
Table 5.5.4.4-1: Definition of type NonDynamic5Qi
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | prio | 5QiPrio | O | 0..1 | Defines | | | rityLevel | rityLevel | | | the 5QI | | | | | | | Priority | | | | | | | Level. | | | | | | | See | | | | | | | clau | | | | | | | se 5.5.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | contains | | | | | | | the 5QI | | | | | | | Priority | | | | | | | Level | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | overrides | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | ndardized | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | pre-c | | | | | | | onfigured | | | | | | | value. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | a | A | O | 0..1 | Defines | | | verWindow | verWindow | | | the | | | | | | | averaging | | | | | | | window. | | | | | | | See | | | | | | | clau | | | | | | | se 5.5.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | for a GBR | | | | | | | QoS flow | | | | | | | or a | | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | | Critical | | | | | | | GBR QoS | | | | | | | flow. | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | contains | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | Averaging | | | | | | | Window | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | overrides | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | ndardized | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | pre-c | | | | | | | onfigured | | | | | | | value. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | maxDat | MaxDat | O | 0..1 | Defines | | | aBurstVol | aBurstVol | | | the | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | burst | | | | | | | volume. | | | | | | | See | | | | | | | clau | | | | | | | se 5.5.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | | Critical | | | | | | | GBR QoS | | | | | | | flow. | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | contains | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | Burst | | | | | | | Volume | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | overrides | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | ndardized | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | pre-c | | | | | | | onfigured | | | | | | | value. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 5.5.4.5 Type: ArpRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"Arp\" data type, but with
the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
#### 5.5.4.6 Type: AmbrRm
This data type is defined in the same way as the \"Ambr\" data type, but with
the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
## 5.6 Data Types related to 5G Trace
### 5.6.1 Introduction
This clause defines common data types related to 5G Trace.
### 5.6.2 Simple Data Types
This clause specifies common simple data types.
Table 5.6.2-1: Simple Data Types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description
* * *
### 5.6.3 Enumerations
#### 5.6.3.1 Enumeration: TraceDepth
The enumeration TraceDepth defines how detailed information should be recorded
in the trace. See 3GPP TS 32.422 [19] for further description of the values.
It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 5.6.3.1-1.
Table 5.6.3.1-1: Enumeration TraceDepth
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"MINIMUM\" Minimum \"MEDIUM\" Medium \"MAXIMUM\" Maximum
\"MINIMUM_WO_VENDOR_EXTENSION\" Minimum without vendor specific extension
\"MEDIUM_WO_VENDOR_EXTENSION\" Medium without vendor specific extension
\"MAXIMUM_WO_VENDOR_EXTENSION\" Maximum without vendor specific extension
#### 5.6.3.2 Enumeration: TraceDepthRm
This enumeration is defined in the same way as the \"TraceDepth\" enumeration,
but with the OpenAPI \"nullable: true\" property.
### 5.6.4 Structured Data Types
#### 5.6.4.1 Type: TraceData
Table 5.6.4.1-1: Definition of type TraceData
+----------------+------------+---+-------------+----------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +================+============+===+=============+================+ | traceRef | string | M | 1 | Trace | | | | | | Reference (see | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 2.422 [19]). | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | | encoded as the | | | | | | concatenation | | | | | | of MCC, MNC | | | | | | and Trace ID | | | | | | as follows: | | | | | | | | | | | | \\ | | | | | | -\ | | | | | | | | | | | | The Trace ID | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | encoded as a 3 | | | | | | octet string | | | | | | in hexadecimal | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation. | | | | | | Each character | | | | | | in the Trace | | | | | | ID string | | | | | | shall take a | | | | | | value of \"0\" | | | | | | to \"9\" or | | | | | | \"A\" to \"F\" | | | | | | and shall | | | | | | represent 4 | | | | | | bits. The most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bits of the | | | | | | Trace ID shall | | | | | | appear first | | | | | | in the string, | | | | | | and the | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 least | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bit of the | | | | | | Trace ID shall | | | | | | appear last in | | | | | | the string. | | | | | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | | | \'\^\ | | | | | | [0-9]{3}[0-9 | | | | | | ]{2,3}-[A-Fa | | | | | | -f0-9]{6}\$\' | +----------------+------------+---+-------------+----------------+ | traceDepth | TraceDepth | M | 1 | Trace Depth | | | | | | (see | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 2.422 [19]). | +----------------+------------+---+-------------+----------------+ | neTypeList | string | M | 1 | List of NE | | | | | | Types (see | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 2.422 [19]). | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | | encoded as an | | | | | | octet string | | | | | | in hexadecimal | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation. | | | | | | Each character | | | | | | in the string | | | | | | shall take a | | | | | | value of \"0\" | | | | | | to \"9\" or | | | | | | \"A\" to \"F\" | | | | | | and shall | | | | | | represent 4 | | | | | | bits. The most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bits shall | | | | | | appear first | | | | | | in the string, | | | | | | and the | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 least | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bit shall | | | | | | appear last in | | | | | | the string. | | | | | | | | | | | | Octets shall | | | | | | be coded | | | | | | according to | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 32.422 [19]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | | | \'\^[A- | | | | | | Fa-f0-9]+\$\' | +----------------+------------+---+-------------+----------------+ | eventList | string | M | 1 | Triggering | | | | | | events (see | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 2.422 [19]). | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | | encoded as an | | | | | | octet string | | | | | | in hexadecimal | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation. | | | | | | Each character | | | | | | in the string | | | | | | shall take a | | | | | | value of \"0\" | | | | | | to \"9\" or | | | | | | \"A\" to \"F\" | | | | | | and shall | | | | | | represent 4 | | | | | | bits. The most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bits shall | | | | | | appear first | | | | | | in the string, | | | | | | and the | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 least | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bit shall | | | | | | appear last in | | | | | | the string. | | | | | | | | | | | | Octets shall | | | | | | be coded | | | | | | according to | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 32.422 [19]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | | | \'\^[A- | | | | | | Fa-f0-9]+\$\' | +----------------+------------+---+-------------+----------------+ | collection | Ipv4Addr | C | 0..1 | IPv4 Address | | EntityIpv4Addr | | | | of the Trace | | | | | | Collection | | | | | | Entity (see | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 32.422 [19). | | | | | | | | | | | | At least one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | collection | | | | | | EntityIpv4Addr | | | | | | or | | | | | | collection | | | | | | EntityIpv6Addr | | | | | | attributes | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present. | +----------------+------------+---+-------------+----------------+ | collection | Ipv6Addr | C | 0..1 | IPv6 Address | | EntityIpv6Addr | | | | of the Trace | | | | | | Collection | | | | | | Entity (see | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 32.422 [19). | | | | | | | | | | | | At least one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | collection | | | | | | EntityIpv4Addr | | | | | | or | | | | | | collection | | | | | | EntityIpv6Addr | | | | | | attributes | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present. | +----------------+------------+---+-------------+----------------+ | interfaceList | string | O | 0..1 | List of | | | | | | Interfaces | | | | | | (see | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 2.422 [19]). | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | | encoded as an | | | | | | octet string | | | | | | in hexadecimal | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation. | | | | | | Each character | | | | | | in the string | | | | | | shall take a | | | | | | value of \"0\" | | | | | | to \"9\" or | | | | | | \"A\" to \"F\" | | | | | | and shall | | | | | | represent 4 | | | | | | bits. The most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 most | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bits shall | | | | | | appear first | | | | | | in the string, | | | | | | and the | | | | | | character | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the 4 least | | | | | | significant | | | | | | bit shall | | | | | | appear last in | | | | | | the string. | | | | | | | | | | | | Octets shall | | | | | | be coded | | | | | | according to | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 32.422 [19]. | | | | | | | | | | | | If this | | | | | | attribute is | | | | | | not present, | | | | | | all the | | | | | | interfaces | | | | | | applicable to | | | | | | the list of NE | | | | | | types | | | | | | indicated in | | | | | | the neTypeList | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | should be | | | | | | traced. | | | | | | | | | | | | Pattern: | | | | | | \'\^[A- | | | | | | Fa-f0-9]+\$\' | +----------------+------------+---+-------------+----------------+
## 5.7 Data Types related to 5G Operator Determined Barring
### 5.7.1 Introduction
This clause defines common data types related to 5G Operator Determined
Barring.
### 5.7.2 Simple Data Types
This clause specifies common simple data types.
Table 5.7.2-1: Simple Data Types
Type Name Type Definition Description
* * *
### 5.7.3 Enumerations
#### 5.7.3.1 Enumeration: RoamingOdb
The enumeration RoamingOdb defines the Barring of Roaming as. See 3GPP TS
23.015 [26] for further description. It shall comply with the provisions
defined in table 5.7.3.1-1.
Table 5.7.3.1-1: Enumeration RoamingOdb
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"OUTSIDE_HOME_PLMN\" Barring of roaming outside the home PLMN
\"OUTSIDE_HOME_PLMN_COUNTRY\" Barring of roaming outside the home PLMN country
#### 5.7.3.2 Enumeration: OdbPacketServices
The enumeration OdbPacketServices defines the Barring of Packet Oriented
Services. See 3GPP TS 23.015 [26] for further description. It shall comply
with the provisions defined in table 5.7.4.1-1.
Table 5.7.3.2-1: Enumeration OdbPacketServices
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"ALL_PACKET_SERVICES\" Barring of all Packet Oriented Services
\"ROAMER_ACCESS_HPLMN_AP\" Barring of Packet Oriented Services from access
points that are within the HPLMN whilst the subscriber is roaming in a VPLMN
\"ROAMER_ACCESS_VPLMN_AP\" Barring of Packet Oriented Services from access
points that are within the roamed to VPLMN.
### 5.7.4 Structured Data Types
#### 5.7.4.1 Type: OdbData
Table 5.7.4.1-1: Definition of type OdbData
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
roamingOdb RoamingOdb O 0..1 Barring of Roaming (see 3GPP TS 23.015 [26]).
## 5.8 Data Types related to Charging
### 5.8.1 Introduction
This clause defines common data types related to Charging.
### 5.8.2 Simple Data Types
This clause specifies common simple data types.
Table 5.8.2-1: Simple Data Types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description ChargingId Uint32 Charging identifier
allowing correlation of charging information ApplicationChargingId string
Application provided charging identifier allowing correlation of charging
information. RatingGroup Uint32 Identifier of a Rating Group ServiceId Uint32
Identifier of a Service
* * *
### 5.8.3 Enumerations
### 5.8.4 Structured Data Types
#### 5.8.4.1 Type: SecondaryRatUsageReport
Table 5.8.4.1-1: Definition of type SecondaryRatUsageReport
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
secondaryRatType RatType M 1 Secondary RAT type qosFlowsUsageData
array(QosFlowUsageReport) M 1..N QoS flows usage data
#### 5.8.4.2 Type: QoSFlowUsageReport
Table 5.8.4.2-1: Definition of type QoSFlowUsageReport
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
qfi Qfi M 1 QoS Flow Indicator startTimeStamp DateTime M 1 UTC time indicating
the start time of the collection period of the included usage data for DL and
UL. endTimeStamp DateTime M 1 UTC time indicating the end time of the
collection period of the included usage data for DL and UL. downlinkVolume
Int64 M 1 Data usage for DL, encoding a number of octets uplinkVolume Int64 M
1 Data usage for UL, encoding a number of octets
#### 5.8.4.3 Type: SecondaryRatUsageInfo
Table 5.8.4.3-1: Definition of type SecondaryRatUsageInfo
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
secondaryRatType RatType M 1 Secondary RAT type qosFlowsUsageData
array(QosFlowUsageReport) O 1..N QoS flows usage data pduSessionUsageData
array(VolumeTimedReport) O 1..N PDU session usage data
#### 5.8.4.4 Type: VolumeTimedReport
Table 5.8.4.4-1: Definition of type VolumeTimedReport
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
startTimeStamp DateTime M 1 UTC time indicating the start time of the
collection period of the included usage data for DL and UL. endTimeStamp
DateTime M 1 UTC time indicating the end time of the collection period of the
included usage data for DL and UL. downlinkVolume Int64 M 1 Data usage for DL,
encoding a number of octets uplinkVolume Int64 M 1 Data usage for UL, encoding
a number of octets
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of common data types. It consists
of an OpenAPI 3.0.0 specification, in YAML format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE 1: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on the public 3GPP file server in the
following locations (see clause 5B of the 3GPP TR 21.900 [27] for further
information):
\- https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/OpenAPI/\/, and
\- https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/\/\/OpenAPI/.
NOTE 2: To fetch the OpenAPI specification file after CT#83 plenary meeting
for Release 15 in the above links \ must be replaced with the date
the CT Plenary occurs, in the form of year-month (yyyy-mm), e.g. for CT#83
meeting \ must be replaced with value \"2019-03\" and \ must
be replaced with value \"Rel-15\".
# A.2 Data related to Common Data Types
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
version: \'1.0.3\'
title: \'Common Data Types\'
description: \|
Common Data Types for Service Based Interfaces.
© 2019, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.571 Common Data Types for Service Based Interfaces,
version 15.6.0
url: \'http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.571/\'
paths: {}
components:
schemas:
#
# Common Data Types for Generic usage definitiones as defined in clause 5.2
#
#
# COMMON SIMPLE DATA TYPES
#
Binary:
format: binary
type: string
BinaryRm:
format: binary
type: string
nullable: true
Bytes:
format: byte
type: string
BytesRm:
format: byte
type: string
nullable: true
Date:
format: date
type: string
DateRm:
format: date
type: string
nullable: true
DateTime:
format: date-time
type: string
DateTimeRm:
format: date-time
type: string
nullable: true
DiameterIdentity:
type: string
pattern: \'\^([A-Za-z0-9]+([-A-Za-z0-9]+)\\.)+[a-z]{2,}\$\'
DiameterIdentityRm:
type: string
pattern: \'\^([A-Za-z0-9]+([-A-Za-z0-9]+)\\.)+[a-z]{2,}\$\'
nullable: true
Double:
format: double
type: number
DoubleRm:
format: double
type: number
nullable: true
DurationSec:
type: integer
DurationSecRm:
type: integer
nullable: true
Float:
format: float
type: number
FloatRm:
format: float
type: number
nullable: true
Int32:
format: int32
type: integer
Int32Rm:
format: int32
type: integer
nullable: true
Int64:
type: integer
format: int64
Int64Rm:
format: int64
type: integer
nullable: true
Ipv4Addr:
type: string
pattern:
\'\^(([0-9]\|[1-9][0-9]\|1[0-9][0-9]\|2[0-4][0-9]\|25[0-5])\\.){3}([0-9]\|[1-9][0-9]\|1[0-9][0-9]\|2[0-4][0-9]\|25[0-5])\$\'
example: \'198.51.100.1\'
Ipv4AddrRm:
type: string
pattern:
\'\^(([0-9]\|[1-9][0-9]\|1[0-9][0-9]\|2[0-4][0-9]\|25[0-5])\\.){3}([0-9]\|[1-9][0-9]\|1[0-9][0-9]\|2[0-4][0-9]\|25[0-5])\$\'
example: \'198.51.100.1\'
nullable: true
Ipv6Addr:
type: string
allOf:
\- pattern:
\'\^((:\|(0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3}))):)((0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3})):){0,6}(:\|(0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3})))\$\'
\- pattern:
\'\^((([\^:]+:){7}([\^:]+))\|((([\^:]+:)*[\^:]+)?::(([\^:]+:)*[\^:]+)?))\$\'
example: \'2001:db8:85a3::8a2e:370:7334\'
Ipv6AddrRm:
type: string
allOf:
\- pattern:
\'\^((:\|(0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3}))):)((0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3})):){0,6}(:\|(0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3})))\$\'
\- pattern:
\'\^((([\^:]+:){7}([\^:]+))\|((([\^:]+:)*[\^:]+)?::(([\^:]+:)*[\^:]+)?))\$\'
example: \'2001:db8:85a3::8a2e:370:7334\'
nullable: true
Ipv6Prefix:
type: string
allOf:
\- pattern:
\'\^((:\|(0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3}))):)((0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3})):){0,6}(:\|(0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3})))(\/(([0-9])\|([0-9]{2})\|(1[0-1][0-9])\|(12[0-8])))\$\'
\- pattern:
\'\^((([\^:]+:){7}([\^:]+))\|((([\^:]+:)*[\^:]+)?::(([\^:]+:)*[\^:]+)?))(\/.+)\$\'
example: \'2001:db8:abcd:12::0/64\'
Ipv6PrefixRm:
type: string
allOf:
\- pattern:
\'\^((:\|(0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3}))):)((0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3})):){0,6}(:\|(0?\|([1-9a-f][0-9a-f]{0,3})))(\/(([0-9])\|([0-9]{2})\|(1[0-1][0-9])\|(12[0-8])))\$\'
\- pattern:
\'\^((([\^:]+:){7}([\^:]+))\|((([\^:]+:)*[\^:]+)?::(([\^:]+:)*[\^:]+)?))(\/.+)\$\'
nullable: true
MacAddr48:
type: string
pattern: \'\^([0-9a-fA-F]{2})((-[0-9a-fA-F]{2}){5})\$\'
MacAddr48Rm:
type: string
pattern: \'\^([0-9a-fA-F]{2})((-[0-9a-fA-F]{2}){5})\$\'
nullable: true
SupportedFeatures:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]*\$\'
Uinteger:
type: integer
minimum: 0
UintegerRm:
type: integer
minimum: 0
nullable: true
Uint16:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 65535
Uint16Rm:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 65535
nullable: true
Uint32:
format: int32
type: integer
minimum: 0
Uint32Rm:
format: int32
type: integer
minimum: 0
nullable: true
Uint64:
format: int64
type: integer
minimum: 0
Uint64Rm:
format: int64
type: integer
minimum: 0
nullable: true
Uri:
type: string
UriRm:
type: string
nullable: true
VarUeId:
type: string
pattern:
\'\^(imsi-[0-9]{5,15}\|nai-.+\|msisdn-[0-9]{5,15}\|extid-[\^@]+@[\^@]+\|.+)\$\'
VarUeIdRm:
type: string
pattern:
\'\^(imsi-[0-9]{5,15}\|nai-.+\|msisdn-[0-9]{5,15}\|extid-[\^@]+@[\^@]+\|.+)\$\'
nullable: true
TimeZone:
type: string
TimeZoneRm:
type: string
nullable: true
#
# COMMON ENUMERATED DATA TYPES
#
PatchOperation:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- add
\- copy
\- move
\- remove
\- replace
\- test
\- type: string
UriScheme:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- http
\- https
\- type: string
ChangeType:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- ADD
\- MOVE
\- REMOVE
\- REPLACE
\- type: string
#
# COMMON STRUCTURED DATA TYPES
#
ProblemDetails:
type: object
properties:
type:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uri\'
title:
type: string
status:
type: integer
detail:
type: string
instance:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uri\'
cause:
type: string
invalidParams:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/InvalidParam\'
minItems: 1
supportedFeatures:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
Link:
type: object
properties:
href:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uri\'
LinkRm:
type: object
properties:
href:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uri\'
nullable: true
PatchItem:
type: object
properties:
op:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PatchOperation\'
path:
type: string
from:
type: string
value:
nullable: true
required:
\- op
\- path
LinksValueSchema:
oneOf:
\- type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Link\'
minItems: 1
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Link\'
SelfLink:
type: object
properties:
self:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Link\'
required:
\- self
InvalidParam:
type: object
properties:
param:
type: string
reason:
type: string
required:
\- param
ChangeItem:
type: object
properties:
op:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ChangeType\'
path:
type: string
from:
type: string
origValue: {}
newValue: {}
required:
\- op
\- path
NotifyItem:
type: object
required:
\- resourceId
\- changes
properties:
resourceId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uri\'
changes:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ChangeItem\'
minItems: 1
ComplexQuery:
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Cnf\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Dnf\'
Cnf:
type: object
required:
\- cnfUnits
properties:
cnfUnits:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/CnfUnit\'
minItems: 1
Dnf:
type: object
required:
\- dnfUnits
properties:
dnfUnits:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DnfUnit\'
minItems: 1
CnfUnit:
type: object
required:
\- cnfUnit
properties:
cnfUnit:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Atom\'
minItems: 1
DnfUnit:
type: object
required:
\- dnfUnit
properties:
dnfUnit:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Atom\'
minItems: 1
Atom:
type: object
required:
\- attr
\- value
properties:
attr:
type: string
value: {}
negative:
type: boolean
#
# Data Types related to Subscription, Identification and Numbering as defined
in clause 5.3
#
#
# SIMPLE DATA TYPES
#
Dnn:
type: string
DnnRm:
type: string
nullable: true
WildcardDnn:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[*]\$\'
WildcardDnnRm:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[*]\$\'
nullable: true
Gpsi:
type: string
pattern: \'\^(msisdn-[0-9]{5,15}\|extid-[\^@]+@[\^@]+\|.+)\$\'
GpsiRm:
type: string
pattern: \'\^(msisdn-[0-9]{5,15}\|extid-[\^@]+@[\^@]+\|.+)\$\'
nullable: true
GroupId:
type: string
pattern:
\'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{8}-[0-9]{3}-[0-9]{2,3}-([A-Fa-f0-9][A-Fa-f0-9]){1,10}\$\'
GroupIdRm:
type: string
pattern:
\'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{8}-[0-9]{3}-[0-9]{2,3}-([A-Fa-f0-9][A-Fa-f0-9]){1,10}\$\'
nullable: true
Pei:
type: string
pattern: \'\^(imei-[0-9]{15}\|imeisv-[0-9]{16}\|.+)\$\'
PeiRm:
type: string
pattern: \'\^(imei-[0-9]{15}\|imeisv-[0-9]{16}\|.+)\$\'
nullable: true
Supi:
type: string
pattern: \'\^(imsi-[0-9]{5,15}\|nai-.+\|.+)\$\'
SupiRm:
type: string
pattern: \'\^(imsi-[0-9]{5,15}\|nai-.+\|.+)\$\'
nullable: true
NfInstanceId:
type: string
format: uuid
AmfId:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}\$\'
AmfRegionId:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{2}\$\'
AmfSetId:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[0-3][A-Fa-f0-9]{2}\$\'
RfspIndex:
type: integer
minimum: 1
maximum: 256
RfspIndexRm:
type: integer
minimum: 1
maximum: 256
nullable: true
NfGroupId:
type: string
#
# STRUCTURED DATA TYPES
#
Guami:
type: object
properties:
plmnId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
amfId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AmfId\'
required:
\- plmnId
\- amfId
GuamiRm:
type: object
properties:
plmnId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
amfId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AmfId\'
required:
\- plmnId
\- amfId
nullable: true
NetworkId:
type: object
properties:
mnc:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Mnc\'
mcc:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Mcc\'
#
# Data Types related to 5G Network as defined in clause 5.4
#
#
# SIMPLE DATA TYPES
#
ApplicationId:
type: string
ApplicationIdRm:
type: string
nullable: true
PduSessionId:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 255
Mcc:
type: string
pattern: \'\^\d{3}\$\'
MccRm:
type: string
pattern: \'\^\d{3}\$\'
nullable: true
Mnc:
type: string
pattern: \'\^\d{2,3}\$\'
MncRm:
type: string
pattern: \'\^\d{2,3}\$\'
nullable: true
Tac:
type: string
pattern: \'(\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{4}\$)\|(\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}\$)\'
TacRm:
type: string
pattern: \'(\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{4}\$)\|(\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}\$)\'
nullable: true
EutraCellId:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{7}\$\'
EutraCellIdRm:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{7}\$\'
nullable: true
NrCellId:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{9}\$\'
NrCellIdRm:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{9}\$\'
nullable: true
Dnai:
type: string
DnaiRm:
type: string
nullable: true
5GMmCause:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
AmfName:
type: string
AreaCode:
type: string
AreaCodeRm:
type: string
nullable: true
N3IwfId:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]+\$\'
NgeNbId:
type: string
pattern:
\'\^(MacroNGeNB-[A-Fa-f0-9]{5}\|LMacroNGeNB-[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}\|SMacroNGeNB-[A-Fa-f0-9]{5})\$\'
#
# ENUMERATED DATA TYPES
#
AccessType:
type: string
enum:
\- 3GPP_ACCESS
\- NON_3GPP_ACCESS
AccessTypeRm:
type: string
enum:
\- 3GPP_ACCESS
\- NON_3GPP_ACCESS
nullable: true
RatType:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- NR
\- EUTRA
\- WLAN
\- VIRTUAL
\- type: string
RatTypeRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- NR
\- EUTRA
\- WLAN
\- VIRTUAL
\- type: string
nullable: true
PduSessionType:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- IPV4
\- IPV6
\- IPV4V6
\- UNSTRUCTURED
\- ETHERNET
\- type: string
PduSessionTypeRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- IPV4
\- IPV6
\- IPV4V6
\- UNSTRUCTURED
\- ETHERNET
\- type: string
nullable: true
UpIntegrity:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- REQUIRED
\- PREFERRED
\- NOT_NEEDED
\- type: string
UpIntegrityRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- REQUIRED
\- PREFERRED
\- NOT_NEEDED
\- type: string
nullable: true
UpConfidentiality:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- REQUIRED
\- PREFERRED
\- NOT_NEEDED
\- type: string
UpConfidentialityRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- REQUIRED
\- PREFERRED
\- NOT_NEEDED
\- type: string
nullable: true
SscMode:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- SSC_MODE_1
\- SSC_MODE_2
\- SSC_MODE_3
\- type: string
SscModeRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- SSC_MODE_1
\- SSC_MODE_2
\- SSC_MODE_3
\- type: string
nullable: true
DnaiChangeType:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- EARLY
\- EARLY_LATE
\- LATE
\- type: string
description: >
This string provides forward-compatibility with future
extensions to the enumeration but is not used to encode
content defined in the present version of this API.
description: >
Possible values are
\- EARLY: Early notification of UP path reconfiguration.
\- EARLY_LATE: Early and late notification of UP path reconfiguration. This
value shall only be present in the subscription to the DNAI change event.
\- LATE: Late notification of UP path reconfiguration.
DnaiChangeTypeRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- EARLY
\- EARLY_LATE
\- LATE
\- type: string
nullable: true
RestrictionType:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- ALLOWED_AREAS
\- NOT_ALLOWED_AREAS
\- type: string
RestrictionTypeRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- ALLOWED_AREAS
\- NOT_ALLOWED_AREAS
\- type: string
nullable: true
CoreNetworkType:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- 5GC
\- EPC
\- type: string
CoreNetworkTypeRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- 5GC
\- EPC
\- type: string
nullable: true
PresenceState:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- IN_AREA
\- OUT_OF_AREA
\- UNKNOWN
\- INACTIVE
\- type: string
#
# STRUCTURED DATA TYPES
#
Snssai:
type: object
properties:
sst:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 255
sd:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}\$\'
required:
\- sst
PlmnId:
type: object
properties:
mcc:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Mcc\'
mnc:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Mnc\'
required:
\- mcc
\- mnc
PlmnIdRm:
type: object
properties:
mcc:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Mcc\'
mnc:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Mnc\'
required:
\- mcc
\- mnc
nullable: true
Tai:
type: object
properties:
plmnId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
tac:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Tac\'
required:
\- plmnId
\- tac
TaiRm:
type: object
properties:
plmnId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
tac:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Tac\'
required:
\- plmnId
\- tac
nullable: true
Ecgi:
type: object
properties:
plmnId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
# PLMN Identity
eutraCellId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EutraCellId\'
required:
\- plmnId
\- eutraCellId
EcgiRm:
type: object
properties:
plmnId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
# PLMN Identity
eutraCellId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EutraCellId\'
required:
\- plmnId
\- eutraCellId
nullable: true
Ncgi:
type: object
properties:
plmnId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
nrCellId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NrCellId\'
required:
\- plmnId
\- nrCellId
NcgiRm:
type: object
properties:
plmnId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
nrCellId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NrCellId\'
required:
\- plmnId
\- nrCellId
nullable: true
UserLocation:
type: object
properties:
eutraLocation:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EutraLocation\'
nrLocation:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NrLocation\'
n3gaLocation:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/N3gaLocation\'
EutraLocation:
type: object
properties:
tai:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Tai\'
ecgi:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ecgi\'
ageOfLocationInformation:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 32767
ueLocationTimestamp:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
geographicalInformation:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[0-9A-F]{16}\$\'
geodeticInformation:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[0-9A-F]{20}\$\'
globalNgenbId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GlobalRanNodeId\'
required:
\- tai
\- ecgi
EutraLocationRm:
type: object
properties:
tai:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Tai\'
ecgi:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ecgi\'
ageOfLocationInformation:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 32767
ueLocationTimestamp:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
geographicalInformation:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[0-9A-F]{16}\$\'
geodeticInformation:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[0-9A-F]{20}\$\'
globalNgenbId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GlobalRanNodeId\'
required:
\- tai
\- ecgi
nullable: true
NrLocation:
type: object
properties:
tai:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Tai\'
ncgi:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ncgi\'
ageOfLocationInformation:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 32767
ueLocationTimestamp:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
geographicalInformation:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[0-9A-F]{16}\$\'
geodeticInformation:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[0-9A-F]{20}\$\'
globalGnbId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GlobalRanNodeId\'
required:
\- tai
\- ncgi
NrLocationRm:
type: object
properties:
tai:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Tai\'
ncgi:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ncgi\'
ageOfLocationInformation:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 32767
ueLocationTimestamp:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
geographicalInformation:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[0-9A-F]{16}\$\'
geodeticInformation:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[0-9A-F]{20}\$\'
globalGnbId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GlobalRanNodeId\'
required:
\- tai
\- ncgi
nullable: true
N3gaLocation:
type: object
properties:
n3gppTai:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Tai\'
n3IwfId:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]+\$\'
ueIpv4Addr:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ipv4Addr\'
ueIpv6Addr:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ipv6Addr\'
portNumber:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
UpSecurity:
type: object
properties:
upIntegr:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UpIntegrity\'
upConfid:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UpConfidentiality\'
required:
\- upIntegr
\- upConfid
UpSecurityRm:
type: object
properties:
upIntegr:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UpIntegrity\'
upConfid:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UpConfidentiality\'
required:
\- upIntegr
\- upConfid
nullable: true
NgApCause:
type: object
properties:
group:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
value:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
required:
\- group
\- value
BackupAmfInfo:
type: object
properties:
backupAmf:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AmfName\'
guamiList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Guami\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- backupAmf
RefToBinaryData:
type: object
properties:
contentId:
type: string
required:
\- contentId
RefToBinaryDataRm:
type: object
properties:
contentId:
type: string
required:
\- contentId
nullable: true
RouteToLocation:
type: object
properties:
dnai:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Dnai\'
routeInfo:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RouteInformation\'
routeProfId:
type: string
nullable: true
required:
\- dnai
anyOf:
\- required: [ routeInfo ]
\- required: [ routeProfId ]
nullable: true
RouteInformation:
type: object
properties:
ipv4Addr:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ipv4Addr\'
ipv6Addr:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ipv6Addr\'
portNumber:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
required:
\- portNumber
nullable: true
SubscribedDefaultQos:
type: object
required:
\- 5qi
\- arp
properties:
5qi:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/5Qi\'
arp:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Arp\'
priorityLevel:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/5QiPriorityLevel\'
Area:
type: object
oneOf:
\- required:
\- tacs
\- required:
\- areaCode
properties:
tacs:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Tac\'
minItems: 1
areaCode:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AreaCode\'
ServiceAreaRestriction:
type: object
properties:
restrictionType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RestrictionType\'
areas:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Area\'
maxNumOfTAs:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
maxNumOfTAsForNotAllowedAreas:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
allOf:
#
# 1st condition: restrictionType and areas attributes shall be either both
absent
# or both present
#
\- oneOf:
\- not:
required: [ restrictionType ]
\- required: [ areas ]
#
# 2nd condition: if restrictionType takes value NOT_ALLOWED_AREAS,
# then maxNumOfTAs shall be absent
#
\- anyOf:
\- not:
required: [ restrictionType ]
properties:
restrictionType:
type: string
enum: [ NOT_ALLOWED_AREAS ]
\- not:
required: [ maxNumOfTAs ]
#
# 3rd condition: if restrictionType takes value ALLOWED_AREAS,
# then maxNumOfTAsForNotAllowedAreas shall be absent
#
\- anyOf:
\- not:
required: [ restrictionType ]
properties:
restrictionType:
type: string
enum: [ ALLOWED_AREAS ]
\- not:
required: [ maxNumOfTAsForNotAllowedAreas ]
PresenceInfo:
type: object
properties:
praId:
type: string
presenceState:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PresenceState\'
trackingAreaList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Tai\'
minItems: 1
ecgiList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ecgi\'
minItems: 1
ncgiList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ncgi\'
minItems: 1
globalRanNodeIdList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GlobalRanNodeId\'
minItems: 1
PresenceInfoRm:
type: object
properties:
praId:
type: string
presenceState:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PresenceState\'
trackingAreaList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Tai\'
minItems: 0
ecgiList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ecgi\'
minItems: 0
ncgiList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ncgi\'
minItems: 0
globalRanNodeIdList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GlobalRanNodeId\'
nullable: true
GlobalRanNodeId:
type: object
properties:
plmnId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
n3IwfId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/N3IwfId\'
gNbId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GNbId\'
ngeNbId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NgeNbId\'
oneOf:
\- required: [ n3IwfId ]
\- required: [ gNbId ]
\- required: [ ngeNbId ]
required:
\- plmnId
GNbId:
type: object
properties:
bitLength:
type: integer
minimum: 22
maximum: 32
gNBValue:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{6,8}\$\'
required:
\- bitLength
\- gNBValue
#
# Data Types related to 5G QoS as defined in clause 5.5
#
#
# SIMPLE DATA TYPES
#
#
Qfi:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 63
QfiRm:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 63
nullable: true
5Qi:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 255
5QiRm:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 255
nullable: true
BitRate:
type: string
pattern: \'\^\d+(\\.\d+)? (bps\|Kbps\|Mbps\|Gbps\|Tbps)\$\'
BitRateRm:
type: string
pattern: \'\^\d+(\\.\d+)? (bps\|Kbps\|Mbps\|Gbps\|Tbps)\$\'
nullable: true
ArpPriorityLevelRm:
type: integer
minimum: 1
maximum: 15
nullable: true
ArpPriorityLevel:
type: integer
minimum: 1
maximum: 15
nullable: true
description: nullable true shall not be used for this attribute
5QiPriorityLevel:
type: integer
minimum: 1
maximum: 127
5QiPriorityLevelRm:
type: integer
minimum: 1
maximum: 127
nullable: true
PacketDelBudget:
type: integer
minimum: 1
PacketDelBudgetRm:
type: integer
minimum: 1
nullable: true
PacketErrRate:
type: string
pattern: \'\^([0-9]E-[0-9])\$\'
PacketErrRateRm:
type: string
pattern: \'\^([0-9]E-[0-9])\$\'
nullable: true
PacketLossRate:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 1000
PacketLossRateRm:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 1000
nullable: true
AverWindow:
type: integer
minimum: 1
maximum: 4095
default: 2000
AverWindowRm:
type: integer
maximum: 4095
default: 2000
minimum: 1
nullable: true
MaxDataBurstVol:
type: integer
minimum: 1
maximum: 4095
MaxDataBurstVolRm:
type: integer
minimum: 1
maximum: 4095
nullable: true
#
# ENUMERATED DATA TYPES
#
PreemptionCapability:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- NOT_PREEMPT
\- MAY_PREEMPT
\- type: string
PreemptionCapabilityRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- NOT_PREEMPT
\- MAY_PREEMPT
\- type: string
nullable: true
PreemptionVulnerability:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- NOT_PREEMPTABLE
\- PREEMPTABLE
\- type: string
PreemptionVulnerabilityRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- NOT_PREEMPTABLE
\- PREEMPTABLE
\- type: string
nullable: true
ReflectiveQoSAttribute:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- RQOS
\- NO_RQOS
\- type: string
ReflectiveQoSAttributeRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- RQOS
\- NO_RQOS
\- type: string
nullable: true
NotificationControl:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- REQUESTED
\- NOT_REQUESTED
\- type: string
NotificationControlRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- REQUESTED
\- NOT_REQUESTED
\- type: string
nullable: true
QosResourceType:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- NON_GBR
\- NON_CRITICAL_GBR
\- CRITICAL_GBR
\- type: string
QosResourceTypeRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- NON_GBR
\- NON_CRITICAL_GBR
\- CRITICAL_GBR
\- type: string
nullable: true
AdditionalQosFlowInfo:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- MORE_LIKELY
\- type: string
nullable: true
#
#
# STRUCTURED DATA TYPES
#
Arp:
type: object
properties:
priorityLevel:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ArpPriorityLevel\'
preemptCap:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PreemptionCapability\'
preemptVuln:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PreemptionVulnerability\'
required:
\- priorityLevel
\- preemptCap
\- preemptVuln
ArpRm:
type: object
properties:
priorityLevel:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ArpPriorityLevel\'
preemptCap:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PreemptionCapability\'
preemptVuln:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PreemptionVulnerability\'
required:
\- priorityLevel
\- preemptCap
\- preemptVuln
nullable: true
Ambr:
type: object
properties:
uplink:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BitRate\'
downlink:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BitRate\'
required:
\- uplink
\- downlink
AmbrRm:
type: object
properties:
uplink:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BitRate\'
downlink:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BitRate\'
required:
\- uplink
\- downlink
nullable: true
Dynamic5Qi:
type: object
properties:
resourceType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/QosResourceType\'
priorityLevel:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/5QiPriorityLevel\'
packetDelayBudget:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PacketDelBudget\'
packetErrRate:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PacketErrRate\'
averWindow:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AverWindow\'
maxDataBurstVol:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MaxDataBurstVol\'
required:
\- resourceType
\- priorityLevel
\- packetDelayBudget
\- packetErrRate
NonDynamic5Qi:
type: object
properties:
priorityLevel:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/5QiPriorityLevel\'
averWindow:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AverWindow\'
maxDataBurstVol:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MaxDataBurstVol\'
minProperties: 0
#
# Data Types related to 5G Trace as defined in clause 5.6
#
#
# SIMPLE DATA TYPES
#
#
#
# Enumerations
#
TraceDepth:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- MINIMUM
\- MEDIUM
\- MAXIMUM
\- MINIMUM_WO_VENDOR_EXTENSION
\- MEDIUM_WO_VENDOR_EXTENSION
\- MAXIMUM_WO_VENDOR_EXTENSION
\- type: string
TraceDepthRm:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- MINIMUM
\- MEDIUM
\- MAXIMUM
\- MINIMUM_WO_VENDOR_EXTENSION
\- MEDIUM_WO_VENDOR_EXTENSION
\- MAXIMUM_WO_VENDOR_EXTENSION
\- type: string
nullable: true
#
# STRUCTURED DATA TYPES
#
TraceData:
type: object
nullable: true
properties:
traceRef:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[0-9]{3}[0-9]{2,3}-[A-Fa-f0-9]{6}\$\'
traceDepth:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/TraceDepth\'
neTypeList:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]+\$\'
eventList:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]+\$\'
collectionEntityIpv4Addr:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ipv4Addr\'
collectionEntityIpv6Addr:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Ipv6Addr\'
interfaceList:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]+\$\'
required:
\- traceRef
\- traceDepth
\- neTypeList
\- eventList
# Data Types related to 5G ODB as defined in clause 5.7
#
# SIMPLE DATA TYPES
#
#
#
# Enumerations
#
RoamingOdb:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- OUTSIDE_HOME_PLMN
\- OUTSIDE_HOME_PLMN_COUNTRY
\- type: string
OdbPacketServices:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- ALL_PACKET_SERVICES
\- ROAMER_ACCESS_HPLMN_AP
\- ROAMER_ACCESS_VPLMN_AP
\- type: string
nullable: true
#
# STRUCTURED DATA TYPES
#
OdbData:
type: object
properties:
roamingOdb:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RoamingOdb\'
#
# Data Types related to Charging as defined in clause 5.8
#
#
# SIMPLE DATA TYPES
#
#
ChargingId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uint32\'
ApplicationChargingId:
type: string
RatingGroup:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uint32\'
ServiceId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uint32\'
#
# Enumerations
#
#
# STRUCTURED DATA TYPES
#
SecondaryRatUsageReport:
type: object
properties:
secondaryRatType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RatType\'
qosFlowsUsageData:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/QosFlowUsageReport\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- secondaryRatType
\- qosFlowsUsageData
QosFlowUsageReport:
type: object
properties:
qfi:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Qfi\'
startTimeStamp:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
endTimeStamp:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
downlinkVolume:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Int64\'
uplinkVolume:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Int64\'
required:
\- qfi
\- startTimeStamp
\- endTimeStamp
\- downlinkVolume
\- uplinkVolume
SecondaryRatUsageInfo:
type: object
properties:
secondaryRatType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RatType\'
qosFlowsUsageData:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/QosFlowUsageReport\'
minItems: 1
pduSessionUsageData:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/VolumeTimedReport\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- secondaryRatType
VolumeTimedReport:
type: object
properties:
startTimeStamp:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
endTimeStamp:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
downlinkVolume:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Int64\'
uplinkVolume:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Int64\'
required:
\- startTimeStamp
\- endTimeStamp
\- downlinkVolume
\- uplinkVolume
#
# HTTP responses
#
responses:
\'400\':
description: Bad request
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'401\':
description: Unauthorized
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'403\':
description: Forbidden
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'404\':
description: Not Found
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'405\':
description: Method Not Allowed
\'408\':
description: Request Timeout
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'406\':
description: 406 Not Acceptable
\'409\':
description: Conflict
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'410\':
description: Gone
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'411\':
description: Length Required
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'412\':
description: Precondition Failed
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'413\':
description: Payload Too Large
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'414\':
description: URI Too Long
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'415\':
description: Unsupported Media Type
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'429\':
description: Too Many Requests
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'500\':
description: Internal Server Error
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'501\':
description: Not Implemented
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'503\':
description: Service Unavailable
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'504\':
description: Gateway Timeout
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
default:
description: Generic Error
#