# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains technical performance objectives that should be
met for the fixed infrastructure of GSM PLMNs. Concerning transmission delay
for the PLMN in clause 4, the requirements should also be met by GSM Mobile
Stations (MS)s.
These performance design objectives are applicable to all implementations at
all points in the growth cycle up to the maximum size. These reference loads
and performance objectives may be used by manufacturers in designing GSM PLMNs
and by Administrations or Recognised Private Operating Agencies (RPOA)s in
evaluating a specific design or for comparing different designs for potential
use in the Administration\'s or RPOA\'s intended implementation.
## 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] Void.
[2] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 43.050: \"Transmission planning aspects of the speech service in
the GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) system\".
[4] 3GPP TS 45.010: \"Radio subsystem synchronization\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation E.600: \"Terms and definitions of traffic
engineering\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation G.921: \"Digital sections based on the 2048 kbit/s
hierarchy\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation Q.541: \"Digital exchange design objectives -
General\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation Q.543: \"Digital exchange performance design
objectives\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation Q.551: \"Transmission characteristics of digital
exchanges\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation Q.554: \"Transmission characteristics at digital
interfaces of a digital exchange\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation Q.702: \"Specifications of Signalling System No. 7 -
Signalling data link\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation Q.706: \"Message transfer part signalling
performance\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation V.110: \"Support of data terminal equipments (DTEs)
with V-Series interfaces by an integrated services digital network\".
[14] CEPT Recommendation T/S 64-30: \"Digital exchange performance design
objectives\".
[15] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[16] 3GPP TS 11.30: \"Mobile Services Switching Centre Phase 1\"
[17] 3GPP TS 11.31: \"Home Location Register Specification Phase 1\"
[18] 3GPP TS 11.32: \"Visitor Location Register Specification Phase 1\"
## 1.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TS 21.905 [15].
# 2 General
For terminology and architecture for GSM PLMNs see 3GPP TS 23.002 [2].
Interfaces, interface characteristics, connections through an MSC and
ancillary functions of the MSC are defined in 3GPP TS 11.30 [16].
The functions supported by HLRs and VLRs are given in 3GPP TS 11.31 [17] and
11.32 [18].
Each MSC will be responsible for synchronisation, if required, with the fixed
network to which it is connected. The requirements of ITU-T Recommendation
Q.541 should be observed.
Timing and synchronisation of the radio subsystem is specified in the 3GPP TS
45.010 [4].
# 3 Performance design objectives
## 3.1 General
Part of the text is taken from ITU-T Recommendation Q.543 and part from CEPT
Recommendation T/S 64-30.
## 3.2 MSCs
### 3.2.1 Reference loads
The reference loads are traffic load conditions under which the performance
design objectives stated below are to be met. The following reference loads
are defined.
a) Reference load for incoming inter-exchange circuits;
b) Reference load for circuit switched MS calls.
Reference load A is intended to represent the normal upper mean level of
activity which Administrations or RPOA\'s would wish to provide for MSs, BS-
MSC circuits and inter-exchange circuits. Reference load B is intended to
represent an increased level beyond normal planned activity levels.
#### 3.2.1.1 Reference load on incoming interexchange circuits
a) Reference load A
\- 0,7 Erlang average occupancy on all incoming circuits with 35 call
attempts/hour/incoming circuit.
This figure assumes 45 % ineffective call attempts.
b) Reference load B
\- 0,85 Erlang average occupancy on all incoming circuits with 42 call
attempts/hour/incoming circuit.
#### 3.2.1.2 Reference load for MS calls
MS calls comprise MS originating and MS terminating traffic. Terminating call
attempts from PSTN/ISDN to the MS are measured at the PSTN/ISDN interface of
the PLMN. Terminating call attempts as part of the intra-PLMN MS-to-MS call
attempts are measured at the GMSC functionality in the VMSC.
a) Reference load A
Table 1: Traffic model for circuit switched MS calls
+---------+---------------------------+------------+--------------+ | MS type | Average traffic intensity | Average | Overall mean | | | | | | | | (Erl/sbscr) | BHCA/sbscr | holding time | | | | | | | | | | (s) | +---------+---------------------------+------------+--------------+ | W | 0.010 | 0.60 | 60 | +---------+---------------------------+------------+--------------+ | X | 0.018 | 1.00 | 65 | +---------+---------------------------+------------+--------------+ | Y | 0.030 | 1.50 | 72 | +---------+---------------------------+------------+--------------+ | Z | 0.050 | 2.00 | 90 | +---------+---------------------------+------------+--------------+
The data sets for MS types W through Y are chosen to cover field observations
in various continents, countries and regions. With an increase of traffic per
subscriber, the overall mean holding time tends to increase. The set Z is
chosen as an extreme value, expressing the expectation that such a large value
should only be observed in association with a substantially increased overall
mean holding time.
b) Reference load B
Reference load B is defined as a traffic increase over reference load A of:
\+ 20% in Erlangs and.
\+ 20% in BHCA.
#### 3.2.1.3 Impact of supplementary services
If the reference model MSC assumes that significant use is made of
supplementary services, the performance of the MSC can be strongly affected,
especially in designs where processor capacity can become a limiting item. The
performance delays recommended can be significantly lengthened at a given call
load under such circumstances. The Administration or Operating Agency defining
the reference model should estimate the fractions of calls which use various
supplementary services so that an average processor impact relative to a basic
telephone call can be calculated.
### 3.2.2 Inadequately handled call attempts
#### 3.2.2.1 Definition
Inadequately handled call attempts are attempts which are blocked (as defined
in ITU-T E.600 series of Recommendations) or are excessively delayed within
the exchange. \"Excessive delays\" are those that are greater than three times
the \"0,95 probability of not exceeding\" values recommended in the tables.
For originating and transit calls, this inadequately handled call attempt
parameter applies only when there is at least one appropriate outlet
available.
#### 3.2.2.2 Probability of inadequately handled call attempts occurring
The values in table 2 are recommended.
Table 2
* * *
Type of connection Reference Load A Reference load B Internal ≤10-2 ≤4 x 10-2
Originating ≤5 x 10-3 ≤3 x 10-2 Terminating ≤2 x 10-3 ≤2 x 10-2 Transit ≤10-3
≤10-2
* * *
### 3.2.3 Delay probability
The following notes apply to the delay parameters included in this section:
1) The term \"mean value\" is understood as the expected value in the
probabilistic sense.
2) The terms \"received from\" and \"passed to\" the signalling system are
meant to be that instant at which the information is exchanged between the
signalling data link (layer 1) and the signalling link functions (layer 2) in
ITU-T Signalling System No. 7. For Dm channel signalling it is designated as
that instant when the information is exchanged between the data link layer
(layer 2) and the network layer (layer 3) by means of primitives.
Consequently, the specified time intervals exclude the layer 1 and layer 2
times. However, they do include queuing delay in the absence of disturbances,
but not additional queuing caused by retransmission of signalling messages.
3) It is indicated where processing phases handled in entities other than the
MSC/VLR are included in the defined call phases; estimates likely to give the
correct order of magnitude for the overall delay are given. This makes it easy
to re-use monitoring equipment available for exchanges for the MSC/VLR. It
also gives an indication of the call handling delays to be expected in a
mobile network.
#### 3.2.3.1 User signalling acknowledgement delay
User signalling acknowledgement delay is the interval from the instant a user
signalling message has been received from Dm channel until a message
acknowledging the receipt of that message is passed back from the MSC to Dm
channel. Examples of such messages are SETUP ACKNOWLEDGEMENT to SETUP, CONNECT
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT to CONNECT, and RELEASE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT to RELEASE.
The values in table 3 are recommended.
Table 3
* * *
                                      Reference load A   Reference load B
Mean value ≤400 ms ≤800 ms 0.95 probability of not exceeding 600 ms 1000 ms
* * *
#### 3.2.3.2 Signalling transfer delay
The MSC signalling transfer delay is the time taken for the MSC to transfer a
message from one signalling system to another with minimal or no other
exchange actions required. The interval is measured from the instant that a
message is received from a signalling system until the moment the
corresponding message is passed to another signalling system. Examples of
messages are ALERT to ADDRESS COMPLETE, ADDRESS COMPLETE to ADDRESS COMPLETE,
CONNECT to ANSWER, RELEASE to DISCONNECT etc. The values in table 4 are
recommended for originating and terminating connections.
Table 4
* * *
                                      Reference load A   Reference load B
Mean value ≤200 ms ≤350 ms 0.95 probability of not exceeding 400 ms 700 ms
* * *
#### 3.2.3.3 Through connection delay
a) For originating outgoing traffic through connection delay is defined as the
interval from the instant that the signalling information required for setting
up a connection through the MSC is received from the incoming signalling
system to the instant that the transmission path is available for carrying
traffic between the incoming and out going terminations on the MSC.
Switching through for mobile originating calls outgoing from the MSC occurs in
two stages. The first stage is for the backward path with the delay between
SETUP from the MS and JOIN_PATH for the B side. The second stage is for the
forward path with the delay between ANSWER and JOIN_PATH for the A side.
The first stage encompasses the call set-up delay, hence the recommended
values for the Call Set-up Delay in Section 3.2.3.8 apply.
The second stage encompasses the signalling transfer delay between ANSWER and
CONNECT, hence the Signalling Transfer Delay in Section 3.2.3.2 applies.
b) for internal and terminating traffic the through connection delay is
defined as the interval from the instant that the CONNECT message is received
from the Dm channel until the through connection is established and available
for carrying traffic and the ANSWER and CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT messages have
been passed to the appropriate signalling systems.
The values in table 5 are recommended.
Table 5
* * *
                                      Reference load A   Reference load B
Mean value ≤250 ms ≤400 ms 0.95 probability of not exceeding 300 ms 600 ms
* * *
#### 3.2.3.4 Incoming call indication sending delay - (for terminating and
internal traffic connections)
The incoming call indication sending delay is defined as the interval from the
instant at which the necessary signalling information is received from the
signalling system to the instant at which the SETUP message is passed to the
signalling system of the called subscriber.
This phase contains three parts that are handled in the BSS or in the MS,
namely
\- paging;
\- RACH and SDCCH signalling for access to the network;
\- authentication.
The recommended delays in tables 7 and 8 include estimates of these delays
together with the MSC processing.
In the case of overlap sending in the incoming signalling system, the values
in table 6 are recommended.
Table 6
* * *
                                      Reference load A   Reference load B
Mean value ≤4000 ms ≤4700 ms 0.95 probability of not exceeding 4700 ms 5200 ms
* * *
In the case of en-bloc sending in the incoming signalling system, the values
in table 7 are recommended.
Table 7
* * *
                                      Reference load A   Reference load B
Mean value ≤4600 ms ≤4900 ms 0.95 probability of not exceeding 4900 ms 5300 ms
* * *
#### 3.2.3.5 Connection release delay
Connection release delay is defined as the interval from the instant when
DISCONNECT or RELEASE message is received from a signalling system until the
instant when the connection is no longer available for use on the call (and is
available for use on another call) and a corresponding RELEASE or DISCONNECT
message is passed to the other signalling system involved in the connection.
The values in table 8 are recommended.
Table 8
* * *
                                      Reference load A   Reference load B
Mean value ≤250 ms ≤400 ms 0.95 probability of not exceeding 300 ms 700 ms
* * *
#### 3.2.3.6 Call clearing delay
Disconnect and call clearing will usually be performed at the same time.
However, on certain calls it may be necessary for an exchange to retain call
references after disconnect has occurred, until a clearing message is
received. The exchange may then discard the call reference information. The
corresponding RELEASE message must be passed on to other involved signalling
systems in the interval allowed for signalling transfer delay.
#### 3.2.3.7 Timing for start of charging (circuit switched calls)
When required, timing for charging at the MSC where this function is
performed, shall begin after receipt of an ANSWER indication from a connecting
exchange or the called user. The start of timing for charging should occur
within the intervals recommended in table 9:
Table 9
* * *
                                      Reference load A   Reference load B
Mean value ≤100 ms ≤175 ms 0.95 probability of not exceeding 200 ms 350 ms
* * *
#### 3.2.3.8 Call set-up delay
The call set-up delay for mobile originating calls outgoing from the MSC is
measured from SETUP received until IAM sent. This phase also contains the
assignment of the air interface traffic channel performed in the BSS. It is
assumed that all call handling data are available in the VLR at set-up time.
The values in table 10 are recommended.
Table 10
* * *
                                      Reference load A   Reference load B
Mean value ≤1900 ms ≤2200 ms 0.95 probability of not exceeding 2100 ms 2400 ms
* * *
#### 3.2.3.9 Handover delay
Two cases are to be defined
a) between BSs of the same MSC;
b) between BSs of different MSCs.
objectives are for further study and should include:
i) interruption of communication path;
ii) probability of success where initiation was successful.
#### 3.2.3.10 Off-air-call-set-up (OACSU) delay
OACSU delay is the extra delay in switching the speech path from A- to
B-subscriber because of seizing the radio path after the B-subscriber has
hooked-off. It is defined as the interval that the answer indication is
received from the B-subscriber until the instant when the radio path has been
successfully seized.
The values in table 11 are recommended.
Table 11
* * *
                                      Reference load A
Mean value ≤1000 ms 0.95 probability of not exceeding 5000 ms
* * *
#### 3.2.3.11 Discontinuous reception mode delay
For further study.
### 3.2.4 Call processing performance objectives
#### 3.2.4.1 Premature release
The probability that an MSC malfunction will result in the premature release
of an established connection in any one minute interval should be:
p ≤ 2 x 10^-5^
#### 3.2.4.2 Release failure
The probability that an MSC malfunction will prevent the required release of a
connection should be:
p ≤ 2 x 10^-5^
#### 3.2.4.3 Incorrect charging or accounting
The probability of a call attempt receiving incorrect charging treatment due
to an MSC malfunction should be:
p ≤ 10^-4^
#### 3.2.4.4 Misrouting
The probability of a call being misrouted following receipt by the MSC of a
valid address should be:
p ≤ 10^-4^
#### 3.2.4.5 No tone
The probability of a call attempt encountering no tone following receipt of a
valid address by the MSC should be:
p ≤ 10^-4^
#### 3.2.4.6 Other failures
The probability of the MSC causing a call failure for any other reason not
identified specifically above should be:
p ≤ 10^-4^
#### 3.2.4.7 Transmission performance
The probability of a connection being established with an unacceptable
transmission quality across the exchange should be:
p (unacceptable transmission) ≤ 10^-5^
The transmission quality across the exchange is said to be unacceptable when
the bit error ratio is above alarm condition.
NOTE: The alarm condition has yet to defined.
#### 3.2.4.8 Slip rate
The slip rate under normal conditions is covered in ITU-T Recommendation
Q.541.
### 3.2.5 MSC performance during overload conditions
The requirements stated in ITU-T Recommendation Q.543 should be met.
## 3.3 Performance design objectives for HLRs
### 3.3.1 Reference loads
a) Reference load for call handling: 0,4 transactions per subscriber per hour.
b) Reference load for mobility management: 1,8 transactions per subscriber per
hour.
### 3.3.2 Objectives
The following objectives for delay times are independent of the size of the
HLR and are 95% values.
a) The probability of loosing messages should be according to the ITU-T
Recommendation Q.706:
p (loosing messages) ≤ 10^-7^
b) The delay for retrieval of information from the HLR (retrieval on a per
call basis, retrieval of the authentication etc.) should be less than 1000 ms
2c) The delay for location registration in the HLR should be less than 2000
ms.
## 3.4 Performance design objectives for VLRs
### 3.4.1 Reference loads
a) Reference load for call handling: 1,5 transactions per subscriber per hour
b) Reference load for mobility management: 8,5 transactions per subscriber per
hour.
### 3.4.2 Objectives
The same objectives as for HLRs apply (see section 3.3.2).
# 4 Transmission characteristics
## 4.1 General
### 4.1.1 BS-MSC path
The performance objectives of BS-MSC path are dependent on length of the link
and therefore they will be decided on national basis. However, they should be
fixed taken into account ITU-T Recommendation G.921.
### 4.1.2 MSC
The MSC should meet the transmission objectives of digital exchanges as
specified in ITU-T Recommendation Q.551 and Q.554.
## 4.2 System delay distribution
3GPP TS 03.50 specifies an overall transmission delay objective throughout the
PLMN for speech channels for reasons of subjective speech quality. Since this
transmission delay objective includes several physical network elements, this
section specifies transmission delay values allocated to each of them. Due to
in-band protocols implemented in the GSM PLMN with timers running across
several network entities, also the transmission delay for data channels must
be limited and allocated to the physical network elements.
### 4.2.1 Speech channel delay
The main problem arising from an excessive delay occurs in a speech channel
because of subjective effects of echo and simultaneous speech in both
directions. To minimise these effects a both way speech delay of 180 ms
between the Mouth Reference Point (MRP)/ Ear Reference Point (ERP) in the MS
and the Point Of Interconnection (POI) with the PSTN/ISDN has been specified
in 3GPP TS 03.50 as an objective for the GSM PLMN operator when constructing
his network.
This delay for the full rate speech channel has been loosely allocated to the
various system entities as follows and illustrated in fig 4/1 and fig 4/2. The
detailed delay figures internal to a system entity are only indicative. The
total delay allowance allocated to any of the system entities should, however,
not be exceeded. The propagation delay through the PLMN is not included. It
should be noted that even if the sum of allocated delay values may exceed 180
ms in some cases, the long-term objective is still to keep the overall PLMN
transmission round-trip delay below 180 ms.
The allocated delay allowances are indicated as either system dependent or
implementation dependent. By system dependent it is meant that the delay
values are worst-case delay values given by system-given units of time, and
cannot be changed. By implementation dependent it is meant that the values
depend on the technology used, and that the values allocated have been fixed
as upper bounds by realistic judgement.
NOTE: The various figures allocated to the various network entities given in
these delay budgets are for guidance to network operators for network
planning. It is up to the operator to provide other figures, if required.
MSC BSC BTS MS\ │Techo margin│Tbsc Tsps margin│Tbuff margin│Trftx│Trxproc
margin │\ │ Tmsc │ Tsample Tabisd │ Tencode │ │ Tproc Td/a│\
│...............│.........................│...............│.....│..................│\
├\\\┼\\\\\┼\\\┼\┼\\\\┤\
│ 1.0 0.5 0.5 │ 0.5 20.0 1.6 17.4 0.5 │ 1.25 1.6 0.45│ 37.5│ 8.8 1.5 3.0 1.0│\
│ │ │ │ │ │\
├\┼\┼\┼\┤\
│ 2.0 40.0 40.8 14.3 │\ │ │\
├\┤\
│ 97.1 │\ NOTE: all figures in ms
Figure 4/1a: Downlink delay distribution for TCH/FS (16Kbit/s Abis)
MSC BSC BTS MS\ │Tmsc │Tbsc margin │Tabisu margin│Trftx│Tencode Tsample Ta/d
│\ │ margin│ Tproc │ Trxproc │ │ Ttransc margin │\
│..........│...............│...............│.....│.........................│\
├\\┼\\\┼\\\┼\┼\\\\\┤\
│ 0.5 0.5 │ 0.5 1.5 0.5 │ 4.0 8.8 3.0 │ 37.5│ 1.6 8.0 20.0 3.0 2.0 │\ │ │ │ │
│ │\
├\┼\┼\┼\┤\
│ 1.0 2.5 15.8 72.1 │\ │ │\
├\┤\
│ 91.4 │\ NOTE: all figures in ms
Figure 4/1b: Uplink delay distribution for TCH/FS (16 Kbit/s Abis)
MSC BSC BTS MS\ │Techo margin│Tbsc │Tsample Tencode │Trftx│Trxproc margin │\ │
Tmsc │ margin│ Ttransc margin│ │ Tproc Td/a │\
│...............│..........│....................│.....│....................│\
├\\\┼\\┼\\\\┼\┼\\\\┼\
│ 1.0 0.5 0.5 │ 0.5 0.5 │20.0 8.0 1.6 3.0 │ 37.5│ 8.8 1.5 3.0 1.0 │\ │ │ │ │ │
│\
├\┼\┼\┼\┼\
│ 2.0 │ 1.0 70.1 │ 14.3 │\ │ │ │ │\ │ ├\┤
│\ │ 71.1 │\ │ │\
├\┤\
│ 87.4 │\ NOTE: all figures in ms
Figure 4/2a: Downlink delay distribution for TCH/FS (64 Kbit/s Abis)
MSC BSC BTS MS\ │Tmsc │Tbsc │Tproc margin│Trftx│Tencode Tsample Ta/d │\ │
margin│ margin │ Trxproc │ │ Ttransc margin │\
│..........│..........│...............│.....│.........................│\
├\\┼\\┼\\\┼\┼\\\\\┤\
│ 0.5 0.5 │ 0.5 0.5 │ 1.5 8.8 3.0 │ 37.5│ 1.6 8.0 20.0 3.0 2.0 │\ │ │ │ │ │ │\
├\┼\┼\┼\┤\ │
1.0 │ 1.0 13.3 │ 72.1 │\ │ │ │ │\ │ ├\┤ │\ │ 14.3 │\
│ │\ ├\┤\
│ 87.4 │\ NOTE: all figures in ms
Figure 4/2b: Uplink delay distribution for TCH/FS (64 Kbit/s Abis)
BSS internal delay values (indicative):
Tsample: The duration of the segment of PCM speech operated on by the full-
rate speech transcoder (system dependent).
Trftx: The time required for transmission of a TCH radio interface frame over
the air interface due to the interleaving and de-interleaving (given in table
4/2) (system dependent).
Tabisu: The time required to transmit the first 56 speech frame data bits
(bits C12-C15, D1-D56 and 4 synchronization bits - 64 bits) over the 16 kbit/s
A-bis-interface in the uplink direction (system dependent).
Tabisd: The time required to transmit the 260 speech frame data bits (bits
D1-D260, C16 and 17 synchronization bits - 278 bits) over the 16 kbit/s A-bis-
interface in the downlink direction (system dependent).
Tbuff: Due to the time alignment procedure for inband control of the remote
transcoder in case of a 16 kbit/s A-bis-interface in the downlink direction,
it is required to have a buffer in the BTS of 1 ms + one 250 us regulation
step (system dependent).
Tbsc: Switching delay in the BSC (implementation dependent).
Ttransc: The speech encoder processing time, from input of the last PCM sample
to output of the final encoded bit (implementation dependent).
Tsps: Delay of the speech encoder after reception of the last PCM sample until
availability of the first encoded bit (implementation dependent).
Tencode: The time required for the channel encoder to perform channel encoding
(implementation dependent).
Trxproc: The time required after reception over the radio interface to perform
equalization, channel decoding and SID-frame detection (implementation
dependent).
Tproc: The time required after reception of the first RPE-sample to process
the speech encoded data for the full-rate speech decoder and to produce the
first PCM output sample (implementation dependent).
BSS external delay values (indicative):
Techo: Delay due to the echo canceller.
Tmsc: Switching delay in the MSC.
### 4.2.2 Data channel delay
The service requirements on excessive transmission delays for data channels
are not as stringent as for speech channels. However, two overall requirements
apply:
1\. Proper operation of the RLP protocol with the timers T1 and T2 residing in
the MSC/IWF and in the MS/TA must be ensured, and thus the round-trip delay
between those network entities must be low enough to avoid time-outs of the
RLP retransmission timer T1 (Round-trip delay \< T1 - T2). This applies to
non-transparent data only.
2\. Proper operation of any end-to-end acknowledged protocols must be ensured
in a similar manner. This applies to all data channels.
The transmission delay requirements for data channels have been allocated to
the various system entities as follows and as illustrated in figures 4/3 and
4/4, for transparent and non-transparent data separately, and the requirements
in the budgets should apply to all full-rate or half-rate channels, whether
synchronous or asynchronous. The contributions to the round-trip transmission
delay seen by the RLP are also indicated. It should be noted that these
concern the transmission delay part only, and that the timer T2 must be added
in order to find the limits for T1. The detailed delay figures internal to a
system entity are only indicative. The total delay allowance allocated to any
of the system entities should, however, not be exceeded. The propagation delay
through the PLMN is not included.
The allocated delay allowances are indicated as either system dependent or
implementation dependent. By system dependent it is meant that the delay
values are worst-case delay values given by system-given units of time, and
cannot be changed. By implementation dependent it is meant that the values
depend on the technology used, and that the values allocated have been fixed
as upper bounds by realistic judgement.
It should be noted that the actual delay distribution for a specific data
channel in most cases will have a lower total transmission delay than
indicated in the budgets, which show the worst-cases.
It should also be noted that the budgets apply to perfect conditions, i.e. no
errors over the radio path (implying no re-transmissions) and no flow control.
It should be noted, however, that in a real life situation any errors on the
radio path may increase the transmission delay and/or decrease the RLP
throughput, and that the flow control buffer limits for XON/XOFF will under
continuous flow control have a direct impact on the transmission delay, giving
an additional delay contribution directly given by these buffer limits.
The following delay values are specific to data traffic channels:
Transparent data only:
Tchar: The time needed in the IWF and TA to receive a character at the user
bit-rate in the transmit direction for bit-to-character conversion (given in
table 4/3) (system dependent).
Tra0: The time required for buffering in the IWF and TA in the transmit
direction for asynchronous-to-synchronous conversion and overspeed/underspeed
detection and correction. This delay corresponds to Tchar above (given in
table 4/3) (system dependent).
Tnic: The time needed in the IWF in each direction for buffering for Network
Independent Clocking. This time corresponds to one V.110 frame (system
dependent).
Non-transparent data only:
Tl2runit: The necessary time in the IWF and TA in the transmit direction to
convert the incoming user data bit stream into interpretable data units, e.g.
characters (character oriented without framing) or data frames (e.g. bit
oriented data like HDLC) (system dependent).
Tl2rbuft: Worst-case delay in the IWF and TA in the transmit direction
required for buffering in the L2R in order to assemble one PDU (system
dependent).
Tprotpr: Processing time used in the IWF and TA by the L2R and the RLP in the
transmit or receive direction (implementation dependent).
Trlpbuft: Worst-case buffering delay in the IWF and TA required by the RLP in
the transmit direction in order to synchronize one PDU towards the radio
interface transmission (system dependent).
Trlpbufr: Worst-case delay in the IWF in the receive direction required for
buffering in the RLP in order to assemble one PDU, before checksum calculation
can be carried out (system dependent).
Tl2rbufr: Worst-case buffering delay in the IWF and TA required by the L2R in
the receive direction in order to synchronize one PDU with the L2R user
(system dependent).
Transparent and non-transparent data:
Tiwfpr: Processing time in the IWF in the downlink or in the uplink direction
(implementation dependent).
Tabisf: Worst-case delay over the A-bis-interface due to non-synchronized
A-bis-interface transmission. This delay corresponds to one TRAU frame (system
dependent).
Tdframe: Additional delay to Tabisf in the downlink direction in order to
receive a full radio interface data TCH frame over the A-bis-interface, so
that channel encoding can start. The data TCH frame length is given in table
4/1and Tdframe is summarized in table 4/4 (system dependent).
Talignd: The time needed to wait in the downlink in order to align the
received data over the A-bis-interface to the radio interface TDMA frame
structure. This time corresponds to one TDMA-frame for full-rate channels and
two for half-rate channels (system dependent).
Tframe: Delay in the uplink direction in the MS in order to receive a full
radio interface data TCH frame over the user interface, so that channel
encoding can start. The data TCH frame length is given in table 4/1 (system
dependent).
Tdbuff: Additional buffering needed in the TA in the uplink direction with
respect to Tframe allowing a total buffering of four V.110 frames. The V.110
frame length is given in table 4/1, and Tdbuff is summarized in table 4/4
(system dependent).
Talignu: The time needed to wait in order to align the received uplink data
over the user interface to the radio interface TDMA frame structure. This time
corresponds to one TDMA-frame for full-rate channels and two for half-rate
channels (system dependent).
Ttaprocd: Processing time required in the TA in the downlink direction for
terminal adaptation (implementation dependent).
Ttaprocu: Processing time required in the TA in the uplink direction for
terminal adaptation (implementation dependent).
Other delay values indicated in the budgets for data traffic channels are
defined as for speech channels. Margins are allocated to each system entity
for the total implementation dependent part of the delay contributions,
considering the amount of processes in each entity and the amount of data
processed. Those operations not included explicitly in the budget are
considered only to add minimal delays and are thus considered to be covered by
the margins.
The data channel delay budgets for a 64 kbit/s and a 16 kbit/s A-bis-interface
are essentially the same, the only difference being a reduction in rate
adaptation functions in the 64 kbit/s case and a possible non-synchronized
transmission over the 16 kbit/s A-bis-interface (Tabisf). Thus only the 16
kbit/s A-bis-interface is illustrated, and for this option only the worst-
cases. The budgets in figures 4/3 and 4/4 apply, hence, also to the case of a
64 kbit/s A-bis-interface. For the case of the integrated BSS the delay budget
for the BSS shall contain the sum of the allowances for the BSC and the BTS.
Table 4/1: Radio interface and V.110 frame lengths for traffic channels
* * *
Traffic channel: **Frame length (ms):**  
Radio int. (z): V.110 (r): TCH/FS 20 - TCH/HS [tbd] - TCH/F9.6 20 5 TCH/F4.8
20 10 TCH/H4.8 40 10 TCH/F2.4 0 10 TCH/H2.4 40 10
* * *
Table 4/2: Interleaving/de-interleaving delay for traffic channels
+------------------+-----------------------------+----------------+ | Traffic channel: | Interleaving/deinterleaving | delay (y) (ms) | | | | | | | (TDMA-frames/timeslots): | | +------------------+-----------------------------+----------------+ | TCH/FS | 7+1/1 | 37,5 | +------------------+-----------------------------+----------------+ | TCH/HS | [tbd] | [tbd] | +------------------+-----------------------------+----------------+ | TCH/F9.6 | 18+3+2/1 | 106,8 | +------------------+-----------------------------+----------------+ | TCH/H4.8 | 18+3+2/1 | 106,8 | +------------------+-----------------------------+----------------+ | TCH/F4.8 | 36+6+4/1 | 212,9 | +------------------+-----------------------------+----------------+ | TCH/F2.4 | 7+1/1 | 37,5 | +------------------+-----------------------------+----------------+ | TCH/H2.4 | 36+6+4/1 | 212,9 | +------------------+-----------------------------+----------------+
NOTE: As an example, the TCH/F9.6 has an interleaving depth of 19, resulting
in a delay of 18 TDMA-frames and 1 timeslot. Due to the block diagonal
interleaving scheme where 4 user data blocks are channel encoded together, it
may in the worst-case be necessary to wait for all the 4 subblocks spread over
3 additional TDMA-frames before channel decoding. The channel encoded block
will also span a maximum of 2 SACCH frames.
It may be possible, in practice, to reduce the interleaving delay, Trftx, by
processing information before the complete data block is received over the air
interface. It may also be possible, in practice, to reduce the impact of
Tframe by transmitting information over the air interface before the complete
data block is encoded. However, due to the less stringent delay requirements
on data transmission than on speech transmission, this is considered to
unnecessarily constrain the implementation options.
Table 4/3: Delays for bit/character conversion (11 bits)
* * *
Ruser Tchar (x): 75 bit/s 146,7 ms 300 bit/s 36,7 ms 1 200 bit/s 9,2 ms 2 400
bit/s 4,6 ms 4 800 bit/s 2,3 ms 9 600 bit/s 1,2 ms
* * *
Table 4/4: Tdframe and Tdbuff given for various TCH types
* * *
**Traffic channel:** **Tdframe (u):** **Tdbuff (v):** TCH/FS - - TCH/HS - -
TCH/F9.6 0 ms 0 ms TCH/F4.8 0 ms 20 ms TCH/H4.8 20 ms 0 ms TCH/F2.4 0 ms 20 ms
TCH/H2.4 20 ms 0 ms
* * *
NOTE: The various figures allocated to the various network entities given in
these delay budgets are for guidance to network operators for network
planning. It is up to the operator to provide other figures, if required.
The delay value TL2runit has been included in figure 4/4b as \"w\" ms. No
table with values for \"w\" has been included in the present document since
these values will depend on the type of data units the incoming user data bit
stream shall be converted into (e.g. conversion into characters or HDLC
frames).
Figure 4/3a: Worst-case downlink delay distribution for data TCH (transparent
data)
Figure 4/3b: Worst-case uplink delay distribution for data TCH (transparent
data)
NOTE: All figures are in ms. The values of x, y, r, u and v depend on the user
bitrate, ranging from 75 - 9600 bit/s, and the data TCH type.
Figure 4/4a: Worst-case downlink delay distribution for data TCH (non-
transparent data)
Figure 4/4b: Worst-case uplink delay distribution for data TCH (non-
transparent data)
NOTE: All figures are in ms. The values of y, z, u, v and w depend on the data
TCH type and the L2R user protocol. T~RLP,\ diwf~ and T~RLP,\ uiwf~ are the
transmission delays seen by the RLP in the IWF in the downlink and uplink
respectively. It should be noted that the corresponding transmission delays
seen by the TA are given by a symmetrical assessment, but are not identical.
The sum of the two, however, is the same.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Change Request History
* * *
**Date** **TSG #** **TSG Doc.** **CR** **Rev** **Subject/Comment** **New**
2004-12 SP#26 Upgraded to Release 6 6.0.0 2007-06 CT#36 Upgraded unchanged
from Rel-6 7.0.0 2008-12 CT#42 Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7 8.0.0 2009-12 - -
- - Update to Rel-9 version (MCC) 9.0.0 2011-03 - - - - Update to Rel-10
version (MCC) 10.0.0 2011-03 - - - - Update to Rel-11 version (MCC) 11.0.0
2014-09 - - - - Update to Rel-12 version (MCC) 12.0.0 2015-12 CT#70 - - -
Update to Rel-13 version (MCC) 13.0.0