# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a system wide view of the operation of
discontinuous reception on the GSM system.
The support of DRX is mandatory in GSM PLMNs.
The detailed coding and procedural details are defined in the relevant
Technical Specifications dealing with the specific interfaces that are
involved, for instance GSM 08.08 and GSM 04.08. Reference is also made to the
framing on the air interface which is defined in Technical Specification GSM
05.02.
The present document gives an overview of the implementation of discontinuous
reception DRX within the GSM system, the actions required at MSC, BSS, and MS,
the support of the facility via the air interface, and some operational
aspects of the facility.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 04.08: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Mobile
radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[3] GSM 05.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[4] GSM 08.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Base
Station System - Mobile-services Switching Centre (BSS - MSC) interface
Interface principles\".
[5] GSM 08.08: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Mobile
Switching Centre - Base Station System (MSC - BSS) interface Layer 3
specification\".
[6] GSM 03.68: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Voice
Group Call Service (VGCS) Stage 2\".
[7] GSM 03.69: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Voice
Broadcast Service (VBS) Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
> [9] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Technical Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access
> Network;
>
> Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\"
# 3 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in GSM 01.04 [1] and in
3GPP TS 21.905 [8].
# 4 Overview of discontinuous reception
DRX/eDRX is a technique that allows the mobile station to power down
significant amounts of its internal circuitry for a high percentage of the
time when it is in the idle mode.
It also ensures that the MS is aware of exactly when page requests for it may
be transmitted and it can then therefore schedule other tasks such that it
avoids the problem of not decoding valid page requests transmitted by the
network in the idle mode periods.
The technique works by dividing the MSs within a cell into a set of groups.
The group in which an MS resides is then known locally at both the MS and the
BSS. All paging requests to each group are then scheduled and sent at a
particular time which is derived from the TDMA frame number in conjunction
with the IMSI of the MS and some BCCH transmitted data. When a MS uses eDRX
the BSS derives the precise paging time applicable to the radio interface
using IMSI and the eDRX cycle length information provided within a paging
request (received from the SGSN) and, when paging on PCH, some BCCH data. In
addition, for an EC-EGPRS MS, when paging on EC-PCH, the downlink coverage
class is also included in the paging request.
Thus both the BSS and the MS know when relevant page requests will be sent and
the MS can power down for the period when it knows that page requests will not
occur.
The page request can contain the IMSI and may contain the TMSI in order to
identify the MS concerned. The IMSI is however always used to identify the
paging population. Paging by means of the IMEI is for further study.
Mechanisms for the application of DRX for the voice group call and voice
broadcast services are defined in stage 2 descriptions in GSM 03.68 [6] and
GSM 03.69 [7], respectively.
# 5 MSC functions
The MSC is almost transparent to DRX, since it has no real time knowledge of
the absolute frame numbers on the air interface (refer to Technical
Specification GSM 08.02).
It should be noted, however, that the MSC does define which cells are to be
paged in order to locate a particular MS. Normally this will be a location
area.
The MSC therefore constructs page requests and sends them to a specific set of
BSSs. Each page request always includes the IMSI. The timer to detect non
receipt of a page response may require alteration depending upon the number of
page groups that are involved. If this is the case, then the timer will be set
by O and M command at the same time as the number of paging groups at the cell
is altered.
# 6 BSS functions
At the BSS page requests are received. It is implicit (single cell BSSs) or
explicit (multi cell BSSs) within the page requests from the MSC to which cell
the page request is destined (Technical Specifications GSM 08.08 and GSM 08.02
refers).
The BSS analyses the IMSI in order to derive the page group of the MS
involved. The air interface page request is then constructed and transmitted
in the appropriate TDMA burst. If the page request includes a TMSI and IMSI
then the IMSI is used to derive the page population and the TMSI is inserted
into the actual page request message. The scheduling of the page requests is
therefore completely controlled by the BSS.
The relationship between paging group and TDMA burst, and IMSI and paging
group is given in Technical Specification 3GPP TS 45.002 [9].
The exact scheduling mechanism used at the BSS is not defined in the present
document.
However, when DRX is used the BSS may set the \"page mode\" bits as described
in Technical Specification GSM 04.08. This can be used to optimise paging load
and reduce missed page requests during system reconfiguration. An exception
case is when EC-EGPRS is used in which case paging load can be optimized and
missed pages can be reduced using \"paging extension\" information sent within
EC-AGCH and EC-PCH messages (see 3GPP TS 44.018).
# 7 MS functions
The MS shall derive its paging group as defined in Technical Specification GSM
05.02.
The MS shall interpret all paging requests in its paging group according to
the paging mode bits as described in Technical Specification GSM 04.08.
# 8 Support via the air interface
The BCCH and paging channel messages are defined in Technical Specification
GSM 04.08. Technical Specification GSM 05.02 defines the algorithms which
enable an MS to know the exact frame and burst when page requests relevant to
it might be transmitted.
# 9 Operational aspects
There will be occasions when it is necessary to alter the parameters of cell
such that the paging group of the MS may alter.
If (referring to Technical Specification GSM 05.02) any of the parameters
BS_AG_BLKS_RES, BS_CC_CHANS_COMB, BS_CC_CHANS or BS_PA_MFRMS have to be
altered, then the period when page requests may be lost can be minimised for
example by:
Firstly setting the page mode to \"page reorganisation\" in all page requests
on the affected cell for the exact duration of one paging period (i.e.
BS_PA_MFRMS multiframes). At the completion of this announcement period, the
BCCH parameters are set to the new values and the BSS starts scheduling the
paging messages according to the new parameters. The page mode is reset to any
of the values \"normal mode\" or \"extended mode\" as required.
# 10 SGSN functions
The SGSN maintains knowledge of the cells that are to be paged, and when the
paging group occurs in the respective cell(s), in order to locate a particular
MS for packet data delivery. In addition, when eDRX is used the SGSN maintains
the value of the eDRX value it has negotiated with the MS. The SGSN constructs
paging requests and sends them to a specific set of BSSs. Each page request
always includes the IMSI. If a MS uses eDRX then the page request also
includes the negotiated eDRX value. If EC-EGPRS is used, the downlink coverage
class applicable to the MS is also included in the page request.
#