# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Network sharing is emerging as a mechanism for operators to substantially and
sustainably improve network costs and to efficiently utilize network capacity.
The traditional model of single ownership of all network layers and elements
is being challenged and more and more operators are adopting network sharing
as a means of cutting the heavy costs involved in initial roll-out, capital
expenditure (**CAPEX)** and operational expenditure (OPEX).
In general, an increasing number of operators are sharing their mobile
networks. Main arguments presented are:
\- Increased rollout speed.
\- Quickly expanding coverage to meet customer demand for wider coverage.
\- Sharing low traffic areas.
\- Sharing high license burdens.
\- Lower CAPEX and OPEX.
Network sharing has some major implications on the operations of the network.
Alignment on operational priorities, common network planning/evolution
strategy, sharing end user data/subscriber data, sharing performance data,
alarms etc. in the shared network need to be considered carefully. Privacy,
security and competitive information are also important for the operations of
a shared network.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes concepts and high-level requirements for the
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P) of network
sharing.
Network sharing scenarios considered in the present document are Multiple
Operator Core Network (MOCN) and Gateway Core Network (GWCN) for GERAN, UTRAN
and E-UTRAN, as defined in TS 23.251 [7]).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.251: \"Network sharing; Architecture and functional
description\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.314: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Layer 2 -- Measurements\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TR 21.905 [1], in that
order.
Organizational roles:
**Master Operator (MOP):** In Radio Access Network (RAN) and/or Core Network
(CN) sharing scenarios, deployment and daily operation of shared network
elements are entrusted to a single Actor, called the Master Operator. The
Master Operator provides network and OAM&P services to other Operators, called
Participating Operators (POPs). The Master Operator is the only one to have a
direct OAM&P connection from its Domain Manager (DM) to the shared network
elements.
**Participating Operator (POP):** Participating Operators are service
providers who share, alongside other Participating Operators, the network (RAN
and/or CN) facilities provided by the Master Operator. According to TS 36.300
[4] up to 6 operators can share a RAN.
Note: In a RAN/CN sharing scenario where Company A and Company B are POPs, MOP
represents a role which can be played by either:
\- Company A or Company B: in that case, Company A or Company B plays both
roles, i.e. is the MOP and one of the POPs simultaneously, or
\- A joint-venture between Company A and Company B, or
\- A third-party entity: in this context, third party is referring to a
wholesale mobile connectivity provider.
In the two latter cases, companies A and B rely on another company to play the
role of MOP. This company cannot play the role of POP.
Management systems:
**Master Operator Network Manager (MOP-NM):** Network Manager enabling the
Master Operator to manage the shared RAN and/or shared CN.
**Master Operator Shared CN dm (MOP--SC-DM):** Domain Manager enabling the
Master Operator to manage the Shared CN.
**Master Operator Shared RAN dm (MOP--SR-DM):** Domain Manager enabling the
MOP to manage the Shared RAN.
**Participating Operator CN DM (POP-CORE-DM):** Domain Manager enabling a
Participating Operator to manage its own (not shared) Core Network.
**Participating Operator Network Manager (POP-NM):** Network Manager enabling
a Participating Operator to manage its own (not shared) network and its
portion of the shared network.
**Participating Operator RAN DM (POP-RAN-DM):** Domain Manager enabling a
Participating Operator to manage its own (not shared) RAN.
Managed resources in a shared Radio Access Network (RAN) environment:
**Shared RAN (S-RAN):** A set of Radio Access Network elements shared among
Participating Operators.
Managed resources in a shared Core Network (CN) environment:
**Shared CN (S-CORE):** A set of Core Network elements shared among
Participating Operators. It may or may not include all core network elements.
For example, the Participating Operators may share only the MMEs while having
independent S/P GWs.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ARP Allocation and Retention Priority
DL Downlink
DM Domain Manager
GBR Guaranteed Bit Rate
GWCN Gateway Core Network
MDT Minimization of Drive Tests
MOCN Multiple Operator Core Network
MOP Master Operator
MOP-NM Master Operator Network Manager
MOP--SC-DM Master Operator Shared CN DM
MOP--SR-DM Master Operator Shared RAN DM
NGCOR Next Generation Converged Operations Requirements
OAM&P Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning
POP Participating Operator
POP-CORE-DM Participating Operator CN DM
POP-NM Participating Operator Network Manager
POP-RAN-DM Participating Operator RAN DM
QCI Quality of Service Class Indicator
QoS Quality of Service
SON Self-Organizing Networks
S-CORE Shared CN
S-RAN Shared RAN
UL Uplink
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 RAN sharing scenarios
Various network sharing scenarios exist, amongst which one category is RAN
sharing which can be divided into the following (non exhaustive) list of sub-
categories:
\- Passive RAN sharing, also known as infrastructure sharing (including site
sharing).
\- Active RAN sharing, where active network elements of the RAN are shared:
\- RAN-only sharing (MOCN; see TS 23.251 [5]), i.e. BTSs / BSCs (respectively
NodeBs / RNCs and eNodeBs) in a 2G Radio Access Network (respectively a 3G
Radio Access Network and an E-UTRA network);
\- Gateway Core Network (GWCN; see TS 23.251 [5]), in which not only the Radio
Access Network elements are shared but also part or all of the Core Network
elements (there is no passive core network sharing).
In MOCN, POPs have a common S-RAN, have their individual Core Network and
their own PLMN code(s), and use the same frequency on the S-RAN.
{width="3.9368055555555554in" height="3.3243055555555556in"}
Figure 4.1-1: Multiple Operator Core Network (MOCN)
In GWCN, besides sharing Radio Access Network nodes, the POPs also share Core
Network nodes (see TS 23.251 [5] -- clause 4.1).
{width="3.9368055555555554in" height="3.025in"}
Figure 4.1-2: GateWay Core Network (GWCN)
## 4.2 Management architecture
The management architecture for MOCN is depicted in figure 4.2-1. It is
compliant with 3GPP management reference model (TS 32.101 [2]).
{width="3.9368055555555554in" height="2.714583333333333in"}
Figure 4.2-1: Management architecture for MOCN
In the MOCN scenario, all cells of the S-RAN are shared between POPs.
The management architecture for GWCN is depicted in figure 4.2-2. It is
compliant with 3GPP management reference model (TS 32.101 [2]).
{width="4.330555555555556in" height="2.857638888888889in"}
Figure 4.2-2: Management architecture for GWCN
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
### 5.1.1 Requirements for the OAM&P of shared RAN
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-1 The MOP--SR-DM shall support a capability allowing the MOP-
NM to manage S-RAN of any of the following** radio access technologies**:**
i/ GERAN;
ii/ UTRAN;
iii/ E-UTRAN.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-2 The MOP--SR-DM shall support a capability allowing the MOP-
NM to manage S-RAN according to any of the following scenarios** :
i/ Multi-Operator Core Network
ii/ Gateway Core Network.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-3** The **MOP--SR-DM** shall support a capability allowing
the **MOP-NM** to know which POPs the shared resources belong to.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-4** The **MOP--SR-DM** shall support a capability allowing
the **MOP-NM** to configure which POPs share each cell.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-5** Any POP shall be able to activate a signaling-based trace
/ MDT session on its subscribers, whether they are attached to the POP own RAN
or to the **S-RAN** , provided:
a/ this is compliant with the RAN sharing contract; and
b/ user consent for participation in MDT is respected.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-6** The MOP shall be able, on behalf of any POP, to activate
an area-based trace / MDT session, on the portion of the **S-RAN** that the
POP shares and on the POP subscribers only, from the MOP RAN DM or MOP NM,
provided
a/ only the POP related subscriber data are collected;
b/ this is compliant with the RAN sharing contract; and
c/ user consent for participation in MDT is respected.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-7** The MOP shall be able, on behalf of multiple POPs, to
activate an area-based trace / MDT session, on the portion of the **S-RAN**
that each POP shares and on each POP subscribers only, from the MOP RAN DM or
MOP NM, provided:
a/ each POP has access only to its subscriber data (i.e. not to other POPs\'
subscriber data);
b/ this is compliant with the RAN sharing contract; and
c/ user consent for participation in MDT is respected.
### 5.1.2 Requirements for the OA&M of shared core network elements
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-8** In the GWCN scenario, t**he MOP shall be able to manage
S-CORE**.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-9** The MOP shall be able to know which POPs the shared core
network elements belong to.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-10** The MOP shall be able to configure which POPs share each
core network element.
### 5.1.3 Requirements for the management of measurements for cross-operator
accounting based on data volume and QoS
**REQ-NS_PM-CON-1** The MOP shall be able to charge the POPs for the data
volume used by POP's users per selected QoS profile criteria via measurements
defined for shared networks.
\- The QoS profile criteria may include QCI Indicator, GBR Indicator, ARP
Indicator.
\- It shall be possible to differentiate between DL and UL.
**REQ-NS_PM-CON-2** The MOP shall be able to set the reliability for the
selected measurements defined for cross operator accounting purpose in shared
networks.
**REQ-NS_PM-CON-3** A maximum number of 200 counter instances (for
measurements defined for cross operator accounting purpose in shared networks)
can be recorded per granularity period.
## 5.2 Actor roles
MOP-SR-DM: An entity performing an IRPAgent role in MOCN and in GWCN.
MOP-SC-DM: An entity performing an IRPAgent role in GWCN.
MOP-NM: An entity performing the IRPManager role in MOCN and in GWCN.
## 5.3 Telecommunications resources
For MOCN and GWCN, the managed GERAN, UTRAN, E-UTRAN network elements are
viewed as relevant telecommunications resources in the present document.
For GWCN, MSC, SGSN and MME are viewed as relevant telecommunications
resources in the present document.
## 5.4 High-level use cases
### 5.4.1 Fully pooled radio resources between two POPs
In this use case, cells are shared between POP A and POP B. As agreed by MOP
and POPs in their RAN sharing agreement:
\- Radio resources of the **S-RAN** are fully pooled between POP A and POP B;
UEs from POP A and POP B are served in the **S-RAN** in a first come first
served mode;
\- MOP is responsible for configuring the **S-RAN** accordingly.
{width="3.9368055555555554in" height="3.790277777777778in"}
Figure 5.4.1-1: Fully pooled radio resources between two POPs
### 5.4.2 Alarm raised on a shared cell (MOCN scenario)
In this use case, an alarm is raised on cell #1 of a shared (e)NodeB.
According to the RAN sharing agreement, the two POPs A and B are informed by
the MOP of the occurrence of this new alarm, as well as of the alarm clearance
by the MOP.
{width="4.330555555555556in" height="3.223611111111111in"}
Figure 5.4.2-1. Handling of an alarm raised on a shared cell (MOCN)
### 5.4.3 Single DM for managing S-RAN and POP own RAN
In this use case, Operator A is a POP and manages its own (non-shared) NEs
from its POP-RAN-DM while Operator B is both MOP and POP and manages **S-RAN**
and its own (non-shared) NEs from a single DM.
Operator B has several possibilities:
Example #1: configure, NE per NE, which POPs share the cells that it manages;
or
Example #2: define two separate groups of BTSs / (e)NodeBs:
\- one for the **S-RAN** NEs -- it shall then configure which POPs share the
cells of this group of BTSs / (e)NodeBs; and
\- one for its own (non-shared) RAN NEs.
{width="4.7243055555555555in" height="3.6284722222222223in"}
Figure 5.4.3-1: Single DM for managing both S-RAN and own RAN
### 5.4.4 Management of measurements for cross-operator accounting based on
data volume and QoS
The operator has made an agreement to act as a Master Operator, MOP, for
another operator (Participating Operator, POP) for RAN sharing. The agreement
is regulated in an SLA, which states the following: The QoS profile criteria
ARP-1 -- 10 and GBR-5 for QCI-4 and QCI-8 is supported. The DL QCI-4, GBR-5,
and ARP-1 -- 10 is charged by x Euro per Mbit, while UL QCI-4, GBR-5, and
ARP-1 -- 10 is charged by y Euro per Mbit. QCI-8 is charged z Euro per Mbit
regardless of QoS. For cross operator accounting purpose, the network needs to
provide data volume measurements with high reliability for the used QoS
profile criteria to the MOP.
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
**REQ-NS_GEN-FUN-1 The IRPAgent** shall support a capability allowing the
**IRPManager to configure which POPs share each cell.**
**REQ-NS_GEN-FUN-2 The IRPAgent** shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to know **which POPs share each cell.**
**REQ-NS_GEN-FUN-3** In GWCN, t**he IRPAgent** shall support a capability
allowing the **IRPManager to configure which POPs share each core network
element.**
**REQ-NS_GEN-FUN-4** In GWCN, t**he IRPAgent** shall support a capability
allowing the IRPManager to know **which POPs share each core network
element.**
**REQ-NS_PM-FUN-1** The IRPAgent shall have the capability to support
subscription of UL and DL data volume measurements per QoS profile criteria
for cross operator accounting purpose from the IRPManager.\ The QoS profile
criteria may include one or more of the following criteria: one QCI indicator,
one GBR Indicator, one ARP Indicator, where:
\- a QCI Indicator identifies one specific QCI value. If the indicator is not
set then all QCI values should be taken into account.
\- a GBR Indicator identifies one GBR range value defined by the management
system. If the indicator is not set then all GBR ranges should be taken into
account.
\- an ARP Indicator identifies one ARP priority value. If the indicator is not
set then all ARP priority values should be taken into account.
**REQ-NS_PM-FUN-2** The IRPAgent shall support the IRPManager setting the
reliability for the counter instances in a measurement job. The detailed
definition of reliability is vendor specific.
**REQ-NS_PM-FUN-3** The IRPAgent shall support up to a maximum number of 200
recorded counter instances per granularity period of data volume measurements
for cross operator accounting purpose.
**REQ-NS_PM-FUN-4** The IRPAgent shall support the IRPManager to access a file
containing data volume measurements for cross operator accounting purposes
every granularity period.
## 6.2 Actor roles
See clause 5.2.
## 6.3 Telecommunications resources
See clause 5.3.
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 Management of measurements for cross-operator accounting based on
data volume and QoS
The network manager requests a measurement job for data volume measurements
for shared network for charging purposes with high reliability, for a subset
of data volume counters per shared PLMN, per UL/DL traffic direction and per
QoS profile criteria. The QoS profile criteria may include one or more of the
following criteria: one QCI Indicator, one GBR Indicator, one ARP Indicator,
where:
\- a QCI Indicator identifies one specific QCI value. QCI values range from 0
to 255. If the indicator is not set then all QCI values should be taken into
account.
\- a GBR Indicator identifies one GBR range value defined by the management
system. GBR range values can range from 1 to N, where N is bigger than 1 (e.g.
N=5). If the indicator is not set then all GBR ranges should be taken into
account.
\- an ARP Indicator identifies one ARP priority value. ARP priority values
range from 1 to 15. If the indicator is not set then all ARP priority values
should be taken into account.
An overall maximum number of 200 counter instances (measurement instances) can
be recorded per granularity period.
The measurement type is specified by sub-clause 4.1.9 in 3GPP TS 36.314 [x].\
All the counters instances in the measurement job should be subject to high
reliability as it is for cross operator accounting purpose. The detailed
definition of reliability is vendor specific.
The network provides the counters each granularity period.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Network sharing agreement
Prior to any network sharing deployment, the MOP and the POPs have to agree on
legal, financial, technical and operational aspects. Among operational
aspects, the network sharing agreement captures the following (non-exhaustive
list):
\- Organizations involved (i.e. Operators) and their roles in the network
sharing deployment.
\- Exhaustive list of shared and unshared resources in the shared network.
\- Rights attached to each role (e.g. rights to configure network resources,
rights to receive alarms, etc.).
\- Duties attached to each role (e.g. obligation for the MOP to provide POPs
with monthly KPIs, etc.).
\- Delegations (if any) given by any organization to another organization.
\- Service Level Agreements (SLAs).
#