# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines design rules for REpresentational State Transfer
(REST) Solution Sets (SS). These rules are applied when specifying REST
Solution Sets.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[4] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[5] IETF RFC 7230: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax
and Routing\".
[6] IETF RFC 7159: \" The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[7] draft-wright-json-schema-01 (October 2017): \"JSON Schema: A Media Type
for Describing JSON Documents\".
Editor\'s note: The above document cannot be formally referenced until it is
published as an RFC.
[8] draft-wright-json-schema-validation-01 (October 2017: \"JSON Schema
Validation: A Vocabulary for Structural Validation of JSON\".
Editor\'s note: The above document cannot be formally referenced until it is
published as an RFC.
[9] draft-wright-json-schema-hyperschema-01 (October 2017): \"JSON Hyper-
Schema: A Vocabulary for Hypermedia Annotation of JSON.
Editor\'s note: The above document cannot be formally referenced until it is
published as an RFC.
[10] OpenAPI Specification (https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification)
[11] IETF RFC 5789: \"PATCH Method for HTTP\".
[12] IETF RFC 7396: \"JSON Merge Patch\".
[13] IETF RFC 6902: \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Patch\".
[14] IETF RFC 6901: \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Pointer\".
[15] XML Path Language (XPath) Version 1.0, W3C Recommendation 16 November
1999 (https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath-10/)
[16] 3GPP TR 32.160: \"Management and orchestration; Management service
template\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CRUD Create, Retrieve, Update, Delete
DC Domain Component
DN Distinguished Name
DNS Domain Name Service
FQDN Fully Qualified Doman Name
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
LDN Local Distinguished Name
MnS Management Service
REST REpresentational State Transfer
RPC Remote Procedure Call
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
# 4 General rules
## 4.1 Information models and resources
### 4.1.1 Information models
An information model is a representation of a system. Typical models do not
reflect all facets of the system, but only certain aspects required to solve
the management problem the model is designed for. 3GPP follows an object-
oriented modelling approach. Models are built from managed object classes.
Each object class contains information elements called attributes.
Relationships between classes represent the logical connections. Models are
specified formally with class diagrams produced using the Unified Modelling
Language (UML).
The instantiation of a managed object class is called managed object instance,
or concisely just managed object or object. All managed object instances
together with the relationships between them constitute an object tree. An
object tree is also called containment tree.
### 4.1.2 Resources
HTTP uses a different terminology based on the notion of resources, as defined
in clause 2 of RFC 7231 [2]. Each resource is represented by one or more
resource representations as defined in clause 3 of RFC 7231 [2]. Valid
resource representations are e.g. XML instance documents or JSON instance
documents.
Besides this primary resource, RFC 3986 [4], clause 3.5 introduces the concept
of secondary resources. Secondary resources are specific portions or subsets
of primary resources, that are identifiable.
### 4.1.3 Resource archetypes
Resources can be classified according to their structure and behaviour into
resource archetypes. This helps specifying clear and understandable
interfaces. The following three archetypes are defined:
**\- Document resource** : This is the standard resource containing data in
form of name value pairs and links to related resources. This kind of resource
typically represents a real-world object or a logical concept.
**\- Collection resource** : A collection resource is grouping resources of
the same kind. The resources below the collection resource are called items of
the collection. An item of a collection is normally a document resource.
Collection resources typically contain links to the items of the collection
and information about the collection like the total number of items in the
collection. Collection resources can be further distinguished into server-
managed and client-managed resources. Collection resources are also known as
container resources.
**\- Operation resource** : Operation resources represent executable
functions. They may have input and output parameters. Operation resources
allow some sort of fall back to an RPC style design in case application
specific actions cannot be mapped easily to CRUD style operations.
### 4.1.4 Mapping of information models to resources
RESTful SS shall be specified in a way that managed object instances are
described by (primary) document resources. Collection resources have no
equivalent in an information model unless some dedicated collection class is
introduced.
Attributes are mapped to secondary resources.
### 4.1.5 Usage of information models
Information models are used for two purposes when specifying interfaces to
observe and act upon information models:
\- They provide a means to identify information in request messages.
\- They provide a format to transfer information in request and response
messages..
Identification of information is necessary when retrieving information from a
MnS Producer; the MnS Consumer needs to be able to specify in his retrieveal
request the information the MnS Producer shall return. But also when
information needs to be updated or deleted the MnS Consumer needs to identify
the information to be updated or deleted in his request. When information is
added, the location of the new information is specified relative to the
location of existing information.
Request and response message bodies carrying (some parts of) the information
model are also constructed based on the information model supported by the MnS
Producer. The message format is either identical to the information model
format or identical to some transformation of the information model format.
## 4.2 Managed object naming and resource identification
### 4.2.1 Managed object naming
#### 4.2.1.0 Distinguished Name (DN)
The Distinguished Name (DN) is used in 3GPP to uniquely identify a managed
object instance within a specific name space. The DN is a comma (\",\")
separated list of Relative Distinguished Names (RDNs). Each managed object
instance has an associated RDN. The sequence of RDNs is governed by name
containment relationships in the UML class diagram describing the modelled
network. The RDN consists of a naming attribute name separated by an equal
sign (\"=\") from the naming attribute value. The naming attribute name is
equal to the class name of the MOI.
In addition to the RDNs associated to a managed object instance the DN may
have as leftmost RDN whose naming attribute name is \"DC\" (Domain Component)
and whose value is a domain name. A DN with DC is globally unique.
The DN concept is described in detail in TS 32.300 [3].The following example
DN has a DC.
DN =
\"DC=operatorA.com,SubNetwork=south,ManagedElement=a,ENBFunction=1,Cell=1\"
#### 4.2.1.1 Global and local namespaces
A DN in the global name space is globally unique and starts with the RDN of
the global root. A DN in a local name space starts with the RDN of the local
root and is unique only within this name space. A DN in a local namespace is
also referred to as Local Distinguished Name (LDN). The DN of the local root
relative to the global root is called DN prefix. The concatenation of DN
prefix and LDN is equal to the globally unique DN of a managed object.
The local root is typically the root of the network resource model
representing the managed network.
### 4.2.2 Resource identification
HTTP uses a subset of the generic Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme
(RFC 3986 [4]) defined in RFC 7230 [5] for target resource identification.
http-URI = \"http:\" \"//\" authority path-abempty [ \"?\" query ] [ \"#\"
fragment ]
The path component is an absolute path (one that starts with a single slash
character) or empty.
The origin server is identified by the authority component, which includes a
host identifier and an optional TCP port. The hierarchical path component and
optional query component serve as an identifier for a potential target
resource within that origin server's name space. The optional fragment
component allows for indirect identification of a secondary resource.The host
identifier is either an IP address or an indirect identifier such as a FQDN to
be resolved with DNS.
URIs are used by HTTP for routing, and addressing of target resources.
### 4.2.3 Mapping of DNs to URIs
URIs are globally unique. For this reason only a globally unique DN with DC is
mappable into a URI. The mapping rules are as follow:
\- The DN prefix is mapped semantically to the authority component of the URI.
The syntax of the DN prefix is modified to match the syntax of the authority
component.
\- The LDN is mapped semantically to the path component of the URI. The syntax
of the LDN is modified to match the syntax of the path component.
When mapping a LDN the equal sign \"=\"shall be used as delineator between the
naming attribute name and naming attribute value when constructing a RDN.
URI-RDN = {namingAttributeName} \"=\" {namingAttributeValue}
The URI-LDN is the concatenation of URI-RDNs separated by a slash \"/\".
URI-LDN = *( \"/\" RDN )
For example, the LDN
LDN = \"SubNetwork=south,ManagedElement=a,ENBFunction=1,Cell=1\"
maps to
URI-LDN = \"/SubNetwork=south/ManagedElement=a/ENBFunction=1/Cell=1\"
and the LDN
LDN = \"ManagedElement=a,ENBFunction=1,Cell=1\"
to
URI-LDN = \"/ManagedElement=a/ENBFunction=1/Cell=1\"
When constructing the authority part from the DN prefix, it shall be
reformatted according to the name conventions applying to FQDNs. For example,
the DN prefix
DN-prefix = \"DC=operatorA.com\"
maps to
URI-DN-prefix = \"operatorA.com\"
and the DN prefix
DN-prefix = \"DC=operatorA.com,SubNetwork=south\"
to
URI-DN-prefix = \"south.subNetwork.operatorA.com\"
The complete URIs for the examples are
http://operatorA.com/SubNetwork=south/ManagedElement=a/ENBFunction=1/Cell=1
http://south.subNetwork.operatorA.com/ManagedElement=a/ENBFunction=1/Cell=1
The constructed URI-DN-prefix is a FQDN that can be registered into a name
resolution service such as DNS. The sole presence of a constructed FQDN does
not mean it can be resolved to an IP address and there is a server listening
at that address.
Using the mapping rule, a DN is mapped predictably into the URI authority
component and path component.
The character set allowed in DNs is much bigger than the character set allowed
in the path component and authority component of a URI. Care needs to be taken
when selecting the naming attribute names und values that the mapping from a
DN to a URI does not become impossible as a consequence of not mappable
characters.
When no registered name can be used, the IP address shall be specified
directly in the host component, for example:
http://168.212.226.204/SubNetwork=south/.../Cell=1
This might be required in multiple situations. For example, when a DN prefix
is used but the corresponding URI-DN-prefix cannot be resolved, the MnS
Consumer needs to specify an IP address in the target URI of HTTP request
messages. The same is true when no DN prefix is used at all. Another example
is when no DN prefix is configured into MnS Producers and the MnS Producer
wants to report events, that occurred related to resources, using
notifications sent to MnS Consumers. The MnS Producer has no other option than
to put its own IP address into the host component of the URI identifying the
resource where the event occurred.
### 4.2.4 Canonical URI
The URI defined in clause 4.2.3 is called canonical URI. It is the main or
official URI of a resource. It shall be used whenever the resource as such
shall be identified. The URI for sending HTTP requests to a resource may be
different as described in clause 4.4. Special kinds of requests may have all
their own URI. Therefore, a resource has typically one canonical URI and one
or more other URIs. The canonical URI may be looked at as a protocol specific
version of the protocol neutral DN.
A canonical URI may or may not yield further information if dereferenced.
An example usage of a canonical URI is in event notifications such as alarm
notifications for identifying the resource where the event occurred.
## 4.3 Message content formats
### 4.3.1 Media types
The format of HTTP request and response message content is indicated with
media types consisting of a type, a subtype and optional parameters, as
defined in clause 3.1.1.1 of RFC 7231 [2]. The \"Content-Type\" header field
of a message contains the media type of the message content (clause 3.1.1.5 of
RFC 7231 [2]).
If not otherwise stated, the media type of request and response message bodies
in the REST SS is
\- application/json (RFC 7159 [6]).
Exceptions are when JSON patch documents are contained in request bodies. They
are identified with the media types
\- application/merge-patch+json (RFC 7396 [12], and clause 6.3.2 of the
present document),
\- application/json-patch+json (RFC 6902 [13], and clause 6.3.3 of the present
document).
Furthermore, this specification defines four new formats. Their media types
are
\- application/vnd.3gpp.merge-patch+json (clause 6.4.2 of the present
document),
\- application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json (clause 6.4.3 of the present
document),
\- application/vnd.3gpp.object-tree-hierarchical+json (clause 6.1.4 of the
present document),
\- application/vnd.3gpp.object-tree-flat+json (clause 6.1.4 of the present
document).
JSON documents shall conform to JSON Schema ([7], [8], [9]).
### 4.3.2 Response content format negotiation
The MnS Consumer shall engage in proactive content negotiation as defined in
clause 3.4.1 of RFC 7231 [2] by including the \"Accept\" request header field
in HTTP requests that expect a message body in the response. The \"Accept\"
header field indicates to the MnS Producer the media types acceptable to the
MnS Consumer.
If the MnS Producer cannot provide any of the acceptable resource
representations, it shall respond either with a \"406 Not Acceptable\" error
code or provide a representation for the resource that is not specified in the
\"Accept\" header field.
## 4.4 URI structure
### 4.4.1 Introduction
MnS producers can be divided into two categories. The first category exposes
MnS(s) to manipulate resources representing managed object instances. In this
case the URI structure is governed by the mapping rules defined in clause
4.2.3. The second category exposes MnS(s) to manipulate resources not
representing managed object instances. In this case the DN concept is not
relevant. The URI structure for both categories is different.
### 4.4.2 URI structure for resources representing managed object instances
URIs identifying resources representing managed object instances shall follow,
when being used as a target URI in HTTP requests, the structure given by
{scheme}://{URI-DN-prefix}/{root}/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}/{URI-LDN}
with:
> {scheme} Scheme component \"http\" or \"https\"
>
> {URI-DN-prefix} Authority component (host identifier and optional TCP port),
> the host name is constructed from the DN prefix as defined in clause 4.2.3.
>
> {root} Part of the path component, allows specifying one or more optional
> path segments for structuring the resource hierarchy on a HTTP server. The
> DN or parts thereof shall not be mapped to this path component.
>
> {MnSName} Part of the path component, allows specifying an optional MnS name
> in a single path segment.
>
> {MnSVersion} Part of the path component, allows specifying an optional MnS
> version in a single path segment.
>
> {URI-LDN} Part of the path component, constructed from the LDN as defined in
> clause 4.2.3, containing zero, one or more path segments.
As seen above, to construct the URI from a DN, it is necessary to map the
\"DNPrefixPlusRDNSeparator\" as defined in clause 7.3 of TS 32.300 [3], the
"LocalDN" as defined in clause 7.3 of TS 32.300 [3], and to add the additional
optional path segments \"/{root}/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}\".
To allow for a predictive mapping from an URI to the original DN it is
necessary to specify \"/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}\" in such a way that the
beginning of the \"LocalDN\" can be unambigously identified.
Note it may be required when specifying a MnS to clearly identify the last RDN
of \"{URI-LDN}\" and to use the following instead of \"{URI-LDN}\"
{URI-LDN-first-part}/{RDN}
or
{URI-LDN-first-part}/{className}={id}.
For the sake of brevity, \"MnSRoot\" is introduced that includes the
\"{scheme}\" part, the colon (\":\"), the two slash characters (\"//\"), the
\"{authority}\" part, a single slash character (\"/\") and the \"{root}\"
part.
{MnSRoot} := {scheme}://{URI-DN-prefix}/{root}
When using \"{MnSRoot}\" the abbreviated URI structure is given by
{MnSRoot}/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}/{URI-LDN}
or
{MnSRoot}/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}/{URI-LDN-first-part}/{className}={id}
It is recommended to use this abbreviated form of the URI structure when
defining Management Services.
The path segment \"MnSVersion\" allows access to resources with different MnS
versions, for example:
http://operatorA.com/ProvMnS/v1500/SubNetwork=south/.../Cell=1
http://operatorA.com/ProvMnS/v1600/SubNetwork=south/.../Cell=1
Note that both URIs, though different as to the path segment indicating the
version number of the ProvMnS, identify the same resource. that is identified
by the canonical URI:
http://operatorA.com/SubNetwork=south/.../Cell=1
and whose DN is:
DC=operatorA.com,SubNetwork=south,...,Cell=1
The optional path component \"/{root}\" may be used to separate the name space
for 3GPP management from the name space for other domains:
http://operatorA.com/3gppManagement/ProvMnS/v1600/SubNetwork=south/.../Cell=1
or to provide dedicated URIs on the same host for different tasks:
http://operatorA.com/3gppManagement/cm/ProvMnS/v1600/SubNetwork=south/.../Cell=1
http://operatorA.com/3gppManagement/fm/ProvMnS/v1600/SubNetwork=south/.../Cell=1
Note that when different hosts are used for different management tasks, like
in
http://cm.operatorA.com/3gppManagement/ProvMnS/v1600/SubNetwork=south/.../Cell=1
http://fm.operatorA.com/3gppManagement/ProvMnS/v1600/SubNetwork=south/.../Cell=1
then also the resources are different and identifierd by the canonical URIs
http://cm.operatorA.com/SubNetwork=south/.../Cell=1
http://fm.operatorA.com/SubNetwork=south/.../Cell=1
or the DNs
DC=cm.operatorA.com,SubNetwork=south,...,Cell=1
DC=fm.operatorA.com,SubNetwork=south,...,Cell=1
In the example above, it is assumed that both resources represent the same
cell in the network. This information cannot be derived from the DN or
canonical URI, though.
### 4.4.3 URI structure for resources not representing managed object
instances
URIs identifying other resources shall follow, when being used as a target URI
in HTTP requests, the structure given by
{scheme}://{authority}/{root}/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}/{MnSResourcePath}
with:
> {scheme} Scheme component \"http\" or \"https\"
>
> {authority} Authority component (host identifier and optional TCP port)
>
> {root} Part of the path component, allows specifying optional path segments
> for structuring the resource hierarchy on a HTTP server.
>
> {MnSName} Part of the path component, specifies the mandatory MnS name in a
> single path segment.
>
> {MnSVersion} Part of the path component, specifies the mandatory MnS version
> in a single path segment.
>
> {MnSResourcePath} Part of the path component, one or more path segments,
> specifies a resource of the MnS
For the sake of brevity, {MnSRoot} is introduced that includes the
\"{scheme}\" part, the two slash characters (\"//\"), the \"{authority}\"
part, a single slash character (\"/\") and the \"{root}\" part. When using
\"{MnSRoot}\" the abbreviated URI structure is given by
{MnSRoot}/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}/{MnSResourcePath}
It is recommended to use this abbreviated form of the URI structure when
defining Management Services.
### 4.4.4 Resource \"../{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}\"
The resource identified by \"../{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}\" is called NRM root.
It represents the conceptual parent of the top-level (root) managed object
instances. It is created by the MnS Producer. A MnS Consumer cannot create or
delete this resource.
The resource is the target resource for many HTTP requests, such as requests
to retrieve all top-level managed object instances in case there are multiple
top-level managed object instances, or for requests to create objects in case
there are no manged object instances yet and the creation request needs to be
directed to the parent of the resource to be created.
Attempts to read the NRM root only shall return \"204 No Content\".
## 4.5 Response status codes
The response status codes as defined in section 6 of RFC 7231 [2] shall be
supported.
# 5 Basic design patterns
## 5.1 Design pattern for creating a resource
### 5.1.1 Creating a resource with identifier creation by the MnS Producer
Operations to create a (single) resource shall be specified with the HTTP POST
method, when the MnS Producer creates the identifier of the new resource.
{width="4.1194444444444445in" height="1.3479166666666667in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1: Flow for creating a resource with HTTP POST
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends an HTTP POST request to the MnS Producer. The target
URI identifies the parent resource below which the new resource shall be
created. The target URI shall have no query and no fragment component. The
message body shall carry a representation of the resource to be created. The
resource representation shall not contain the identifier of the new resource,
unless the resource representation format mandates the presence of a resource
identifier in which case it shall carry null semantics. If the identifier
carries nevertheless a value, the MnS Producer may consider that as a non-
binding recommendation by the MnS Consumer. The object class name of the
resource to be created shall be specified in the message body as well.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP POST response. On success, \"201
Created\" shall be returned. The \"Location\" header shall be present and
carry the URI of the new resource. The URI shall be constructed by the MnS
Producer by creating an identifier for the new resource and appending a new
path segment containing this identifier to the request URI. The response
message body should carry the representation of the new resource. If the
resource representation received is not modified, the MnS Producer may also
return \"204 No Content\", instead of \"201 Created\". The response message
body shall be empty in this case. On failure, the appropriate error code shall
be returned. The response message body may provide additional error
information.
The resource representation in the request and response message may not be
identical, and may not contain all properties (attributes) that are defined in
a schema specifying the format of the representation.
For example, assume the schema for the representation of the resource defines
the attributes \"attrA\", \"attrB\" and \"attrC\". When the MnS Consumer has
valid values only for the attributes \"attrA\" and \"attrB\", then the
representation sent to the MnS Producer shall include only these two
attributes. When the MnS Producer has no valid value for \"attrC\" and no
default value is defined for attrC, then the response is identical to the
request, and a subsequent HTTP GET request for all attributes returns only a
representation with the attributes \"attrA\" and \"attrB\", but not with the
attribute \"attrC\". However, if the MnS Producer populates \"attrC\" with
some value or a default value is defined for attrC, then the HTTP POST
response shall include all three attributes. Likewise, a subsequent HTTP GET
request for all attributes returns all three attributes.
A MnS Producer may also modify attribute values included in the request. In
this case, the modified values shall be sent back to the MnS Cosumer.
It is also possible that a MnS Producer removes attributes received in the
request and includes only a subset of the received attributes in the response.
When the created resource has child resources that are included in the schema
definition of the created resource, a representation of these child resources
shall neither be included in the resource representation sent to the MnS
Producer nor in the resource represententation returned to the MnS Consumer.
Including child resources would be an attempt to create multiple resources
with a single request. HTTP POST shall be used for the creation of a single
resource only.
Only resources, whose parent resource does exist, can be created (directly
under that parent). The MnS Producer shall consider an attempt to create a
resource, whose parent resource does not exist, as an error.
Note that the parent resource of resources for top-level (root) managed object
instances is the NRM root. The NRM root always exists on MnS producers. This
ensures that, when no resources for managed object instances have been created
yet, the top-level resources can be created.
### 5.1.2 Creating a resource with identifier creation by the MnS Consumer
Operations to create a (single) resource shall be specified with the HTTP PUT
method, when the MnS Consumer creates the identifier of the new resource.
{width="4.1194444444444445in" height="1.3479166666666667in"}
Figure 5.1.2-1: Flow for creating a resource with HTTP PUT
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends an HTTP PUT request to the MnS Producer. The target
URI identifies the location of the resource to be created. The target URI
shall have no query and no fragment component. The message body shall carry
the representation of the resource to be created. The representation shall
include the identifier and object class name of the new resource..
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP PUT response. On success, \"201 Created\"
shall be returned. The Location header shall carry the URI of the new
resource. The response message body shall contain the representation of the
new resource. If the resource representation received is not modified, the MnS
Producer may also return \"204 No Content, instead of \"201 Created\"\". The
response message body shall be empty in this case. On failure, the appropriate
error code shall be returned. The response message body may provide additional
error information.
As for resource creation with HTTP POST, the resource representation in the
request and response message may not be identical and may not contain all
properties (attributes) that may be defined in a schema specifying the format
of the representation. Also, just like for resource creation with HTTP POST,
the resource representation sent to the MnS Producer or returned to the MnS
Consumer shall not contain the representation of any child resources of the
resource to be created.
As to the existence of parent resources for the resources to be created, the
considerations set forth in the preceding clause for HTTP POST apply.
## 5.2 Design pattern for reading a resource
Operations to read the representation of a (single) complete resource shall be
specified with the HTTP GET method. The resource representation to be read is
identified with a URI.
{width="3.025in" height="1.3416666666666666in"}
Figure 5.2-1: Flow for reading a resource
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends an HTTP GET request to the MnS Producer. The
resource representation to be read is identified with the target URI. The
target URI shall have no query and no fragment component. The \"Accept\"
header shall be included in the request and contain the media types acceptable
to the MnS Consumer. The target URI shall have no query and no fragment
component. The message body shall be empty.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP GET response. On success, \"200 OK\"
shall be returned. The resource representation shall be carried in the
response message body. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be
returned. The response message body may provide additional error information.
The resource representation returned to the MnS Consumer shall contain the
attribute names and attribute values for all attributes, that have been
assigned a value previously. The schema defining the resource representation
may also include attributes that have no value at present. These attributes
shall be absent in the response.
When the target resource has child resources that are included in the schema
definition of the target resource, the representation of these child resources
shall not be included in the resource representation returned to the MnS
Consumer.
## 5.3 Design pattern for updating a resource
Operations to update the complete representation of a resource shall be
specified with the HTTP PUT method. The resource to be updated is identified
with the target URI.
{width="3.933333333333333in" height="1.3430555555555554in"}
Figure 5.3-1: Flow for updating a resource
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends an HTTP PUT request to the MnS Producer. The
resource to be updated is identified with the target URI. The target URI shall
have no query and no fragment component. The message body carries the new
representation that shall completely replace the existing resource
representation on the MnS Producer.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP PUT response to the MnS Consumer. On
success, \"200 OK\" or \"204 No Content\" shall be returned. In the former
case the response shall carry the representation of the updated resource in
the message body. In the latter case the response shall have no message body.
A \"200 OK\" response including the representation of the updated resource
shall be sent when the updated representation of the resource is not identical
to the representation received in the request. On failure, the appropriate
error code shall be returned. The response message body may provide additional
error information. In case the resource does not exist, the resource shall be
created if resource creation by MnS consumers is supported for that resource
(see clause 5.1.2).
Note that the HTTP PUT method has replace semantics and not merge semantics. A
complete resource update in this context does not mean that all properties
(attributes) defined by a schema for the representation of the resource need
to be contained in the request, but that the existing representation on the
MnS producer is replaced completely by the received representation (assuming
no default values are defined for any of the attributes of the resource and
the MnS Producer does not populate any of the attributes not received in the
request with a value).
For example, assume the schema for the representation of a resource defines
the attributes \"attrA\", \"attrB\" and \"attrC\". No default value is defined
for these attributes. The current representation of the resource on the MnS
Producer contains only \"attrA\" and \"attrB\".
\- To update \"attrA\" and \"attrB\", the received resource representation
needs to contain \"attrA\" with the new value and \"attrB\" with the new
value.
\- To update only \"attrA\", the received resource representation needs to
contain \"attrA\" with the new value and \"attrB\" with the old value. Sending
only a representation with \"attrA\" deletes \"attrB\" on the MnS Producer.
Vice versa, to update only \"attrB\", the received resource representation
needs to contain \"attrA\" with the old value and \"attrB\" with the new
value. Sending only a representation with \"attrB\" deletes \"attrA\" on the
MnS Producer.
\- In case the received representation contains only \"attrC\" with some
value, the new representation after the update contains only \"attrC\". The
existing attributes \"attrA\" and \"attrB\" are deleted.
As for resource creation with HTTP PUT, this behavior is modified if default
values are defined for attributes or if the MnS Producer populates attributes
not contained in the HTTP PUT request with values. In both cases these
attributes shall be returned in the response with the default value or
assigned value.
Also, as for resource creation with HTTP PUT, a MnS Producer may modify
attribute values included in the request and return the modified values to the
MnS Consumer, or remove attributes received in the request and includes only a
subset of the received attributes in the response.
When the target resource has child resources that are included in the schema
definition of the target resource, the representation of these child resources
shall neither be included in the resource representation sent to the MnS
Producer nor in the resource representation returned to the MnS Consumer. The
overwrite semantic of PUT refers only to the target resource and not to child
resources.
## 5.4 Design pattern for deleting a resource
Operations to delete the representation of a (single) resource shall be
specified with the HTTP DELETE method. The resource to be deleted is
identified with the target URI in the request message.
{width="2.375in" height="1.3430555555555554in"}
Figure 5.4-1: Flow for deleting a resource
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends an HTTP DELETE request to the MnS Producer. The
resource to be deleted is identified with the URI. The target URI shall have
no query and no fragment component. The message body is empty.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP DELETE response to the MnS Consumer. On
success, \"204 No Content\" shall be returned. The response message body shall
be empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned. The
response message body may provide additional error information.
When resources are structured with parent-child relations in a hierarchical
tree, it shall not be possible to delete other resources than leaf resources.
Attempts to delete other resources shall result in an error and the \"409
Conflict\" status code shall be returned by the MnS Producer.
## 5.5 Design pattern for subscribe/notify
### 5.5.1 Concept
HTTP is based on requests and responses. There is no built-in support for
notifications and subscriptions to notifications. These mechanisms need to be
modelled based on special subscription resources and the available HTTP
methods. When notifications are used the server shall expose at least one
subscription resource.
### 5.5.2 Subscription creation
To subscribe to notifications the subscriber shall send an HTTP POST request
to the subscription resource.
{width="4.0777777777777775in" height="1.3416666666666666in"}
Figure 5.5.2-1: Flow for creating a subscription
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer (notification subscriber) sends an HTTP POST request to
the MnS Producer. The URI shall indicate a subscriptions collection resource.
The resources representing existing subscriptions are created below the
collection resource. The subscriber shall indicate in the message body the URI
to which notifications will be sent (notification sink) and the type of
notifications that are subscribed to. Additional filter information may be
included in the message body.
2) The MnS Producer shall return \"201 Created\" on success. The message body
shall carry the representation of the created subscription resource. The
\"Location\" header shall carry the URI of the created subscription resource.
On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned. The response message
body may provide additional error information.
### 5.5.3 Subscription deletion
To cancel a subscription, the subscriber shall delete the corresponding
resource with HTTP DELETE.
{width="3.0125in" height="1.3416666666666666in"}
Figure 5.5.3-1: Flow for deleting a subscription
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer (notification subscriber) sends an HTTP DELETE request to
the MnS Producer. The URI shall indicate the subscription resource to be
deleted.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP DELETE response to the MnS Consumer. On
success, \"204 No Content\" shall be returned. The message body shall be
empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned. The response
message body may provide additional error information.
### 5.5.4 Notification emission
To send a notification on the occurrence of a notifiable event the MnS
Producer sends an HTTP POST request to the notification sink.
{width="3.545138888888889in" height="1.3416666666666666in"}
Figure 5.5.4-1: Flow for sending a notification
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Producer sends an HTTP POST request to the MnS Consumer. The URI
identifies the notification sink. The notification content shall be included
in the message body.
2) The MnS Consumer returns \"204 No Content\". The message body shall be
empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned. The response
message body may provide additional error information.
This design pattern requires the MnS Producer (HTTP server) to contain a
reduced feature HTTP client for sending HTTP POST requests and receiving HTTP
POST responses, and vice versa, the MnS Consumer (HTTP client) to contain a
reduced feature HTTP server for receiving HTTP POST requests and sending HTTP
POST responses.
### 5.5.5 Subscription retrieval
The subscriber can retrieve the information about a specific subscription by
invoking the HTTP GETmethod on the URI returned by the server upon creation of
this subscription. Information about all subscriptions can be read by invoking
the HTTP GET method on the subscriptions collection resource.
{width="3.025in" height="1.3416666666666666in"}
Figure 5.5.5-1: Flow for subscription retrieval
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends an HTTP GET request to the MnS Producer. The URI
specifies the subscription resource or subscriptions collection resource to be
read.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP Get response. On success, \"200 OK\"
shall be returned. The representation of the subscription resource or
subscriptions collection resource shall be carried in the response message
body. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned. The response
message body may provide additional error information.
# 6 Advanced design patterns
## 6.1 Design pattern for scoping and filtering
### 6.1.1 Introduction
In stage 2 specifications a scope construct is often used for selecting
multiple managed object instances. The scope construct, together with a so
called base managed object instance, selects a set of object instances from
the name-containment tree starting at the document root. This set contains
some or all object instances name-contained by the base object instance. It
may contain the base object itself.
In operations, the base object instance and the scope construct are specified
as an input parameter. In NRM control fragments, the base object instance is
the object instance that name-contains the control object instance of the NRM
control fragment, and the scope construct is an attribute of the control
object instance.
A filter construct is also often used in stage 2 specifications to select a
subset of the managed object instances selected by the base managed object
instance and scope construct. The filter is specified in operations as input
parameter and in NRM control fragments as an attribute of a control object.
When scoping and filtering is specified using NRM control fragments, no
special considerations are required for the REST SS, since the scope construct
and the filter are normal attributes of a managed object.
When scoping and filtering is specified as part of the input parameters of an
operation, however, it is necessary to define how to map these parameters in
the REST SS.
### 6.1.2 Query parameters for scoping
Scoping may be supported by the HTTP GET method. It is not supported by any
other method.
The URI path component identifies the base resource. The URI query component
shall be used for carrying the scope construct. Multiple query parameters
shall be separated by an ampersand character (\"&\").
With one query parameter the base resource and all resources until the level
indicated by the query parameter can be selected. When the value of the query
parameter is set to infinite, the complete subtree starting at the base
resource is selected.
Two query parameters for scoping allow for more sophisticated selection
methods.
An example scoping method uses a \"scopeType\" and a \"scopeLevel\" query
parameter. The allowed values are defined in Table 6.1.2-1.
Table 6.1.2-1: Allowed values of the \"scopeType\" query parameter
* * *
Value Description BASE_ONLY Selects only the base resource. The \"scopeLevel\"
parameter shall be absent or ignored if present. This is also the default
case, when no \"scopeType\" query parameter is present in the request.
BASE_ALL Selects the base resource and all of its descendant resources (incl.
the leaf resources). The \"scopeLevel\" parameter shall be absent or ignored
if present. BASE_NTH_LEVEL Selects all resources on the level, which is
indicated by the \"scopeLevel\" parameter, below the base resource. The base
resource is at \"scopeLevel\" zero. BASE_SUBTREE Selects the base resource and
all of its descendant resources down to and including the resources on the
level indicated by the \"scopeLevel\" parameter. The base resource is at
\"scopeLevel\" zero.
* * *
### 6.1.3 Query parameters for filtering
Filtering may be supported by the HTTP GET method. It is not supported by any
other method.
The URI query component shall be used for carrying the filter expression. The
name of the query parameter is \"filter\".
XPath 1.0 [15] shall be used for specifying the filter expression.
The XPath expression is applied to an XML document constructed based on the
following rules:
\- The document element is the object identified by the path component of the
target URI. If the path component of the target URI identifies the NRM root
(see clause 4.4.4), then the element name of the document element shall be
\"nrmRoot\". The \"nrmRoot\" element contains the element nodes coming from
the top-level objects as its children.
\- The document includes scoped objects only.
\- The document is constructed with the scoped objects using the hierarchical
response construction method defined in clause.6.1.4.
\- The JSON document constructed according to the first three bullet points is
mapped into a conceptual XML document.
A valid XPath expression returns a flat list of selected resources. Name-
contained resources included in the selected resources shall be removed before
constructing the final response message according to clause 6.1.4.
The XPath expression shall be an absolute path expression, and hence always
start with a backslash \"/\", that identifies the root node of the input
document. The set of variable bindings is empty. The function library is the
core function library. The set of namespace declarations is empty (JSON has no
namespace concept).
The XPath expression needs to be percent-encoded as described in clause 2 and
3.4 of RFC 3986 [4].
Note that NRM objects and NRM attributes are both mapped to element nodes. The
children of an element node representing a NRM object are hence the NRM
attributes of that NRM object or the name-contained NRM objects. This needs to
be taken into account when constructing a location path for selecting element
nodes representing NRM objects or NRM attributes.
### 6.1.4 Construction rules for the response message body
When multiple resources are selected for retrieval by HTTP GET, the response
message body with the selected resource set shall be constructed according to
one of the following rules.
Flat response construction method: The resources are returned as a flat list
of JSON objects. Their location in the hierarchical containment tree shall be
specified by, e.g. , their URI or Distinguished Name (DN) which needs to be
returned for each resource. The object class name of each resource should be
returned as well.
Hierarchical response construction method: The resources are returned inside
the containment tree as specified by the JSON schema definition of the
information model. For the resources that are not selected, the following
applies:
\- A resource is not returned at all if it is not an ancestor of any of the
selected resources.
\- A resource is returned empty, except for the resource identifiers, if it is
a descendant of the base resource and an ancestor of any of the selected
resources
The containment tree present in the response message shall always start with
the root resource of the information model (document root) or the base
resource.
If no resource is identified in the retrieval request the MnS Producer shall
return a \"204 No Content\" response.
The following media types shall be used to distinguish the flat and the
hierarchical response representation:
\- application/vnd.3gpp.object-tree-flat+json,
\- application/vnd.3gpp.object-tree-hierarchical+json.
The \"application/json\" media type may be used alternatively and defaults to
the hierarchical representation format.
The MnS Consumer shall indicate the acceptable representations in the
\"Accept\" header, as described in clause 4.3.2. One or multiple media types
may be specified. If the MnS Producer cannot provide an acceptable
representation, a \"406 Not Acceptable\" error response shall be returned. The
MnS Consumer may send a second request with another media type specified in
the \"Accept\" header.
## 6.2 Design patterns for attribute and attribute field selection
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This design pattern allows to specify attributes of resources selected by the
target URI.
Often attributes have no scalar values but are complex structured data types
with an own hierarchy and many attribute fields. In this case it may be
desirable to identify not only the complete attribute but also individual
attribute fields.
The attributes or attribute fields to be returned shall be specified in the
query part of the URI.
Attribute selection or attribute field selection may be supported by the HTTP
GET method. It is not applicable to any other method.
### 6.2.2 Query parameters for attribute and attribute field selection
In case one or more attributes (with all attribute fields) are to be
retrieved, the name of the query parameter shall be \"attributes\". The value
of \"attributes\" shall be a list with the names of the attributes to be
selected. Attribute names are separated by a comma (\",\"). An empty
\"attributes\" query parameter is allowed and has the special meaning that no
attributes shall be returned.The naming attribute \"id\" shall always be
returned.
In case one or more fields of one or more attributes are to be retrieved, the
name of the query parameter shall be \"fields\". The value of \"fields\" shall
be a comma (\",\") separated list of entries that follow the syntax of JSON
Pointer in JSON String Representation [14]. The context resource for the
construction of the JSON Pointer is the resource identified by the target URI.
### 6.2.3 Construction rules for the response message body
In a first step the resource identified by the target URI, or the set of
resources identified by the target URI and the scope and filter parmeters, is
determined. Then, in a second step, resources that do not contain at least one
attribute identified by the \"attributes\" parameter or one attribute field
identified by the \"fields\" parameter shall be removed from the output set of
the first step. In the last step all attributes and attribute fields not
identified by \"attributes\" and \"fields\" shall be removed from the
remaining resource representations.
This result set is then used to construct the final response using either the
hierarchical or the flat construction method, both defined in clause 6.1.4.
If no resource is identified in the retrieval request the MnS producer shall
return an error response with \"404 Not Found\" in the status line.
## 6.3 Design patterns for partially updating a resource
### 6.3.1 Introduction
HTTP PUT allows to replace (overwrite) a complete resource on the MnS Producer
with the new representation in the request body. It cannot be used for partial
updates of a resource.
For partial updates of a single resource HTTP PATCH (RFC 5789 [11]) shall be
used. With PATCH, a set of changes to be applied to the target resource is
described in the request message body. The set of changes carried in the
message body is called patch document. The format of the patch document is
identified by its media type. RFC 5789 [11] does not define any patch format,
only the PATCH method.
The HTTP PATCH method is atomic, as per RFC5789 [11]. The MnS Producer shall
apply the entire set of changes atomically and never provide (e.g., in
response to a GET during this operation) a partially modified representation.
If the entire patch document cannot be successfully applied, then the MnS
Producer shall not apply any of the changes. PATCH thus has transaction
semantics.
For JSON, IETF has defined two patch formats for the use with the HTTP PATCH
method: JSON Merge Patch (RFC 7396 [12]) and JSON Patch (RFC 6902 [13]). The
usage of these patch formats is described in the following clauses.
### 6.3.2 JSON Merge Patch
RFC 7396 [12] specifies a simple patch format for JSON documents called JSON
Merge Patch. It allows to describe a set of modifications to be applied to the
target resource representation. The JSON Merge Patch document is a partial
representation of the resource to be patched. JSON Merge Patch works at the
level of name/value pairs. The received patch document is merged into the
target resource representation. The media type of the patch document is
\"application/merge-patch+json\".
Three types of patches are described in RFC 7396 [12]:
1) Replacing the value of an already existing name/value pair by a new value.
2) Adding a new name/value pair.
3) Removing an existing name/value pair.
The target resource is identified by the target URI. The target URI shall have
no query and no fragment component. The target resource needs to exist,
otherwise the error status code \"404 Not Found\" shall be returned.
The \"id\" of the resource shall be present in the patch document and shall be
identical to the \"id\" of the patched resource in the request URI. This
ensures uniformity of resource representations in message bodies, though,
strictly speaking, the presence of the \"id\" in the patch document is
redundant.
JSON Merge Patch does not allow manipulation of arrays other than replacing
the complete array value (an array with all present items) with a new value
(an array with all new items). It is not possible to change individual items
in an array or to add/delete individual items.
{width="3.933333333333333in" height="1.3444444444444446in"}
Figure 6.3.2-1: Flow for partially updating a resource with JSON Merge Patch
The procedure flow is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends an HTTP PATCH request to the MnS Producer. The
resource to be updated is identified with the target URI. The message body
shall carry the JSON Merge Patch document describing a set of modifications to
be applied to the target resource.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP PATCH response to the MnS Consumer. On
success, \"200 OK\" together with the complete representation of the updated
resource in the message body or \"204 No Content\" shall be returned. On
failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned. The response message
body may provide additional error information.
JSON Merge Patch shall be used for patching the target resource only. The
patch format shall not be used for creating, modifying or deleting child
resources of the target resource in the same request, even if the child
resources are included in the schema definition of the target resource. This
limitation is introduced, because child resources (of one object class) are
represented as items of an array that is a property of the target resource
(alongside with the attributes of the target resource), and JSON Merge Patch
does not allow to modify individual array items. With JSON Merge Patch, only
the complete array value with the representations of all child resources (of
one class) could be replaced. Note that child resources can have child
resources as well. The patch document would hence need to include the
representations of all descendant resources. This is very inefficient and
against the principle of PATCH to provide the changes only.
The following examples demonstrate the usage of JSON Merge Patch. Assume an
\"XyzFunction\" resource has no attribute \"attrA\" yet, then the following
PATCH request creates it.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"abc\" | | | | } | | | | } | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
The following subsequently executed PATCH request replaces its value with
\"def\".
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"def\" | | | | } | | | | } | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
This PATCH request deletes the attribute.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": null | | | | } | | | | } | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 6.3.3 JSON Patch
The JSON Patch format is specified in RFC 6902 [13]. The patch document is a
JSON array. Each array item is a JSON object describing a modification to be
applied to the target resource. The modifications shall be applied to the
target resource sequentially in the order they appear in the array. The media
type of JSON Patch is \"application/json-patch+json\".
Each modification is defined by three properties: The operation (\"op\"), the
identification of the secondary resource within the target resource to be
manipulated (\"path\") and a value (\"value\").
When removing a secondary resource, the \"value\" property is absent. When
moving or copying an existing value, the \"value\" property is absent, too,
and the \"from\" property is present instead. The \"from\" property identifies
the secondary resource, whose value is moved or copied to the location
specified by the \"path\" property. The value of the \"from\" and \"path\"
property is a JSON Pointer in string representation as defined in section 5 of
IETF RFC 6901 [14].
In contrast to JSON Merge Patch, JSON Patch allows to modify individual items
of an array. Array items are identified based on their position (index) in an
array. The first item has the index \"0\". The \"-\" character is used by the
operations \"add\" and \"move\" to index the end of the array for appending a
new array item. Its use in any other operation is forbidden.
The target URI identifies the resource to be modified. As for JSON Merge
Patch, the target URI shall have no query and no fragment component. The
target resource needs to exist, otherwise the error status code \"404 Not
Found \" shall be returned.
{width="3.933333333333333in" height="1.3444444444444446in"}
Figure 6.3.3-1: Flow for partially updating a resource with JSON Patch
The procedure flow is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends an HTTP PATCH request to the MnS Producer. The
resource to be updated is identified with the target URI. The message body
shall carry a JSON Patch document describing a set of modification
instructions to be applied to the target resource.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP PATCH response to the MnS Consumer. On
success, \"200 OK\" together with the representation of the updated resource
in the message body or \"204 No Content\" shall be returned. On failure, the
appropriate error code shall be returned. The response message body may
provide additional error information.
As JSON Merge Patch, also JSON Patch shall be used for patching the target
resource only. The patch format shall not be used for creating, modifying or
deleting child resources of the target resource in the same request, even if
the child resources are included in the schema definition of the target
resource. This is because JSON Patch can address items in an array only based
on the position of the item in the array, and not based on an identifier
independent from the position of the item in the array. A patch document could
hence not address descendant resources of the target resource based on their
\"id\". This is prone to conflicts in multi-client scenarios, where the
position of resource items in an array can change due to the concurrent
creation or deletion of resource items in the same array. Risk mitigation
would require complex ETag calculations in the resource hierarchy.
The JSON Patch document is described by the folloing JSON schema fragment.
+-----------------------+ | { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"op\": { | | | | \"enum\": [ | | | | \"add\", | | | | \"replace\", | | | | \"remove\", | | | | \"copy\", | | | | \"move\", | | | | \"test\" | | | | ] | | | | }, | | | | \"from\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"path\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"value\": {} | | | | , | | | | \"required\": [ | | | | \"op\", | | | | \"path\" | | | | ]} | | | | } | | | | } | +-----------------------+
The schema for the \"value\" property is the list (constructed with \"anyOf\")
of the NRM schema fragments for all resource representations, and the NRM
schema fragments for the values of all attributes and attribute fields. The
NRM schema normally contains many NRM schema fragments of these kinds. For
that reason it is normally not practicable to list all NRM schema fragments
defining the allowed values of the \"value\" property. In addition, the
resource, attribute or attribute field identified in the \"path\" property
cannot be related by the schema itself to its value schema. For these reasons,
the schema \"{}\" is normally used, which is the shorthand syntax for a schema
without any type.
The following example adds a new attribute \"attrA\" to an \"XyzFunction\"
(assuming \"attrA\" does not exist yet).
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrA\", | | | | \"value\": \"abc\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
The following example replaces the value of \"attrA\" with \"def\".
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrA\", | | | | \"value\": \"def\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
It is not an error if the \"path\" property of an \"add\" operation specifies
an object member that exists already. In this case the value of the specified
object member is replaced. The following patch request has hence the same
effect as the patch request in the example above. In both cases the value of
\"attrA\" is replaced with \"def\".
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrA\", | | | | \"value\": \"def\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
The following patch document has not the same effect as both examples above.
It does not replace the value of \"attrA\" with a new value. Instead, it
replaces the value of the \"attributes\" object with a value that is an object
and has a single member, the \"attrA\" property (attribute), thereby deleting
all other attributes, that may exist when the patch request is received.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"def\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
To remove the attribute \"attrA\" the MnS Consumer may send.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"remove\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrA\", | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
When the attribute to be added is a JSON array, the \"value\" property
contains an array. In the following example the array has two items of type
string.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrB\", | | | | \"value\": [\"abc\", \"def\"] | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
To add a new item to an existing array, the \"path\" property needs to specify
the array index where the item is to be added. For example, the following
PATCH request adds the array item \"xyz\" after the first array item.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrB/1\", | | | | \"value\": \"xyz\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
Note that the \"test\" operation can be used to construct conditional patch
requests. In the following example the \"attrA\" value is replaced only with
\"ghi\" if the current value is \"def\", otherwise the test operation fails
and the complete patch request is not applied.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"test\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrA\", | | | | \"value\": \"def\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrA\", | | | | \"value\": \"ghi\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
Conditional patch requests based on the \"test\" operation are limited to
conditions related to secondary rersources (attributes) of the target
resource. It is not possible to point to secondary resources outside of the
target resource using the \"path\" property.
Multiple test operations can be combined to construct requests with multiple
conditions. All conditions need to evaluate to true for the patch document to
be applied. In other words, the test operations are linked with a logical
\"and\" operator.
## 6.4 Design patterns for patching multiple resources
### 6.4.1 Introduction
Clause 6.1 discusses a method for retrieving multiple resources with a single
HTTP GET request. This clause specifies methods allowing to manipulate
(create, update, delete) multiple resources with a single request.
The specified methods use the HTTP PATCH method and provide extensions to the
JSON Merge Patch and JSON Patch formats. As described in clause 6.3, JSON
Merge Patch and JSON Patch are used for partial updates of a single resource.
The extensions specified in the following clauses are designed to allow for
efficient manipulation of multiple resources with a single HTTP PATCH request.
The target resource and all its descendant resources are ascessible with a
single request. The extended patch formats are called 3GPP JSON Merge Patch
and 3GPP JSON Patch.
Note that the HTTP PATCH method is atomic as explained in clause 6.3.1.
### 6.4.2 3GPP JSON Merge Patch
3GPP JSON Merge Patch is a 3GPP defined extension to JSON Merge Patch (RFC
7396 [12]). It allows, using a single patch document, to update the target
resource (as does JSON Merge Patch) and to update, create or delete descendant
resources, which JSON Merge Patch does not allow, at least not in an efficient
manner. This is achieved by relaxing for arrays that contain resources (of a
single object class) as array items the constraint that the complete updated
array value needs to be provided in the merge document. Instead, only
resources to be manipulated are present in the patch document. These resources
are identified with their \"id\". Resources that are not manipulated are
either absent or present with their \"id\" only, when this is required to
navigate along the containment tree to the resource to be patched. In other
words, the rules of the hierarchical response construction method (clause
6.1.4) apply also when constructing the 3GPP JSON Merge Patch document.
The merge semantic of JSON Merge Patch is hence extended to descendant
resources of the target resource. Note that the behaviour of patching
attributes of type array does not change in 3GPP JSON Merge Patch compared to
JSON Merge Patch. The complete updated array value needs to be provided for
attributes of type array also in a 3GPP JSON Merge Patch document. It is not
possible to patch individual array items only.
As for JSON Merge Patch, the target URI shall have no query and no fragment
component. The target resourceneeds to exist, otherwise the error status code
404 (Not Found) shall be returned. The target URI shall identify a resource
that is a common ancestor of the resources to be patched. The patch document
itself shall start with the resource identified by the target URI.
A resource is deleted by setting the \"attributes\" property of the resource
to \"null\". In case a complete subtree is deleted, all resources from the
base resource of the subtree down to the leaf resources shall be marked for
deletion. When creating new resources, the object class name of the resource
to be created shall be contained in the patch document for the resources to be
created.
The media type of 3GPP JSON Merge Patch is \"vnd.3gpp.merge-patch+json\". This
media type is defined by 3GPP. It is not registered with IANA. Patch documents
using this media type needs to conform to the \"application/json\" media type.
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends an HTTP PATCH request to the MnS Producer. > The
message body shall carry a 3GPP JSON Merge Patch document > describing a set
of modification instructions to be applied to the > identified resources.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP PATCH response to the MnS > Consumer. On
success, \"200 OK\" together with the representation > of the updated and
created resources, constructed according to the > hierarchical response
construction method described in clause > 6.1.4, in the message body or \"204
No Content\" shall be > returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall
be > returned. The response message body may provide additional error >
information.
### 6.4.3 3GPP JSON Patch
3GPP JSON Patch is a 3GPP defined extension to JSON Merge Patch (RFC 6902
[13]).
Like 3GPP JSON Merge Patch, it allows, using a single patch document, to
update the target resource (as does JSON Patch) and to update, create or
delete descendant resources, which JSON Patch does not allow, at least not
based on resource identifiers.
This extension is that the \"path\" and \"from\" properties of a patch
operation define an offset to the target resource as specified by the request
URI. This offset is relative to the target URI. It has a first component
pointing to a resource below the target resource, and a second component
pointing to a secondary resource within the resource identified by the first
component.
The first component of \"path\" or \"from\" is built from URI path components.
It follows the same syntax as the path components of the target URI. The
second component is a URI fragment with a JSON pointer in the URI fragment
identifier representation as defined in clause 6 of RFC 6901 [14], i.e. the
second component starts with the \"#\" character. Both components are
concatenated without a delimiter.
For example, assume the target URI is \"/SubNetwork=SN1\" and the
\"userLabel\" attribute of a child of class \"ManagedElement\" with the id
\"ME1\" is to be patched, then the first path component is
\"/ManagedElement=ME1/\" and the second path component is
\"#attributes/userLabel\". This results in the following path:
\"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1/#attributes/userLabel\".
The target URI shall identify a common ancestor resource of the resources to
be patched, or the NRM root.
Note that when one or more root resources are patched, the target URI
identifies always the NRM root. When no root resources are patched, the MnS
producer has a choice as to the target resource. For example, assume the
resource with the URI
http://example.com/3gpp/ProvMnS/v1700/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1
is patched. Then the target resource is either the parent resource of the
patched resource, in this case the root resource,
\"example.com/3gpp/ProvMnS/v1700/ManagedElement=ME1\"
or the NRM root.
\"example.com/3gpp/ProvMnS/v1700\".
Setting the target resource always to the NRM root is hence a possible
implementation option for MnS Consumers.
When creating new resources (\"op\"=\"add\"), the object class name of the
resource to be created shall be included in the \"value\" property of the
operation. The \"replace\" operation is not applicable when the \"path\"
identifies a resource.
The media type of 3GPP JSON Merge Patch is \"3gpp-patch+json\". This media
type is defined by 3GPP and is not registered with IANA. Patch documents using
this media type needs to conform to the \"application/json\" media type.
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends a HTTP PATCH request to the MnS Producer. The
message body carries a 3GPP JSON Patch document describing a set of
modification instructions (patch items) to be applied to the identified
resources. The \"Accept\" header shall be included in the request and specify
the media types acceptable to the MnS Consumer for \"200 OK\" or \"204 No
Content\" responses.
> 2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP PATCH response to the MnS Consumer. On
> success, \"200 OK\" together with the representation of the updated and
> created resources, constructed according to either the flat or the
> hierarchical response construction method described in clause 6.1.1, in the
> message body or \"204 No Content\" shall be returned. On failure, the
> appropriate error code shall be returned. The response message body may
> provide additional error information.
A single operation in a 3GPP JSON Patch document shall patch a single
(primary) resource only. Different operations in a patch document can patch
different resources though. The consequence of this restriction is for example
that subtrees with multiple resources cannot be created or deleted with a
single patch operation. Each resource needs to be created or deleted with an
own patch operation in the patch document. This behaviour is aligned with
those of the PUT and DELETE methods.
Note that the \"replace\" operation of (3GPP) JSON Patch has replace semantics
like PUT and not merge semantics like JSON Merge Patch. When multiple
attributes or attribute fields of a resource are patched, then a patch
operation for each update is required, for example
+----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"#/attributes/userLabel\", | | | | \"value\": \"Berlin NW-1\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"#/attributes/plmnId/mcc\", | | | | \"value\": 654 | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------+
To streamline partial updates of single resources, 3GPP JSON Patch introduces
a new patch operation named \"merge\". For that operation, the JSON object
contained in the \"value\" property shall be merged into the target resource
referenced by \"path\" using the rules of JSON Merge Patch (RFC 7396 [12]). An
MnS Producer shall verify if a \"merge\" operation is for a single resource by
checking if the \"path\" property contains the string \"#/attributes\" and
shall reject the request with \"422 Unprocessable Entity\" if it doesn\'t.
With the \"merge\" operation, the updates in the previous example can be
expressed as follows.
+----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"merge\", | | | | \"path\": \"#/attributes\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW-1\", | | | | \"plmnId\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 654 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------+
The following example is invalid. It attempts to patch, besides the target
resource, which is allowed, the contained \"ManagedElement\" resources, which
is not allowed.
+----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"merge\", | | | | \"path\": \"\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW-1\", | | | | \"plmnId\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 654 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | ... | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------+
In the same way as JSON Patch allows to construct conditional patch requests
using the \"test\" operation, 3GPP JSON Patch can be used to construct
condititional patch requests where the condition is expressed with the
\"test\" operation. In contrast to JSON Patch, however, the condition may be
based on attribute values outside of the patched resource.
For example, the following patch document replaces the value of \"attrA\",
which is an attribute of a \"XyzFunction\" resource whereas the condition
relates to an attribute in the \"SubNetwork\" resource.
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"test\", | | | | \"path\": \"#/attributes/userLabel\", | | | | \"value\": \"Berlin NW\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1#/attributes/attrA\", | | | | \"value\": \"ghi\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
## 6.5 Design pattern for large queries
Clauses 6.1 and 6.2 have introduced a pattern that allows querying resources
by passing query parameters in the query part of the target URI of a GET
request. However, there can be scenarios where the query string can get very
long, exceeding the URI length that can be expected to be supported by all
implementations.
IETF RFC 7130 [5] recommends that a request URI length of at least 8000 octets
should be supported. Further, IETF RFC 7130 [5] requires that implementations
shall respond with 414 (URI Too Long) in case the actual request URI is longer
than the supported request URI length.
When the URI length exceeds the supported limit, the query may be passed in
the payload body of a POST request instead of the target URI of a GET request.
To signal that the semantics of this POST request is actually the same as a
GET request, the \"X-HTTP-Method-Override: GET\" HTTP header shall be included
in the request.
If the data format of the query in the POST request payload body is a list of
name-value pairs separated by the \"&\" character (as defined in clauses 6.1
and 6.2 of the present document), the \"Content-Type\" header of the POST
request shall be set to \"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\". Using other
data formats for long queries and signalling them appropriately in the
\"Content-Type\" request header is possible but needs to be documented in the
specific MnS documentation.
# 7 Resource representation formats
## 7.1 Introduction
According to clause 4.3 the media type specifies only that JSON is used as
resource representation format carried in the HTTP request and HTTP response
message bodies. Some resource patterns are quite common and it is desirable to
use a common pattern throughout different APIs. This clause identifies some
patterns frequently encountered and provides a JSON schema for them.
## 7.2 Top-level object
A single JSON object shall be at the top-level of the document carried in the
message body of HTTP requests and HTTP responses.
{\"type\": \"object\"}
Example:
{}
Members of the top-level object can be either a data object, a data array or
an error object.
## 7.3 Data objects
Data objects are carried in HTTP requests and in HTTP responses in case of
success. One and only one data object shall be a member of a top-level object.
If a data object is present, no error object shall be present.
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"data\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {}
}
}
}
Example:
{
\"data\": {}
}
## 7.4 Data arrays
Data arrays are carried in HTTP requests and in HTTP responses when data is
transferred. One and only one data array shall be a member of a top-level
object. If a data array is present, no error object shall be present.
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"data\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {}
}
}
}
Example JSON instance:
{
\"data\": []
}
## 7.5 Error objects
Error objects are carried in HTTP responses in case of failure. One and only
one error object shall be a member of a top-level object.
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"error\": {
\"type\": \"object\"
\"properties\": {}
}
}
}
Example JSON instance:
{
\"error\": {}
}
## 7.6 Resource objects
Resource objects (resources) are representations of managed object instances.
They shall be compliant to the following JSON schema when one instance of a
class is allowed.
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"ClassName\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"id\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"objectClass\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"objectInstance\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"attributes\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {}
}
},
\"required\": [\"id\"]
}
}
}
or by the following schema when more than one instance of a class is allowed
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"ClassName\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"id\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"objectClass\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"objectInstance\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"attributes\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {}
}
},
\"required\": [\"id\"]
}
}
}
}
An object, whose name is equal to the NRM class name, encapsulates the
resource representation.
The \"attributes\" object contains NRM attributes as properties. In the
generic schema above the \"attributes\" object has no properties. These
properties are defined in other specifications.
Only the \"id\" is required to be always present. The \"href\" property with
the URI of the resource and the \"class\" property with the name of the NRM
class can be omitted, or not specified at all in concrete JSON schemas for
resource representations.
TS 32.160 [16] specifies the complete mapping of stage 2 NRM definitions to
stage 3 JSON schema definitions.
## 7.7 Resource objects carried in data objects and arrays
When a resource object is carried in a data object the schema is given by
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"data\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"ClassName\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"id\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"objectClass\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"objectInstance\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"attributes\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {}
}
},
\"required\": [\"id\"]
}
}
}
}
}
Multiple instance of the same NRM class are supported by a JSON array.
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"data\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"ClassName\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"id\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"objectClass\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"objectInstance\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"attributes\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {}
}
},
\"required\": [\"id\"]
}
}
}
}
}
}
# 8 REST SS specification template
This clause contains the REST SS specification template.
W RESTful HTTP-based solution set
W.1 Mapping of operations
W.1.1 Introduction
The IS operations are mapped to SS equivalents according to table W.1.1-1.
**Table W.1.1-1: Mapping of IS operations to SS equivalents**
* * *
IS operation HTTP Method Resource URI S
* * *
W.1.2 Operation \
The IS operation parameters are mapped to SS equivalents according to table
W.1.2-1 and table W.1.2-2.
Table W.1.2-1: Mapping of IS operation input parameters to SS equivalents
(\)
* * *
**IS parameter name** **SS parameter location** **SS parameter name** **SS
parameter type** **S**
* * *
Table W.1.2-2: Mapping of IS operation output parameters to SS equivalents
(\)
* * *
**IS parameter name** **SS parameter location** **SS parameter name** **SS
parameter type** **S**
* * *
W.1.3 Operation \
_Same as for \ ._
W.2 Mapping of notifications
W.2.1 Introduction
The IS notifications are mapped to SS equivalents according to table W.2.1-1.
**Table W.2.1-1: Mapping of IS operations to SS equivalents**
* * *
IS notification HTTP Method Resource URI S
* * *
W.2.2 Notification \
The IS notification parameters are mapped to SS equivalents according to table
W.2.2-1.
**Table W.2.2-1: Mapping of IS notification parameters to SS equivalents**
* * *
IS parameter name SS parameter location SS parameter name SS parameter type S
* * *
W.2.3 Notification \
_Same as for \ ._
W.3 Usage of HTTP
W.4 Resources
W.4.1 Resource structure
W.4.1.1 Resource structure on the MnS producer
Figure W.4.1.1-1 shows the resource structure of the \ MnS on the MnS
producer.
\
Figure W.4.1.1-1: Resource URI structure of the \ MnS on the MnS producer
Table W.4.1.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table W.4.1.1-**1** : Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method Description
* * *
W.4.1.2 Resource structure on the MnS consumer
Figure W.4.1.2-1 shows the resource structure of the \ MnS on the MnS
consumer.
\
Figure W.4.1.2-1: Resource URI structure of the \ MnS on the MnS consumer
Table W.4.1.2-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table W.4.1.2-**1** : Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method Description
* * *
W.4.2 Resource definitions
W.4.2.1 Resource \
W.4.2.1.1 Description
_Description of the resource._
W.4.2.1.2 URI
Resource URI: \
The resource URI variables are defined in table W.4.2.1.2-1.
Table W.4.2.1.2-1: URI variables
* * *
Name Definition
* * *
W.4.2.1.3 HTTP methods
W.4.2.1.3.1 \
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
W.2.1.3.1-1.
Table W.2.1.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the \ on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
W.2.1.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table W.2.1.3.1-3.
Table W.2.1.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the \ request body
on this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
Table W.2.1.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the \ response body
on this resource
+-----------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +-----------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-----------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+
W.4.2.1.3.2 \
_Same as for \ ._
W.4.2.2 Resource \
_Same as for \ ._
W.5 Data type definitions
W.5.1 General
This clause defines the data types used by the \ MnS. Table W.4.1-1
specifies the data types defined in the present document and table W.4.1-2 the
data types imported
Table W.4.1-1: Data types defined in the present document
* * *
Data type Reference Description
* * *
Table W.4.1-2: Data types imported
* * *
Data type Reference Description
* * *
W.5.2 Structured data types
W.5.2.1 Type \
Table W.4.2.1-1: Definition of type \
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
W.5.2.2 Type \
_Same as for \ ._
W.5.3 Simple data types and enumerations
W.5.3.1 General
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that are used by the
data structures defined in the previous clauses.
W.5.3.2 Simple data types
Table W.5.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description
* * *
W.5.3.3 Enumeration \
Table W.5.3.3-1: Enumeration \
* * *
Enumeration value Description
* * *
W.5.3.4 Enumeration \
Annex A (normative)
OpenAPI definition
A.1 Introduction
This clause contains the OpenAPI definition of the \ MnS in YAML format.
A.2 OpenAPI document \"\.yaml\"
_OpenAPI definition_
###### ## Annex A (informative): Examples
# A.1 Example data model
The following JSON instance document is used for the examples in this clause.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"SubNetwork\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": \"DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW\", | | | | \"userDefinedNetworkType\": \"5G\", | | | | \"plmnId-id\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 456, | | | | \"mnc\": 789 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 1\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"TV Tower\" | | | | }, | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"objectInstance\":\"DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,\ | | | | ManagedElement=ME1,XyzFunction=XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"objectInstance\":\"DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,\ | | | | ManagedElement=ME1,XyzFunction=XYZF2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"abc\", | | | | \"attrB\": 552 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 2\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Grunewald\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ], | | | | \"PerfMetricJob\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"PMJ1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"PerfMetricJob\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,PerfMetricJob=PMJ1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"granularityPeriod\": \"5\", | | | | \"perfMetrics\": [ | | | | \"Metric1\", | | | | \"Metric2\" | | | | ], | | | | \"objectInstances\": [ | | | | \"Obj1\", | | | | \"Obj2\" | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ], | | | | \"ThresholdMonitor\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"TM1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ThresholdMonitor\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,ThresholdMonitor=TM1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"metric\": \"Metric1\", | | | | \"thresholdLevels\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"1\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 10 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"2\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 20 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"3\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 30 | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
The corresponding JSON schema is:
+-------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"id\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"objectClass\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"objectInstance\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"userDefinedNetworkType\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"plmnId\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"mcc\": { | | | | \"type\": \"integer\" | | | | }, | | | | \"mnc\": { | | | | \"type\": \"integer\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"ManagedElement\": { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"id\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"objectClass\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"objectInstance\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"vendorName\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"location\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"XyzFunction\": { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"id\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"objectClass\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"objectInstance\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"attributeA\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"attributeB\": { | | | | \"type\": \"integer\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"required\": [\"id\"] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"required\": [\"id\"] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"PerfMetricJob\": { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"id\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"objectClass\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"objectInstance\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"granularityPeriod\": { | | | | \"type\": \"integerstring\" | | | | }, | | | | \"perfMetrics\": { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"objectInstances\": { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"required\": [\"id\"] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"ThresholdMonitor\": { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"id\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"objectClass\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"objectInstance\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"thresholdLevels\": { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"level\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"thresholdValue\": { | | | | \"type\": \"integer\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"required\": [\"id\"] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"required\": [\"id\"] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------+
The corresponding XML instance document is provided below as well. It can be
helpful when evaluating XPath expressions.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \ | | | | \ | | | | SubNetwork> | | | | \SN1\ | | | | \SubNetwork\ | | | | \DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1\ | | | | \ | | | | \Berlin NW\ | | | | \5G\ | | | | \ | | | | \456\ | | | | \789\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ME1\ | | | | \ManagedElement\ | | | | \DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1\ | | | | \ | | | | \Berlin NW 1\ | | | | \Company XY\ | | | | \TV Tower\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \XYZF1\ | | | | \XyzFunction\ | | | | \DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,\ | | | | ManagedElement=ME1,XyzFunction=XYZF1\ | | | | \ | | | | \xyz\ | | | | \551\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \XYZF2\ | | | | \XyzFunction\ | | | | \Su | | bNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1,XyzFunction=XYZF2\ | | | | \ | | | | \abc\ | | | | \552\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ME2\ | | | | \ManagedElement\ | | | | \SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME2\ | | | | \ | | | | \Berlin NW 2\ | | | | \Company XY\ | | | | \Grunewald\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \PMJ1\ | | | | \PerfMetricJob\ | | | | \SubNetwork=SN1,PerfMetricJob=PMJ1\ | | | | \ | | | | \5\ | | | | \Metric1\ | | | | \Metric2\ | | | | \Obj1\ | | | | \Obj2\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \TM1\ | | | | \ThresholdMonitor\ | | | | \SubNetwork=SN1,ThresholdMonitor=TM1\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \1\ | | | | \10\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \2\ | | | | \20\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \3\ | | | | \30\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
NOTE: Void
The following examples do not always follow the URI structure specified in
clause 4.4. For simplicity reasons, the path component
\"/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}\" is often omitted.
Furthermore, the value of query parameters is not always percent-encoded, as
defined in clause 2 and 3.4 of RFC 3986 [4], for better readability.
# A.2 Retrieval of resources
## A.2.1 Retrieval of a single complete resource with HTTP GET
To retrieve a complete \"XyzFunction\" resource the MnS Consumer might send
the following request.
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
The response includes a JSON object with the resource representation.
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
The MnS Consumer might request also to return a response constructed according
to the flat response construction method. In this case the \"Accept\" header
contains the \" application/vnd.3gpp.object-tree-flat+json\" media type.
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/vnd.3gpp.object-tree-flat+json | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
The response is a JSON array with a single item, which is a JSON object with
the resource representation. Note that the resource representation contains
the \"objectClass\" and \"objectInstance\" in this case.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/ vnd.3gpp.object-tree-flat+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"D | | C=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1,XyzFunction=XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
## A.2.2 Attribute and attribute field selection on a single resource
To retrieve only the \"userLabel\" attribute and the \"mnc\" attribute field
of the \"plmnId\" attribute of the \"SubNetwork\", the MnS Consumer might
send:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET | | /SubNetwork=SN1?attributes=userLabel&fields=/attributes/plmnId/mcc | | HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Alternatively one might send as well
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET | | /SubNetwork=SN1?fields=/attributes/userLabel,/attributes/plmnId/mcc | | HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
The response contains only the selected attribute \"userLabel\" and the
selected attribute field \"mnc\":
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW\", | | | | \"plmnId\": { | | | | \"mnc\": 789 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
In the next example, the MnS Consumer retrieves the \"userLabel\" and
\"vendorName\" of the \"ManagedElement\" whose \"id\" is equal to \"ME1\":
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET | | /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1?attributes=userLabel,vendorName | | HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
The MnS Producer responds as follows:
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 1\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\" | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
The following request selects all attributes:
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1?fields=/attributes HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
It is thus identical to:
+-------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +-------------------------------------------------+
Both requests return the complete resource representation with all attributes:
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 1\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"TV Tower\" | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
The following request returns the first item of the \"perfMetrics\" attribute,
which is of type array:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET | | /SubNetwork=SN1/M | | anagedElement=ME1/PerfMetricJob=PMJ1?fields=attributes/perfMetrics/0 | | HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Note indices start with \"0\" in JSON Pointer. The response looks like:
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"PMJ1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"perfMetrics\": [ | | | | \"Metric1\" | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
## A.2.3 Retrieval of multiple complete resources using scoping and filtering
The following example selects the \"SubNetwork\" as base object at scope level
\"0\" and all objects at scope level \"1\":
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1?scopeType=BASE_SUBTREE&scopeLevel=1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
The base object and all objects at scope level \"1\", irrespective of their
object class, are included in the response. The acceptable response media type
specified by the \"Accept\" header field is \"application/json\", which
indicates to the MnS producer to use the hierarchical response construction
method:
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW\", | | | | \"userDefinedNetworkType\": \"5G\", | | | | \"plmnId\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 456, | | | | \"mnc\": 789 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 1\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"TV Tower\" | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 2\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Grunewald\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ], | | | | \"PerfMetricJob\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"PMJ1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"granularityPeriod\": 5, | | | | \"perfMetrics\": [ | | | | \"Metric1\", | | | | \"Metric2\" | | | | ], | | | | \"objectInstances\": [ | | | | \"Obj1\", | | | | \"Obj2\" | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ], | | | | \"ThresholdMonitor\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"TM1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"metric\": \"Metric1\", | | | | \"thresholdLevels\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"1\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 10 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"2\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 20 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"3\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 30 | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
The MnS Consumer can request also to return a response constructed according
to the flat response construction method. In this case the \"Accept\" header
contains the \"application/vnd.3gpp.object-tree-flat+json\" media type.
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1?scopeType=BASE_SUBTREE&scopeLevel=1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/vnd.3gpp.object-tree-flat+json | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
The response looks like:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.object-tree-flat+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"SubNetwork\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": \"DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW\", | | | | \"userDefinedNetworkType\": \"5G\", | | | | \"plmnId\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 456, | | | | \"mnc\": 789 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": \"SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 1\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"TV Tower\" | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 2\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Grunewald\" | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"PMJ1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"PerfMetricJob\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,PerfMetricJob=PMJ1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"granularityPeriod\": \"5\", | | | | \"perfMetrics\": [ | | | | \"Metric1\", | | | | \"Metric2\" | | | | ], | | | | \"objectInstances\": [ | | | | \"Obj1\", | | | | \"Obj2\" | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"TM1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ThresholdMonitor\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,ThresholdMonitor=TM1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"metric\": \"Metric1\", | | | | \"thresholdLevels\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"1\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 10 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"2\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 20 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"3\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 30 | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
The \"objectInstance\" of each returned object is present in the response, as
required in clause 6.1.4.
When only objects at scope level \"1\" are requested to be returned, the
request looks like:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1?scopeType=BASE_NTH_LEVEL&scopeLevel=1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
The response does not include the attributes of \"SubNetwork\" any more, only
its \"id\" is included:
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 1\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"TV Tower\" | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 2\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Grunewald\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ], | | | | \"PerfMetricJob\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"PMJ1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"granularityPeriod\": 5, | | | | \"perfMetrics\": [ | | | | \"Metric1\", | | | | \"Metric2\" | | | | ], | | | | \"objectInstances\": [ | | | | \"Obj1\", | | | | \"Obj2\" | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ], | | | | \"ThresholdMonitor\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"TM1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"metric\": \"Metric1\", | | | | \"thresholdLevels\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"1\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 10 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"2\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 20 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"3\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 30 | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
Similarly, for reading all objects on scope level \"2\", the MnS Consumer may
send:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1?scopeType=BASE_NTH_LEVEL&scopeLevel=2 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
When using the hierarchical response construction method, the response
includes the complete representations of the two \"XyzFunction\" objects. The
\"SubNetwork\" and \"ManagedElement\" are present with their \"id\" only; they
provide the containment nodes for the \"XyzFunction\" objects.
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"abc\", | | | | \"attrB\": 552 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
The \"PerfMetricJob\" and \"ThresholdMonitor\" are not included altogether,
not even with the \"id\" only. This is because this node is no necessary path
components to the scoped objects on the second level.
When using the flat response construction method, the response includes only
the two \"XyzFunction\" objects without containment nodes.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"D | | C=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1,XyzFunction=XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"D | | C=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1,XyzFunction=XYZF2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"abc\", | | | | \"attrB\": 552 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
The following example selects all objects of any class on scope level \"1\",
that have a \"location\" attribute whose value is equal to \"Grunewald\":
+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1?\ | | | | scopeType=BASE_NTH_LEVEL&scopeLevel=1&\ | | | | filter=/*/*/attributes[location=\"Grunewald\"] HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +-------------------------------------------------------------+
The response includes one \"ManagedElement\" object only:
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 2\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Grunewald\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
The input document to the XPath expression is a document whose root node is
the object identified by the path component of the target URI and that
includes the object representations of the scoped objects. In this example the
root node is the \"SubNetwork\", but it is not scoped and hence included in
the input document with its \"id\" only, i.e. without the \"attributes\" node.
The input document includes furthermore all scoped objects on level \"1\" with
their complete representations (without name-contained objects). These are the
two \"ManagedElement\" objects, the \"PerfMetricJob\" object, and the
\"ThresholdMonitor\" object.
+---------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 1\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"TV Tower\" | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 2\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Grunewald\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ], | | | | \"PerfMetricJob\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"PMJ1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"granularityPeriod\": 5, | | | | \"perfMetrics\": [ | | | | \"Metric1\", | | | | \"Metric2\" | | | | ], | | | | \"objectInstances\": [ | | | | \"Obj1\", | | | | \"Obj2\" | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ], | | | | \"ThresholdMonitor\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"TM1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"metric\": \"Metric1\", | | | | \"thresholdLevels\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"1\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 10 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"2\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 20 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"3\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 30 | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +---------------------------------+
An implementation may be based on available XPath tools. In that case the JSON
document may have to be converted to a XML document. Note that a valid XML
document has one and only one root element. For that reason the \"SubNetwork\"
element needs to be added as root element.
+----------------------------------------------+ | \ | | | | \SN1\ | | | | \ | | | | \ME1\ | | | | \ | | | | \Berlin NW 1\ | | | | \Company XY\ | | | | \TV Tower\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ME2\ | | | | \ | | | | \Berlin NW 2\ | | | | \Company XY\ | | | | \Grunewald\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \PMJ1\ | | | | \ | | | | \5\ | | | | \Metric1\ | | | | \Metric2\ | | | | \Obj1\ | | | | \Obj2\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \TM1\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \1\ | | | | \10\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \2\ | | | | \20\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \3\ | | | | \30\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | +----------------------------------------------+
In this example the complete \"ManagedElement\" object is the result of
applying the XPath expression:
+-----------------------------------------+ | \ | | | | \ME2\ | | | | \ | | | | \Berlin NW 2\ | | | | \Company XY\ | | | | \Grunewald\ | | | | \ | | | | \ | +-----------------------------------------+
XPath predicates allow to specify also ranges. The following example selects
objects on scope level \"2\" that have an attribute with name \"attrB\" whose
value is equal to or greater than 552 and less than 562.
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1?\ | | | | scopeType=BASE_NTH_LEVEL&scopeLevel=2&\ | | | | filter=/*/*/*/attributes[attrB>=552 and attrB\=552 and attrB\=552 and attrB\=552 and attrB\<562]] | | HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
It is possible to combine scoping and filtering with attribute and attribute
field selection. The following example returns the containment tree, starting
with the \"SubNetwork\" identified by the target URI.
+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1?scopeType=BASE_ALL&attributes= HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +--------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\" | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\" | | | | } | | | | ], | | | | \"PerfMetricJob\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"PMJ1\" | | | | } | | | | ], | | | | \"ThresholdMonitor\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"TM1\" | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +--------------------------------------------------------------+
The next example scopes the same subtree as in the previous example and
requests to return only \"vendorName\" attributes instead of no attributes at
all.
+--------------------------------+ | GET /ProvMnS/v1700?\ | | | | scopeType=BASE_ALL&\ | | | | attributes=vendorName HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +--------------------------------+
This results, according to clause 6.2.3, in removing from the response all
scoped resources that do not have a \"vendorName\" attribute.
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\" | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
If the retrieval request identifies resources that do not exist, such as in
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /ProvMnS/v1700?scopeType=BASE_NTH_LEVEL&scopeLevel=3 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
The MnS producer returns a \"204 No Content\" response.
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 204 No Content | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | +-------------------------------------+
When the MnS Consumer does not know the root objects of the containment tree
and wants to retrieve the complete trees starting with the roots, the target
URI needs to identify the NRM root, i.e. the resource above the root objects.
According to clause 4.4.2 this resource is identified by the path segment
\"/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}\", for example \"/ProvMnS/v1700\". In the following
example, the \"attributes\" query parameter is empty and only the name-
containment hierarchy (without attributes) is returned.
+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /ProvMnS/v1700?scopeType=BASE_ALL&attributes= HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +-------------------------------------------------------------+
The response is illustrated below.
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\" | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\" | | | | } | | | | ], | | | | \"PerfMetricJob\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"PMJ1\" | | | | } | | | | ], | | | | \"ThresholdMonitor\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"TM1\" | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
Multiple root resources can be returned as well. For example, assume a NRM
with three \"SubNetwork\" root resources, then the response may look like:
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | ... | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN2\", | | | | ... | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN3\", | | | | ... | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
Note that when the target URI identifies the NRM root, then the name of the
document (root) element, to which an XPath expression is applied, is
\"nrmRoot\". The first step of the location path of an XPath expression is
hence \"/nrmRoot\". For example, the following HTTP GET request returns the
\"SubNetwork\" with the identifier \"SN1\".
+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /ProvMnS/v1700?\ | | | | scopeType=BASE_ALL&\ | | | | filter=/nrmRoot/SubNetwork[id=\"SN1\"]/attributes HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +--------------------------------------------------------------+
Note the presence of the location step \"/attributes\". This step is necessary
to select only the \"attributes\" container and hence only the SubNetwork\"
with the identifier \"SN1\" without any name-contained objercts.
+--------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"SubNetwork\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": \"DC=example.org,SubNetwork=SN1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW\", | | | | \"userDefinedNetworkType\": \"5G\", | | | | \"plmnId\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 456, | | | | \"mnc\": 789 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +--------------------------------------------------------+
Without the location step \"/attributes\" the complete subtree would be
returned.
In all examples above query parameter values are not percent-encoded for
better readability. For example, the value of the filter query parameter in
the following request
+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /ProvMnS/v1700?\ | | | | scopeType=BASE_ALL&\ | | | | filter=/nrmRoot/SubNetwork[id=\"SN1\"]/attributes HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +--------------------------------------------------------------+
needs to be percent-encoded.
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /ProvMnS/v1700?\ | | | | scopeType=BASE_ALL&\ | | | | filter=%2FnrmRoot%2FSubNetwork%5Bid%3D%22SN1%22%5D%2Fattributes HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
## A.2.4 Large queries
The following example shows how to construct a GET request using method
override.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | POST /ProvMnS/v1700 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | X-HTTP-Method-Override: GET | | | | Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | scopeType=BASE\ | | _ALL&filter=%2FnrmRoot%2FSubNetwork%5Bid%3D%22SN1%22%5D%2Fattributes | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
# A.3 Creation of resources
## A.3.1 Creation of a resource with HTTP PUT
In this example a new \"XyzFunction\" resource is created. The target URI
specifies the location of the new resource. The object class name of the
resource to be created is present in the request. The \"id\" of the new
resource is \"XYZF3\" and created by the MnS Consumer. The \"id\" contained in
the resource representation carried in the request message body and the \"id\"
in the target URI are identical.
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PUT /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"ghi\", | | | | \"attrB\": 553 | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
If the HTTP PUT request succeeds, the status code \"201 Created\" is returned
in the response status line. The location header is present, its value is the
URI of the created resource. The response message body contains the complete
representation of the new resource. The name of the object class may or may
not be present in the response.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 201 Created | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Location: http://example.org/ | | SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF3\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"ghi\", | | | | \"attrB\": 553 | | | | } | | | | } | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
In this example, the MnS Producer creates the object with the attribute
name/value pairs as provided in the request. For that reason, \"204 No
Content\" may be returned in the status line instead of \"201 Created\". The
response message body is absent in this case.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 204 No Content | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Location: | | ht | | tp://example.org/SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF3 | | | | Content-Type: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
## A.3.2 Creation of a resource with HTTP POST
When creating a new resource with POST the target URI identifies the parent
resource of the new resource to be created. The identifier of the new resource
is created by the MnS Producer, hence the \"id\" is equal to \"null\" in the
POST request. If the \"id\" carries a value, then the MnS Producer may
consider that value as a non-binding recommendation by the MnS Consumer. The
request message body includes the object class name of the resource to be
created.
+--------------------------------------------------+ | POST /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": null, | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"ghi\", | | | | \"attrB\": 553 | | | | } | | | | } | +--------------------------------------------------+
For the response body the same provisions as for resource creation with HTTP
PUT apply.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 201 Created | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Location: http://example.org/ | | SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=123e4567-e89b | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"123e4567-e89b\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"ghi\", | | | | \"attrB\": 553 | | | | } | | | | } | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
When creating a root resource of the model, the path component of the request
URI refers to the parent resource of the top level managed object instances as
defined in clause 4.4.4.
+-------------------------------------+ | POST /ProvMnS/v1700 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": null, | | | | \"objectClass\": \"SubNetwork\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW\", | | | | \"userDefinedNetworkType\": \"5G\", | | | | \"plmnId\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 456, | | | | \"mnc\": 789 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
## A.3.3 Creation of multiple resources with 3GPP JSON Merge Patch
One or more resources can be created with a single 3GPP JSON Merge Patch
request. The following example shows the creation of a complete subtree for a
new \"ManagedElement\" below \"SubNetwork\".
The target URI has been chosen to identify the first common ancestor of the
resources to be created. In this case, it is the parent of the base object of
the tree to be created. The \"objectClass\" property is present for the
resources to be created.
+-----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \" Berlin NW 3\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Spandau\" | | | | }, | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 771 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"abc\", | | | | \"attrB\": 772 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-----------------------------------------------------+
The MnS Producer might respond as follows to indicate the PATCH request was
successful and the received resource representation was not modified.
The next example shows how a new \"XyzFunction\" resource is added to each of
the \"ManagedElement\" resouces.
In this case, the parent of the parent of the \"XyzFunction\" resources to be
created has been chosen as the common ancestor referenced by the target URI.
The \"objectClass\" property is present for the resources to be created.
The \"ManagedElement\" resources are present with their \"id\" only. These
resources are required to bridge the containment tree from the \"SubNetwork\"
target resource to the created \"XyzFunction\" resources.
+-----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"def\", | | | | \"attrB\": 553 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\", | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"def\", | | | | \"attrB\": 661 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-----------------------------------------------------+
The MnS Producer might respond again as follows to indicate the successful
creation of the resources.
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 204 No Content | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | +-------------------------------------+
Assume now that for \"XyzFunction\" a third attribute \"attrC\" is defined and
that this attribute has a default value of \"5\". The MnS Producer assigns the
default value after reception of the PATCH request and before creating the
resource when no value is provided for \"attrC\" in the request. In this case
the response includes the modified resource representations.
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"def\", | | | | \"attrB\": 553, | | | | \"attrC\": 5 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\", | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"def\", | | | | \"attrB\": 661, | | | | \"attrC\": 5 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
## A.3.4 Creation of multiple resources with 3GPP JSON Patch
One or more resources can be created with a single 3GPP JSON Patch request.
The following example shows the creation of a complete subtree for a new
network entity represented by a \"ManagedElement\" resource and two
\"XyzFunction\" resources. The target URI has been chosen to identify the
first common ancestor of the resources to be created. The \"path\" specifies
the offset from the target resource to the resource to be created. The
\"path\" has no fragment component. Parent resources are created before child
resources following the order of the operations in the patch document. The
class name of the object to be created is specified in each patch operation.
The \"Accept\" header specifies responses with hierarchcal object tree are
acceptable.
+------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME3\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"ME3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \" Berlin NW 3\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Spandau\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME3/XyzFunction=XYZF1\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 771 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME3/XyzFunction=XYZF2\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"abc\", | | | | \"attrB\": 772 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +------------------------------------------------------+
Note that each resource to be created shall be specified with a dedicated
\"add\" operation. The following patch document is hence invalid as it
attempts to create three resources with a single \"add\" operation.
+----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME3\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"ME3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \" Berlin NW 3\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Spandau\" | | | | }, | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 771 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"abc\", | | | | \"attrB\": 772 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------+
It is not an error if the target location of an \"add\" operation as specified
by the \"path\" property does exist. In this case the content of the target
location is replaced with the content of the \"value\" property. For example,
in the following example, the first \"ManagedElement\" resource already
exists. The patch document is applied successfully though. The representation
of the first \"ManagedElement\" resource is replaced and the second
\"ManagedElement\" resource is created.
Note that the attributes \"vendorName\" and \"location\" are removed from the
representation of the first \"ManagedElement\" resource. The \"userLabel\"
attribute is updated.
+----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME2\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \" Berlin NW 4\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME3\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"ME3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \" Berlin NW 3\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Spandau\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------+
# A.4 Deletion of resources
## A.4.1 Deletion of a resource with HTTP DELETE
The following example deletes an instance of \"ManagedElement\". The resource
to be deleted is identified with the target URI. The request body is absent.
+----------------------------------------------------+ | DELETE /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME2 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | +----------------------------------------------------+
The MnS Producer might respond as follows.
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 204 No Content | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | +-------------------------------------+
## A.4.2 Deletion of multiple resources with HTTP DELETE
The deletion of multiple resources with a single HTTP DELETE request is not
supported. The following request is hence invalid.
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | DELETE /SubNetwork=SN1?scopeType= BASE_NTH_LEVEL&scopeLevel=2 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
## A.4.3 Deletion of multiple resources with 3GPP JSON Merge Patch
One or more descendant resources of the target URI can be deleted with a
single 3GPP JSON Merge Patch request. The following example deletes the
\"ManagedElement\" resource with \"ME1\" including both its \"XyzFunction\"
resources.
The target URI has been chosen to identify the first common ancestor of the
resources to be deleted. The patch document starts with the target resource.
All resources of the subtree to be deleted are marked for deletion.
+-----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": null, | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": null | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"attributes\": null | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-----------------------------------------------------+
## A.4.4 Deletion of multiple resources with 3GPP JSON Patch
Multiple resources are deleted with an ordered sequence of \"remove\"
operations. The following example removes a complete subtree for a
\"ManagedElement\".
The target URI has been chosen to identify the parent resource of the
\"ManagedElement\" resource to be deleted. The \"path\" specifies the offset
to the resources to be deleted. The \"path\" has no fragment component.
Child resources are deleted before parent resources, starting with leaf
resources.
+-----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"remove\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"remove\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF2\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"remove\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +-----------------------------------------------------+
# A.5 Complete update of a resource
The following example updates a \"XyzFunction\" resource. Only the \"attrA\"
attribute is updated with a new value \"def\". The \"attrB\" attribute is set
to the old value \"551\", but still the \"attrB\" attribute needs to be
present in the resource representation contained in the request message body.
Otherwise \"attrB\" would be deleted due to the replace semantics of HTTP PUT.
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PUT /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"def\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
When a non leaf resource is updated, contained resources are not included. For
example, the following resource representation in the message body updates the
\"ManagedElement\" resource only. It does not delete the contained
\"XyzFunction\" resources.
+-------------------------------------------------+ | PUT /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin New Label\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"TV Tower\" | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------------------+
# A.6 Partial update of a resource
## A.6.1 Partial update of a resource with JSON Merge Patch
The first example shows how the attribute \"attrA\" of the \"XyzFunction with
the \"id\" equal to \"YXZF1\" is changed from \"xyz\" to \"def\" using JSON
Merge Patch.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"def\" | | | | } | | | | } | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
In the second example the \"mcc\" attribute field of the \"plmnId\" attribute
is updated to \"654\". The employed patch method is again JSON Merge Patch.
+--------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"plmnId\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 654 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +--------------------------------------------+
In the third example the item \"Metric3\" is added to the array
\"perfMetrics\". The value of \"perfMetrics\" contains the two old items and
the new item.
+--------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/PerfMetricJob=PMJ1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"PMJ1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"perfMetrics\": [\"Metric1\", \"Metric2, Metric3\"] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +--------------------------------------------------------+
Also in case the items of an array have an identifier, the complete updated
array value needs to be present in the patch request. In the following fourth
example in this clause the old first threshold level is deleted, for the old
second threshold level the \"thresholdValue\" is updated from \"20\" to
\"22\", the old third threshold level is left unchanged, and a new threshold
level is appended as last item.
+-----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ThresholdMonitor=TM1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"TM1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"thresholdLevels\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"2\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 22 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"3\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 30 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"4\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 40 | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | +-----------------------------------------------------+
## A.6.2 Partial update of a resource with 3GPP JSON Merge Patch
When updating a single resource, there is no difference between JSON Merge
Patch (see A.6.1) and 3GPP JSON Merge Patch.
## A.6.3 Partial update of a resource with JSON Patch
When JSON Patch is used to request the same changes as the ones described in
the four examples in clause A.6.1, the MnS consumer may send
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrA\", | | | | \"value\": \"def\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
and
+-------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/plmn-Id/mcc\", | | | | \"value\": 654 | | | | } | | | | ] | +-------------------------------------------+
and
+---------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/PerfMetricJob=PMJ1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/perfMetrics/2\", | | | | \"value\": \"Metric3\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------+
and
+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ThresholdMonotor=TM1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"remove\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/thresholdLevels/0\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/thresholdLevels/0/thresholdValue\", | | | | \"value\": 22 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/thresholdLevels/-\", | | | | \"value\": | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"4\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 40 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +-------------------------------------------------------------+
Note that the patch operations are applied sequentially to the
\"thresholdLevels\" array in the order they appear in the patch array. After
removing the first array item with the first operation, the resulting array
value becomes the target for the second operation. The array index \"0\"
identifies the new first item, which was the second item before applying the
first operation of the patch document. Issues with array positions can be
avoided by placing \"replace\" operations at the beginning of the patch
document.
In the examples above the value of \"value\" is always a simple type (scalar
value). When multiple attribute fields of an attribute need to be added or
replaced, it is often more compact to add or replace the complete attribute
with a single patch operation, instead of each attribute field individually.
For example, the following patch
+-------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/plmnId/mcc\", | | | | \"value\": 456 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/plmnId/mnc\", | | | | \"value\": 789 | | | | } | | | | ] | +-------------------------------------------+
can be replaced by
+-------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/plmnId\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 456, | | | | \"mnc\": 789 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +-------------------------------------------+
When adding a member to a JSON object, the JSON object needs to exist. Assume
\"plmnId\" does not exist, but \"attributes\" does, then the following request
is an error, since it attempts to add a \"mcc\" member to the \"plmnId\"
object, that does not exist
+-------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/plmnId/mcc\", | | | | \"value\": 654 | | | | } | | | | ] | +-------------------------------------------+
The MnS Consumer should send the following instead.
+-------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/plmnId\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 654 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +-------------------------------------------+
Alternatively, an empty \"plmnId\" object could be created before adding the
\"mcc\" member.
+-------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/plmnId\", | | | | \"value\": {} | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/plmnId/mcc\", | | | | \"value\": 654 | | | | } | | | | ] | +-------------------------------------------+
Replacing all attribute values of an object is a special case of a partial
resource update. The following example demonstrates the usage of a compact
format where the \"attributes\" container is replaced completely. It is not
necessary to specify a patch operation for each attribute of the object.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"def\", | | | | \"attrB\": 123 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
Note that clause 4.3 of IETF RFC 6902 [13] does not consider it as an error if
an attribute value is replaced with exactly the same value. For that reason it
would not be an error if in the example above an attribute value is included
in the \"value\" property that is equal to the value in the current resource
representation. A MnS Producer may consider this compact format hence also for
the case that not all attributes of an object are requested to be updated with
a new value.
## A.6.4 Partial update of a resource with 3GPP JSON Patch
When 3GPP JSON Patch is used to request the changes described in in the first
two examples clause A.6.1 the MnS consumer may send the following:
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"#/attributes/attrA\", | | | | \"value\": \"def\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
and
+----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"#/attributes/plmnId/mcc\", | | | | \"value\": 654 | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------+
and
+---------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ThresholdMonitor=TM1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"remove\", | | | | \"path\": \"#/attributes/thresholdLevels/0\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"#/attributes/thresholdLevels/0/thresholdValue\", | | | | \"value\": 22 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"#/attributes/thresholdLevels/-\", | | | | \"value\": | | | | { | | | | \"level\": \"4\", | | | | \"thresholdValue\": 40 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------+
When using 3GPP JSON Patch to update a single resource, the only difference
compared to JSON Patch is the presence of \"#\" in the \"path\".
# A.7 Manipulating multiple resources
## A.7.1 Manipulating multiple resources with 3GPP JSON Merge Patch
JSON Merge Patch allows to update one resource only with a single HTTP PATCH
request. The resource needs to exist. In contrast, 3GPP JSON Merge Patch
allows to update multiple resources incl. resource creation and deletion with
a single HTTP PATCH request.
In the following example the \"userLabel\" attribute and the \"mcc\" attribute
field of the \"SubNetwork\" resource are updated. The \"attrB\" attribute of
the \"XyzFunction\" resource, whose \"id\" is \"XYZF1\", is also updated. A
new \"XyzFunction\" resource with id \"XYZF3\"is created as well as a new
\"ManagedElement\" resource with id \"ME3\". The \"XYzFunction\" resource,
whose \"id\" is \"XYZF2\", is deleted.
+-----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW-1\", | | | | \"plmnId\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 654 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrB\": 1234 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"attributes\": null | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"fgh\", | | | | \"attrB\": 555 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \" Berlin NW 3\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Spandau\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-----------------------------------------------------+
## A.7.2 Manipulating multiple resources with 3GPP JSON PATCH
The same resource modifications as in the previous clause expressed using 3GPP
JSON Patch are given by
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"#/attributes/userLabel\", | | | | \"value\": \"Berlin NW-1\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"#/attributes/plmnId/mcc\", | | | | \"value\": 654 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1#/attributes/attrB\", | | | | \"value\": 1234 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF3\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"ghi\", | | | | \"attrB\": 553 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"remove\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF2\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME3\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"ME3\", | +------------------------------------------------------------------------+
The modifications of the \"userLabel\" attribute and the \"mcc\" attribute
field can be expressed also by a single \"merge\" operation instead of two
separate \"replace\" operations.
+----------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"merge\", | | | | \"path\": \"#/attributes\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW-1\", | | | | \"plmnId\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 654 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------+
The \"copy\" operation is useful when complete configurations from existing
resources need to be copied to newly created resources.
+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept: application/json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF3\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"copy\", | | | | \"from\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF2/attributes\" | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF3/attributes\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------+
# A.8 Partitioning a data model
All objects of the data model in annex A.1 may be accessed and manipulated via
a single MnS Producer endpoint, for example
http://example.org/3gpp/ProvMnS/v1600
An implementation may also provide more than one endpoint for accessing the
data model. This may be for allowing MnS Producers supporting different
versions of the CRUD operations to access the data model:
http://example.org/3gpp/ProvMnS/v1600
http://example.org/3gpp/ProvMnS/v1700
Another reason might be to structure the total data model into subsets of
managed objects for different purposes such as configuration management and
performance management.
http://example.org/3gpp/cm/ProvMnS/v1600
http://example.org/3gpp/pm/ProvMnS/v1600
Using the MnS Producer endpoint for configuration management only the objects
for configuration management can be accessed. The canonical URIs of these
objects are
http://example.org/SubNetwork=SN1
http://example.org/SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1
http://example.org/SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME2
http://example.org/SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1
http://example.org/SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF2
Using the MnS Producer endpoint for performance management only the objects
for performance management can be accessed.
http://example.org/SubNetwork=SN1/PerfMetricJob=PMJ1
http://example.org/SubNetwork=SN1/ThresholdMonitor=TM1
When trying to access with the MnS Producer for performance management an
object pertaining to the subset of managed objects for configuration
management, for example,
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /3gpp/fm//SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 | | HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
an error is raised, for example \"403 Forbidden\" or \"404 Not Found\".
#