# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
TS 32.150: \"Integration Reference Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
**TS 32.153: \"Integration Reference Point (IRP) technology specific
templates, rules and guidelines\"**
**TS 32.154: \"Backward and Forward Compatibility (BFC); Concept and
definitions\".**
**TS 32.155: \"Requirements template\".**
**TS 32.156: \"Telecommunication management;** Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC)
Model Repertoire**\"** ;
> **TS 32.157: \"Telecommunication management;** Integration Reference Point
> (IRP) Information Service (IS) template**\"**.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the templates to be used for the production of
Integration Reference Point (IRP) technology-specific specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[4] Void
[5] Void
[6] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[7] Void
[8] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/).
[9] OMG IDL Style Guide, ab/98-06-03, June 17, 1998.
[10] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification ([http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl]{.underline})
[11] Void.
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] Void.
[15] Void.
[16] IETF RFC 3629 (http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3629#ref-UNICODE).
[17] 3GPP TS 28.652: \"Telecommunication management; Universal Terrestrial
Radio Access Network (UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following
apply:
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
**SOAP:** See [8].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following apply:
CM Conditional Mandatory
CM Configuration Management
CO Conditional Optional
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture (OMG)
FF File Format
IDL Interface Definition Language
IOC Information Object Class
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
M Mandatory
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
NRM Network Resource Model
O Optional
OMG Object Management Group
TS Technical Specification
SOAP W3C acronym
SS Solution Set
SuM Subscription Management
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
WSDL Web Service Description Language
XML eXtensible Markup Language
XSD XML Schema Definition
# 4 Interface IRP SS template
This clause contains the Interface IRP SS template.
The clauses in this template (that shall be used in the SS specifications) are
numbered starting with \"X\", which in general should correspond to clause 4
that is the beginning of the normative part of a TS. However, if there is a
need in a specific SS to introduce additional clauses in the TS body, X may
correspond to a number higher than 4.
The SS templates use qualifiers M, O, CM and CO. The semantics of these
qualifiers are defined in TS 32.150 [3].
The introductory clauses (from clause 1 to clause 3) for the SS should be
modelled similarly to that of clause 1 to 3 of this specification.
Instructions are written in _italics_.
Usage of fonts shall be according to the following table.
Table: Usage of fonts
* * *
Item Font Class names Courier New Attribute names Courier New Operation names
Courier New Parameter names Courier New Assertion names Courier New
Notification names Courier New Exception names Courier New State names Arial
Enumerated values Arial
* * *
X Architectural Features
_\"X\" represents a clause number in the actual SS. It contains at least the
following this subclause:_
X.1 General
_This subclause contains the following paragraph:_
_\"_ The overall architectural feature of \ is specified in 3GPP
TS \ [\]. This clause
specifies features that are specific to the \ SS.\"
_Example:_
\"The overall architectural feature of Alarm IRP is specified in 3GPP TS
32.111-2 [6]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA
SS.\"
_Specific for SOAP SS: the supported XSD, WSDL and SOAP versions shall be
indicated together with the style and encoding style, and the namespaces with
corresponding prefixes used in the WSDL specifications. Therefore the SOAP SS
also contains the information quoted below:_
"The SOAP \ specification [relevant reference], XSD
\ specification [relevant reference] and WSDL \ specification [relevant reference] are supported.
This specification uses \"\\" style in WSDL file.
This specification uses \"\\" encoding style in WSDL file.
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes which are listed in
Table X.1.
* * *
**Prefix** **Namespace** http http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/http/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ xs or xsd
http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema xsi http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance
\ \
* * *
> Table X.1: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
"X.a \
_\ _
_\"a\" represents a number, starting at 2 and increasing by 1 with each new
feature._
_NOTE: This subclause is optional._
Y Mapping
_\"Y\" represents a clause number, immediately following \"X\"._
Y.1 Operation and Notification mapping
_It contains this leading paragraph:_
_\"_ The _\ : IS (see 3GPP TS \
[\]) defines semantics of operation and
notification visible across the Itf-N. Table Y.1.1 indicates mapping of these
operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.\"
_Example:_
\"Alarm IRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [6] defines semantics of operation and
notification visible across the Itf-N. Table Y.1.1 indicates mapping of these
operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.\"
_The table includes all operations and notifications, including those
inherited. The table lists the operations first and then the notifications.
The list order is the same as the one used in the IS. Semantics for the
Qualifier is defined in Ref [x]._
Table Y.1.1: Mapping from IS Operation/Notification to SS equivalents
+-------------------------------------+-------------+----------------+ | IS Operation/Notification | SS Method | Qualifier | | | | | | in 3GPP TS \ | | | | [\] | | | +-------------------------------------+-------------+----------------+ | \ | \ | M, O, CM or CO | +-------------------------------------+-------------+----------------+ | \ | \ | M, O, CM or CO | +-------------------------------------+-------------+----------------+ | ... | | | +-------------------------------------+-------------+----------------+ | .. | | | +-------------------------------------+-------------+----------------+ | notify\ | \ | M, O, CM or CO | +-------------------------------------+-------------+----------------+ | ... | ... | | +-------------------------------------+-------------+----------------+
Y.2 Operation parameter mapping
_It contains this leading paragraph:_
_\"Reference_ 3GPP TS \ [\]
defines semantics of parameters carried in operations across the Itf-N. The
following set of tables indicate the mapping of these parameters, as per
operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.\"
_Example:_
\"Reference 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [6] defines semantics of parameters carried in
operations across the Itf-N. The following set of tables indicate the mapping
of these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this
SS.\"
Table Y.2.1: Mapping from IS \ parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier \ \ \ M, O, CM or CO \ \
\ M, O, CM or CO ... ... ... ... .... ... status ... M
* * *
Table Y.2.2: Mapping from IS \ parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier \ \ \ M, O, CM or CO ... ... ... status ... M
* * *
Table Y.2.x:
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier ... ... ... ... ... ...
status ... M
* * *
Y.3 Notification parameter mapping
_It contains this leading paragraph:_
\"Reference 3GPP TS \ [\ _\"_
>
> The following tables indicate the mapping of these parameters to their OMG
> CORBA Structured Event (defined in OMG Notification Service [\ reference number>]) equivalents. The composition of OMG Structured Event, as
> defined in the OMG Notification Service [\], is:
>
> Header
>
> Fixed Header
>
> domain_name
>
> type_name
>
> event_name
>
> Variable Header
>
> Body
>
> filterable_body_fields
>
> remaining_body
>
> The following tables list all OMG Structured Event attributes in the second
> column. The first column identifies the \ IRP: IS [\ reference number>] defined notification parameters.
>
> \"
Table Y.3.1: Mapping for notifyKkk
* * *
IS Parameters \ Parameters Qualifier Comment \ \
M or O ... \ \ M or O ... ... ... M or O ...
* * *
Z Notification Interface
_\"Z\" represents a number, immediately following \"Y\"._
_This sub-clause captures SS technology specific details required to realize
the IS-defined \  for notifications._
_Specific for CORBA SS:_
_The SS contains this:_
> _\"_
>
> OMG CORBA Notification push operation is used to realise the notification of
> AlarmIRPNotifications. All the notifications in this interface are
> implemented using this push_structured_event method.
>
> Z.1 Method push (M)
>
> module CosNotifyComm {
>
> ...
>
> Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
>
> void push_structured_events(
>
> in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
>
> raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
>
> ...
>
> }; // SequencePushConsumer
>
> ...
>
> }; // CosNotifyComm
>
> NOTE 1: The push_structured_events method takes an input parameter of type
> EventBatch as defined in the OMG CosNotification module (OMG Notification
> Service [1]). This data type is the same as a sequence of Structured Events.
> Upon invocation, this parameter will contain a sequence of Structured Events
> being delivered to IRPManager by IRPAgent to which it is connected.
>
> NOTE 2: The maximum number of events that will be transmitted within a
> single invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide
> configuration parameter.
>
> NOTE 3: The amount of time the supplier (IRPAgent) of a sequence of
> Structured Events will accumulate individual events into the sequence before
> invoking this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
> parameter as well.
>
> NOTE 4: IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
>
> _\"_
# 5 NRM IRP SS template
This clause contains the NRM IRP SS template.
The clauses in this template (that shall be used in the SS specifications) are
numbered starting with \"X\", which in general should correspond to clause 4
that is the beginning of the normative part of a TS. However, if there is a
need in a specific SS to introduce additional clauses in the TS body, X may
correspond to a number higher than 4.
The introductory clauses (from clause 1 to clause 3) for the SS should be
modelled similarly to that of this specification.
Usage of fonts shall be according to the following table.
Table: Usage of fonts
* * *
Item Font Class names Courier New Attribute names Courier New Assertion names
Courier New Notification names Courier New State names Arial Enumerated values
Arial
* * *
X Architectural Features
_\"X\" represents a clause number in the actual SS. It contains at least the
following subclause:_
X.1 General
_This subclause contains the following paragraph:_
_\"_ The overall architectural feature of \ is specified in 3GPP
TS \ [\]. This clause
specifies features that are specific to the \ SS.\".
_Example:_
\"The overall architectural feature of UTRAN Network Resources IRP is
specified in 3GPP TS 28.652 [17].\ This clause specifies features that are
specific to the CORBA SS.\"
X.a \
_\ _
_\"a\" represents a number, starting at 2 and increasing by 1 with each new
feature._
_NOTE: This subclause is optional._
Y Mapping
_\"Y\" represents a number, immediately following \"X\"._
Y.1 General
_This subclause contains a general introduction to the mapping._
_For CORBA SSs, it contains the following paragraph:_
\"Attributes modelling associations as defined in the NRM (here also called
\"reference attributes\") are in this SS mapped to attributes. The names of
the reference attributes in the NRM are mapped to the corresponding attribute
names in the MOC. When the cardinality for an association is 0..1 or 1..1 the
datatype for the reference attribute is defined as an MOReference. The value
of an MO reference contains the distinguished name of the associated MO. When
the cardinality for an association allows more than one referred MO, the
reference attribute will be of type MOReferenceSet, which contains a sequence
of MO references.\"
_For XML FF specifications, it contains the following paragraph:_
"An IOC maps to an XML element of the same name as the IOC\'s name in the IS.
An IOC attribute maps to a sub-element of the corresponding IOC\'s XML
element, and the name of this sub-element is the same as the attribute\'s name
in the IS."
Y.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
_This subclause is only applicable to NRM IRP CORBA Solution Sets. This clause
contains the mapping tables of all iS-defined IOCs to corresponding SS-level
MOCs, excluding those inherited._
Y.2.a IOC \
_It contains one table with Mapping from NRM IS IOC attribute name to the SS
equivalent MOC attribute name and attribute types._
_\"a\" in the subclause heading represents a number, starting at 1 and
increasing by 1 for each IOC._
* * *
Attribute of IOC \ in 3GPP TS \ [\] SS Attribute SS Type Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write
Qualifier attribute-a attribute-1 \ ... ... ... attribute-b attribute-2
\ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
* * *
Y.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
_This subclause is only applicable to NRM IRP XML FF specifications. This
subclause describes the mapping of all IS-defined IOCs to corresponding XML
definitions, excluding the inherited IOCs._
_Note: This subclause is also numbered Y.2, directly following Y.1, since
every NRM SS-level TS is made for only one SS technology._
###### ## Annex A (normative): General rules for Solution Sets (SS)
# A.1 Introduction
The intent of this annex is twofold.
The first intent is for 3GPP-internal use to document how a 3GPP Solution Set
is (SS) produced and what it shall contain.
The second intent is to give the reader of an Information Service (IS) or a
Solution Set (SS) a better understanding on how to interpret the IS or SS
specifications.
# A.2 Solution Set (SS) versioning
Editor\'s note: For Further Study.
# A.3 Referenced Information Service (IS) specification
A sentence shall be included in the clause \"Scope\" of all SS specifications.
The sentence shall read as follows:
\"This Solution Set specification is related to Z\".
where Z is the 3GPP Information Service (IS) specification number including
the version, such as\ \"TS 32.111-2 V4.1.X\" for the case of Alarm Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS).
NOTE: that \"X\", rather than the actual digit, is actually used in the
sentence. This is because the value of X is not relevant for the reference
purpose since different values of X identify different 3GPP published
specifications that reflect only editorial changes.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Technology specific rules & guidelines for
CORBA Solution Sets
# B.1 Rules
## B.1.1 Introduction
The intent of this annex is threefold.
1) The first intent is for 3GPP internal use to document how a 3GPP CORBA SS
is produced and how it is structured.
2) The second intent with the annex is to give the reader or implementer of a
CORBA SS a better understanding on how to interpret the CORBA SS
specification.
3) The third and maybe most important intent is to put requirement on an
implementer of a CORBA SS.
It is expected that this annex is to be extended in later versions of the
present document.
## B.1.2 Rules for specification of CORBA Solution Sets
### B.1.2.1 Introduction
This subclause identifies rules for specification of CORBA SSs. This subclause
is mainly for 3GPP-internal use. It is only for information for the
implementer of a CORBA SS.
### B.1.2.2 Pragma prefix
All IDL-code shall define the pragma prefix using the following statement:
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
See clause B.2.1.4.3 for information of this #pragma statement in relation to
other IDL statements.
## B.1.3 Implementation aspects of Interface IRP CORBA Solution Sets
### B.1.3.1 Introduction
This subclause identifies rules for the implementation of CORBA SSs. This
subclause is normative for the implementer of a CORBA SS.
### B.1.3.2 IRPAgent behaviour on incoming optional method
The IRPAgent, claiming compliance to a particular SS version of a particular
IRP such as the Alarm IRP, shall implement all Mandatory and all Optional
methods. Each method implementation shall have a signature specifying all
Mandatory and all Optional parameters.
\- If the IRPAgent does not support a particular optional method, it shall
throw the OperationNotSupported exception when the IRPManager invokes that
method.
\- If the IRPAgent have not implemented a particular method (because it is
compiled with an IDL version that does not define the method), the CORBA ORB
of the IRPAgent shall throw a system exception if the IRPManager invokes that
method.
In all the above cases when an exception is thrown, the IRPAgent shall restore
its state before the method invocation.
### B.1.3.3 IRPAgent behaviour on incoming optional parameter of operation
An IRPAgent must implement all optional parameters, as well as mandatory
parameters, in all methods.
If the IRPAgent supports the implemented method but does not support its (one
or more) optional input parameters, upon method invocation, the IRPAgent shall
check if those parameters carry \"no information\" or absence semantics
(defined later in subclause B.1.3.5). If the check is negative, the IRPAgent
shall throw the ParameterNotSupported exception with a string carrying the
name of the unsupported optional parameter.
### B.1.3.4 IRPAgent behaviour on outgoing attributes of notification
CORBA SS uses OMG defined structured event to carry notification. The
structured event is partitioned into header and body.
The absence semantics of attribute in the header is realized by a string of
zero length.
The body consists of one or more name-value pair attributes. The absence
semantics of these attributes is realized by their absence.
For optional sub-attributes of an attribute carried by the name-value pair,
their absence semantics is realized by the encoding rule of \"absence
semantics\". See subclause B.1.3.5.
### B.1.3.5 Encoding rule of absence semantics
The operation parameters are mapped to method parameters of CORBA SS. The
absence semantics for an operation (input and output) parameter is method
parameter type dependent.
\- For a string type, if the parameter is specified as a string type, the
absence semantics is a string of zero length. If the parameter is specified as
a union structure (preferred), the absence semantics is conveyed via a FALSE
Boolean value switch.
\- For an integer type, if the parameter is specified as a signed, unsigned,
long, etc type, the absence semantics is the highest possible positive number.
If the parameter is specified as a union structure (preferred), the absence
semantics is conveyed via a FALSE Boolean value switch.
\- For a boxed valueType (supported by CORBA 2.3), it is the null value.
The notification parameters are mapped to attributes of the CORBA Structured
Events. The absence semantics for a notification parameter is attribute
position (within the Structured Event) dependent.
\- For the fixed header of the Structured Event header, the absence semantics
is realized by a string of zero length.
\- For the filterable body fields of the Structured Event body, the absence
semantics is realized by the absence of the corresponding attribute.
### B.1.4 Rules for NRM IRP CORBA SS extensions
This clause discusses how the models and IDL definitions provided in a
particular NRM IRP CORBA SS can be extended for a particular implementation
and still remain compliant with IRP specifications.
Note: Protocol-neutral rules for NRM IRP IS-level extensions are defined in TS
32.150 [3] Annex G.
#### B.1.4.1 Allowed extensions
Vendor-specific MOCs may be supported. The vendor-specific MOCs may support
new types of attributes.\ The standardised notifications may be issued
referring to the vendor-specific MOCs and vendor-specific attributes. New MOCs
shall be distinguishable from standardised MOCs by name. Standardised and
vendor-specific attributes may be used in vendor-specific MOCs. Vendor-
specific attribute names shall be distinguishable from existing attribute
names.
MOCs may be subclassed. Subclassed MOCs shall maintain the specified behaviour
of the superior classes. They may add vendor-specific behaviour with vendor-
specific attributes. When subclassing, naming attributes cannot be changed.
The subclassed MOC shall support all attributes of its superior class. Vendor-
specific attributes cannot be added to MOCs without subclassing.
When subclassing, the standardised containment rules and their specified
cardinality shall still be followed.\ As an example, ManagementNode (or its
subclasses) shall be contained under SubNetwork (or its subclasses).
Managed Object Instances may be instantiated as CORBA objects. This requires
that the MOCs be represented in IDL. MOCs are not currently specified in IDL,
but may be specified in IDL for instantiation or subclassing purposes.
However, management information models should not require that IRPManagers
access the instantiated managed objects other than through supported methods
in the present document.
Extension rules related to notifications (Notification categories, Event
Types, Extended Event Types etc.) are for further study.
#### B.1.4.2 Extensions not allowed
The IDL specifications in the present document cannot be edited or altered.
Any additional IDL specifications shall be specified in separate IDL files.
IDL interfaces (note: not MOCs) specified in the present document may not be
subclassed or extended. New interfaces may be defined with vendor-specific
methods.
# B.2 Guidelines (Style Guide for CORBA SS IDL)
This subclause describes the style guide for writing IDL statements for
Interface IRP and NRM IRP. The guidelines are largely based on the OMG IDL
Style Guide (OMG document: ab/98-06-03) [9] with extensions for IRP use.
The guide sets out consistent naming, structural conventions and usage of SS
interface for the IDL in IRP CORBA SS specifications.
## B.2.1 Modules and File
### B.2.1.1 Use of Modules
All declarations of IDL shall be contained in modules. No declarations of
interfaces and definitions shall appear in the global scope.
Nesting modules is a useful technique when dealing with large namespaces to
avoid name clashes and clarify relationships. A module nested within another
module shall not have the same name as a top-level module in any other IRP
CORBA SS specification.
### B.2.1.2 File Names
CORBA SS specifications contain IDL statements.
The rule defined below specifies:
a) How to partition/extract these IDL statements to be placed in a file; and
b) How to name the file.
    Note that IDL uses \"\#include \"X\"\" statement where X is a name
    of a file containing IDL statements.
**Rule:**
> In the annex where IDL statements are defined, use a special marker to
> indicate that a set of IDL statements shall be contained in one file. The
> name of the file shall be the name of the first IDL module, concatenated
> with four characters \".idl\". Within a CORBA SS, multiple markers (implying
> multiple files), can be used.
It is not allowed to have an IDL module split into multiple files.
### B.2.1.3 Include Conventions
All included IDL files shall be specified using the \ form of #include.
For example:
> #include \
### B.2.1.4 File Structure
#### B.2.1.4.1 File Internal Identification
The first line of the IDL file shall contain \"//File:\" followed by a single
space followed by the name of the file.\ For example,
//File: ExampleIRPConstDefs.idl
#### B.2.1.4.2 File Guard
An IDL file shall use a _guard_ (consisting of three pre-processor lines) to
avoid multiple definition errors. An example of a guard for the file called
TestManagementIRPConstDefs.idl is:
#ifndef _TestManagementIRPConstDefs_idl_
#define _TestManagementIRPConstDefs_idl_
...remainder of the IDL
#endif // _TestManagementIRPConstDefs_idl_
#### B.2.1.4.3 Required Contents
If any other files are to be included, the #include statements come after the
guard.
After #include lines, if any, and immediately before the module statement, the
following line shall appear:
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
#### B.2.1.4.4 Example illustrating a File Structure
//File: ExampleIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _EXAMPLE_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _EXAMPLE_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
// This module describes/is part of...
#include \"ExampleIncludeOne.idl\"
#include \"ExampleIncludeTwo.idl\"
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
module ExampleIRPConstDefs {
// IDL Definitions here
};
#endif // _EXAMPLE_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
## B.2.2 Identifiers
### B.2.2.1 Mixed Case, Beginning Upper, No Underscores
The following categories of identifiers follow the _Mixed Case, Beginning
Upper, No Underscores_ rules:
\- module
\- interface
\- typedef
\- Constructed types (struct, union, enum)
\- exception
The \"No underscores\" rule is also applicable to all words that begin with an
upper case letter with the remaining letters being lower case.
As a further note on naming, it is not necessary to append the value \"_Type_
\" to an identifier. The fact that it is a type is obvious from the consistent
application of this naming convention.
Examples:
> module PMIRPConstDefs(...);
>
> interface AttributeNameValue(...);
### B.2.2.2 Lower Case with Underscores
The following categories of identifiers follow the _Lower Case with
Underscores_ rules. All letters are lower case and words (if more than one)
are separated with underscores.
\- Operation name and notification name
\- Attribute name
\- Parameter name
\- Structure member name
Examples:
> get_notification_categories(...);
>
> string comment_text;
>
> void get_alarm_count (..., out unsigned long critical_count,..);
>
> struct Comment {...; string user_id; string system_id;..};
### B.2.2.3 Upper Case with Underscores
The following categories of identifiers follow _Upper Case with Underscores_
rules. All letters are in upper case and words have an underscore separating
them.
\- Enum value
\- Constant
Examples:
> enum SubscriptionState {ACTIVE, SUSPENDED, INVALID};
>
> const string JOB_ID = \"JOB_ID\";
### B.2.2.4 Naming IDL Sequence Types
Typically a new type declared as an IDL sequence of another type will have the
text \"List\" appended to the name of the base type. Another convention is to
declare such types as unordered sequences or ordered sets for consistency with
ASN.1 notation. In this case they should have the \"Seq\" or \"Set\" (instead
of \"List\") appended respectively.
Example of an \"ordered set\":
> typedef sequence \ SubscriptionIdSet;
## B.2.3 Interface IRP
Every Interface IRP should have 3 IDL modules (each specified in a separate
IDL file):
> module YyyIRPConstDefs {...}; // no change from Rel-5 practice.
>
> module YyyIRPSystem {...}; // no change from Rel-5 practice.
>
> module YyyIRPNotifications {...}; // new compared to Rel-5 practice
The first module defines all necessary IDL constructs, such as constant
strings and type definitions, for the methods and notifications. The second
module defines the methods. The third module defines the notifications.
### B.2.3.1 Constant String and Type Definitions
This first module defines all necessary IDL constructs used by the methods
(defined in the second module) and notifications (defined in the third
module). The name of this module is YyyIRPConstDefs where Xxx is the name of
the subject Interface IRP. An example is \"PMIRPConstDefs\".
Within this module, define data types used in the methods.
Also, define the data types of the attribute values used in the notifications.
CORBA SS authors should always check the generic types defined in
\"ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs\" before creating a new type.
For the attribute names of the structured notifications, define an interface
AttributeNameValue that captures the string definitions. Make sure these
definitions do not clash with those defined for the notification header, i.e.
notification id, event time, system DN, managed object class and managed
object instance (see NotificationIRPNotification::Notify).
An example from PMIRPConstDefs:
/**
* This block identifies attributes which are included as part of the
* PMIRP. These attribute values should not
* clash with those defined for the attributes of notification
* header (see IDL of Notification IRP).
*/
interface AttributeNameValue
{
const string JOB_ID = \"JOB_ID\";
const string JOB_STATUS = \"JOB_STATUS\";
const string REASON = \"REASON\";
const string MONITOR_ID = \"MONITOR_ID\";
const string MONITOR_STATUS = \"MONITOR_STATUS\";
};
### B.2.3.2 Operations
The second module defines the methods. The name of the module is YyyIRPSystem
where Yyy is the name of the subject Interface IRP. An example is
AlarmIRPSystem.
At the beginning of this module, define all required exceptions. Naming
conventions for exception are covered in B.2.2.1 above. CORBA SS authors
should always check if the generic exceptions defined in the
ManagedGenericIRPSystem can be reused before declaring new exception types.
Then define one interface called YyyIRP encapsulating all methods of the
subject Yyy Interface IRP. If the subject Interface IRP IS specifies that its
YyyIRP inherits from XxxIRP, then reflect the inheritance relation in the
interface definition. The following is an example of AlarmIRP that inherits
from ManagedGenericIRP.
module AlarmIRPSystem
{
...
...
interface AlarmIRP : ManagedGenericIRPSystem:: ManagedGenericIRP {...};
...
};
Naming conventions for operations are covered in B.2.2.2 above.
### B.2.3.3 Notifications
Use a separate module to define the notifications. The name the module is
YyyIRPNotifications where Yyy is the name of the subject Interface IRP.
Examples are KernelCMIRPNotifications and PMIRPNotifications.
For NotificationIRPNotifications, do:
\- Define one IDL interface Notify. Capture the four constant strings that are
the names of the four NV (name value) pairs of filterable_body_field of the
CORBA structured event. These four CORBA NV pairs are mapped from the five
notification header attributes (defined by the Notification IRP IS), i.e. the
objectClass, objectInstance, notificationId, eventTime and systemDN.
For YyyIRPNotifications where Yyy is not Notification, do:
\- At the beginning of this module, define the const strings for the
notification types that correspond to the set of notifications specified by
(and not inherited by and not imported by) the subject Interface IRP.
\- Then define a number of IDL interfaces corresponding to notifications
specified in the subject Interface IRP. These interfaces should inherit from
NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify. Within each interface, the first IDL
statement defines the notification type (that is used as the second field of
the fixed header of the structured notification). The second and subsequent
IDL statements define the attribute names of this notification type, excepting
those already defined by NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify. The data type
of the attribute value, which is defined in YyyIRPConstDefs, should be
mentioned in the comment block of this IDL statement.
\- Then define a number of IDL interfaces corresponding to notifications
imported, if any. These interfaces should inherit from the imported interface.
An example is interface NotifyObjectCreation : KernelCMIRPNotifications::
NotifyObjectCreation. Within this interface, define all necessary IDL
constructs, if any, which are not defined in the imported interface. This
interface may contain no IDL statement if the IDL constructs defined in the
imported interface are sufficient. For each interface imported, insert a
comment \"The first field of this notification carries the IRPVersion of this
CORBA SS.\"
\- There is no need to re-define interfaces for notifications that are already
specified in other Interface IRP, and from which the subject IRP inherits.
The following is an extract from PMIRPNotifications.
module PMIRPNotifications
{
const string ET_MEASUREMENT_JOB_STATUS_CHANGED =
\"notifyMeasurementJobStatusChanged\";
const string ET_THRESHOLD_MONITOR_STATUS_CHANGED =
\"notifyThresholdMonitorStatusChanged\";
interface NotifyMeasurementJobStatusChanged:
NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = ET_MEASUREMENT_JOB_STATUS_CHANGED;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the jobId property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is PMIRPConstDefs::JobIdType.
*/
const string JOB_ID = PMIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::JOB_ID;
...
...
};
interface NotifyXXX : NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
...
};
...
};
## B.2.4 NRM IRP
Use one module to define the IDL constructs for the managed object classes.
The name of this module is XxxNRIRPConstDefs where Xxx is the name of the
subject NRM IRP.
An example is UtranNRIRPConstDefs.
Within the module, define a set of IDL interfaces each of which corresponds to
a managed object class specified. The interface definition respects the
inheritance relation specified.
After the interface definition, the type definition for each attribute defined
for the managed object class is defined (including inherited attributes). The
type is defined in one of two ways:
1) With a typedef of the type that matches the attribute definition in the NRM
Information Object Class (IOC) mapping table, or
2) With a CORBA IDL comment if the same attribute name is already defined in
managed object classes already defined in this NRM.
An example of managed object class RncFunction, which inherits from
GenericNRIRPConstDefs::ManagedFunction, is shown below.
module UtranNRIRPConstDefs
{
...
/**
* Definitions for MO class RncFunction
*/
interface RncFunction : GenericNRIRPConstDefs::ManagedFunction
{
const string CLASS = \"RncFunction\";
// Attribute Names
//
const string rncFunctionId = \"rncFunctionId\";
const string mcc= \"mcc\";
const string mnc= \"mnc\";
const string rncId= \"rncId\";
};
typedef string rncFunctionId;
typedef long mcc;
typedef long mnc;
typedef long rncId;
// userLabel
...
};
###### ## Annex C (normative): Technology specific rules & guidelines for SOAP
SSs
# C.1 Rules
## C.1.1 Introduction
The intent of this annex is threefold.
1) The first intent is for 3GPP internal use to document how a 3GPP SOAP SS is
produced and how it is structured.
2) The second intent with the annex is to give the reader or implementer of a
SOAP SS a better understanding on how to interpret the SOAP SS specification.
3) The third and maybe most important intent is to put requirement on an
implementer of a SOAP SS.
It is expected that this annex is to be extended in later versions of the
present document.
## C.1.2 Rules for specification of SOAP Solution Sets
### C.1.2.1 Introduction
This subclause identifies rules for specification of SOAP SSs. This subclause
is mainly for 3GPP-internal use. It is only for information for the
implementer of a SOAP SS.
### C.1.2.2 File names
The WSDL files should follow the naming convention:
WSDLTarget.wsdl
with:
WSDLTarget being the text after the character \'#\' in the target namespace of
the definitions
Examples:
> If the 3GPP WSDL document contains\ \ targetNamespace=\"http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.666#KernelCMIRPSystem\">,\
> then the WSDL filename shall be KernelCMIRPSystem.wsdl.
>
> If the WSDL document contains\ \ targetNamespace=\"http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.111-6#AlarmIRPSystem\">,\
> then the WSDL filename shall be AlarmIRPSystem.wsdl.
### C.1.2.3 Void
### C.1.2.4 XML version encoding
The first line of each wsdl and xsd file shall indicate the XML version and
encoding. The supported XML version is defined in the subject TS. The
supporting encoding is UTF-8 (refer to [16]).
Therefore, an example for the wsdl and xsd fileis :
\
### C.1.2.5 Namespaces
The WSDL namespace URI shall follow the naming convention:
> http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/IRP_series/IRPNumber#SchemaName
with:
\- IRP_series is the 3GPP specification series;
\- IRPNumber is the number before the 3GPP document version number,
corresponding to the 3GPP document which defines the resource;
\- SchemaName isthe name of the WSDL specification or the name of the XML
Schema.in which the resource is defined.
Examples:
> The 3GPP document \"3GPP TS 32.111-6 V11.0.0 (2012-09)\" defines the
> resource "AlarmIRPSystem" . It defines the WSDL specification
> \"AlarmIRPsystem.wsdl\" in which the resource AlarmIRPSystem is defined. T
> hen thenamespace URI shall be:\
> http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.111-6#AlarmIRPSystem
>
> The 3GPP document \"3GPP TS 28.623 V11.1.0 (2013-06)\" defines the resource
> \"SubNetwork\". It defines the XML schema \"genericNrm.xsd\" in which the
> resource SubNetwork is defined. Then the namespace URI shall be:\
> http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/28_series/28.623#genericNrm
>
> http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.127#AAMIRPData
## C.1.3 Implementation aspects of Interface IRP SOAP Solution Sets
### C.1.3.1 Introduction
This subclause identifies rules for the implementation of SOAP SSs. This
subclause is normative for the implementer of a SOAP SS.
### C.1.3.n XXXX rule
## C.2 Guidelines (Style Guide for SOAP SS WSDL)
This subclause describes the style guide for writing WSDL documents for
Interface IRP.
The guide sets out consistent naming, structural conventions and usage of SS
interface for the WSDL in IRP SOAP SS specifications.
## C.2.1 File structure
The structure of the wsdl file shall follow the W3C WSDL Document Structure
defined in [10] specifications.
### C.2.1.1 Definitions
_Guidelines for the Definitions section._
### C.2.1.2 Namespaces
_Guidelines for the Namespaces section._
### C.2.1.3 Documentation
_Guidelines for the optional Documentation section._
### C.2.1.4 Types
_Guidelines for Types_
### C.2.1.5 Message
_Guidelines for Messages_
### C.2.1.6 Port type
_Guidelines for Port types_
### C.2.1.7 Binding
_Guidelines for Bindings_
### C.2.1.8 Port
_Guidelines for Ports_
### C.2.1.9 Service
_Guidelines for Services_
## C.2.2 Identifiers
### C.2.2.n _Rule n_
_Identify the categories of identifiers which follow the Rule n rules._
# C.3 XML Schema Guidelines
This subclause describes the style guide for writing XML Schema for
Operation/Notification messages and parameters to be imported into the WSDL
file for the IRP SOAP SS specifications.
## C.3.1 XSD guidelines for messages definition
### C.3.1.1 Request message
_Guidelines for the Request message._
### C.3.1.2 Response messages
_Guidelines for the Response messages._
### C.3.1.3 Fault messages
_Guidelines for the Fault messages._
## C.3.2 XSD guidelines for parameters definition
### C.3.1.1 General guidelines
_General guidelines for the parameters definitions._
### C.3.1.1 Simple type definitions
_Guidelines for the simple type definitions._
### C.3.1.2 Complex type definition
_Guidelines for the complex type._
## C.3.3 Identifiers
The identifiers should follow the rules defined in paragraph C.2.2.
###### ## Annex D (normative): Technology specific rules & guidelines for XML
specifications
# D.1 Rules
## D.1.1 XSD Use Cases
### D.1.1.1 Background
3GPP defines a number of IOCs, say in Release-N. 3GPP also defines an XSD
schema that can capture these IOCs, in Release-N.
Release-N+1 authors can/may also extend these Release-N IOCs to capture the
newly agreed capabilities and publish them as Release-N+1 IOCs. Authors also
define a Release-N+1 XSD schema.
The Use Cases here illustrate the capabilities of the Release-N+1 XSD schema.
The \"?\" in the Use Case tables are for further study.
### D.1.1.2 Use Cases Set 1
Suppose the old-XSD has SubNetwork (SN) containing ManagedElement (ME).
Suppose the new-XSD has enhanced-SN containing enhanced-ME.
Suppose we want the XML-instance-documents (doc-1, doc-2, etc) to contain
instances as identified below:
\- Doc-1 has SN instance containing ME instances
\- Doc-2 has SN instance containing enhanced-ME instances
\- Doc-3 has SN instance containing ME instances and enhanced-ME instances
\- Doc-4 has enhanced-SN containing enhanced-ME instances
\- Doc-5 has enhanced-SN containing ME instances
\- Doc-6 has enhanced-SN containing enhanced-ME instances and ME instances
Can a XML-instance-doc-creator (IRPAgent or IRPManager) produce the doc
(column) using the XSD (row) identified?
* * *
            Doc-1   Doc-2   Doc-3   Doc-4   Doc-5   Doc-6
Old-XSD ? ? ? ? ? ? New-XSD ? ? ? ? ? ?
* * *
Can a XML-instance-doc-reader (IRPAgent or IRPManager) validate the doc (i.e.
confirm that the document is well-formed) (column) using the XSD (row)
identified?
* * *
            Doc-1   Doc-2   Doc-3   Doc-4   Doc-5   Doc-6
Old-XSD ? ? ? ? ? ? New-XSD ? ? ? ? ? ?
* * *
### D.1.1.3 Use Cases Set 2
Suppose one old-XSD has SubNetwork (SN) containing ManagedElement (ME) that in
turn, contained an RNCFunction (RNC) defined by the other Old-XSD.
Suppose the new-XSD has enhanced-SN containing enhanced-ME. Suppose also
another new-XSD has enhanced-RNC.
\- Doc-7 has ME instance containing RNC instances
\- Doc-8 has ME instances containing enhanced-RNC instances
\- Doc-9 has ME instances containing RNC instances and enhanced-RNC instances
\- Doc-10 has enhanced-ME instances containing enhanced-RNC instances
\- Doc-11 has enhanced-ME instances containing RNC instances
\- Doc-12 has enhanced-ME instances containing RNC instances and enhanced-RNC
instances
Can a XML-instance-doc creator (IRPAgent or IRPManager) produce the doc
(column) using the XSD (row) identified?
* * *
            Doc-7   Doc-8   Doc-9   Doc-10   Doc-11   Doc-12
Old-XSD ? ? ? ? ? ? New-XSD ? ? ? ? ? ?
* * *
Can a reader (IRPAgent or IRPManager) validate the doc (i.e. confirm that the
document is well-formed) (column) using the XSD (row) identified?
* * *
            Doc-1   Doc-2   Doc-3   Doc-4   Doc-5   Doc-6
Old-XSD ? ? ? ? ? ? New-XSD ? ? ? ? ? ?
* * *
## D.1.2 Rules for NRM IRP XML specification extensions
Void
## D.1.3 XML version encoding
The first line of each XML schema description file file shall indicate the XML
version and encoding. The supported XML version is specified in the subject
TS. The supported encoding is UTF-8 (refer to [16]).
Therefore, an example for xsd filei s:
\
# D.2 Guidelines
Void
#