# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The Itf-N partitions two groups of interacting entities called IRPManager(s)
and IRPAgent(s).
The interactions between an IRPManager and IRPAgent are specified by the set
of IRP specifications the IRPAgent supports, and which the IRPManager uses.
Each YyyIRP (where \"Yyy\" stands for Alarm, BasicCM, etc.) permits a manager
to, via getIRPVersion, inspect it\'s supported IRPVersion(s). Each such
IRPVersion uniquely identifies one supported Interface IRP SS.
Each YyyIRP may also permit an IRPManager to, via getNRMIRPVersions, inspect
it\'s supported NRM IRPVersion(s). Each such IRPVersion uniquely identifies
one supported NRM IRP SS.
The 3GPP IRP specifications are expected to evolve. For example, 3GPP Release
6 specifications include more or modified features compared to the
corresponding set in Release 5.
An IRPManager and IRPAgent, with implementations conformant to the same IRP
specification (at the same IRPVersion(s)) will be able to communicate.
However, an upgrade of the IRPVersion, if not performed by both IRPAgent and
IRPManager, can result in inter-working failure if Backward Compatibility (BC)
issues are not addressed.
The present document is applicable/relevant to a system context of a group of
interacting IRPManagers and IRPAgents where some members are using one
IRPVersion while others are using an upgraded IRPVersion.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives recommendations to develop future IRP
specifications in a Backward Compatible (BC) way so that the group of
IRPManager(s) and IRPAgent(s) are not forced to be upgraded in lock step.
The business case for supporting such group, as described above, is complex.
It may not relate to the functions of the supported IRPs alone. Rather, it can
relate to the cost of coordination of IRPVersion upgrades, the cost of
maintaining an old IRPVersion and the cost of using single-vendor or multi-
vendor IRPAgents. These considerations are operator deployment scenarios
specific.
Clause 4 specifies the Recommendations and clause 5 describes the system
context where the Recommendations are applicable.
Editor\'s Note: The "forward compatability" part is FFS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication and/or
edition number or version number) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Element Manager (EM):** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**IRPVersion:** **See \"I** RP document version number string\" or
\"IRPVersion\" in 3GPP TS 32.311 [4] clause 3.1.
**Network Manager (NM):** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ASN.1 Abstract Syntax Notation One
BC Backward Compatible or Backward Compatibility
CMIP Common Management Information Protocol
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
EM Element Manager
IS Information Service
IRP Integration Reference Point
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
VSE Vendor Specific Extension (to 3GPP IRP specification)
SS Solution Set
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 BC between 3GPP TS 32-series specifications
## 4.1 Prerequisite
The words old and new, when qualifying an IRPVersion, refer to a single
Interface IRPVersion of the same kind, e.g. Alarm IRP. They also refer to NRM
IRPVersion of the same kind, e.g. Core NRM. The \'new\' refers to a later
release compared to the \'old\'.
The words old and new, when qualifying an IRPManager, refer to an entity that
is using the old or the new (Interface or NRM) IRPVersion.
The words old and new, when qualifying an IRPAgent, refer to an entity that
contains an IRP that is supporting the old or the new (Interface or NRM)
IRPVersion.
In majority cases, an IRPAgent instance contains multiple IRPs, each of which
is using a particular Interface IRPVersion. In these cases, each
Recommendation statement should be repeated to cover all IRPs involved.
The Recommendations do not imply that equipment vendors shall always supply
their new IRPAgents in compliance to the solutions satisfying the
Recommendations. The Recommendations simply identify the expected behaviours
of a new system when it, claiming BC, interacts with an old system. Whether or
not an IRPAgent should satisfy the Recommendations is a decision of the
equipment vendor/supplier.
The Recommendations do not imply that the next release of 3GPP Interface IRP
or NRM IRP specification must be BC (to the older one). Whether or not a new
release of an Interface IRP or NRM IRP should be BC to its older version is a
decision of the 3GPP specification author, on a case-by-case basis.
## 4.2 Rules
[REC-1] An old IRPManager inter-operates with an old IRPAgent-A and a new
IRPAgent-B.\ The interaction shall be successful in that the IRPManager can
obtain the network management services (capabilities and features) defined by
the old IRPVersion from both IRPAgents.\ The IRPManager needs not have
knowledge of new network management services defined by the new IRPVersion.
[REC-2] A new IRPManager inter-operates with a new IRPAgent‑A and an old
IRPAgent‑B.\ The interaction shall be successful in that the IRPManager can
obtain the network management services defined by (a) the new IRPVersion from
IRPAgent‑A and (b) the old IRPVersion from IRPAgent‑B.
NOTE: If the next minor and/or major release of 3GPP Interface IRP or NRM IRP
specification is BC (to the older one), one could reduce or eliminate the
difficult coordination task to introduce IRPVersion upgrades in a large
management domain containing multiple IRPManagers and IRPAgents.\ It can be
more cost-effective if IRPVersion upgrades to individual entity (i.e.
IRPManager and IRPAgent) are done at different times.
# 5 BC context
## 5.1 General
This clause defines the context under which the requirements specified in the
present document are applicable.
The word \'old\' qualifies the related entity (i.e. the AlarmIRP of an
IRPAgent instance or Alarm IRPManager) that is using an older 3GPP IRPVersion
(called old version). The word \'new\' qualifies the related entity that is
using a newer (upgraded) 3GPP IRPVersion.
EXAMPLE: A hypothetical 3GPP TS 32.123 V6.0.0 is considered the old version
with reference to 3GPP TS 32.123 V6.1.0. The two versions in question can
belong to the same or different major releases (e.g. Rel-5 or Rel-6).
The box labelled EM in figure 5.1 conveys the same idea as the box of the same
label in the System Context-A of other IRP specifications such as Alarm IRP IS
3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3].
One or all EM-labelled boxes of figure 5.1 can be interchanged with the
NE‑labelled box (see System Context‑B of other IRP specifications such as
Alarm IRP IS 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3]). The NE entities are not shown in order to
make the figure easier to read.
Figure 5.1: Overall BC System Context
In general, an IRPAgent instance may contain several Interface YyyIRP
instances and associated supporting Yyy NRM IRPs (where one IRP can be for
example Alarm IRP, Test Management IRP, or \"Notification IRP\", etc and where
the other IRP can be for example Generic IRP). The Interface and NRM YyyIRP
specifications of particular IRPVersion(s) together specify the behaviour of
an Interface IRP and the supporting NRM IRP (s).
NOTE: The IRPVersion concept is related to the IRP.\ The IRPVersion concept is
not related to the IRPAgent as this may contain multiple IRPs.
Given this background, the BC issues are addressed at two separate but related
levels as described in clauses 5.2 and 5.3.
## 5.2 IRP level
The two diagrams here illustrate conceptually the two possible contexts when
we address BC at this IRP level.
Figure 5.2: Specification BC System Context
An YyyIRP instance supports a particular Interface IRPVersion and a particular
set of NRM IRPVersions. An IRPManager uses a particular Interface IRPVersion
and a particular set of NRM IRPVersions.
If an YyyIRP instance supports Interface IRPVersion-X and NRM IRPVersions-Y,
then it can interact successfully with an IRPManager that uses the same
IRPVersions. This is illustrated by the case of the \"Old IRPManager\" and the
\"Old IRPAgent\" of the bottom diagram (and note that the diagram does not
show the NRM IRP version support).
If this same YyyIRP instance upgrades its Interface IRPVersion-X to X2 that is
BC to X, then it can interact successfully with an IRPManager that uses the
Interface IRPVersion-X or IRPVersion-X2. The top diagram of figure 5.2
illustrates this case (and note that the diagram does not show the NRM IRP
version support).
If this same YyyIRP instance upgrades its NRM IRPVersion-Y to Y2 that is BC to
Y, then it can interact successfully with an IRPManager that uses the NRM
IRPVersion-Y or NRM IRPVersion-Y2. The top diagram of figure 5.2 illustrated
this case (and note that the diagram does not show the NRM IRP version
support).
Given the above, the BC issues addressed at the present document level are:
\- How to determine if an IRP IS or SS specification (Interface IRP or NRM
IRP) is BC to an earlier version ?\ This can be addressed in another way.\
What are the BC-rules that the author of a 3GPP IRP specification should use
to extend an old-version to produce a new version that can claim BC (to that
old-version) ?
At this level, the specification author shall define BC-rules for each of the
following:
\- Interface IRP- Requirements.
\- Interface IRP IS.
\- Interface IRP SS(s).
\- NRM IRP requirements.
\- NRM IRP IS.
\- NRM IRP SS(s).
\- Data Definition IRP IS.
\- Data Definition IRP SS(s).
One reason why the specification author addresses BC at this IRP level is
that, for certain technologies, such as CORBA, it is possible that one entity
using (compiles with) one IRP SS specification (i.e. the CORBA SS) while the
other communicating entity using a new but BC version can interact
successfully (such as the case of the IRPManager and IRPAgent-A of [REC-1]).
## 5.3 IRPAgent level
Figure 5.3 illustrates the two possible contexts when addressing BC at this
IRPAgent level.
Figure 5.3: System/Implementation BC System Context
NOTE 1: An IRPAgent instance contains multiple YyyIRP instances such as
AlarmIRP, NotificationIRP, TestManagementIRP, etc. Each YyyIRP instance
implements/supports the corresponding YyyIRP specification of a particular
IRPVersion.
Suppose IRPAgent-A contains YyyIRP of Interface IRPVersion-4, YyyIRP of
Interface IRPVersion-5 and YyyIRP of Interface IRPVersion-6 and all IRPs
support NRM IRPVersion-7 (see Note 2), this IRPAgent-A is BC if it can inter-
operate successfully with the following:
\- IRPManager 1 using Interface IRPVersion-4 or 3 using NRM IRPVersion-7 or 6.
\- IRPManager 2 using Interface IRPVersion-5 or 4 using NRM IRPVersion-7 or 6.
\- IRPManager 3 using Interface IRPVersion-6 or 5 using NRM IRPVersion-7 or 6.
NOTE 2: All IRPs contained by the same IRPAgent instance should support the
same set of NRM IRPVersions.
It is anticipated that the IRPAgent level BC solution includes:
\- An IRPAgent service allowing IRPManager to discover all the IRPAgent
supported Interface IRPVersion(s).
\- An IRPAgent service allowing IRPManager to discover the IRPAgent supported
NRM IRPVersion(s).
\- An IRPAgent service allowing IRPManager to discover the reference/address
of the IRP instance (of the IRPAgent) supporting a particular Interface
IRPVersion.
The two diagrams in figure 5.3 illustrate the two possible ways to support BC
at this so-called IRPAgent level.
The IRPVersion-new needs not to be BC to IRPVersion-old. In the case that
IRPVersion-new is BC to IRPVersion‑old, it is EM supplier\'s choice if \"IRP
level\" or \"IRPAgent level\" solution will be used to support BC. In the case
that the IRPVersion-new is not BC to IRPVersion‑old, then the EM supplier will
have no choice but to use \"IRPAgent level\" solution if it wants its EM to
support BC.
NOTE 3: IRPAgent service supporting \"discovery\" (as stated by the above
three bullets) is not illustrated in the two diagrams
# 6 BC Recommendations
## 6.1 Requirement
The Requirement specification is in subclause 4.2 Rules.
## 6.2 IS-level
There is no text specifically written related to IS-level specification for BC
systems. The two system context diagrams of subclauses 5.2 and 5.3 would be
necessary and sufficient to describe the management services provided by EM to
support the so-called Old IRPManager and New IRPManager.
## 6.3 SS-level
### 6.3.1 CORBA
For CORBA Solution Set, the IRPAgent level (see subclause 5.3) context would
be used.
### 6.3.2 Void
### 6.3.3 File format description XML
Editor\'s Note: This part is FFS.
### 6.3.4 File format description ASN.1
Editor\'s Note: This part is FFS.
### 6.3.5 SOAP
Editor\'s Note: This part is FFS.
###### ## Annex A (informative): BC and Conformance Tests
This annex illustrates that:
\- an IRP, implementing a new-version IRP specification that is BC to an old-
version IRP specification, may or may not be compliant to the old-version IRP
specification.
Figure A.1: BC and Conformance Tests Scenario
Suppose 3GPP has an older-version IRP specification (the \"Old-version IRP
specification\" box) and there is a valid/correct implementation (the \"Old-
IRP\" box).\ Suppose also that 3GPP produce a \"New-version IRP
specification\" by extending the \"Old-version IRP specification\" using the
BC-rules.
The \"New-IRP\" should interwork with IRPManager that uses the \"New-version
IRP specification\".\ This \"New-IRP\" should also interwork with IRPManager
that uses the \"Old-version IRP specification\".
The \"Old-IRP\" should pass the conformance test that is based on (see
\"depend\" relation) the \"Old-version IRP specification\".\ Likewise, the
\"New-IRP\" should pass the conformance test that is based on the \"New-
version IRP specification\".
However, this \"New-IRP\" may not be able to pass the conformance test that is
based on \"Old-version IRP specification\" (see \"test (should fail)\"
relation).\ Likewise, the \"Old-IRP\" should not be able to pass the
conformance test that is based on \"New-Version IRP specification\".
#