# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
TS 32.150: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Concept and definitions;
> TS 32.153: Integration Reference Point (IRP) technology specific templates;
>
> TS 32.154: Backward and Forward Compatibility (BFC); Concept and
> definitions;
>
> **TS 32.155: Requirements template;**
**TS 32.156: Telecommunication management;** Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC)
Model Repertoire.
> **TS 32.157: Telecommunication management;** Integration Reference Point
> (IRP) Information Service (IS) template.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the template to be used for the production of
all IRP based requirements TSs for the 3GPP Telecommunication management.
This template is mainly based on the requirements template (mainly Annex A) in
the ITU-T M.3020 recommendation [6].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[5] Void.
[6] ITU-T Recommendation M.3020 (07/2011): \"Management interface
specification methodology\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.761: \"**E-UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP;
Requirements** \".
[8] Void.
[9] 3GPP TS 32.157: \"**Telecommunication management;** Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) template\".
# 3 Definitions, abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3], TS 32.150 [4], TS 32.157[9] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3], TS 32.150 [4] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
# 4 Requirements template
## 4.0 General
This template is mainly based on the requirements template (mainly Annex A) in
the ITU-T M.3020 recommendation [6], and shall be used for the production of
all Requirements TSs for the 3GPP Telecommunication management. The template
contains two options: Option 1 specified in subclause 4.1, which shall be used
for all high-level Requirements TSs for the 3GPP Telecommunication management,
and option 2 specified in subclause 4.2, which shall be used for all
Integration Reference Point (IRP) specific Requirements TSs such as 3GPP TS
32.761 [7].
Instructions in _italics_ below shall not be included in the Requirements TS.
The introductory clauses (from clause 1 to clause 3) for the Requirements TS
should be taken from the 3GPP TS template (i.e. not this requirements
template) -- see
[http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Information/TS_TR_Templates/]{.underline}.
Use the \"Heading 1\" paragraph style for clause 4, 5 and 6 in the
_Requirements_ TS.
Usage of fonts shall be according to the 3GPP TS template.
## 4.1 Template for high-level Requirements TSs
4 Concepts and background
> _For production of the contents of this clause, follow the template
> instructions in ITU-T M.3020 [6] subclause A.2, template clause \"__1
> Concepts and background_ _\"._
5 Business level requirements
> _For production of the contents of this subclause, follow the template
> instructions in ITU-T M.3020 [6] subclause A.2, template clause \"_**2
> Business level requirements** _\"._
>
> _Note on the Use case template: All occurrences of \"(*)\" in the first
> column \"Use Case Stage\" of the Use case template in table A.2, as well as
> the last row with a NOTE at the end of the table, shall not be included in
> the requirements TS as these are only template instructions to the TS
> author. For example, \"Goal^(*)^\" shall be converted to \"Goal\" in the TS.
> Likewise, for all occurrences of \"(M\|O)\", a choice of M or O shall be
> made, leaving it as either \"(M)\" or \"(O)\" in the TS. For example, \"Step
> n (M\|O)\" shall be converted to \"Step n (M)\" or \"Step n (O)\" in the
> TS._
6 Specification level requirements
> _For production of the contents of this subclause, follow the template
> instructions in ITU-T M.3020 [6] subclause A.2, template clause \"_**3
> Specification level requirements** _\"._
>
> _Note on the Use case template: All occurrences of \"(*)\" in the first
> column \"Use Case Stage\" of the Use case template in table A.2, as well as
> the last row with a NOTE at the end of the table, shall not be included in
> the requirements TS as these are only template instructions to the TS
> author. For example, \"Goal^(*)^\" shall be converted to \"Goal\" in the TS.
> Likewise, for all occurrences of \"(M\|O)\", a choice of M or O shall be
> made, leaving it as either \"(M)\" or \"(O)\" in the TS. For example, \"Step
> n (M\|O)\" shall be converted to \"Step n (M)\" or \"Step n (O)\" in the
> TS._
## 4.2 Template for Integration Reference Point (IRP) specific Requirements
TSs
> 4 Concepts and background
>
> _For production of the contents of this clause, follow the template
> instructions in ITU-T M.3020 [6] subclause A.3, template clause \"__1
> Concepts and background_ _\"._
>
> 5 Requirements
>
> _For production of the contents of this subclause, follow the template
> instructions in ITU-T M.3020 [6] subclause A.3, template clause \"_**2
> Requirements** _\"._
#