# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the template to be used for the production of
all Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) specifications
for Converged Management.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.156: "Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Model Repertoire
[5] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation M.3020 (07/2011): \"Management interface
specification methodology\" -- Annex E \"Information type definitions -- type
repertoire\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following
apply:
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following apply:
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
OMG Object Management Group
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
# 4 Information Service (IS) template
## 4.1 General
The present document contains the templates to be used for the production of
all Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) specifications
for Converged Management.
Clause 4.2 is applicable for NRM IRP IS specifications.
Clause 4.3 is applicable for Interface IRP IS specifications.
_The IS template uses qualifiers M, O, CM, CO and C. The semantics of these
qualifiers are defined in [4]._
_The IS template uses type definition as one characteristic to describe class
attributes and operation/notification parameters. The valid type definitions
that can be used and their semantics are defined in [4]._
Usage of fonts shall be according to the following table.
* * *
Item Font Class names Courier New Attribute names Courier New Operation names
Courier New Parameter names Courier New Assertion names Courier New
Notification names Courier New Exception names Courier New State names Arial
Matching Information Courier New Information Type Courier New Legal Values
Courier New NOTE: These font requirements do not apply to UML diagrams.
* * *
## 4.2 Template for NRM IRP IS
W1 Scope
_The following quoted text is relevant for all NRM IRP ISs. It shall be copied
as the first two paragraphs of this clause in the NRM IRP IS specification.
IRP IS author may add additional paragraph(s) if necessary._
\"
The present document specifies the \> _(where \ > shall be
substituted by the name of the NRM IRP IS concerned such as 'HNS', 'E_UTRAN',
'GERAN')_ network resource information that can be communicated between an
IRPAgent and an IRPManager for telecommunication network management purposes,
including management of converged networks.
This document specifies the semantics and behaviour of information object
class attributes and relations visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
\"
W2 References
_The following text from the standard 3GPP TS template shall be copied into
the NRM IRP IS specification, followed by the TS/TR references used in the
specification:_
\"
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ...
[2] ...
...
\"
W3 Definitions and abbreviations
_The following text from the standard 3GPP TS template shall be copied into
the NRM IRP IS specification, completed by the definitions and abbreviations
used in the specification:_
\"
W3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. For terms and definitions not
found here, please refer to 3GPP TS \. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and \.
_\ : \._
W3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
\"
W4 Model
W4.1 Imported and associated information entities
W4.1.1 Imported information entities and local labels
_This clause identifies a list of information entities (e.g. information
object class, interface, attribute) that have been defined in other
specifications and that are imported in the present (target) specification.
All imported entities shall be treated as if they are defined locally in the
target specification. One usage of import is for inheritance purpose._
_Each element of this list is a pair (label reference, local label). The label
reference contains the name of the original specification where the
information entity is defined, the information entity type and its name. The
local label contains the name of the information entity that appears in the
target specification, and the entity name in the local label shall be kept
identical to the name defined in the original specification. The local label
can then be used throughout the target specification instead of that which
appears in the label reference._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [xy], information object class, Top
Top
* * *
W4.1.2 Associated information entities and local labels
_This clause identifies a list of information entities (e.g. information
object class, interface, attribute) that have been defined in other
specifications and that are associated with the information entities defined
in the present (target) specification. For the associated information entity,
only its properties (e.g., DN (see 5.2.2 of 32.156 [4]), attribute (see 5.2.1
of 32.156 [4]) of an instance of the associated information entity) used as
associated information needs to be supported locally in the target
specification._
_Each element of this list is a pair (label reference, local label). The label
reference contains the name of the original specification where the
information entity is defined, the information entity type and its name. The
local label contains the name of the information entity that appears in the
target specification. The local label can then be used throughout the target
specification instead of that which appears in the label reference._
_This information is p_ rovided in a table. An example of such a table is
given here below:
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.705 [12], IOC, HSSFunction HSSFunction
* * *
W4.2 Class diagram
W4.2.1 Relationships
_This first set of diagrams represents all classes defined in this IS with all
their relationships and all their attributes, including relationships with
imported information entities (if any). These diagrams shall contain class
cardinalities (for associations as well as containment relationships) and may
also contain role names. These shall be UML compliant class diagrams (see also
[_ 4 _])._
_Characteristics (attributes, relationships) of imported information entities
need not to be repeated in the diagrams. Allowable classes are specified in
[4]._
_Use this as the first paragraph: \"_ This clause depicts the set of classes
(e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the information relevant for this IRP. This
clause provides an overview of the relationships between relevant classes in
UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects
of these classes.\"
W4.2.2 Inheritance
_This second set of diagrams represents the inheritance hierarchy of all
classes defined in this specification. These diagrams do not need to contain
the complete inheritance hierarchy but shall at least contain the parent
classes of all classes defined in the present document. By default, a class
inherits from the class \"top\"._
_Characteristics (attributes, relationships) of imported classes need not to
be repeated in the diagrams._
_NOTE: some inheritance relationships presented in clause W4.2.2 can be
repeated in clause W4.2.1 to enhance readability._
_Use \"_ This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships.\" _as the first
paragraph._
W4.3 Class definitions
_Each class is defined using the following structure._
_Inherited items (attributes etc.) shall not be shown, as they are defined in
the parent class(es) and thus valid for the subclass._
W4.3.a InformationObjectClassName
_InformationObjectClassName is the name of the information object class._
_The \"a\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each
new definition of a class._
W4.3.a.1 Definition
_This clause is written in natural language. The \  clause refers
to the class itself._
_Optionally, information on traceabi_ lity back to one or more requirements
supported by this class can be defined here, in the following form:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-CON-23
_Optional clarification_ 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-FUN-11 _Optional
clarification_
* * *
W4.3.a.2 Attributes
_This clause presents the list of attributes, which are the manageable
properties of the class. Each attribute is characterised by some of the
attribute properties (see Table 1 of [4]), i.e. supportQualifier, isReadable,
isWritable, isInvariant and isNotifyable._
_The legal values and their semantics for attribute properties are defined in
[4]._
_This information is provided in a table._
_An example below indicates_
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable eNodeBId M M - M M
* * *
_Another example below indicates that the attribute password1 is not readable,
is writable, is not an invariant and no notifyAttributeValueChange_ will be
emitted when the attribute value is changed.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable password1 O - M - -
* * *
_Another example below indicates that the attribute password2 and password1
(in example above) has same qualifiers for the shown properties except that of
isReadable. In the case of password1, the standard specification determines
the qualifier to be M, i.e. it is readable. In the case of password2, the
standard specification does not make a determination. The vendor would make
the determination if the attribute is readable or not_ readable.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable password2 O O M - -
* * *
_In case there is one or more attributes related to role (see section 5.2.9 of
[4]), the attributes related to role shall be specified at the bottom of the
table with a divider \"Attribute related to role\",_ as shown in the following
example:
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable aTMChannelTerminationPointid M M - M M **...**  
**...**  
**Attribute related to role**  
theATMPathTerminationPoint M M - - M theIubLink M M - - M
* * *
_This clause shall state \"None.\" when there is no attribute to define._
W4.3.a.3 Attribute constraints
_This clause presents constraints for the attributes, and one use is to
present the predicates for conditional qualifiers (CM/CO)._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Name Definition pci CM write qualifier Centralized PCI assignment (see TS
32.500, ref [xy ] clause 6.1.6) is supported. pciList CM support qualifier
Distributed PCI assignment (see TS 32.500, ref [ xy] clause 6.1.6) is
supported. partOfSectorPower CM support qualifier The IOC
SectorEquipmentFunction is used. attributeX max value The value of attributeX
shall be within the specified value range but may never be higher than the
value of attributeY.
* * *
_This clause shall state \"None.\" when there is no attribute constraint to
define._
W4.3.a.4 Notifications
_This clause, for this class, presents one of the following options:_
a) The cla _ss defines (and independent from those inherited) the support of a
set of notifications that is identical to that defined in clause W4.5. In such
case, use \"The common notifications defined in clause W4.5 are valid for this
class, without exceptions or additions.\" as the lone sentence of this
clause._
_b) The class defines (and independent from those inherited) the support of a
set of notifications that is a superset of that defined in clause W4.5. In
such case, use \"The common notifications defined in clause W4.5 are valid for
this IOC. In addition, the following set of notification is also valid.\" as
the lone paragraph of this clause. Then, define the 'additional' notifications
in a table. See clause W4.5 for the notification table format._
_c) The class defines (and independent from those inherited) the support of a
set of notifications that is not identical to, nor a superset of, that defined
in clause W4.5. In such case, use \"The common notifications defined in clause
W4.5 are not valid for this IOC. The set of notifications defined in the
following table is valid.\" as the lone paragraph of this clause. Specify the
set of notifications in a table. See clause W4.5 for the notification table
format._
_d) The class does not define (and independent from those inherited) the
support of any notification. In such case, use \"There is n_ o notification
defined.\" as the lone sentence of this clause.
_The notifications identified (i.e. option-a, option-b and option-c above) in
this clause are notifications that can be emitted across the Itf-N, where the
\"object class\" and \"object instance\" parameters of the notification header
(see note 2) of these notifications identifies an instance of the class (or
its direct or indirect derived class) defined by the encapsulating clause
(i.e. clause W4.3.a)._
_The notifications identified (i.e. option-a and option-b above) in this
clause, may originate from implementation object(s) whose identifier may or
may not be the same as that carried in the notification parameters \"object
class\" and \"object instance\". Hence the identification of notifications in
this clause does not imply nor identify those notifications as being
originated from an instance of the class (or its direct or indirect derived
class) defined by the encapsulating clause (i.e. clause W4.3.a)._
_This clause shall state \"This class does not support any notification.\"
(see option-c) when there is no notification defined for this class. (Note
that if its parent class has defined some notifications, the implementation of
this class is capable of emitting those inherited defined notifications.)_
_The notification header is defined in the notification IRP Information
service TS 32.302 [5]._
_The qualifier of a notification, specified in Notification Table, indicates
if an implementation can generate a notification carrying the DN of the
subject class. The qualifier of a notification, specified in an Interface IRP,
indicates if an implementation of the Interface IRP can generate such
notification in general._
_An IRPManager can receive notification-XYZ that carries DN (the \"object
class\" and \"object instance\") of class-ABC instance if and only if:_
a) The class-ABC Notification Table defines the notification-XYZ and
b) The class-ABC instance implementation supports this notification-XYZ and
c) An Interface IRP defines the notification-XYZ and
d) The Interface IRP implementation supports this notification-XYZ.
W4.3.a.5 State diagram
_This subclause contains state diagrams. A state diagram of an information
object class defines permitted states of this information object class and the
transitions between those states. A state is expressed in terms of individual
attribute values or a combination of attribute values or involvement in
relationships of the information object class being defined. This shall be a
UML compliant state diagram._
_This subclause shall state "None." when there is no State diagram defined._
W4.4 Attribute definitions
W4.4.1 Attribute properties
_It has a lone paragraph_ \"The following table defines the properties of
attributes that are specified in the present document. \".
_Each information attribute is defined using the following structure._
_Inherited attributes shall not be shown, as they are defined in the parent
class(es) and thus valid for this class._
_An attribute has properties (see Table 1 of [4]). Some properties of an
attribute are defined in W4.3.a.2 (e.g. Support Qualifier). The remaining
properties of an attribute (e.g. documentation, default value) are defined
here._
_The information is provided in a table. In case a) attributes of the same
name are specified in more than one class and b) the attributes have different
properties, then the attribute names (first column) should be prefixed with
the class name followed by a period._
_An example is given_ below:
+----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and Allowed Values | Properties | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | xyzId | It identifies ... | type: Integer | | | | | | | allowedValues: ... | multiplicity: ... | | | | | | | | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Abc.state | It indicates ... | type: \> | | | | | | | allowedValues: | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | \"ON\": the state is on; | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | \"OFF\": the state is off. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Zyz.state | It indicates ... | type: \> | | | | | | | allowedValues: | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | \"HIGH\": the state is high; | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | \"MEDIUM\": the state is medium; | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | \"LOW\": the state is low. | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | abc | It defines... | type: ... | | | | | | | allowedValues: ... | multiplicity: ... | | | | | | | | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: ... | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+
_In case there is one or more attributes related to role (see section 5.2.9 of
[4]), the attributes related to role shall be specified at the bottom of the
table with a divider \"Attribute related to role\"._ See example below.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attribute Name** | Documentation and | **Properties** | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | abc | It defines... | type: | | | | \> | | | allowedValues: ... | | | | | multiplicity: ... | | | | | | | | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: ... | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attribute related | | | | to role** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aEnd | It defines... | type: DN | | | | | | | allowedValues: | multiplicity: ... | | | Values to be | | | | conformant to TS | isOrdered: ... | | | 32.300 [xy] ... | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
_This clause shall state_ \"_None._ \" _if there is no attribute to define._
W4.4.2 Constraints
_This clause indicates whether there are any constraints affecting attributes.
Each constraint is defined by a triplet (propertyName, affectedAttributes,
propertyDefinition). PropertyDefinitions are expressed in natural language._
An example is given here below:
* * *
Name Affected attribute(s) Definition inv_TimerConstraints ntfTimeTickTimer
The ntfTimeTickTimer is lower than or equal to ntfTimeTick.
* * *
_This clause shall state \"None.\" if there is no constraint._
W4.5 Common notifications
_This clause presents notifications that can be referred to by any class
defined in the specification. This information is provided in tables._
W4.5.1 Alarm notifications
_The following quoted text shall be copied as the only paragraph of this
clause._
\"This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [x], that
IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [y], shall capture the DN of an
instance of a class defined in this specification.\"
The information is provided in a table. The following is an example.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyNewAlarm M --
* * *
W4.5.2 Configuration notifications
_The following quoted text shall be copied as the only paragraph of this
clause._
\"This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [x], that
IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [z], shall capture the DN of an
instance of a class defined in this specification.\"
The information is provided in a table. The following is an example.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O -- notifyObjectCreation O --
notifyObjectDeletion O --
* * *
W4.6 System State Model
_Some configurations of information are special or complex enough to justify
the usage of a state diagram to clarify them. A state diagram in this clause
defines permitted states of the system and the transitions between those
states. A state is expressed in terms of a combination of attribute values
constraints or involvement in relationships of one or more information object
classes._
## 4.3 Template for Interface IRP IS
Y1 Scope
_The following quoted text is relevant for all Interface IRP ISs. It shall be
copied as the first two paragraphs of this clause in the Interface IRP IS
specification. IRP IS author may add additional paragraph(s) if necessary._
_"_
The present document specifies the \> (_where_ _\ > shall be
substituted by the name of the Interface IRP IS concerned such as "Alarm",
"Test"," Entry Point")_ management operations and notifications that can be
communicated between an IRPAgent and one or several IRPManagers for
telecommunication network management purposes, including management of
converged networks.
This document specifies the semantics and behaviour of operations,
notifications and their parameters visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
_"_
Y2 References
_The following text from the standard 3GPP TS template shall be copied into
the Interface IRP IS specification, followed by the TS/TR references used in
the specification:_
\"
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ...
[2] ...
...
\"
Y3 Definitions and abbreviations
_The following text from the standard 3GPP TS template shall be copied into
the NRM IRP IS specification, completed by the definitions and abbreviations
used in the specification:_
\"
W3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. For terms and definitions not
found here, please refer to 3GPP TS \. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [x] and \.
_\ : \._
W3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [x].
\ \
\"
Y4 System overview
_The following quoted text is relevant for all Interface IRP ISs. It shall be
copied as clause 4.1 in the Interface IRP IS specification._
\"
Y4.1 System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [xy] subclause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
figure...
_\ _
\"
Y5 Model
Y5.1 Imported and associated information entities
Y5.1.1 Imported information entities and local labels
_This clause identifies a list of information entities (e.g. information
object class, interface, attribute) that have been defined in other
specifications and that are imported in the present (target) specification.
All imported entities shall be treated as if they are defined locally in the
target specification. One usage of import is for inheritance purpose._
_Each element of this list is a pair (label reference, local label). The label
reference contains the name of the original specification where the
information entity is defined, the information entity type and its name. The
local label contains the name of the information entity that appears in the
target specification, and the entity name in the local label shall be kept
identical to the name defined in the original specification. The local label
can then be used throughout the target specification instead of that which
appears in the label reference._
_This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is gi_
ven here below:
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [xy], information object class, Top
Top
* * *
Y5.1.2 Associated information entities and local labels
_This clause identifies a list of information entities (e.g. information
object class, interface, attribute) that have been defined in other
specifications and that are associated with the information entities defined
in the present (target) specification. For the associated information entity,
only its properties (e.g., DN (see 5.2.2 of 32.156 [4]), attribute (see 5.2.1
of 32.156 [4]) of an instance of the associated information entity) used as
associated information needs to be supported locally in the target
specification._
_Each element of this list is a pair (label reference, local label). The label
reference contains the name of the original specification where the
information entity is defined, the information entity type and its name. The
local label contains the name of the information entity that appears in the
target specification. The local label can then be used throughout the target
specification instead of that which appears in the label reference._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.705 [12], IOC, HSSFunction HSSFunction
* * *
Y5.2 Class diagram
Y5.2.1 Relationships
_This first set of diagrams represents all classes defined in this IS with all
their relationships and all their attributes, including relationships with
imported information entities (if any). These diagrams shall contain class
cardinalities (for associations as well as containment relationships) and may
also contain role names. These shall be UML compliant class diagrams (see also
[_ 4 _])._
_Characteristics (attributes, relationships) of imported information entities
need not to be repeated in the diagrams. Allowable classes are specified in
[4]._
_Use this as the first paragraph: \"_ This clause depicts the set of classes
(e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the information relevant for this IRP. This
clause provides an overview of the relationships between relevant classes in
UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects
of these classes.\"
Y5.2.2 Inheritance
_This second set of diagrams represents the inheritance hierarchy of all
classes defined in this specification. These diagrams do not need to contain
the complete inheritance hierarchy but shall at least contain the parent
classes of all classes defined in the present document. By default, a class
inherits from the class \"top\"._
_Characteristics (attributes, relationships) of imported classes need not to
be repeated in the diagrams._
_NOTE: some inheritance relationships presented in clause Y5.2.2 can be
repeated in clause Y5.2.1 to enhance readability._
_Use \"_ This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships.\" _as the first
paragraph._
Y5.3 Class definitions
_Each class is defined using the following structure._
_Inherited items (attributes etc.) shall not be shown, as they are defined in
the parent class(es) and thus valid for the subclass._
Y5.3.a InformationObjectClassName
_InformationObjectClassName is the name of the information object class._
_The \"a\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each
new definition of a class._
Y5.3.a.1 Definition
_This clause is written in natural language. The \  clause refers
to the class itself._
Optionally, information on traceability back to one or more requirements
supported by this class can be defined here, in the following form:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-CON-23
_Optional clarification_ 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-FUN-11 _Optional
clarification_
* * *
Y5.3.a.2 Attributes
_This clause presents the list of attributes, which are the manageable
properties of the class. Each attribute is characterised by some of the
attribute properties (see Table 1 of [4]), i.e. supportQualifier, isReadable,
isWritable, isInvariant and isNotifyable._
_The legal values and their semantics for attribute properties are defined in
[4]._
_This information is provided in a table._
_An example below indicates_
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable eNodeBId M M - M M
* * *
_Another example below indicates that the attribute password1 is not readable,
is writable, is not an invariant and no notifyAttributeValueChange_ will be
emitted when the attribute value is changed.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable password1 O - M - -
* * *
_Another example below indicates that the attribute password2 and password1
(in example above) has same qualifiers for the shown properties except that of
isReadable. In the case of password1, the standard specification determines
the qualifier to be M, i.e. it is readable. In the case of password2,_ the
standard specification does not make a determination. The vendor would make
the determination if the attribute is readable or not readable.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable password2 O O M - -
* * *
_In cas_ e there is one or more attributes related to role (see section 5.2.9
of [4]), the attributes related to role shall be specified at the bottom of
the table with a divider \"Attribute related to role\", as shown in the
following example:
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable aTMChannelTerminationPointid M M - M M **...**  
**...**  
**Attribute related to role**  
theATMPathTerminationPoint M M - - M theIubLink M M - - M
* * *
_This clause shall state \"None.\" when there is no attribute to define._
Y5.3.a.3 Attribute constraints
_This clause presents constraints for the attributes, and one use is to
present the predicates for conditional qualifiers (CM/CO)._
_This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is_ given
here below:
* * *
Name Definition pci CM write qualifier Centralized PCI assignment (see TS
32.500, ref [xy] clause 6.1.6) is supported. pciList CM support qualifier
Distributed PCI assignment (see TS 32.500, ref [xy] clause 6.1.6) is
supported. partOfSectorPower CM support qualifier The IOC
SectorEquipmentFunction is used. attributeX max value The value of attributeX
shall be within the specified value range but may never be higher than the
value of attributeY.
* * *
_This clause shall state \"None.\" when there is no attribute constraint to
define._
Y5.3.a.4 Notifications
_This clause, for this class, presents one of the following options:_
_a) The class defines (and independent from those inherited) the support of a
set of notifications that is identical to that defined in clause Y5.5. In such
case, use \"The common notifications defined in clause Y5.5 are valid for this
class, without exceptions or additions.\" as the lone sentence of this
clause._
_b) The class defines (and independent from those inherited) the support of a
set of notifications that is a superset of that defined in clause Y5.5. In
such case, use \"The common notifications defined in clause Y5.5 are valid for
this IOC. In addition, the following set of notification is also valid.\" as
the lone paragraph of this clause. Then, define the 'additional' notifications
in a table. See clause Y5.5 for the notification table format._
_c) The class defines (and independent from those inherited) the support of a
set of notifications that is not identical to, nor a superset of, that defined
in clause Y5.5. In such case, use \"The common notifications defined in clause
Y5.5 are not valid for this IOC. The set of notifications defined in the
following table is valid.\" as the lone paragraph of this clause. Specify the
set of notifications in a table. See clause Y5.5 for the notification table
format._
_d) The class does not define (and independent from those inherited) the
support of any notification. In such case, use \"There is no notification
defined.\" as the lone sentence of this clause._
_The notifications identified (i.e. option-a, option-b and option-c above) in
this clause are notifications that can be emitted across the Itf-N, where the
\"object class\" and \"object instance\" parameters of the notification header
(see note 2) of these notifications identifies an instance of the class (or
its direct or indirect derived class) defined by the encapsulating clause
(i.e. clause Y5.3.a)._
_The notifications identified (i.e. option-a and option-b above) in this
clause, may originate from implementation object(s) whose identifier may or
may not be the same as that carried in the notification parameters \"object
class\" and \"object instance\". Hence the identification of notifications in
this clause does not imply nor identify those notifications as being
originated from an instance of the class (or its direct or indirect derived
class) defined by the encapsulating clause (i.e. clause Y5.3.a)._
_This clause shall state \"This class does not support any notification.\"
(see option-c) when there is no notification defined for this class. (Note
that if its parent class has defined some notifications, the implementation of
this class is capable of emitting those inherited defined notifications.)_
_The notification header is defined in the notification IRP Information
service TS 32.302 [5]._
_The qualifier of a notification, specified in Notification Table, indicates
if an implementation can generate a notification carrying the DN of the
subject class. The qualifier of a notification, specified in an Interface IRP,
indicates if an implementation of the Interface IRP can generate such
notification in general._
_An IRPManager can receive notification-XYZ that carries DN (the \"object
class\" and \"object instance\") of class-ABC instance if and only if:_
_a) The class-ABC Notification Table defines the notification-XYZ and_
_b) The class-ABC instance implementation supports this notification-XYZ and_
_c) An Interface IRP defines the notification-XYZ and_
_d) The Interface IRP implementation supports this notification-XYZ._
Y5.3.a.5 State diagram
_This subclause contains state diagrams. A state diagram of an information
object class defines permitted states of this information object class and the
transitions between those states. A state is expressed in terms of individual
attribute values or a combination of attribute values or involvement in
relationships of the information object class being defined. This shall be a
UML compliant state diagram._
_This subclause shall state "None." when there is no State diagram defined._
Y5.4 Attribute definitions
Y5.4.1 Attribute properties
_It has a lone paragraph_ \"The following table defines the properties of
attributes that are specified in the present document. \".
_Each information attribute is defined using the following structure._
_Inherited attributes shall not be shown, as they are defined in the parent
class(es) and thus valid for this class._
_An attribute has properties (see Table 1 of [4]). Some properties of an
attribute are defined in Y5.3.a.2 (e.g. Support Qualifier). The remaining
properties of an attribute (e.g. documentation, default value) are defined
here._
_The information is provided in a table. In case a) attributes of the same
name are specified in more than one class and b) the attributes have different
properties, then the attribute names (first column) should be prefixed with
the class name followed by a period._
An example is given below:
+----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and Allowed Values | Properties | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | xyzId | It identifies ... | type: Integer | | | | | | | allowedValues: ... | multiplicity: ... | | | | | | | | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Abc.state | It indicates ... | type: \> | | | | | | | allowedValues: | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | \"ON\": the state is on; | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | \"OFF\": the state is off. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Zyz.state | It indicates ... | type: \> | | | | | | | allowedValues: | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | \"HIGH\": the state is high; | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | \"MEDIUM\": the state is medium; | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | \"LOW\": the state is low. | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | abc | It defines... | type: ... | | | | | | | allowedValues: ... | multiplicity: ... | | | | | | | | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: ... | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+
_In case there is one or more attributes related to role (see section 5.2.9 of
[4]), the attributes related to role shall be specified at the bottom_ of the
table with a divider \"Attribute related to role\". See example below.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attribute Name** | Documentation and | **Properties** | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | abc | It defines... | type: | | | | \> | | | allowedValues: ... | | | | | multiplicity: ... | | | | | | | | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: ... | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attribute related | | | | to role** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aEnd | It defines... | type: DN | | | | | | | allowedValues: | multiplicity: ... | | | Values to be | | | | conformant to TS | isOrdered: ... | | | 32.300 [xy] ... | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
_This clause shall state_ \"_None._ \" _if there is no attribute to define._
Y5.4.2 Constraints
_This clause indicates whether there are any constraints affecting attributes.
Each constraint is defined by a triplet (propertyName, affectedAttributes,
propertyDefinition). PropertyDefinitions are expressed in natural language._
An example is given here below:
* * *
Name Affected attribute(s) Definition inv_TimerConstraints ntfTimeTickTimer
The ntfTimeTickTimer is lower than or equal to ntfTimeTick.
* * *
_This clause shall state \"None.\" if there is no constraint._
Y5.5 Common Notifications
_This clause presents notifications that can be referred to by any class
defined in the specification. This information is provided in tables._
_This clause shall state \"None.\" if there are no common notifications._
Y5.5.1 Alarm notifications
_The following quoted text shall be copied as the only paragraph of this
clause._
\"This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [x], that
IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [y], shall capture the DN of an
instance of a class defined in this specification.\"
The information is provided in a table. The following is an example.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyNewAlarm M --
* * *
Y5.5.2 Configuration notifications
_The following quoted text shall be copied as the only paragraph of this
clause._
\"This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [x], that
IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [z], shall capture the DN of an
instance of a class defined in this specification.\"
The information is provided in a table. The following is an example.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O -- notifyObjectCreation O --
notifyObjectDeletion O --
* * *
Y6 Interface Definition
Y6.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
_Each interface is defined in one or more UML compliant class diagrams (see
also 3GPP TS 32.156 [_ 4 _])._
Y6.2 Generic rules
_The following rules are relevant for all ISs. They shall simply be copied as
part of the specification._
_Rule 1: each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state._
_Rule 2: Each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports a
set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_yyy where \"yyy\" is
the name of the optional input parameter and the\ pre-condition indicates that
the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally, each
such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_yyy which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_yyy is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state._
_Rule 3: each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state._
Y6.b InterfaceName Interface (supportQualifier)
_InterfaceName is the name of the interface followed by a qualifier indicating
whether the interface is Mandatory (M), Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory
(CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or SS-Conditional (C)._
_\"b\" represents a number, starting at 3 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of an interface._
_Each interface is defined by its name and by a sequence of operations or
notifications._
_Interfaces related to operations shall be listed before the interfaces
related to notifications._
_If the interface is related to operation(s), the following Y.b.a_ \"Operation
OperationName (supportQualifier)\" _shall be applied._
_If the interface is related to notification(s), the next Y.b.a \"_
Notification NotificationName (supportQualifier)\" _below shall be applied._
Y6.b.a Operation OperationName (supportQualifier)
_OperationName is the name of the operation followed by a qualifier indicating
whether the operation is Mandatory (M), Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory
(CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or SS-Conditional (C)._
_\"a\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of an operation._
Y6.b.a.1 Definition
_This subclause is written in natural language._
_Information on traceability back to one or more requirements supported by
this operation should_ also be defined here, in the following form:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-CON-23
_Optional clarification_ 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-FUN-11 _Optional
clarification_
* * *
Y6.b.a.2 Input parameters
_List of input parameters of the operation. Each element is a tuple (Parameter
Name, Support Qualifier, Information Type (see [6] and Note 1) and an optional
list of Legal Values supported by the parameter, Comment). Legal Values for
the Support Qualifier are: Mandatory (M), Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory
(CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or SS-Conditional (C)._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment
eventIdList M SET OF INTEGER / -- One or more event identifiers
* * *
Note 1: Information Type qualifies the parameter of Parameter Name. In the
case where the Legal Values can be enumerated, each element is a pair (Legal
Value Name, Legal Value Semantics), unless a Legal Value Semantics applies to
several values in which case the definition is provided only once. When the
Legal Values cannot be enumerated, the list of Legal Values is defined by a
single definition.
Y6.b.a.3 Output parameters
_List of output parameters of the operation. Each element is a tuple
(Parameter Name, Support Qualifier, Matching Information / Information Type
(see [6]) (Note 1) and an optional list of Legal Values supported by the
parameter, Comment). Legal Values for the Support Qualifier are: Mandatory
(M), Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory (CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or
SS-Conditional (C)._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | eventTime | M | Alar | The parameter | | | | mInformation.a | carries the | | | | larmRaisedTime | | | | | / | - a | | | | | larmRaisedTime | | | | G | in case | | | | eneralizedTime | no | | | | / -- | tificationType | | | | | carries | | | | | n | | | | | otifyNewAlarm, | | | | | | | | | | - al | | | | | armChangedTime | | | | | in case | | | | | no | | | | | tificationType | | | | | carries | | | | | notif | | | | | yChangedAlarm, | | | | | | | | | | - al | | | | | armClearedTime | | | | | in case | | | | | no | | | | | tificationType | | | | | carries | | | | | notif | | | | | yClearedAlarm. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Note 1: Information Type qualifies the parameter of Parameter Name. In the
case where the Legal Values can be enumerated, each element is a pair (Legal
Value Name, Legal Value Semantics), unless a Legal Value Semantics applies to
several values in which case the definition is provided only once. When the
Legal Values cannot be enumerated, the list of Legal Values is defined by a
single definition.
_This table shall also include a special parameter 'status' to indicate the
completion status of the operation (success, partial success, failure reason
etc.)._
Y6.b.a.4 Pre-condition
_A pre-condition is a collection of assertions joined by AND, OR, and NOT
logical operators. The pre-condition must be held to be true before the
operation is invoked. An example is given here below:_
_notificationCategoriesNotAllSubscribed OR
notificationCategoriesParameterAbsentAndNotAllSubscribed_
_Each_ assertion is defined by a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). All
assertions constituting the pre-condition are provided in a table. An example
of such a table is given here below:
* * *
Assertion Name Definition notificationCategoriesNotAllSubscribed At least one
notificationCategory identified in the notificationCategories input parameter
is supported by IRPAgent and is not a member of the ntfNotificationCategorySet
attribute of an NtfSubscription which is involved in a subscription
relationship with the NtfSubscriber identified by the managerReference input
parameter. notificationCategoriesParameterAbsentAndNotAllSubscribed The
notificationCategories input parameter is absent and at least one
notificationCategory supported by IRPAgent is not a member of the
ntfNotificationCategorySet attribute of an ntfSsubscription which is involved
in a subscription relationship with the NtfSubscriber identified by the
managerReference input parameter.
* * *
Y6.b.a.5 Post-condition
_A post-condition is a collection of assertions joined by AND, OR, and NOT
logical operators. The post-condition must be held to be true after the
completion of the operation. When nothing is said in a post-condition
regarding an information entity, the assumption is that this information
entity has not changed compared to what is stated in the\ pre-condition. An
example is given here below:_
_subscriptionDeleted OR allSubscriptionDeleted_
_Each assertion is defined by a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). All
assertions constituting the post-condit_ ion are provided in a table. An
example of such a table is given here below:
* * *
Assertion Name Definition subscriptionDeleted The ntfSubscription identified
by subscriptionId input parameter is no more involved in a subscription
relationship with the ntfSubscriber identified by the managerReference input
parameter and has been deleted. If this ntfSubscriber has no more
ntfSubscription, it is deleted as well. allSubscriptionDeleted In the case
subscriptionId input parameter was absent, the ntfSubscriber identified by the
managerReference input parameter is no more involved in any subscription
relationship and is deleted, the corresponding ntfSubscription have been
deleted as well.
* * *
Y6.b.a.6 Exceptions
_List of exceptions that can be raised by the operation. Each element is a
tuple (exceptionName, condition, ReturnedInformation, exitState)._
Y6.b.a.6.c exceptionName
_ExceptionName is the name of an exception._
_\"c\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of an exception._
_This_ information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ope | **Condition:** | | _failed_existing_subscription | (notifi | | | cationCategoriesNotAllSubscribed | | | OR | | | notificationCategoriesPar | | | ameterAbsentAndNotAllSubscribed) | | | not verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to | | | Oper | | | ationFailedExistingSubscription. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Y6.b.a.7 Constraints
_This subclause presents constraints for the operation or its parameters._
_This subclause does not need to be present when there are no constraints to
define._
Y6.b.a Notification NotificationName (supportQualifier)
_NotificationName is the name of the notification followed by a qualifier
indicating whether the notification is Mandatory (M), Optional (O),
Conditional-Mandatory (CM), Conditional-Optional (CO) or SS-Conditional (C)._
_\"a\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of a notification._
Y6.b.a.1 Definition
_This subclause is written in natural language._
_Information on traceability back to one or more requirements supported by
this notification should_ also be defined here, in the following form:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-CON-23
_Optional clarification_ 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-FUN-11 _Optional
clarification_
* * *
Y6.b.a.2 Input parameters
_List of input parameters of the notification. Each element is a tuple
(Parameter Name, Qualifiers, Matching Information / Information Type (see [6])
(Note 1) and an optional list of Legal Values supported by the parameter,
Comment)._
_The column \"Qualifiers\" contains the two qualifiers, Support Qualifier and
Filtering Qualifier, separated by a comma. The Support Qualifier indicates
whether the attribute is Mandatory (M), Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory
(CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or SS-Conditional (C). The Filtering
Qualifier indicates whether the parameter of the notification can be filtered
or not. Values are Yes (Y) or No (N)._
_This information is provided in a table. An example of suc_ h a table is
given here below:
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifiers | Matching | Comment | | | | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | m | M,Y | ntf | It specifies | | anagerReference | | Subscriber.ntfM | the reference | | | | anagerReference | of IRPManager | | | | / STRING / -- | to which | | | | | notifications | | | | | shall be sent. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | alarmType | M,Y | AlarmInform | | | | | ation.eventType | | | | | / ENUMERATED / | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | "Communications | | | | | Alarm\": a | | | | | communication | | | | | error alarm. | | | | | | | | | | \"Processing | | | | | Error Alarm\": | | | | | a processing | | | | | error alarm. | | | | | | | | | | \"Environmental | | | | | Alarm\": an | | | | | environmental | | | | | violation | | | | | alarm. | | | | | | | | | | \"Quality Of | | | | | Service | | | | | Alarm\": a | | | | | quality of | | | | | service | | | | | violation | | | | | alarm. | | | | | | | | | | \"Equipment | | | | | Alarm\": an | | | | | alarm related | | | | | to equipment | | | | | malfunction. | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
Note 1: Information Type qualifies the parameter of Parameter Name. In the
case where the Legal Values can be enumerated, each element is a pair (Legal
Value Name, Legal Value Semantics), unless a Legal Value Semantics applies to
several values in which case the definition is provided only once. When the
Legal Values cannot be enumerated, the list of Legal Values is defined by a
single definition.
Y6.b.a.3 Triggering event
_The triggering event for the notification to be sent is the transition from
the information state defined by the \"from state\" subclause to the
information state defined by the \"to state\" subclause._
Y6.b.a.3.1 From state
_This subclause is a collection of assertions joined by AND, OR, and NOT
logical operators. An example is given here below:_
_alarmMatched AND alarmInformationNotCleared_
_Each assertion is defined by a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). All
assertions constituting the state \"from state\" are provided in a table. An
example of such a table is given here below:_
* * *
Assertion Name Definition alarmMatched The matching-criteria-attributes of the
newly generated network alarm has values that are identical (matches) with
ones in one AlarmInformation in AlarmList.. alarmInformationNotCleared The
perceivedSeverity of the newly generated network alarm is not Cleared.
* * *
Y6.b.a.3.2 To state
_This subclause is a collection of assertions joined by AND, OR and NOT
logical operators. When nothing is said in a to-state regarding an information
entity, the assumption is that this information entity has not changed
compared to what is stated in the from-state. An example is given here below:_
_resetAcknowledgementInformation AND perceivedSeverityUpdated_
_Each assertion is defined by a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). All
assertions constituting the state \"to state\" are provided in a table. An
example of such a table is given here below:_
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | resetAcknowledgementInformation | The matched AlarmInformation | | | identified in inv_alarmMatched | | | in pre-condition has been updated | | | according to the following | | | rule _:_ | | | | | | ackTime, ackUserId and | | | ackSystemId are updated to | | | contain no information; ackState | | | is updated to \"unacknowledged\". | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | perceivedSeverityUpdated | The perceivedSeverity attribute | | | of matched AlarmInformation | | | identified in inv_alarmMatched | | | in pre-condition has been | | | updated. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
Y6.b.a.4 Constraints
_This subclause presents constraints for the notification or its parameters._
_This subclause does not need to be present when there are no constraints to
define._
Y6.c Scenario
_This subclause contains one or more sequence diagrams, each describing a
possible scenario. These shall be UML compliant sequence diagrams. This is an
optional subclause._
#