# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
> The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
> normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
>
> The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
> \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
> they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
> external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
> style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
> document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
> The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
> elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
> used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as substitutes
for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the templates to be used for the production of
Management service component specifications type A, type B and type C [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.156: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Model Repertoire\"
[4] ITU-T Recommendation M.3020 (07/2017): \"Management interface
specification methodology\".
[5] 3GPP TR 21.801: \"Specification drafting rules\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation M.3020 (07/2011): \"Management interface
specification methodology\" -- Annex E \"Information type definitions -- type
repertoire\".
[11] IETF RFC 8407: \"[Guidelines for Authors and Reviewers of Documents
Containing YANG Data Models, October 2018]{.underline}\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.532: \" Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\"
[13] IETF RFC 8528: \"YANG Schema mount \"
[14] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification\", https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-
Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.1.md.
[15] draft-wright-json-schema-01 (October 2017): \"JSON Schema: A Media Type
for Describing JSON Documents\".
[16] draft-wright-json-schema-validation-01 (October 2017: \"JSON Schema
Validation: A Vocabulary for Structural Validation of JSON\".
[17] draft-wright-json-schema-hyperschema-01 (October 2017): \"JSON Hyper-
Schema: A Vocabulary for Hypermedia Annotation of JSON.
[18] IETF RFC 9950: \"The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language, August 2016\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
C Conditional
CM Conditional Mandatory
CO Conditional Optional
M Mandatory
MnS Management Service
NRM Network Resource Model
O Optional
# 4 Management service template (stage 1)
## 4.1 General
This template is mainly based on the requirements template (mainly Annex A) in
the ITU-T M.3020 recommendation [4] and shall be used for the production of
all requirement specifications for management and orchestration of 3GPP
networks. The template contains two options: Option 1 specified in subclause
4.2, which shall be used for all high-level requirement specifications for
management and orchestration of 3GPP networks, and option 2 specified in
subclause 4.3, which shall be used for all Management Services (MnS) specific
requirement specifications. When option 1 is selected for the production of
high level requirement specifications, either the template for Business level
requirements (R4.b), the template for Specification level requirements (R4.c)
or both are used.
Instructions in _italics_ below shall not be included in the requirements
specifications.
The introductory clauses (from clause 1 to clause 3) for the requirements TS
should be taken from the 3GPP TS template (i.e. not this requirements
template).
Use the \"Heading x\" paragraph style for clause and sub-clauses in the
_Requirements_ TS.
Usage of fonts shall be according to the 3GPP drafting rules in TR 21.801 [5]
for a TS (with some basic examples given in the 3GPP TS template).
## 4.2 Template for high-level requirement specifications
> R4 Management service name
>
> _The Management service name above shall be replaced with the name of the
> Management Service (MnS) which is to be specified._ \"
>
> R4.a Concepts and background
>
> _For production of the contents of this clause, follow the template
> instructions in ITU-T M.3020 [4] subclause A.2, template clause \"__1
> Concepts and background_ _\"._
>
> R4.b Business level requirements
>
> _For production of the contents of this subclause, follow the template
> instructions in ITU-T M.3020 [4] subclause A.2, template clause \"_**2
> Business level requirements** _\"._
>
> _Note on the Use case template: All occurrences of \"(*)\" in the first
> column \"Use Case Stage\" of the Use case template in table A.2, as well as
> the last row with a NOTE at the end of the table, shall not be included in
> the requirements TS as these are only template instructions to the TS
> author. For example, \"Goal^(*)^\" shall be converted to \"Goal\" in the TS.
> Likewise, for all occurrences of \"(M\|O)\", a choice of M or O shall be
> made, leaving it as either \"(M)\" or \"(O)\" in the TS. For example, \"Step
> n (M\|O)\" shall be converted to \"Step n (M)\" or \"Step n (O)\" in the
> TS._
>
> R4.c Specification level requirements
>
> _For production of the contents of this subclause, follow the template
> instructions in ITU-T M.3020 [4] subclause A.2, template clause \"_**3
> Specification level requirements** _\"._
>
> _Note on the Use case template: All occurrences of \"(*)\" in the first
> column \"Use Case Stage\" of the Use case template in table A.2, as well as
> the last row with a NOTE at the end of the table, shall not be included in
> the requirements TS as these are only template instructions to the TS
> author. For example, \"Goal^(*)^\" shall be converted to \"Goal\" in the TS.
> Likewise, for all occurrences of \"(M\|O)\", a choice of M or O shall be
> made, leaving it as either \"(M)\" or \"(O)\" in the TS. For example, \"Step
> n (M\|O)\" shall be converted to \"Step n (M)\" or \"Step n (O)\" in the
> TS._
## 4.3 Template for Management service specific requirement specifications
> R4 Management service name
>
> _The Management service name above shall be replaced with the name of the
> Management Service (MnS) which is to be specified._
>
> R4.1 Concepts and background
>
> _For production of the contents of this clause, follow the template
> instructions in ITU-T M.3020 [4] subclause A.3, template clause \"__1
> Concepts and background_ _\"._
>
> R4.2 Requirements
>
> _For production of the contents of this subclause, follow the template
> instructions in ITU-T M.3020 [4] subclause A.3, template clause \"_**2
> Requirements** _\"._
# 5 Management service template (stage 2)
## 5.1 General
### 5.1.1 General
The present document contains the templates to be used, for the production of
all Management Service (MnS) specifications.
Clause 5.2 is applicable for specification of MnS component type B (NRM).
Clause 5.3 is applicable for specification of MnS component type A (operations
and notifications) and type C (alarm and performance information).
_The MnS template uses qualifiers M, O, CM, CO and C. The semantics of these
qualifiers are defined in [3]._
_The MnS template uses type definition as one characteristic to describe class
attributes and operation/notification parameters. The valid type definitions
that can be used and their semantics are defined in [3]._
Usage of fonts for the specific cases of class/attribute names etc., in
addition to the general font requirements in the 3GPP drafting rules in 3GPP
TR 21.801 [5], shall be according to the following table.
Table 5.1.1-1
* * *
Item Font Class names Courier New Attribute names Courier New Operation names
Courier New Parameter names Courier New Assertion names Courier New
Notification names Courier New Exception names Courier New State names Arial
Matching Information Courier New Information Type Courier New Legal Values
Courier New NOTE: These font requirements do not apply to UML diagrams.
* * *
### 5.1.2 Management service components
A management service combines elements of management service components type
A, B and C [1].
The template for NRM, see clause 5.2, applies to the specification of
management service component type B.
The template for the Management service operations and notifications, see
clause 5.3, applies to the specification of type A and type C.
## 5.2 Template for NRM
W4 Model
W4.1 Imported and associated information entities
W4.1.1 Imported information entities and local labels
_This clause identifies a list of information entities (e.g. information
object class, datatype, interface, attribute) that have been defined in other
specifications and that are imported in the present (target) specification.
All imported entities shall be treated as if they are defined locally in the
target specification. One usage of import is for inheritance purpose._
_Each element of this list is a pair (label reference, local label). The label
reference contains the name of the original specification where the
information entity is defined, the information entity type and its name. The
local label contains the name of the information entity that appears in the
target specification, and the entity name in the local label shall be kept
identical to the name defined in the original specification. The local label
may then be used throughout the target specification instead of that which
appears in the label reference._
_This information is provided_ in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Label reference Local label TS 28.622 [6], information object class, Top Top
TS 28.541 [7] information object class NSI NSI
* * *
W4.1.2 Associated information entities and local labels
_This clause identifies a list of information entities (e.g. information
object class, interface, attribute) that have been defined in other
specifications and that are associated with the information entities defined
in the present (target) specification. For the associated information entity,
only its properties (e.g., DN (see TS 32.156 [3]), attribute (see TS 32.156
[3]) of an instance of the associated information entity) used as associated
information needs to be supported locally in the target specification._
_Each element of this list is a pair (label reference, local label). The label
reference contains the name of the original specification where the
information entity is defined, the information entity type and its name. The
local label contains the name of the information entity that appears in the
target specification. The local label may then be used throughout the target
specification instead of that which appears in the label reference._
_This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is_ given
here below:
* * *
Label reference Local label TS 28.541 [7], IOC, GNBDUFunction GNBDUFunction
* * *
W4.2 Class diagram
W4.2.1 Relationships
_This first set of diagrams represents all classes and datatypes defined in
this MnS with all their relationships, including relationships with imported
information entities (if any). These diagrams shall contain class
cardinalities (for associations as well as containment relationships) and may
also contain role names. These shall be UML compliant class diagrams (see also
TS 32.156 [3])._
_Characteristics (attributes, relationships) of imported information entities
need not to be repeated in the diagrams. Allowable classes are specified in TS
32.156 [3]._
_Use this as the first paragraph: \"_ This clause depicts the set of classes
(e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the information relevant for this MnS. This
clause provides an overview of the relationships between relevant classes in
UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects
of these classes.\"
W4.2.2 Inheritance
_This second set of diagrams represents the inheritance hierarchy of all
classes defined in this specification. These diagrams do not need to contain
the complete inheritance hierarchy but shall at least contain the parent
classes of all classes defined in the present document. By default, a class
inherits from the class \"top\"._
_Characteristics (attributes, relationships) of imported classes need not to
be repeated in the diagrams._
_NOTE: some inheritance relationships presented in clause W4.2.2 may be
repeated in clause W4.2.1 to enhance readability._
_Use \"_ This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships.\" _as the first
paragraph._
W4.3 Class definitions
_Each class, with its stereotype name, is defined using the following
structure._
_Inherited items (attributes etc.) shall not be shown, as they are defined in
the parent class(es) and thus valid for the subclass._
W4.3.a ClassName \>
_StereotypeName is mandatory to be included in the clause header, except for
the stereotype Information Object Class, for which it shall not be included in
the clause header._
_An example of a Class is Subnetwork of stereotype Information Object Class.
The heading of sub-clause W4.3.a for SubNetwork would look as follows:_
_W4.3.a SubNetwork_
_An example of a Class is SliceProfile of stereotype data type. The heading of
W4.3.a for SliceProfile would look as follows:_
_W4.3.a SliceProfile \ >_
_The various stereotypes can be found in TS 32.156 [3]._
_The \"a\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each
new definition of a class._
W4.3.a.1 Definition
_This clause is written in natural language. The \  clause refers
to the class itself._
_Optionally, information on traceability back to one or more requirements
supported by this class_ may be defined here, in the following form:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment TS 28.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-CON-23 _Optional
clarification_ TS 28.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-FUN-11 _Optional clarification_
* * *
W4.3.a.2 Attributes
_This clause presents the list of attributes, which are the manageable
properties of the class. Each attribute is characterised by some of the
attribute properties (see TS 32.156 [3]), i.e. supportQualifier (abbreviated
by S), isReadable, isWritable, isInvariant and isNotifyable._
_The legal values and their semantics for attribute properties are defined in
TS 32.156 [3]._
_This information is provided in a table._
_An example below indicates_
* * *
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable eNodeBId M T F
T T
* * *
_Another example below indicates that the attribute password1 is not readable,
is writable, is not an invariant and no notifyAttributeValueChange will be
emitted when the attribute value is_ changed.
* * *
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable password1 O F
T F F
* * *
_Another example below indicates that the attribute password2 and password1
(in example above) have the same qualifiers for the shown properties except
that of isReadable. In the case of password1, the standard specification
determines the qualifier to be M, i.e. it is readable. In the case of
password2, the standard specification does not make a determination. The
vendor would make the determination if the attribute_ is readable or not
readable.
* * *
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable password2 O O
T F F
* * *
_In case there is one or more attributes related to role (see clause 5.2.9 of
TS 32.156 [3]), the attributes related to role shall be specified at the
bottom of the table with a divider \"Attribute related to role\", as sho_ wn
in the following example:
* * *
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
aTMChannelTerminationPointid M T F T T **...**  
**...**  
**Attribute related to role**  
theATMPathTerminationPoint M T F F T theIubLink M T F F T
* * *
_This clause shall state \"None.\" when there is no attribute to define._
W4.3.a.3 Attribute constraints
_This clause presents constraints for the attributes, and one use is to
present the predicates for conditional qualifiers (CM/CO)._
_This information is provided in a table. An examp_ le of such a table is
given here below:
* * *
Name Definition configuredMaxTxPower CM support qualifier Condition: The
sector-carrier has a downlink [4]. sNSSAIList CM support qualifier Condition:
Network slicing feature is supported [4].
* * *
_This clause shall state \"None.\" when there is no attribute constraint to
define._
W4.3.a.4 Notifications
_This clause, for this class, presents one of the following options:_
a) The cla _ss defines (and independent from those inherited) the support of a
set of notifications that is identical to that defined in clause W4.5. In such
case, use \"The common notifications defined in clause W4.5 are valid for this
class, without exceptions or additions.\" as the lone sentence of this
clause._
_b) The class defines (and independent from those inherited) the support of a
set of notifications that is a superset of that defined in clause W4.5. In
such case, use \"The common notifications defined in clause W4.5 are valid for
this IOC. In addition, the following set of notification is also valid.\" as
the lone paragraph of this clause. Then, define the 'additional' notifications
in a table. See clause W4.5 for the notification table format._
_c) The class defines (and independent from those inherited) the support of a
set of notifications that is not identical to, nor a superset of, that defined
in clause W4.5. In such case, use \"The common notifications defined in clause
W4.5 are not valid for this IOC. The set of notifications defined in the
following table is valid.\" as the lone paragraph of this clause. Specify the
set of notifications in a table. See clause W4.5 for the notification table
format._
_d) The class does not define (and independent from those inherited) the
support of any notification. In such case, use \"There is n_ o notification
defined.\" as the lone sentence of this clause.
_The notifications identified (i.e. option-a, option-b and option-c above) in
this clause are notifications that may be emitted by the MnS producer, where
the \"object class\" and \"object instance\" parameters of the notification
header (see note 2) of these notifications identifies an instance of the class
(or its direct or indirect derived class) defined by the encapsulating clause
(i.e. clause W4.3.a)._
_The notifications identified (i.e. option-a and option-b above) in this
clause, may originate from implementation object(s) whose identifier may or
may not be the same as that carried in the notification parameters \"object
class\" and \"object instance\". Hence the identification of notifications in
this clause does not imply nor identify those notifications as being
originated from an instance of the class (or its direct or indirect derived
class) defined by the encapsulating clause (i.e. clause W4.3.a)._
_This clause shall state \"This class does not support any notification.\"
(see option-c) when there is no notification defined for this class. (Note
that if its parent class has defined some notifications, the implementation of
this class is capable of emitting those inherited defined notifications.)_
_The notification header is defined in TS 32.302 [8]._
_The qualifier of a notification, specified in Notification Table, indicates
if an implementation may generate a notification carrying the DN of the
subject class._
_An MnS consumer may receive notification-XYZ that carries DN (the \"object
class\" and \"object instance\") of class-ABC instance if and only if:_
a) The class-ABC Notification Table defines the notification-XYZ and
b) The class-ABC instance implementation supports this notification-XYZ and
c) An MnS defines the notification-XYZ and
d) The MnS implementation supports this notification-XYZ.
W4.3.a.5 State diagram
_This subclause contains state diagrams. A state diagram of an information
object class defines permitted states of this information object class and the
transitions between those states. A state is expressed in terms of individual
attribute values or a combination of attribute values or involvement in
relationships of the information object class being defined. This shall be a
UML compliant state diagram._
_This subclause shall state \"None.\" when there is no State diagram defined._
W4.5 Attribute definitions
W4.5.1 Attribute properties
_It has a lone paragraph_ \"The following table defines the properties of
attributes that are specified in the present document. \".
_Each information attribute is defined using the following structure._
_Inherited attributes shall not be shown, as they are defined in the parent
class(es) and thus valid for this class._
_An attribute has properties (see TS 32.156 [3]). Some properties of an
attribute are defined in W4.3.a.2 (e.g. Support Qualifier). The remaining
properties of an attribute (e.g. documentation, default value) are defined
here._
_The information is provided in a table. In case a) attributes of the same
name are specified in more than one class and b) the attributes have different
properties, then the attribute names (first column) should be prefixed with
the class name followed by a period._
_An example is given b_ elow:
+----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and Allowed Values | Properties | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | xyzId | It identifies ... | type: Integer | | | | | | | allowedValues: ... | multiplicity: ... | | | | | | | | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Abc.state | It indicates ... | type: \> | | | | | | | allowedValues: | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | \"ON\": the state is on; | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | \"OFF\": the state is off. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Zyz.state | It indicates ... | type: \> | | | | | | | allowedValues: | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | \"HIGH\": the state is high; | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | \"MEDIUM\": the state is medium; | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | \"LOW\": the state is low. | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | abc | It defines... | type: ... | | | | | | | allowedValues: ... | multiplicity: ... | | | | | | | | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: ... | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+
_In case there is one or more attributes related to role (see clause 5.2.9 of
TS 32.156 [3]), the attributes related to role shall be specified at the
bottom of the table with a divider \"Attribute related to role\". See_ example
below.
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | **Attribute Name** | Documentation and | **Properties** | | | Allowed Values | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | abc | It defines... | type: PlmnId | | | | | | | allowedValues: ... | multiplicity: ... | | | | | | | | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: ... | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | **Attribute related | | | | to role** | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | aEnd | It defines... | type: DN | | | | | | | allowedValues: Values | multiplicity: ... | | | to be conformant to | | | | TS 32.300 [9] ... | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+
_This clause shall state_ \"_None._ \" _if there is no attribute to define._
W4.5.2 Constraints
_This clause indicates whether there are any constraints affecting attributes.
Each constraint is defined by a triplet (propertyName, affectedAttributes,
propertyDefinition). PropertyDefinitions are expressed in natural language._
_An example is given_ here below:
* * *
Name Affected attribute(s) Definition inv_TimerConstraints ntfTimeTickTimer
The ntfTimeTickTimer is lower than or equal to ntfTimeTick.
* * *
_This clause shall state \"None.\" if there is no constraint._
W4.6 Common notifications
_This clause presents notifications that may be referred to by any class
defined in the specification. This information is provided in tables._
W4.6.1 Alarm notifications
_The following quoted text shall be copied as the only paragraph of this
clause._
\"This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in TS 28.532 [12],
that an MnS consumer may receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in TS 28.541 [7], shall capture the DN of
an instance of a class defined in the present document.\"
_The information is provided in a table._ The following is an example.
* * *
Name S Notes notifyNewAlarm M --
* * *
W4.6.2 Configuration notifications
_The following quoted text shall be copied as the only paragraph of this
clause._
\"This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in TS 28.532 [12],
that an MnS consumer may receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in TS 32.302 [8], shall capture the DN of
an instance of a class defined in the present document.\"
_The information is provided in a table. The follo_ wing is an example.
* * *
Name S Notes notifyMOIAttributeValueChange O -- notifyMOICreation O --
notifyMOIDeletion O --
* * *
W4.6.3 Threshold Crossing notifications
_The following quoted text shall be copied as the only paragraph of this
clause._
_\"_ This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in TS 28.532 [12],
that an MnS consumer may receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in TS 28.541 [7], shall capture the DN of
an instance of a class defined in the present document.\"
_The information is provided in a table. The following is an example._
* * *
Name S Notes notifyThresholdCrossing O
* * *
## 5.3 Template for Management service operations and notifications
Y4 Overview
Yb Management service name
_Management service name should be replaced with the name of the Management
Service (MnS)._
_\"b\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of a Management Service._
Yb.1 Operations and notifications
Yb.1.a Operation OperationName
_OperationName is the name of the operation followed by a qualifier indicating
whether the operation is Mandatory (M), Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory
(CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or SS-Conditional (C)._
_\"a\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of an operation._
Yb.1.a.1 Definition
Yb.1.a.1.1 Description
_This subclause shall be written in natural language._
_Information on traceability back to one or more requirements supported by
this operation should als_ o be defined here, in the following form:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-CON-23
_Optional clarification_ 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-FUN-11 _Optional
clarification_
* * *
Yb.1.a.1.2 Pre-condition
_A pre-condition is a collection of assertions joined by AND, OR, and NOT
logical operators. The pre-condition shall be true before the operation is
invoked. An example is given here below:_
_notificationCategoriesNotAllSubscribed OR
notificationCategoriesParameterAbsentAndNotAllSubscribed_
_Each assertion is defined by a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). All
assertions constituting the pre-condition are provided in a table. An example
of such a table is_ given here below:
* * *
Assertion Name Definition notificationCategoriesNotAllSubscribed At least one
notificationCategory identified in the notificationCategories input parameter
is supported by an MnS producer and is not a member of the
ntfNotificationCategorySet attribute of an NtfSubscription which is involved
in a subscription relationship with the NtfSubscriber identified by the
managerReference input parameter.
notificationCategoriesParameterAbsentAndNotAllSubscribed The
notificationCategories input parameter is absent and at least one
notificationCategory supported by MnS producer is not a member of the
ntfNotificationCategorySet attribute of an ntfSsubscription which is involved
in a subscription relationship with the NtfSubscriber identified by the
managerReference input parameter.
* * *
Yb.1.a.1.3 Post-condition
_A post-condition is a collection of assertions joined by AND, OR, and NOT
logical operators. The post-condition shall be true after the completion of
the operation. When nothing is said in a post-condition regarding an
information entity, the assumption is that this information entity has not
changed compared to what is stated in the\ pre-condition. An example is given
here below:_
_subscriptionDeleted OR allSubscriptionDeleted_
_Each assertion is defined by a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). All
assertions constituting the post-condition shall be provided in a table. An
example of such a table is given here below_ :
* * *
Assertion Name Definition subscriptionDeleted The ntfSubscription identified
by subscriptionId input parameter is no more involved in a subscription
relationship with the ntfSubscriber identified by the managerReference input
parameter and has been deleted. If this ntfSubscriber has no more
ntfSubscription, it is deleted as well. allSubscriptionDeleted In the case
subscriptionId input parameter was absent, the ntfSubscriber identified by the
managerReference input parameter is no more involved in any subscription
relationship and is deleted, the corresponding ntfSubscription have been
deleted as well.
* * *
Yb.1.a.1.4 Exceptions
_List of exceptions that can be raised by the operation. Each element shall be
a tuple (exceptionName, condition, ReturnedInformation, exitState)._
Yb.1.a.1.4.c exceptionName
_ExceptionName is the name of an exception._
_\"c\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of an exception._
_This information shall be provided in a table. An example of such a tabl_ e
is given here below:
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ope | **Condition:** | | _failed_existing_subscription | (notifi | | | cationCategoriesNotAllSubscribed | | | OR | | | notificationCategoriesPar | | | ameterAbsentAndNotAllSubscribed) | | | not verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to | | | Oper | | | ationFailedExistingSubscription. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
NOTE: An example of an exception can be a situation where an operation is
raised and the required information between a consumer and producer cannot be
conveyed via the input and output parameters.
Yb.1.a.2 Input parameters
_List of input parameters of the operation. Each element shall be a tuple
(Parameter Name, Support Qualifier, Information Type (see [10] and note 1) and
an optional list of Legal Values supported by the parameter, Comment). Legal
Values for the Support Qualifier are: Mandatory (M), Optional (O),
Conditional-Mandatory (CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or SS-Conditional (C)._
_This information shall be provided in a table. An example of such a table is
given here below_ :
* * *
Parameter Name S Information Type / Legal Values Comment eventIdList M SET OF
INTEGER / -- One or more event identifiers
* * *
NOTE: Information Type qualifies the parameter of Parameter Name. In the case
where the Legal Values can be enumerated, each element is a pair (Legal Value
Name, Legal Value Semantics), unless a Legal Value Semantics applies to
several values in which case the definition can be provided only once. When
the Legal Values cannot be enumerated, the list of Legal Values is defined by
a single definition.
Yb.1.a.3 Output parameters
_List of output parameters of the operation. Each element tuple (Parameter
Name, Support Qualifier, Matching Information / Information Type (see [10])
(Note 1) and an optional list of Legal Values supported by the parameter,
Comment). Legal Values for the Support Qualifier are: Mandatory (M), Optional
(O), Conditional-Mandatory (CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or SS-Conditional
(C)._
_This information shall be provided in a table. An example of such_ a table is
given here below:
+----------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | Parameter Name | S | Matching | Comment | | | | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information Type / | | | | | Legal Values | | +----------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | eventTime | M | AlarmInformati | The parameter | | | | on.alarmRaisedTime | carries the | | | | / | | | | | | - alarmRaisedTime | | | | GeneralizedTime / | in case | | | | -- | notificationType | | | | | carries | | | | | notifyNewAlarm, | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | alarmChangedTime | | | | | in case | | | | | notificationType | | | | | carries | | | | | n | | | | | otifyChangedAlarm, | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | alarmClearedTime | | | | | in case | | | | | notificationType | | | | | carries | | | | | n | | | | | otifyClearedAlarm. | +----------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+
NOTE: Information Type qualifies the parameter of Parameter Name. In the case
where the Legal Values can be enumerated, each element is a pair (Legal Value
Name, Legal Value Semantics), unless a Legal Value Semantics applies to
several values in which case the definition can be provided only once. When
the Legal Values cannot be enumerated, the list of Legal Values is defined by
a single definition.
_This table shall also include a special parameter 'status' to indicate the
completion status of the operation (success, partial success, failure reason
etc.)._
Yb.1.a.4 Result
Yb.1.a.4,1 Error messages
_This subclause presents error messages in case the operation is not
successful._
_This subclause does not need to be present when there are no error messages
to define._
Yb.1.a.4,2 Constraints
_This subclause presents constraints for the operation or its parameters._
_This subclause does not need to be present when there are no constraints to
define._
Yb.1.a Notification NotificationName
_NotificationName shall be the name of the notification followed by a
qualifier indicating whether the notification is Mandatory (M), Optional (O),
Conditional-Mandatory (CM), Conditional-Optional (CO) or SS-Conditional (C)._
_\"a\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of a notification._
Yb.1.a.1 Definition
_This subclause shall be written in natural language._
_Information on traceability back to one or more requirements supported by
this notification should also be defined here, in the foll_ owing form:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-CON-23
_Optional clarification_ 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-FUN-11 _Optional
clarification_
* * *
Yb.1.a.2 Input parameters
_List of input parameters of the notification. Each element is a tuple
(Parameter Name, Qualifiers, Matching Information / Information Type (see
[10]) (Note 1) and an optional list of Legal Values supported by the
parameter, Comment)._
_The column \"Qualifiers\" contains the two qualifiers, Support Qualifier and
Filtering Qualifier, separated by a comma. The Support Qualifier indicates
whether the attribute is Mandatory (M), Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory
(CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or SS-Conditional (C)._
_This information shall be provided in a table. An example of such a table is
given h_ ere below:
+------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | Parameter Name | S | Matching | Comment | | | | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information Type / | | | | | Legal Values | | +------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | managerReference | M | ntfSubscriber.n | It specifies the | | | | tfManagerReference | reference of the | | | | / STRING / -- | consumer to which | | | | | notifications | | | | | shall be sent. | +------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | alarmType | M | AlarmInf | | | | | ormation.eventType | | | | | / ENUMERATED / | | | | | | | | | | \"Communications | | | | | Alarm\": a | | | | | communication | | | | | error alarm. | | | | | | | | | | \"Processing Error | | | | | Alarm\": a | | | | | processing error | | | | | alarm. | | | | | | | | | | \"Environmental | | | | | Alarm\": an | | | | | environmental | | | | | violation alarm. | | | | | | | | | | \"Quality Of | | | | | Service Alarm\": a | | | | | quality of service | | | | | violation alarm. | | | | | | | | | | \"Equipment | | | | | Alarm\": an alarm | | | | | related to | | | | | equipment | | | | | malfunction. | | +------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+
NOTE: Information Type qualifies the parameter of Parameter Name. In the case
where the Legal Values can be enumerated, each element is a pair (Legal Value
Name, Legal Value Semantics), unless a Legal Value Semantics applies to
several values in which case the definition can be provided only once. When
the Legal Values cannot be enumerated, the list of Legal Values is defined by
a single definition.
Yb.1.a.3 Triggering event
_The triggering event for the notification to be sent is the transition from
the information state defined by the \"from state\" subclause to the
information state defined by the \"to state\" subclause._
Yb.1.a.3.1 From state
_This subclause is a collection of assertions joined by AND, OR, and NOT
logical operators. An example is given here below:_
_alarmMatched AND alarmInformationNotCleared_
_Each assertion is defined by a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). All
assertions constituting the state \"from state\" are provided in a table. An
example of such a table is given here below:_
* * *
Assertion Name Definition alarmMatched The matching-criteria-attributes of the
newly generated network alarm has values that are identical (matches) with
ones in one AlarmInformation in AlarmList. alarmInformationNotCleared The
perceivedSeverity of the newly generated network alarm is not Cleared.
* * *
Yb.1.a.3.2 To state
_This subclause contains a collection of assertions joined by AND, OR and NOT
logical operators. When nothing is said in a to-state regarding an information
entity, the assumption is that this information entity has not changed
compared to what is stated in the from-state. An example is given here below:_
_resetAcknowledgementInformation AND perceivedSeverityUpdated_
_Each assertion is defined by a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). All
assertions constituting the state \"to state\" are provided in a table. An
example of such a table is given here below:_
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | resetAcknowledgementInformation | The matched AlarmInformation | | | identified in inv_alarmMatched | | | in pre-condition has been updated | | | according to the following | | | rule _:_ | | | | | | ackTime, ackUserId and | | | ackSystemId are updated to | | | contain no information; ackState | | | is updated to \"unacknowledged\". | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | perceivedSeverityUpdated | The perceivedSeverity attribute | | | of matched AlarmInformation | | | identified in inv_alarmMatched | | | in pre-condition has been | | | updated. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
Yb.2 Managed information
# 6 NRM Stage 3 definition rules
## 6.1 Mappings from stage 2 artefacts to stage 3 JSON schema
### 6.1.1 Usage of JSON schema
JSON schema is used to describe a set of valid schema documents sent over the
wire in HTTP request and response messages of the ProvMnS. JSON schema does
not describe the concrete implementation of the NRM on the producer.
Definitions are written in YAML.
### 6.1.2 Concrete NRM classes
A NRM class (managed object class) is represented by a JSON object. The
properties of the JSON object are the NRM class attributes and the name
contained NRM classes.
+----------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +----------------+-----------------------+ | type: object | {} | | | | | properties: {} | | +----------------+-----------------------+
In the following example the class contains an \"attributeA\" of type
\"string\" and an \"attributeB\" of type \"number\".
+--------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +--------------+-----------------------+ | type: object | attributeA: ABC | | | | | properties: | attributeB: 45 | | | | | attributeA: | | | | | | type: string | | | | | | attributeB: | | | | | | type: number | | +--------------+-----------------------+
The JSON object representing the class instance is preceded by a key equal to
the class name.
In the following example the class name is \"classA\". Attributes are omitted
for the sake of simplicity.
+--------------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +--------------------+-----------------------+ | **type: object** | **classA: {}** | | | | | **properties:** | | | | | | **classA:** | | | | | | **type: object** | | | | | | **properties: {}** | | +--------------------+-----------------------+
Multiple managed object instances of the same class are represented using a
JSON array, where each item of the array is a JSON object with a managed
object class instance representation.
+----------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +----------------+-----------------------+ | type: object | ClassA: | | | | | properties: | - {} | | | | | ClassA: | - {} | | | | | type: array | - {} | | | | | items: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: {} | | +----------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.3 Abstract classes
Abstract classes shall be defined in a \"definitions\" object and referenced
in the schema of the concrete class using the \"\$ref\" keyword.
In the following example the abstract class can be instantiated zero or one
time..
+-------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +-------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | definitions: | ClassA: {} | | | | | ClassA-Abstract: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: {} | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: | | | | | | ClassA: | | | | | | \$ref: \'#/definitions/ClassA-Abstract\' | | +-------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
In the following example the abstract class can be instantiated zero or more
times.
+-------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +-------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | definitions: | ClassA: | | | | | ClassA-Abstract: | - {} | | | | | type: object | - {} | | | | | properties: {} | - {} | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: | | | | | | ClassA: | | | | | | type: array | | | | | | items: | | | | | | \$ref: \'#/definitions/ClassA-Abstract\' | | +-------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
Abstract classes can be defined as well in separate files. Assume a file with
the name \"myDefs.json\" includes the \"definitions\" object with the
definition of \"ClassA-Abstract \".
+------------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +------------------+-----------------------+ | definitions: | | | | | | ClassA-Abstract: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: {} | | +------------------+-----------------------+
The definition of \"ClassA-Abstract \" is then referenced like
+---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | type: object | ClassA: | | | | | properties: | - {} | | | | | ClassA: | - {} | | | | | type: array | - {} | | | | | items: | | | | | | \$ref: | | | \' | | | myDefs.json#/definitions/ClassA-Abstract\' | | +---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.4 Name containment
Name contained NRM class instances are modeled as property of the containing
class. The name of the property is the class name. The value is an array with
manged object class representations of that class. Cardinality of the name
containment relationship is specified using the \"minItems\" and \"maxItems\"
keywords.
If the maximum number of items is unbounded, the \"maxItems\" keyword shall be
omitted. If the minimum number of items is 0, the \"minItems\" keyword can be
omitted.
The contained class shall not be listed as required property. This allows
omitting the property representing the contained class instances completely in
a JSON document instead of having an empty array.
In the following example an instance of \"classA\" name contains 1...1000
instances of \"classB\".
+----------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +----------------+-----------------------+ | type: object | ClassA: | | | | | properties: | - ClassB: | | | | | ClassA: | - {} | | | | | type: array | - {} | | | | | items: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: | | | | | | ClassB: | | | | | | type: array | | | | | | minItems: 1 | | | | | | maxItems: 1000 | | | | | | items: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: {} | | +----------------+-----------------------+
Managed objects class instances of more than one class can be name contained.
+----------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +----------------+-----------------------+ | type: object | ClassA: | | | | | properties: | - ClassB: | | | | | ClassA: | - {} | | | | | type: array | - {} | | | | | items: | - ClassC: | | | | | type: object | - {} | | | | | properties: | - {} | | | | | ClassB: | - {} | | | | | type: array | | | | | | items: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: {} | | | | | | ClassC: | | | | | | type: array | | | | | | items: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: {} | | +----------------+-----------------------+
The contained managed object classes may be defined as abstract classes first,
and then referenced.
+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | definitions: | ClassA: | | | | | ClassB-SingleAbstract: | - ClassB: | | | | | type: object | - {} | | | | | properties: {} | - {} | | | | | ClassC-SingleAbstract: | - ClassC: | | | | | type: object | - {} | | | | | properties: {} | - {} | | | | | type: object | - {} | | | | | properties: | | | | | | ClassA: | | | | | | type: array | | | | | | items: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: | | | | | | ClassB: | | | | | | type: array | | | | | | items: | | | | | | \$ref: \'#/definitions/ClassB-SingleAbstract\' | | | | | | ClassC: | | | | | | type: array | | | | | | items: | | | | | | \$ref: \'#/definitions/ClassC-SingleAbstract\' | | +-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
or, when the abstract class is defined as an array, then
+---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | definitions: | ClassA: | | | | | ClassB-MultipleAbstract: | - ClassB: | | | | | type: array | - {} | | | | | items: | - {} | | | | | type: object | - ClassC: | | | | | properties: {} | - {} | | | | | ClassC-MultipleAbstract: | - {} | | | | | type: array | - {} | | | | | items: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: {} | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: | | | | | | ClassA: | | | | | | type: array | | | | | | items: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: | | | | | | ClassB: | | | | | | \$ref: \'#/definitions/ClassB-MultipleAbstract\' | | | | | | ClassC: | | | | | | \$ref: \'#/definitions/ClassC-MultipleAbstract\' | | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.5 Recursive name containment
Classes may name contain themselves. This shall be modeled in JSON schema with
recursion. Recursion requires using a \"definitions\" object with the
definition of an abstract class.
In the following example each instance of \"classA\" contains zero or one
instance of \"classA\".
+-------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +-------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | definitions: | ClassA: | | | | | ClassA-Abstract: | ClassA: | | | | | type: object | ClassA: {} | | | | | properties: | | | | | | classA: | | | | | | \$ref: \'#/definitions/ClassA-Abstract\' | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: | | | | | | ClassA: | | | | | | \$ref: \'#/definitions/ClassA-Abstract\' | | +-------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
In the following example each instance of \"classA\" contains zero or more
instances of \"classA\".
+---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | definitions: | ClassA: | | | | | ClassA-MultipleAbstract: | - ClassA: | | | | | type: array | - {} | | | | | items: | - {} | | | | | type: object | - ClassA: | | | | | properties: | - ClassA: | | | | | classA: | - {} | | | | | \$ref: \'#/definitions/ClassA-MultipleAbstract\' | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: | | | | | | ClassA: | | | | | | \$ref: \'#/definitions/ClassA-MultipleAbstract\' | | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.6 Inheritance
JSON schema does not have the concept of inheritance. Inheritance can be
emulated by the composition of schemas with the \"allOf\" keyword.
In the following example the attribute \"attrB\" is added to the attribute
\"attrA\" of \"classA-Abstract\" to construct \"ClassB\".
+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | definitions: | ClassB: | | | | | ClassA-Abstract: | - attrA: ABC | | | | | type: object | attrB: 5 | | | | | properties: | - attrA: DEF | | | | | attrA: | attrB: 4 | | | | | type: string | - attrA: GHI | | | | | type: object | attrB: 23 | | | | | properties: | | | | | | ClassB: | | | | | | type: array | | | | | | items: | | | | | | allOf: | | | | | | - \$ref: \'#/definitions/ClassA-Abstract\' | | | | | | - type: object | | | | | | properties: | | | | | | attrB: | | | | | | type: number | | +----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
The other possibility is to specify the inherited attribute directly along
with the added attributes, thus having no inheritenace or any emulation
thereof in NRM stage 3 definitions.
### 6.1.7 NRM class naming attribute \"id\"
The naming attribute \"id\" is mapped to a required property of the class
object, where the key is \"id\" and the type is \"string\".
+--------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +--------------+-----------------------+ | type: object | ClassA: | | | | | properties: | - id: \'1\' | | | | | ClassA: | - id: \'2\' | | | | | type: array | - id: \'3\' | | | | | items: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: | | | | | | id: | | | | | | type: string | | | | | | required: | | | | | | - id | | +--------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.8 NRM class attributes
NRM class attributes other than the naming attribute \"id\" shall be carried
as properties in an \"attributes\" object.
+----------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +----------------+-----------------------+ | type: object | classA: | | | | | properties: | - id: \'1\' | | | | | classA: | attributes: {} | | | | | type: array | - id: \'2\' | | | | | items: | attributes: {} | | | | | type: object | - id: \'3\' | | | | | properties: | attributes: {} | | | | | id: | | | | | | type: string | | | | | | attributes: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: {} | | | | | | required: | | | | | | - id | | +----------------+-----------------------+
The class attributes are name/value pairs (properties) of the \"attributes\"
object.
### 6.1.9 Vendor specific extensions
Vendor-specific attributes shall be added to standardized JSON schemas using
the mechanism in clause 6.1.6 \"Inheritance\".
### 6.1.10 Attribute support qualifier
The attribute support qualifier is defined in clause 6 of TS 32.156 [3]. This
qualifier specifies a requirement for the MnS producer.
Attributes may or may not be present in a JSON document carried in a HTTP
request or response message, no matter what their support qualifier in the NRM
is. For this reason, no qualification is required for attributes in the JSON
schema for NRMs. By default, the properties defined by the \"properties\"
keyword are not required and can be omitted in a document instance.
However, some attributes like the \"id\" naming attribute shall be always
present when a managed object class instance is carried in a HTTP request or
response. These attributes shall be listed as array items in the value of the
\"required\" keyword.
+--------------+-----------------------+ | YAML schema | YAML document example | +--------------+-----------------------+ | type: object | classA: | | | | | properties: | - id: \'1\' | | | | | classA: | - id: \'2\' | | | | | type: array | - id: \'3\' | | | | | items: | | | | | | type: object | | | | | | properties: | | | | | | id: | | | | | | type: string | | | | | | required: | | | | | | - id | | +--------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.11 Attribute properties
#### 6.1.11.1 Introduction
The attribute properties are defined in clause 5.2.1.1 of TS 32.156 [3]. They
reflect properties of the attributes exhibited by the MnS producer. Their
purpose is not to specify requirements for the attribute when transferred over
the wire. For this reason, care should be taken when mapping attribute
properties to JSON schema keywords.
#### 6.1.11.2 Attribute property \"multiplicity\"
Attributes of scalar type with multiplicity equal to \"1\" are mapped to a
name/value pair whose value is either a number, a string or one of the literal
names false, null or true.
Attributes of scalar type with nultiplicity bigger than \"1\" are mapped to a
name/value pair whose value is a JSON array, and the array items are either a
number, a string or one of the literal names false, null or true.
Attributes of structured type with multiplicity equal to \"1\" are mapped to a
single name/value pair whose value is a JSON object, whose properties are
described by the structured data type.
Attributes of structured type with multiplicity greater than \"1\" are mapped
to a name/value pair whose value is a JSON array, and the items are JSON
objects, whose properties are described by the structured data type.
#### 6.1.11.3 Attribute property \"isUnique\"
The semantics of his attribute property is mapped to the \"uniqueItems\"
keyword with a value set to true.
properties:
flower:
type: array
uniqueItems: true
items:
type: string
#### 6.1.11.4 Attribute property \"isOrdered\"
This attribute property is a requirement for the MnS producer and not mapped
to any JSON schema keyword.
#### 6.1.11.5 Attribute property \"defaultValue\"
This attribute property is a requirement for the MnS producer and not mapped
to any JSON schema keyword.
Note: The OpenApi Specification [14] defines the \"default\" keyword. This
default value represents what would be assumed by the consumer of the input as
the value of the schema if a value is not provided in the consumed JSON
instance document. The sematics of default in the OpenApi Specification [14]
is hence different from the semantics of default in TS 32.156 [3].
#### 6.1.11.6 Attribute property \"isNullable\"
The semantics of this attribute property is mapped to the \"nullable\" keyword
with a value set to true.
Example:
properties:
flower:
type: string
nullable: true
Note: The \"nullable\" keyword is defined only in the OpenApi Specification
[14]. JSON schema as defined in [15], [16], [17] does not specify this
keyword.
#### 6.1.11.7 Attribute property \"isInvariant\"
This attribute property is a requirement for the MnS producer and not mapped
to any JSON schema keyword.
#### 6.1.11.8 Attribute property \"isReadable\" and \"isWritable\"
The semantics of these properties are mapped to the \"readOnly\" and
\"writeOnly\" keywords with the values set according to the following table.
The default value of the \"readOnly\" and \"writeOnly\" keywords is boolean
\"false\".
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Stage 2 | Stage 2 | Stage 3 | Stage 3 | | statement | semantic | statements | semantic | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | i | Attribute can | readOnly=False | Attribute can | | sReadable=True | be read. | (default) | be read. | | (default) | | | | | | Attribute can | w | Attribute can | | i | be written. | riteOnly=False | be written. | | sWritable=True | | (default) | | | (default) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | i | Attribute can | readOnly=True | Attribute can | | sReadable=True | be read. | | be read. | | (default) | | w | | | is | Attribute | riteOnly=False | Attribute | | Writable=False | cannot be | (default) | cannot be | | | written. | | written. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | is | Attribute | readOnly=False | Attribute | | Readable=False | cannot be | (default) | cannot be | | i | read. | | read. | | sWritable=True | | writeOnly=True | | | (default) | Attribute can | | Attribute can | | | be written. | | be written. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | is | Attribute | readOnly=True | Attribute | | Readable=False | cannot be | | cannot be | | is | read. | writeOnly=True | read. | | Writable=False | | | | | | Attribute | | Attribute | | | cannot be | | cannot be | | | written. | | written. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
If \"writeOnly\" for an attribute has a value of boolean \"true\", it
indicates that the attribute shall never be present in instance documents sent
by the MnS producer to the MnS consumer.
If \"readOnly\" for an attribute has a value of boolean \"true\", it indicates
that the attribute shall never be present in instance documents sent by the
the MnS consumer to the MnS producer.
Example:
properties:
flower:
type: string
readOnly: true
writeOnly: false
#### 6.1.11.9 Attribute property \"isNotifyable\"
This attribute property is a requirement for the MnS producer and not mapped
to any JSON schema keyword.
#### 6.1.11.10 Attribute property \"allowedValues\"
Allowed values for \"string\" are specified using the \"minLength\",
\"maxLength\" and \"pattern\" keywords.
Allowed values for \"number\" and \"integer\" are specified using the
\"multipleOf\", \"maximum\", \"exclusiveMaximum\", \"minimum\" and
\"exclusiveMinimum\" keywords.
Allowed values of any type can be restricted by using the \"enum\" and
\"const\" keywords.
## 6.2 Stage 3 YANG style and example
The next clause defines general rules for YANG modules. The following clauses
specify how specific Stage to constructs should be mapped to YANG. Each clause
may include the following clauses:
\- The clause of Reference [3] for which mapping is specified.
\- An example model that will be mapped.
\- Mapping rules.
\- An example of the resulting YANG statements.
### 6.2.1 General Modeling Rules
#### 6.2.1.1 Modeling Resources
Resources shall be modeled as YANG data nodes (leaf, leaf-list, container,
list) instead of Classes and Attributes. Specific operations shall be modelled
as YANG actions.
#### 6.2.1.2 Unique YANG Module names
The names of 3GPP YANG modules shall start with the \"_3gpp\" prefix.
#### 6.2.1.3 Unique YANG Namespace
The namespace of a 3GPP YANG module\'s namespace shall have the following
form:
urn:3gpp:saX:\
saX denotes the group creating the relevant YANG model e.g. \"sa5\"
Reference: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8407#section-4.9 [11].
#### 6.2.1.4 Unique YANG Module Prefixes
3GPP YANG Modules shall use prefixes ending with \"3gpp\". Prefixes should be
short preferably not longer than 10 characters.
e.g. prefix nrmtype -> prefix nrmtype3gpp
Note: To ensure that the prefix (in the yang prefix statement) is globally
unique a prefix-suffix is used. While global uniqueness of prefixes is not
mandatory most SW implementations have problems and need workarounds in case
conflicting prefixes are found.
#### 6.2.1.5 Use YANG Version 1.1
YANG version 1.1 shall be used.
#### 6.2.1.6 YANG Constructs Not to be Used -- Not needed
The following YANG constructs shall not be used in 3GPP YANG models as they
are not available in the Stage 2 modeling terminology, thus not needed.
\- Anydata
\- AnyXml
\- Rpc -- use actions instead
\- Deviation
#### 6.2.1.7 Reuse Standards from Other Standard Organizations
Whenever there is a suitable existing standard from another standard
organization or industry forum its usage should be preferred before defining a
3GPP model covering the same scope. E.g. ietf-types, ietf-inet-types
3GPP models shall link to and reference YANG models from other standard
organizations/industry forum whenever applicable.
#### 6.2.1.8 Vendor Specific Model Changes
Vendors shall not modify 3GPP YANG modules either by changing the original
file or by adding vendor specific YANG modules that contain deviations
targeting parts of a 3GPP module. Only the following exceptions are allowed
from the above rule:
\- Deviations that maintain backwards compatibility as defined in RFC 7950
[18] are allowed
\- Marking as \"not supported\" any model element that is optional to support
as defined by the 3GPP stage 2 supportQualifier is allowed.
Vendors extensions shall be done in separate YANG modules; they do not impact
compliance.
#### 6.2.1.9 Model Correctness, checking
3GPP YANG modules shall be checked with the pyang tool. See: PYANG an
extensible YANG validator and converter
The \"pyang ---strict\" command shall be run with no errors returned.
\"pyang ---lint\" should also be run against all 3GPP YANG modules. Errors and
warning produced by the \"pyang --lint\" checks should be removed. However, as
these errors/warnings do not affect the corretness or functionality of the
YANG module, and in some cases the changes needed to remove them would
actually degrade readability, it is not a required to remove the
errors/warnings produced by the \"pyang --lint\".
#### 6.2.1.10 YANG modules in technical specifications
When YANG modules are listed in Technical specifications, they shall always be
listed with their revisions in the format _3gpp-module-xyz\@2019-12-24.yang.
If a module's text is included in a technical specification, each YANG module
shall be contained in a separate clause. The clause's title shall not include
the revision date of the module.
To facilitate automatic code extraction from the MS Word specification the
module's first statement shall:
\- start with the keyword \"module\" in the first place (no whitespace allowed
before it on the line).
\- followed by a single space.
\- followed by the name of the module.
\- followed by a single space and an opening curly bracket \"{\".
All following lines shall be indented at least with two spaces.
The modules last closing curly bracket \"}\" shall be in the first place (no
whitespace allowed before it on the line) with nothing else on the same line.
#### 6.2.1.11 Module header statements
A module's organization and description statements shall be present. The
organization shall include the string \"3GPP\".
A module shall contain the following contact statement:
contact \"https://www.3gpp.org/DynaReport/TSG-WG--S5--
officials.htm?Itemid=464;\"
#### 6.2.1.12 Provide description and reference statements
A \"description\" statement should be present for each YANG schema node. As an
exception: for individual leafs, leaf-lists, enums, case statements, typedef
statements, where the schema node's name describes the node sufficiently, the
\"description\" may be omitted.
A \"reference\"substatement to the module statement shall be present that
specifies the technical specification where the YANG module is defined. In
order to easily list with a "grep" command YANG modules belonging to a
specific technical specification, the format of the first line of this
reference statement shall start exactly with:
\- new-line followed by
\- the string ' reference "3GPP TS '
(that is 2 leading spaces + reference + 1 space + a double quote + 3GPP TS + 1
more space) followed by
\- the number of the technical specification.
E.g.\" reference \"3GPP TS 28.622\".
#### 6.2.1.13 YANG module revisions
A separate \"revision\" statement shall be present for each published version
of a module. The revision statement shall contain a reference substatement
listing the numbers of all 3GPP change requests and any other documents that
resulted in the creation of the new revision.
**Example:**
revision 1956-10-13 {
reference "CR-0258, CR-0267";}
NOTE: Void.
If multiple change requests modify the new revision of a YANG module, the
content of the reference substatements should be merged.
#### 6.2.1.14 Don't use YANG statements with their default meaning
YANG statements config, mandatory, max-elements, min-elements, ordered-by,
status, yin-element have a specific meaning even if they are absent. The
default meaning for these statements should not be explicitly declared in a
YANG Module.
E.g. if the mandatory statement is missing that is equivalent to the situation
where \"mandatory false\" is specified; it does not change the meaning of the
YANG module, it just makes it longer.
#### 6.2.1.15 Formatting YANG modules/submodules
YANG modules are part of the end-user documentation so to enhance readability
the following guidelines should be followed. The guidelines are important as
YANG files are often compared and processed as simple text files by SW tools.
\- YANG modules should not contain lines longer then 80 characters. (YANG
files are often read by the end-users as-is, and reading files with long lines
is problematic.)
\- A line in a YANG should not contain whitespace (space, tab) immediately
before the end of a line or at the end of the file after the last non-blank
line. Additional whitespace will confuse tooling when comparing different
versions of the YAM.
\- Instead of tabs consecutive spaces (a.k.a. soft-tabs) should be used. As
different editors use different length tabs (2,4,8 characters long) the
indentation of the module might become messed up. Using mixed indentation
(both hard-tabs and spaces) is especially problematic.
\- In order to avoid long lines the normal indentation should be 2 spaces.
\- YANG files should not use characters outside the US-ASCII character set
unless there is a specific need for it.
\- End-of-line separator SHALL use only a single Newline without a Carriage-
Return character.
### 6.2.2 InformationObjectClass -- abstract
#### 6.2.2.1 Introduction
Reference [3] clause 5.4.2
#### 6.2.2.2 YANG mapping
An abstract class shall be mapped to a \"grouping\". The name of the
\"grouping\" will be \Grp. The \"grouping\" shall contain all
attributes of the class. The naming attribute shall only be contained as a
YANG comment, because all other attributes will be contained in a YANG \"non-
presence container\" named \"attributes\", however the \"key leaf\" is
contained immediately by the \"list\", it cannot be inside a child
\"container\".
// abstract class MyClass_
grouping MyClass_Grp {
// contains all contained attributes
// the leaf of the namingAttribute is either not included or
// included only as a comment not as a real definition
// leaf id {
// type string;
// description \"naming attribute of the IOC\";
// }
leaf attribute1 {..}
leaf-list attribute2 {..}
}
### 6.2.3 Naming attribute
#### 6.2.3.1 Introduction
Reference [3] clause 3.1
#### 6.2.3.2 Yang mapping
The \"leaf\" that is mapped from the naming attribute shall be used in the
YANG \"key\" statement. This is usually called \"id\" as defined in the Top_
class in TS 28.620 Umbrella Information Model (UIM), clause 4.3.8.
### 6.2.4 InformationObjectClass -- concrete
#### 6.2.4.0 Introduction
Reference [3] clause 5.3.2
#### 6.2.4.1 YANG mapping
A concrete class shall be mapped to a \"list\" that \"uses\" a \"grouping\".
The \"grouping\" shall be named \Grp. It shall contain all attributes
of the class in the same manner as the \"grouping\" for an abstract class. The
\"list\" shall be named \. The NamingAttribute shall be used as a
key. All other attributes shall be placed inside a \"container\" named
\"attributes\". The \"container attributes\" will facilitate asking for all
attributes of an object instance with a simple subtree or XPath filter.
//concrete class
grouping MyConcreteClassGrp {
// contains all attributes in the same manner as
// a grouping for abstract class
}
list MyConcreteClass {
key namingAttribute; // usually named 'id'
leaf namingAttribute {...}
container attributes {
uses MyConcreteClassGrp ;
}
//YANG lists representing contained classes
}
### 6.2.5 Generalization relationship - inheritance from another class
#### 6.2.5.1 Introduction
Reference [3] clause 5.2.5
Example model: Class MyManagedFunction inherits from class ManagedFunction.
#### 6.2.5.2 YANG mapping
Generalization/Inheritance relationships are mapped to the inheriting class
using the \"grouping\" of the inherited class in its own \"grouping\".
// Inheritance
grouping ManagedFunctionGrp {
// Attributes of ManagedFunction
}
grouping MyManagedFunctionGrp {
uses ManagedFunctionGrp;
//additional attributes
}
list MyManagedFunction {
key id;
leaf id {}
container attributes {
uses MyManagedFunctionGrp;
}
}
### 6.2.6 Name containment
#### 6.2.6.1 Introduction
Reference [3] clause 5.2.4 - Composite aggregation association relationship
Example model: The classes ManagedElement and MyClass are defined in YANG
module TS1. According to the stage2 definition ManagedElement contains
MyClass.Another YANG module (TS2) defines class GnodeB. According to the
stage2 definition ManagedElement contains GnodeB.
#### 6.2.6.2 YANG mapping
The containment of classes defined in the same YANG module is mapped as
embedded \"lists\".
Containment of classes defined in different YANG modules is mapped using the
\"augment\" statement.
// Class containment
module TS1 {
grouping MyClassGrp {
// subnetwork attributes
}
grouping ManagedElementGrp {
// managedElement attributes
}
list ManagedElement {
key id;
leaf id {}
attributes {
use ManagedElementGrp;
}
list MyClass {
key id;
leaf id {}
attributes {
uses MyClassGrp;
}
}
// place to insert/augment managedFunctions e.g. EnodeB
}
}
module TS2 {
import _TS1 { prefix ts1; };
grouping GNodeBGrp {
// GNodeB attributes
}
augment /ts1:ManagedElement {
list GNodeB {
key id;
leaf id {}
attributes {
uses GNodeBGrp;
}
// lists representing child classes in the same module
}
}
}
### 6.2.7 Recursive containment - reference based solution
The NRM information object class stage 2 definition contains one case where a
class contains itself (so called recursive containment): the It is the
SubNetwork class.
The name containment that a class has with itself in the stage 2 definition
shall be modeled using a pair of \"leaf-list\" references between the
instances of the class. The references shall be named \"leaf-list parents
{...}\" and \"leaf-list containedChildren {...}\". Note the 2 reference
\"leaf-lists\" should be defined directly under the \"list\" defining the
class not in its \"grouping\" because the \"path\" statements are specific to
each class, so the \"leaf-lists\" must not be inherited.
> list SubNetwork {
>
> key id;
>
> leaf id {..}
>
> container attributes {
>
> uses SubNetworkGrp;
>
> leaf-list parents {
>
> description \"Reference to all containg SubNetwork instances
>
> in strict order from the root subnetwork down to the immediate
>
> parent subnetwork.
>
> If subnetworks form a containment hierarchy this is
>
> modeled using references between the child SubNetwork and the parent
>
> SubNetworks.
>
> This reference MUST NOT be present for the top level SubNetwork and
>
> MUST be present for other SubNetworks.\";
>
> type leafref {
>
> path \"../../../SubNetwork/id\";
>
> }
>
> }
>
> leaf-list containedChildren{
>
> description \"Reference to all directly contained SubNetwork instances.
>
> If subnetworks form a containment hierarchy this is
>
> modeled using references between the child SubNetwork and the parent
>
> SubNetwork.\";
>
> type leafref {
>
> path \"../../../SubNetwork/id\";
>
> }
>
> }
>
> }
The following instance data example shows how the reference values specify the
SubNetwork hierarchy:
> Top level: subnet=root
>
> \| \ +----------------+
>
> \| +--------+ \|
>
> \| \| \|
>
> Level 1: subnet=A1 subnet=B1 subnet=C1
>
> \| \ +----------------+
>
> \| +--------+ \|
>
> \| \| \|
>
> Level 2: subnet=A2 subnet=B2 subnet=C2
>
> \| \ +----------------+
>
> \| +--------+ \|
>
> \| \| \|
>
> Level 3: subnet=A3 subnet=B3 subnet=C3
>
> Top level: id=root parents=null containedChildren= A1,B1,C1
>
> Level 1: id=A1,(B1,C1) parents=root containedChildren = A2,B2,C2
>
> Level 2: id=A2,(B2,C2) parents=root,A1 containedChildren = A3,B3,C3
>
> Level 3: id=A3,(B3,C3) parents=root,A1,A2 containedChildren = A4,B4
When reading/writing self-contained classes only the last such class instance
needs to be specified in the Netconf request as that uniquely identifies the
exact instance. The following Netconf request could be used to retrieve all
attributes of SubNetwork=root, SubNetwork=A1, SubNetwork=B2, NRFrequency=22
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\B2\
\
\22\
\
\
\
\
\
There is no need to specify the ancestors SubNetwork=root, SubNetwork=A1 as
any subNetwork can be addressed directly.
### 6.2.8 Multi-root management tree
YANG supports multi-rooted managed models natively; the standardized IETF
models have many root \"list\"/\"container\" nodes.
### 6.2.9 Alternative containment
Stage 2 models allows multiple different name-containment hierarchies. A
particular name-containment hierarchy implemented by a specific vendor/product
can be discovered in run-time, by reading the content of the ietf-yang-library
and the ietf-yang-schema mount modules.
YANG provides multiple possible methods to model alternative containment
hierarchies.
In cases where the number of YANG modules affected by the alternative
containment is small, the use of a feature-controlled augmentation is
proposed.
augment \"/SubNetwork\" {
if-feature ExternalsUnderSubNetwork ;
uses ExternalNRCellCUWrapper;
}
In cases where the number of YANG modules affected by the alternative
containment is large (cca. more than 8), the following mapping is proposed
(using the optional containment of SubNetwork and ManagedElement as an
example):
\- If the ManagedElement is a root class, no further documentation or
implementation steps are required.
\- If the ManagedElement shall be contained under Subnetwork it shall be
mounted under the SubNetwork \"list\" using the YANG schema mount mechanism as
described in RFC8528.[13]
Mounted schemas will appear in Netconf, the CLI and management GUIs as if they
were part of a common containment hierarchy.
Yang Schema Mount provides vendor the flexibility of arranging the containment
tree in accordance of operator intention, and provides a way for a consumer to
discover the actual mount and containment hierarchy in run-time.
### 6.2.10 Attribute -- simple, single value
#### 6.2.10.1 Introduction
Reference TS 32.156 [3] clause 5.2.1
The multiplicity of the attribute is either 0..1 or 1..1. Whether zero is
allowed is defined by the isNullable=true/false property.
#### 6.2.10.2 YANG Mapping
Non-structured single value attributes are mapped to a \"leaf\".
// attribute single value, nonstructured
leaf myAttribute { type xxx; }
### 6.2.11 Attribute -- simple, multivalue
#### 6.2.11.1 Introduction
Reference [3] clause 5.2.1
The multiplicity of the attribute may be greater than 1.
#### 6.2.11.2 YANG mapping
If the attribute is isUnique=true or isWritable=false it is mapped to a leaf-
list.
If the attribute is isUnique=false and isWritable=true map it to a list with
an additional dummy index. The name of the list shall be \Wrap.
The name of the dummyIndex shall be idx and shall have a type uint32 or
uint64.
// Attribute multivalue, non-structured
// attribute is unique or read-only
leaf-list mySimpleMultivalueAttribute1 { type xxx; }
// attribute is non-unique and read-write
list mySimpleMultivalueAttribute2Wrap {
key idx;
leaf idx { type uint32 ; }
leaf mySimpleMultivalueAttribute2 {type xxx;}
### 6.2.12 Attribute, structured
#### 6.2.12.0 Introduction
Reference TS 32.156 [3] clause 5.2.1
#### 6.2.12.1 YANG Mapping
Structured attributes are mapped to a grouping containing member parts; and a
list using the grouping. (Structured attributes that are not used in multiple
places may define the member parts directly in the list.)
// attribute, structured, isUnique=true OR isWritable=false
grouping pLMNIdGrp {
description \"PLMN-Id= Mobile Country Codes (MCC) &
Mobile Network Codes(MNC)\";
leaf MCC {
type t_mcc;
}
leaf MNC {
type t_mnc;
}
}
list pLMNIdList {
key \"MCC MNC\";
config true;
description \"a list of PLMN-Ids\";
ordered-by user;
uses pLMNIdGrp;
}
// attribute, structured, isUnique=false, isWritable=true
list pLMNIdList {
key \"idx\";
leaf idx { type uint32 ; };
leaf member1 { type xxx ; }
leaf member2 { type yyy ; }
}
If the attribute is isUnique=true in YANG all member parts should be specified
as keys. If it is known that one or a subset of members are unique without
considering the rest of the members, it is allowed to specify only the unique
subset as keys.
If the attribute is isUnique=false and isWritable=false, the YANG \"key\"
statement is not used. YANG allows defining ReadOnly lists without a key.
If the attribute is isUnique=false and isWritable=true an additional dummy
index shall be defined in YANG. The name of the dummyIndex shall be idx and
shall have a type uint32 or uint64.
### 6.2.13 defaultValue
#### 6.2.13.1 Introduction
Reference TS 32.156 [3] clause 5.2.1.1.
The 3GPP/UML defaultValue has a different meaning then the YANG \"default\"
statement.
The 3GPP defaultValue could be considered an initialValue as it has effect
only at object creation. If the attribute is later deleted the 3GPP
defaultValue has no effect. In YANG the \"default\" is always used whenever a
leaf/leaf-list does not have a value: both at creation of the parent object
and if the leaf/leaf-list is deleted (set to null in 3GPP operation).
Note: The 3GPP defaultValue is not used for structured attributes. In YANG
there is no default value for containers or list entries.
#### 6.2.13.2 YANG mapping
For a simple isNullable=false attribute use the YANG \"default\" statement.
For a simple isNullable=true attribute map the 3GPP defaultValue to the 3GPP
YANG \"yext3gpp:initial-value\", extension. (Defined in the _3gpp-yang-
extensions module). The initial-value property should also be included in the
data node's \"description\" statement.
Note 1: For simple attributes that are isUnique=false and isWriteable=true
that are mapped to YANG lists neither the YANG default nor the
\"yext3gpp:initial-value\", statement can be used. The 3GPP default shall be
documented only in the description text.
Note 2: extensions are not understood or enforced by standard YANG tools, they
need extra SW implementation.
### 6.2.14 multiplicity and cardinality
#### 6.2.14.0 Introduction
Reference TS 32.156 [3] clause 5.2.1.1
Reference TS 32.156 [3] clause 5.2.8
#### 6.2.14.1 YANG mapping
Multiplicity of attributes mapped to a list or leaf-list shall be mapped to
the \"min-elements\" and \"max-elements\" YANG statements.
Cardinality for containment of classes shall be mapped to \"min-elements\" and
\"max-elements\" on the list representing the child objects.
Cardinality for reference relationships shall be mapped to \"min-elements\"
and \"max-elements\" on the reference attributes representing the reference.
### 6.2.15 isNullable
#### 6.2.15.0 Introduction
Reference TS 32.156 [3] clause 5.2.1.1
#### 6.2.15.1 YANG mapping
isNullable=true for attributes that are mapped to a leaf shall be mapped to a
\"mandatory false;\" YANG statement.
isNullable=false for attributes that are mapped to a leaf shall be mapped to a
\"mandatory true;\" YANG statement.
isNullable=true for an attribute that is mapped to a list or leaf-lists shall
be mapped to \"min-elements X; (where X is greater than zero.)
isNullable=true for an attribute that is mapped to a list or leaf-lists shall
be mapped to \"min-elements 0;\". However if the minimum multiplicity of the
attribute is greater than zero then an additional \"must\" statement shall be
added forbidding any multiplicity values between 1 and the minimum
multiplicity (but allowing zero and the minimum).
Note: YANG/Netconf does not differentiate between a non-existent (NULL)
sequence and a sequence with zero elements. However this distinction would be
very confusing for the operator, so better not use it.
### 6.2.16 dataType
#### 6.2.16.0 Introduction
Reference TS 32.156 [3] clause 5.3.4
Reference TS 32.156 [3] clause 5.4.3
#### 6.2.16.1 YANG mapping
Mapping for predefined datatypes shall be the following:
\- integer -> One of the 8 YANG integer types
\- string - > string
\- Boolean -> Boolean
3GPP user-defined datatypes shall be mapped to the YANG \"typedef\" statement.
### 6.2.17 enumeration
#### 6.2.17.0 Introduction
Reference TS 32.156 [3] clause 5.3.5
#### 6.2.17.1 YANG mapping
The 3GPP enumeration datatype shall be mapped to the YANG \"enumeration\" YANG
type.
### 6.2.18 choice
#### 6.2.18.0 Introduction
Reference TS 32.156 [3] clause 5.3.6
#### 6.2.18.1 YANG mapping
The 3GPP choice stereotype shall be mapped to a Yang \"choice\" statement.
### 6.2.19 isInvariant on attribute
Reference [Error: Reference source not found] clause 5.2.1.1
#### 6.2.19.1 YANG mapping
Attributes with the property isWritable=false shall be mapped to YANG \"config
false;\" leafs/leaf-lists/lists. Config=false nodes are controlled by the
system. The user cannot change them at all; isInvariant=true is implied.
Attributes with the properties isWritable=true AND isInvariant=false shall be
mapped to YANG \"config true;\" leafs/leaf-lists/lists.
Attributes with the properties isWritable=true AND isInvariant=true shall be
mapped to YANG \"config true;\" leafs/leaf-lists/lists marked with the
\"yext3gpp:isInvariant\" extension defined in the YANG module _3gpp-common-
yang-extensions.yang in 3GPP TS 28.632.
NOTE: The combination of isInvariant=true AND isWritable=true can not be
represented in YANG. YANG does not differentiate between the initial setting
and a subsequent changing of an attribute. 3GPP defined the invariant
extension statement to mark this 3GPP property. Generally, extensions are not
understood or enforced by standard YANG tools, they need extra SW
implementation.
### 6.2.20 isReadable/isWritable
Reference [Error: Reference source not found] clause 5.2.1.1
#### 6.2.20.1 YANG mapping
isReadable=false attributes can not be represented in YANG. Assumed not to be
a problem. A YANG extension could be defined to handle it if needed.
Attributes with the properties isReadable=true AND isWritable=false shall be
mapped to YANG config=false leafs/leaf-lists/lists. As config=false is
inherited down the containment tree, it should not be placed on each leaf,
leaf-list, etc. once the containing list/container is marked config false;
Attributes with the properties isReadable=true AND isWritable=true shall be
mapped to YANG config=true leafs/leaf-lists/lists. \"config true;\" should not
be explicitly declared as that is the default case.
### 6.2.21 isOrdered
Reference [Error: Reference source not found] clause 5.2.1.1
#### 6.2.21.1 YANG mapping
The property isOrdered=true shall be mapped to the \"ordered-by user ;\" YANG
statement.
### 6.2.22 isUnique
Reference [Error: Reference source not found] clause 5.2.1.1
#### 6.2.22.1 YANG mapping
The property isUnique=True shall be mapped to the YANG \"unique\" statement.
Leaf-list are always unique in YANG, no marking needed.
### 6.2.23 allowedValues
Reference [Error: Reference source not found] clause 5.2.1.1
#### 6.2.23.1 YANG mapping
For attributes with a type=integer or a user-defined type based on integers
allowedValues shall be mapped to a YANG \"range\" statement with specific
values.
For attributes with a type=string or a user-defined type based on string
allowedValues shall be mapped either to an enumerated YANG type or to a sting
with alternatives defined using the YANG \"pattern\" statement.
For attributes with a type=enumeration or a user-defined type based on
enumeration allowedValues shall be mapped to a YANG enumeration type
restricted with YANG \"enum\" substatements.
(https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7950#section-9.6.3)
### 6.2.24 Xor constraint
Reference [Error: Reference source not found] clause 5.2.10
#### 6.2.24.1 YANG mapping
Model elements with a Xor constraint shall be mapped to the YANG \"choice\"
statement.
### 6.2.25 ProxyClass
Reference [Error: Reference source not found] clause 5.3.1
#### 6.2.25.1 YANG mapping
A proxyclass is not directly mapped to YANG. A proxyclass represents a number
of specific classes. Attributes, links, methods (or operations), and
interactions that are present in the proxyclass shall be modelled in the
represented specific classes.
### 6.2.26 SupportQualifier
#### 6.2.26.1 Introduction
Reference [3] clause 6 - Qualifiers
#### 6.2.26.2 YANG mapping
SupportQualifier=M is the default case in YANG so it needs no mapping.
SupportQualifier=O shall be mapped the same way as SupportQualifier=M. Just
like in the other solution sets the supportQualifier shall not be directly
visible in the 3GPP Stage 3 YANG model. The support is indicated the following
way:
> \- If the vendor supports an optional item, there is no further modeling
> needed
\- If the vendor does not support the optional item, it needs to create a
separate vendor specific YANG module and include a "deviation" statement in it
formally declaring the non-supported parts. A single YANG module may contain
any number of deviations. E.g.:
deviation /ManagedElement/attributes/optionalAttribute {deviate not-
supported;}
SupportQualifier=CO {if the item is not supported) is mapped the same way as a
not supported SupportQualifier=O item.
SupportQualifier=CM & CO (if item is supported) shall be mapped as a
SupportQualifier=M item, also considering the following:
> \- if the condition can be expressed with XPATH, an additional \"when\"
> statement shall be used.
\- otherwise make the data node non-mandatory and define the condition in the
description statement.
### 6.2.27 isNotifyable
#### 6.2.27.1 Introduction
Reference TS 32.156 [3] clause 5.2.1.1
#### 6.2.27.2 YANG mapping
Attributes that are isNotifyable=False shall be marked with the
\"yext3gpp:notNotifiable\" YANG extension statement defined in the YANG module
_3gpp-common-yang-extensions.yang.
Attributes that are isNotifyable=True shall not be marked in any way, as it is
a default case.
#