# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.301: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Requirements
**32.302: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)**
32.303: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set
(SS)
32.305: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point **(IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definition**
32.307: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) Solution Set (SS)
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of Integration Reference Points
(IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which realise the functional
capabilities over this interface. The basic structure of the IRPs is defined
in 3GPP TS 32.101 [5] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [6].
Network Elements (NEs) under management and element managers generate
notifications of events about occurrences within the network. Different kinds
of events carry different kinds of information. For instance a new alarm as
specified in Alarm IRP: Information Service [1], is one possible kind of
event, an object creation as specified in Basic CM IRP: Information Service
[8] is another possible kind of event.
Information of an event is carried in notification. An IRPAgent (typically an
EM or a NE) emits notifications. IRPManager (typically a network management
system) receives notifications. The purpose of Notification IRP is to define
an interface through which an IRPManager can subscribe to IRPAgent for
receiving notifications.
This IRP bases its design on work captured in ITU-T Recommendation X.734 [2],
OMG Notification Service [4]. The central design ideas are:
\- Separation of notification Consumers (IRPManagers) from Producers
(IRPAgents);
\- Notifications are sent to IRPManagers without the need for IRPManagers to
periodically check for new notifications.
Common characteristics related to notifications in all other IRPs are gathered
in one IRP.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of Notification IRP is to define an interface through which an
IRPManager can subscribe to an IRPAgent for receiving notifications. The
present document is the \"Information Service\" of Notification IRP. It
defines, for the purpose of subscribing to an IRPAgent for receiving
notifications, the information observable and controlled by management
system\'s client and it also specifies the semantics of the interactions used
to carry this information. It also defines the information common to all
notifications which is called the notificationHeader.
An IRPAgent supporting this IRP IS may emit one or multiple categories of
notifications, such as alarms (as specified in Alarm IRP: Information Service
[1]) and others. This IRP IS defines a mechanism that IRPManager can use to
determine the categories of notifications supported by an IRPAgent. It also
defines a mechanism (subscribe and unsubscribe operations) that IRPManager can
use to specify the categories of notifications IRPAgent should emit to
IRPManager during subscription. It also defines a mechanism
(getSubscriptionIds operation) that IRPManager can use to check which
categories of notifications it has subscribed to. IRPManager can set and
change filter criteria applicable during the life-cycle of a subscription.
IRPManager can also exercise flow-control on IRPAgent\'s emission of
notifications (suspendSubscription and resumeSubscription operations).
Using different managerReference, an IRPManager can subscribe several times.
It will result in multiple subscriptions. As far as IRPAgent is concerned,
notifications are sent to multiple \"places\".
Using the same managerReference, an IRPManager can subscribe several times
specifying different categories of notifications.
This IRP IS does not specify information that is carried in some but not all
notifications. That kind of information is specified in other IRP ISs
involved. For example, perceivedSeverity is a piece of information specific
for notifications carrying alarm information. This information is not defined
in the present document but in Alarm IRP: Information Service [1].
How IRPManager discovers the IRPAgent\'s address or reference (so that
IRPManager can invoke an operation) is outside the scope of the present
document.
This IRP IS is aligned with ITU-T M.3702 [13] in terms of the definitions of
operations for Notification management.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation X.734 (1992): \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems management: Event report management function\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[4] Void
[5] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.301: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] Void.
[10] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[13] ITU-T M.3702 (01/2012): "Telecommunication Management, Including TMN and
Network Maintenance; Integrated services digital networks; Common management
services -- Notification management -- Protocol neutral requirements and
analysis".
[14] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [14], 3GPP TS 32.101 [5], 3GPP TS 32.102 [6] and 3GPP TS 32.301
[7] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[14], 3GPP TS 32.101 [5], 3GPP TS 32.102 [6] and 3GPP TS 32.301 [7].
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [6].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [6].
**event:** it is an occurrence that is of significance to network operators,
the NEs under surveillance and network management applications\ Events can
indicate many types of network management information, such as network alarms,
network configuration change information and network performance data.
**notification:** it refers to the transport of information regarding events
from event producer to consumer (receiver)\ In this IRP, notification is used
to carry information about network events from IRPAgent to IRPManager.
Producer sends notifications to consumers as soon as new events occur.
Consumer does not need to check (\"pull\") for events.
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [6].
**notification category:** The semantics and syntax of the notification
category string are identical to that defined for "IRP document version number
string", see 3GPP TS 32.311 [11] subclause 3.1.
**qualifiers:** the meaning of qualifiers for operations, parameters and
information attributes (whether they are Mandatory(M)/ Conditional(C)/
Optional(O)) defined in the present (Information Service) document is provided
in 3GPP TS 32.102 [6].\ Moreover, qualifiers of information attributes, when
those information attributes are re-used in other IRP ISs, obey to the
following rule: Mandatory and Conditional qualifiers of information attributes
shall always be the same in other IRPs ISs, Optional qualifiers of information
attributes may be set to either Optional or Mandatory in the other IRP ISs.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [14] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [14].
CM Configuration Management
DN Distinguished Name
IOC Information Object Class
NM Network Manager
SS Solution Set
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [12] subclause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
figure 1 and figure 2.
Figure 1: System Context A
Figure 2: System Context B
# 5 Information Object Classes
## 5.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.312 [10], Support IOC,
ManagedGenericIRP ManagedGenericIRP
* * *
## 5.2 Class Diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This subclause depicts the set of Support IOCs that encapsulate information
within the notification IRP. The intent is to identify the information
required for the notification IRP implementation of its operations and
notification emission. This subclause provides the overview of all Support
IOCs in UML. Subsequent subclauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these Support IOCs.
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="2.576388888888889in"}
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between
Support IOCs.
{width="1.5597222222222222in" height="2.0965277777777778in"}
## 5.3 Information object classes definition
### 5.3.1 NtfSubscriber
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
This Support IOC represents a Subscriber from a notification IRP perspective :
a subscriber is fully identified by a manager reference. An IRPManager using
multiple managerReference attributes to subscribe will result in multiple
NtfSubscriber instances.
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
ntfManagerReference M M M
* * *
### 5.3.2 NtfSubscription
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
This Support IOC represents a subscription that has been requested by an
IRPManager and created.
#### 5.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
ntfSubscriptionId M M - ntfSubscriptionState M M M ntfTimeTick M M M
ntfTimeTickTimer M - - ntfNotificationCategorySet M M M ntfFilter M M M
* * *
#### 5.3.2.3 State diagram
The diagram below depicts states that can be supported by a NtfSubscription.
{width="6.520138888888889in" height="4.981944444444444in"}
NotificationIRP can lose the list of managerReference that identifies current
IRPManagers under subscription. Under this condition, IRPAgent is incapable of
sending events to the affected subscriber(s).
This Notification IRP recommends that IRPManager should invoke the
getSubscriptionStatus operation periodically to confirm that IRPAgent still
has the IRPManager\'s reference in its list. In case getSubscriptionStatus
returns the exception operation_failed, IRPManager should assume that IRPAgent
has lost the IRPManager\'s reference.
This IRP does not recommend the frequency IRPManager should use to invoke
getSubscriptionStatus operation.
### 5.3.3 NotificationIRP
#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
This Support IOC represents a notification IRP. It inherits from Support IOC
ManagedGenericIRP.
## 5.4 Information relationship definitions
### 5.4.1 relation-ntfSubscriber-ntfSubscription (M)
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This relationship defines the relationship between a NtfSubscriber and its
current subscriptions.
#### 5.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theNtfSubscriber This role represents the one who has
subscribed. It can be played by instances of Support IOC NtfSubscriber
theNtfSubscription This role represents the subscriptions which were made and
not unsubscribed. It can be played by instances of Support IOC NtfSubscription
* * *
#### 5.4.1.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition inv_notificationCategoriesAllDistinct The notification
categories contained in the ntfNotificationCategorySet attribute of
NtfSubscription playing the role theNtfSubscription are all distinct from each
other.
* * *
### 5.4.2 relation-ntfIRP-ntfSubscriber (M)
#### 5.4.2.1 Definition
This relationship defines the relationship between the NotificationIRP and the
current subscribers of notifications.
#### 5.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theNtfSubscriber This role represents the entities to which
IRPAgent will notify events. It is played by instances of Support IOC
NtfSubscriber theNotificationIRP This role represents the NotificationIRP to
which an IRPManager has subscribed. It is played by instances of Support IOC
NotificationIRP
* * *
#### 5.4.2.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition inv_uniqueManagerReference All NtfSubscriber involved in the
subscriptionRegistration relationship with NotificationIRP are distinguished
from each other by their ntfManagerReference Attribute.
* * *
## 5.5 Information attribute definitions
This subclause defines the semantics of the Attributes used in Support IOCs.
### 5.5.1 Definitions and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ntfSubscriptionId | It identifies | N/A | | | uniquely a | | | | subscription | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ntfSubscriptionState | It indicates the | \"suspended\": the | | | activation state of | subscription is | | | a subscription | suspended | | | | | | | | \"notSuspended\": | | | | the subscription is | | | | active | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ntfTimeTick | this Attribute | Integer greater or | | | represents the | equal to 15, OR | | | initial value of | special infinite | | | ntfTimeTickTimer. It | value | | | is in unit of whole | | | | minute. This value | | | | defines a time | | | | window within which | | | | IRPManager intends | | | | to invoke | | | | g | | | | etSubscriptionStatus | | | | (or subscribe) | | | | operation to confirm | | | | its subscription. A | | | | special value | | | | indicates infinity | | | | which is such that | | | | timer will never | | | | expire and IRPAgent | | | | needs other means to | | | | decide when to | | | | delete resources | | | | allocated to the | | | | IRPManager | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ntfTimeTickTimer | this Attribute | integer greater or | | | represents the | equal to zero | | | current value of a | | | | timer | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ntfNot | this Attribute | | | ificationCategorySet | represents a set of | | | | notification | | | | categories (see also | | | | Definition of | | | | notification | | | | category in | | | | subclause 3.1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ntfFilter | this Attribute | | | | represents the | | | | filter of a | | | | subscription. The | | | | filter can be | | | | applied to | | | | parameters of | | | | notification header | | | | (see | | | | Notific | | | | ationIRPNotification | | | | interface) and to | | | | parameters of | | | | notifications | | | | defined as | | | | filterable in other | | | | IRP ISs. | | | | | | | | IRPAgent shall | | | | notify IRPManagers | | | | if the event | | | | satisfies the filter | | | | constraint. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ntfManagerReference | this Attribute | | | | contains the | | | | reference of a | | | | manager. It uniquely | | | | identifies a | | | | subscriber | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.5.2 Constraints
\- \"ntfTimeTickTimer is lower or equal to ntfTimeTick\".
# 6 Interface Definition
## 6.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="4.388194444444444in"}
## 6.2 Generic rules
**Rule 1:** Each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**Rule 2:** Each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports
a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where \"xxx\"
is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition indicates
that the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally,
each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**Rule 3:** Each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 6.3 notificationIRPManagement Interface (M)
### 6.3.1 Operation subscribe (M)
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
IRPManager invokes this operation to establish subscription to receive network
events via notifications, under the filter constraint specified in this
operation.
#### 6.3.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | Type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | m | M | Ntf | It specifies | | anagerReference | | Subscriber.ntfM | the reference | | | | anagerReference | of IRPManager | | | | | to which | | | | | notifications | | | | | shall be sent. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | timeTick | O | NtfSubscript | It specifies | | | | ion.ntfTimeTick | the value of a | | | | | timer hold by | | | | | NotificationIRP | | | | | for the subject | | | | | IRPManager. | | | | | | | | | | The value is in | | | | | unit of whole | | | | | minute. | | | | | | | | | | A special | | | | | infinite value | | | | | is assumed when | | | | | parameter is | | | | | absent or | | | | | present but | | | | | equal to zero. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notification | O | SET OF (name of | It identifies | | Categories | | IRP, version of | one or more | | | | IRP) | Notification | | | | | Category (see | | | | | also Definition | | | | | in | | | | | subclause 3.1) | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | filter | O | NtfSubscri | It specifies a | | | | ption.ntfFilter | filter | | | | | constraint that | | | | Filter | IRPAgent shall | | | | constraint | use to filter | | | | grammar is SS | notification of | | | | dependent | the category | | | | | specified in | | | | | notific | | | | | ationCategories | | | | | parameter. | | | | | | | | | | If this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | absent, then no | | | | | filter | | | | | constraint | | | | | shall be | | | | | applied. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | subscriptionId | M | Ntf | It holds an | | | | Subscription.nt | unambiguous | | | | fSubscriptionId | identity of | | | | | this | | | | | subscription. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | If | | | | (Oper | subs | | | | ationSucceeded, | criptionCreated | | | | Operat | is true, status | | | | ionFailedExisti | = | | | | ngSubscription, | Ope | | | | O | rationSuceeded. | | | | perationFailed) | | | | | | If | | | | | operation_ | | | | | failed_existin | | | | | g_subscription | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | Opera | | | | | tionFailedExist | | | | | ingSubscription | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | op | | | | | eration_failed | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.4 Pre-condition
notificationCategoriesNotAllSubscribed OR
notificationCategoriesParameterAbsentAndNotAllSubscribed.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition notificationCategoriesNotAllSubscribed At least one
notificationCategory identified in the notificationCategories input parameter
is supported by IRPAgent and is not a member of the ntfNotificationCategorySet
attribute of an NtfSubscription which is involved in a subscription
relationship with the NtfSubscriber identified by the managerReference input
parameter. notificationCategoriesParameterAbsentAndNotAllSubscribed The
notificationCategories input parameter is absent and at least one
notificationCategory supported by IRPAgent is not a member of the
ntfNotificationCategorySet attribute of an ntfSsubscription which is involved
in a subscription relationship with the NtfSubscriber identified by the
managerReference input parameter.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.5 Post-condition
subscriberPossiblyCreated AND subscriptionCreated.
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | subscriberPossiblyCreated | An NtfSubscriber with a | | | ntfManagerReference attribute equal to | | | the value of the managerReference input | | | parameter is involved in a | | | subscriptionRegistration relationship | | | with NotificationIRP. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | subscriptionCreated | An NtfSubscription has been created | | | according to the following rules: | | | | | | - ntfSubscriptionState attribute value | | | has been set to \"notSuspended\"; | | | | | | - ntfTimeTick attribute value has been | | | set to the value of the timeTick input | | | parameter if this value was higher or | | | equal to 15, or set to 15 if this | | | parameter value was between 1 and 15, | | | or set to a special infinite value if | | | the parameter value was lower or equal | | | to 0 or if parameter was absent; | | | | | | - ntfTimeTickTimer has been reset with | | | the value of timeTick attribute; | | | | | | - ntfFilter attribute value has been | | | set to the value of the filter input | | | parameter if present; | | | | | | - NtfSubscription is involved in a | | | subscription relationship with the | | | NtfSubscriber identified by the | | | managerReference input parameter; | | | | | | - attribute ntfNotificationCategorySet | | | of NtfSubscription contains EITHER the | | | notification categories identified by | | | the notificationCategories input | | | parameter that were not already | | | contained in the | | | ntfNotificationCategorySet attribute of | | | other NtfSubscription of the same | | | NtfSubscriber identified by the | | | managerReference input parameter OR if | | | notificationCategories input parameter | | | is absent, all notification categories | | | supported by IRPAgent that were not | | | already contained in the | | | ntfNotificationCategorySet attribute of | | | other subscriptions of the same | | | NtfSubscriber identified by the | | | managerReference input parameter. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
#### 6.3.1.6 Exceptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | operation | **Condition:** | | _failed_existing_subscription | (notifi | | | cationCategoriesNotAllSubscribed | | | OR | | | notificationCategoriesPar | | | ameterAbsentAndNotAllSubscribed) | | | not true | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operation_failed | **Condition:** Post-condition is | | | false | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 6.3.2 Operation unsubscribe (M)
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to cancel subscriptions. The IRPManager
can cancel one subscription made with a managerReference by providing the
corresponding subscriptionId or all subscriptions made with the same
managerReference by leaving the subscriptionId parameter absent.
#### 6.3.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment managerReference M
NtfSubscriber.ntfManagerReference It specifies the reference of an IRPManager.
subscriptionId O NtfSubscription.ntfSubscriptionId It holds a subscriptionId
carried as the output parameter in the subscribe operation.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | If | | | | (Oper | (subs | | | | ationSucceeded, | criptionDeleted | | | | O | OR | | | | perationFailed) | allSubsc | | | | | riptionDeleted) | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | Oper | | | | | ationSucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | op | | | | | eration_failed | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.2.4 Pre-condition
validSubscriptionId&ManagerReference OR
SubscriptionIdAbsent&ValidManagerReference
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validSubscriptionId&ManagerReference The
NtfSubscription identified by subscriptionId input parameter is involved in a
subscription relationship with the NtfSubscriber identified by the
managerReference input parameter. SubscriptionIdAbsent&ValidManagerReference
The subscriptionId input parameter is absent and the NtfSubscriber identified
by the managerReference input parameter exists.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.5 Post-condition
subscriptionDeleted OR allSubscriptionDeleted.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition subscriptionDeleted The NtfSubscription identified
by subscriptionId input parameter is no more involved in a subscription
relationship with the NtfSubscriber identified by the managerReference input
parameter and has been deleted. If this NtfSubscriber has no more
NtfSubscription, it is deleted as well. allSubscriptionDeleted "n the case
subscriptionId input parameter was absent, the NtfSubscriber identified by the
managerReference input parameter is no more involved in any subscription
relationship and is deleted, the corresponding NtfSubscription have been
deleted as well.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Operation_failed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
## 6.4 subscriberManagement Interface (O)
### 6.4.1 Operation getSubscriptionIds (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
IRPManager invokes this operation to get the values of all still valid (not
unsubscribed or removed by IRPAgent) subscriptionIds assigned by
NotificationIRP as result of previously subscribe operations performed by this
IRPManager.
#### 6.4.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment managerReference M
NtfSubscriber.ntfManagerReference It specifies the reference of IRPManager
that requests the set of identifiers of active subscriptions related to this
IRPManager.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | su | M | SET OF | It holds a set | | bscriptionIdSet | | Ntf | of the | | | | Subscription.nt | subscriptionId, | | | | fSubscriptionId | each assigned | | | | where | as output | | | | NtfSubscription | parameter in | | | | is involved in | previous | | | | a subscription | subscribe | | | | relationship | operations | | | | with the | invoked by the | | | | NtfSubscriber | current | | | | identified by | IRPManager. | | | | the | This value | | | | m | should contain | | | | anagerReference | no information | | | | input parameter | if the | | | | | IRPManager did | | | | | not yet | | | | | subscribed to | | | | | that System or | | | | | System lost all | | | | | subscription | | | | | related | | | | | information. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Operation | If | | | | succeeded, | validSu | | | | Operation | bscriptionIdSet | | | | failed) | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | Ope | | | | | rationSuceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | op | | | | | eration_failed | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.4.1.4 Pre-condition
validManagerReference.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validManagerReference The NtfSubscriber identified
by the managerReference input parameter exists.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.5 Post-condition
None specific
#### 6.4.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+ | Operation_failed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter status | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
## 6.5 subscriptionStatusOperations Interface (O)
### 6.5.1 Operation getSubscriptionStatus (M)
#### 6.5.1.1 Definition
IRPManager invokes this operation to query the subscription status of a
particular subscription. IRPManager can use getSubscriptionStatus operation to
know about the filter constraint in effect, the state of subscription (i.e. if
subscription is suspended/inactive or resumed/active), the timeTick value that
may be set at subscribe invocation time and the notificationCategory currently
in used in the subscription.
#### 6.5.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment subscriptionId M
NtfSubscription.ntfSubscriptionId It holds the subscriptionId carried as the
output parameter in the subscribe operation
* * *
#### 6.5.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notification | C | NtfSubscript | It identifies | | CategorySet | | ion.ntfNotifica | the | | | | tionCategorySet | notification | | | | | Category(ies) | | | | | supported in | | | | | this | | | | | subscription. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | filterInEffect | O | NtfSubscri | It contains the | | | | ption.ntfFilter | filter | | | | | constraint | | | | | currently set. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Su | O | NtfSub | | | bscriptionState | | scription.ntfSu | | | | | bscriptionState | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | timeTick | O | NtfSubscript | It carries the | | | | ion.ntfTimeTick | same value as | | | | | the one in | | | | | subscribe | | | | | operation | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Operation | If | | | | succeeded, | (timeTickReset) | | | | Operation | is true, status | | | | failed) | = | | | | | Oper | | | | | ationSucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | op | | | | | eration_failed | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.5.1.4 Pre-condition
validSubscriptionId.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validSubscriptionId \"the NtfSubscription identified
by subscriptionId input parameter is involved in a subscription relationship\"
* * *
#### 6.5.1.5 Post-condition
timeTickReset
* * *
Assertion Name Definition timeTickReset The ntfTimeTickTimer attribute of
NtfSubscription identified as input parameter has been reset with the value of
ntfTimeTick attribute of the same NtfSubscription.
* * *
#### 6.5.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Operation_failed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
## 6.6 subscriptionFilterOperations Interface (O)
### 6.6.1 Operation changeSubscriptionFilter (M)
#### 6.6.1.1 Definition
IRPManager invokes this operation to replace the present filter constraint
with a new one.
#### 6.6.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment subscriptionId M
NtfSubscription.ntfSubscriptionId It carries the subscriptionId carried as the
output parameter in the subscribe operation. filter M
NtfSubscription.ntfFilter It specifies a filter constraint
* * *
#### 6.6.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Operation | If | | | | succeeded, | filterUpdated | | | | Operation | is true, status | | | | failed) | = | | | | | Ope | | | | | rationSuceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | op | | | | | eration_failed | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.6.1.4 Pre-condition
validNtfSubscriptionId.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validNtfSubscriptionId The NtfSubscription
identified by subscriptionId input parameter is involved in a subscription
relationship.
* * *
#### 6.6.1.5 Post-condition
filterUpdated.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition filterUpdated The ntfFilter attribute value of the
NtfSubscription identified by subscriptionId input parameter has been set to
the value of the filter input parameter.
* * *
#### 6.6.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Operation_failed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
## 6.7 subscriptionSuspendOperations Interface (O)
### 6.7.1 Operation suspendSubscription (M)
#### 6.7.1.1 Definition
IRPManager invokes this operation to request IRPAgent to stop emission of
notifications. IRPAgent may lose notification(s) if subscription is suspended.
#### 6.7.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment subscriptionId M
NtfSubscription.ntfSubscriptionId It carries the subscriptionId carried as the
output parameter in the subscribe operation.
* * *
#### 6.7.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Operation | If | | | | succeeded, | subscriptio | | | | Operation | nStateSuspended | | | | failed) | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | Ope | | | | | rationSuceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | op | | | | | eration_failed | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.7.1.4 Pre-condition
validSubscriptionId.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validSubscriptionId The NtfSubscription identified
by subscriptionId input parameter is involved in a subscription relationship.
* * *
#### 6.7.1.5 Post-condition
subscriptionStateSuspended.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition subscriptionStateSuspended The ntfSubscriptionState
attribute value of the NtfSubscription identified by subscriptionId input
parameter has been set to or kept as \"suspended\".
* * *
#### 6.7.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Operation_failed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 6.7.2 Operation resumeSubscription (M)
#### 6.7.2.1 Definition
IRPManager invokes this operation to request IRPAgent to resume emission of
notifications.
#### 6.7.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment subscriptionId M
NtfSubscription.ntfSubscriptionId It carries the subscriptionId carried as the
output parameter in the subscribe operation.
* * *
#### 6.7.2.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Operation | If | | | | succeeded, | subscriptionSt | | | | Operation | ateNotSuspended | | | | failed) | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | Ope | | | | | rationSuceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | op | | | | | eration_failed | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.7.2.4 Pre-condition
validSubscriptionId.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validSubscriptionId The NtfSubscription identified
by subscriptionId input parameter is involved in a subscription relationship.
* * *
#### 6.7.2.5 Post-condition
subscriptionStateNotSuspended.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition subscriptionStateNotSuspended The
ntfSubscriptionState attribute value of the NtfSubscription identified by
subscriptionId input parameter has been set to or kept as \"notSuspended\".
* * *
#### 6.7.2.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Operation_failed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
## 6.8 IRPManagementOperations Interface (O)
### 6.8.1 Operation getNotificationCategories (M)
#### 6.8.1.1 Definition
IRPManager invokes this operation to query the categories of notification
supported by IRPAgent. IRPAgent returns the list of categories of notification
supported. Each category of notification defines the name and the version of
the IRP specification. The list of category of notification returned shall
only contain the name and version of the IRP specifications that actually have
notifications defined.
IRPManager does not need to be in subscription to invoke this operation.
#### 6.8.1.2 Input parameters
None.
#### 6.8.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment NotificationCategoryList
M SET OF (name and version of IRP specification) where each IRP is contained
by IRPAgent and the attribute notificationNameProfile of the ManagedGenericIRP
is not empty.  
status M ENUM (Operation succeeded, Operation failed) OperationFailed only if
operation_failed_internal_problem
* * *
#### 6.8.1.4 Pre-condition
None specific.
#### 6.8.1.5 Post-condition
None specific.
#### 6.8.1.6 Exceptions
None specific.
## 6.9 NotificationIRPNotification Interface
IRPAgent notifies the subscribed IRPManager that an event has occurred and
that the event has satisfied the filter constraints used for this
subscription. One event example is the notification defined in Alarm IRP: IS
(3GPP TS 32.111‑2 [1]).
It should be possible to pack multiple notifications together for sending to
NM. This provides more efficient use of data communication resources. In order
to pack multiple notifications, an EM/NE configurable parameter defines the
maximum number of notifications to be packed together. Additionally an EM/NE
configurable parameter defines the maximum time delay before the notifications
have to be sent.
Under normal operations, an IRPAgent shall send, to each IRPManager,
notifications in the same order they were generated, i.e. in the First-In,
First-Out order. There shall not be any priority given to types of
notifications.
This interface doesn\'t define any specific notification but instead defines
information that is commonly found in notifications defined by other IRPs.
This information is called notificationHeader. Notification interfaces defined
in other IRPs, such as Alarm IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.111‑2 [1]), shall inherit
from this interface and define their notifications by:
\- Identifying and qualifying the Notification Header attributes for their
use;
\- Specify additional attributes specific to their use.
Despite the fact that the semantic of notifications is defined by other IRP
ISs, it is notification IRP and not those IRP that is responsible for the
emission of those notifications.
The Notification Header is defined here below.
+------------------+-----------+-------------------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Qualifier | Comment | +------------------+-----------+-------------------------------------+ | objectClass | M, Y | It specifies the class name of the | | | | IOC. A network event has occurred | | | | in an instance of this class. | +------------------+-----------+-------------------------------------+ | objectInstance | M, Y | It specifies the instance of the | | | | above IOC in which the network | | | | event occurred by carrying the | | | | Distinguished Name (DN) of this | | | | object instance. This object may or | | | | may not be identical to the object | | | | instance actually emitting the | | | | notification. | +------------------+-----------+-------------------------------------+ | notificationId | O,N | This is an identifier for the | | | | notification, which may be used to | | | | correlate notifications. The | | | | identifier of the notification | | | | shall be chosen to be unique across | | | | all notifications of a particular | | | | managed object throughout the time | | | | that correlation is significant, it | | | | uniquely identifies the | | | | notification from other | | | | notifications generated by the | | | | subject Information Object. | | | | | | | | If IRPManager receives | | | | notifications from one IRPAgent, | | | | IRPManager shall use the identifier | | | | of the notification and the | | | | objectInstance to uniquely identify | | | | all received notifications. | | | | | | | | If IRPManager receives | | | | notifications from multiple | | | | IRPAgents and notifications of each | | | | Information Object are reported at | | | | most through one IRPAgent, | | | | IRPManager shall use the identifier | | | | of the notification and | | | | objectInstance to uniquely identify | | | | all received notifications. | | | | | | | | If IRPManager receives | | | | notifications from multiple | | | | IRPAgents and notifications of one | | | | or more Information Objects are | | | | reported through two or more | | | | IRPAgents, IRPManager shall use the | | | | identifier of the notification | | | | together with objectInstance and | | | | the identity of IRPAgent | | | | (systemDN), to uniquely identify | | | | all received notifications. If the | | | | information systemDN is absent, | | | | IRPManager needs other means, which | | | | are outside the scope of this IRP, | | | | to determine the identity of | | | | IRPAgent. | | | | | | | | How identifiers of notifications | | | | are re-used to correlate | | | | notifications is outside of the | | | | scope of this recommendation. | +------------------+-----------+-------------------------------------+ | eventTime | M, Y | It indicates the event occurrence | | | | time. The semantics of Generalised | | | | Time specified by ITU-T shall be | | | | used here. | +------------------+-----------+-------------------------------------+ | systemDN | C, Y | The systemDN of that notification | | | | shall carry either (1) the IRPAgent | | | | instance containing that Interface | | | | IRP instance, or (2) the DN of that | | | | particular Interface IRP instance | | | | responsible for the emission of the | | | | notification. | | | | | | | | (1) If the IRPAgent contains | | | | single (not multiple) Interface IRP | | | | instance of a particular class, | | | | then the systemDN of a notification | | | | may carry the DN of the IRPAgent or | | | | DN of the subject Interface IRP | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | (2) If the IRPAgent contains | | | | multiple Interface IRP instances of | | | | the same class, then the systemDN | | | | of a notification shall carry the | | | | DN of a particular Interface IRP | | | | instance responsible for the | | | | emission of that notification. | | | | | | | | Example of item (2) above: | | | | | | | | - Alarm IRP:IS specifies | | | | notifyNewAlarm. If there are | | | | multiple AlarmIRP instances under | | | | one IRPAgent, then the systemDN of | | | | notifyNewAlarm shall be present and | | | | carry the DN of the AlarmIRP. | +------------------+-----------+-------------------------------------+ | notificationType | M, Y | The type of notification which is | | | | reported by the notification | +------------------+-----------+-------------------------------------+
#