# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
TS 32.501: \"Self-configuration of network elements; Concepts and
requirements\".
**TS 32.508: \"Procedure flows for multi-vendor plug-and-play eNB connection
to the network\".**
TS 32.509: \"Data format for multi-vendor plug-and-play eNB connection to the
network\".
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the procedure flows between network entities
involved in the\ **multi-vendor plug-and-play** eNB connection to network.\
These procedures are based on requirements and use cases specified in 3GPP TS
32.501 [4].\ The format of the data exchanged in these procedures is defined
in 3GPP TS 32.509 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.501: \"Telecommunication management; Self-configuration of
network elements; Concepts and requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.509: \"Telecommunications management; Data format for multi-
vendor plug-and-play eNB connection to the network\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 32.501 [4] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1] and in TS 32.501 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], TS 32.501 [4] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1] and in TS 32.501 [4].
# 4 Architecture for multi-vendor plug-and-play
## 4.1 **Functional architecture**
The functional architecture for **multi-vendor plug-and-play** connection of
eNB to the network is described in 3GPP TS 32.501 [4] clause 4.3.2.\ It covers
the scenarios where eNB is connected to the Secure Operator Network either via
an External Network or via a Non-Secure Operator Network.\ The entities
(functional elements) involved in the PnC are listed and described in detail
in clause 4.2.
## 4.2 Functional elements
### 4.2.1 IP Autoconfiguration services
The IP Autoconfiguration services such as DHCP servers and Router
Advertisements are used primarily to provide the eNB with basic IP
configuration information (e.g. IP address, netmask, default gateway, domain
name, IP address(es) of DNS servers, time servers). IP Autoconfiguration
services may recognize the eNB as a client (using, for example, the vendor
class identifier DHCP option) and provide with information such as IP address
or FQDN of CA/RA server, IP address or FQDN of SeGW, IP address or FQDN of EM,
etc.\ The specific data formats used by IP Autoconfiguration services for
**multi-vendor plug-and-play** procedures are described in 3GPP TS 32.509 [5].
From the **multi-vendor plug-and-play** feature perspective, the IP
Autoconfiguration services may be categorized into secure (those located
within a Secure Operator Network) and public (those located either within a
Non-Secure Operator Network or within an External Network).
### 4.2.2 DNS server
DNS servers are used to resolve FQDNs into IP addresses. The FQDNs used for
**multi-vendor plug-and-play** may be factory programmed, provided by IP
Autoconfiguration services, configured by EM, or derived/generated within the
eNB using the vendor information, operator network domain name and name of the
functional element.\ The specific FQDN formats used in **multi-vendor plug-
and-play** procedures are described in 3GPP TS 32.509 [5].
From the **multi-vendor plug-and-play** feature perspective, the DNS servers
may be categorized into secure (those located within a Secure Operator
Network) and public (those located either within a\ Non-Secure Operator
Network or within an External Network).
The DNS server is an optional functional element and is only required if
particular Operator deployment scenario relies on resolution of FQDNs (e.g.
FQDNs are configured at the IP Autoconfiguration services, eNB and/or EM,
while IP addresses are configured at DNS servers).
### 4.2.3 Certification Authority server
The Certification Authority server (CA/RA) is used in the in the **multi-
vendor plug-and-play** procedures for security certificate enrolment (e.g. to
provision operator certificates at the eNB using the factory-installed vendor
certificates).
There could be one or more CA/RA depending on a particular operator deployment
scenario (e.g. one CA/RA per vendor).
### 4.2.4 Element Manager (EM)
The EM is a vendor-specific functional element that is used in **multi-vendor
plug-and-play** procedures to provide the eNB with correct software and
configuration information.
There could be one or more EM depending on a particular Operator deployment
scenario (e.g. initial EM, serving EM).
The configuration may contain an IP address or FQDN of (another) EM that this
specific eNB shall use as EM.
The configuration may contain an IP address or FQDN of (another) SeGW that
should be used before connecting to the EM.
### 4.2.5 Security Gateway (SeGW)
The SeGW is used to establish a secure connection between the eNB and the
Secure Operator Network.
Depending on a particular operator deployment scenario, there could be
separate SeGW for connection to the OAM network and to the CN. The OAM SeGW
and CN SeGW may or may not be in practice separate physical entities.
Depending on a particular operator deployment scenario, there could be more
than one OAM SeGW (e.g. one per vendor).
# 5 Procedure flows
## 5.1 High-level plug-and-connect
The high level procedure for \"multi-vendor plug-and connect\" is described
next and illustrated in figure 5.1-1.
Operators may deploy their management infrastructure in different ways. The
following options are possible:
\- One or multiple EMs for each vendor (e.g. an Initial EM and zero or more
Serving EMs);
\- One or more SeGW (e.g. one SeGW for OAM and one or more for each CN, and/or
one SeGW per vendor);
\- Zero or more IP Autoconfiguration services in the Secure Operator Network;
\- Zero or more DNS servers in the Secure Operator Network;
\- One or more IP Autoconfiguration services in the External Network / non-
Secure Operator Network;
\- Zero or more DNS servers in the External Network / non-Secure Operator
Network;
\- One or more CA/RA (e.g. one per vendor).
The procedure described in this clause applies to all deployment options
listed above.
The procedure begins when the eNB is powered up and ends when all mandatory
steps in this procedure are completed or when an exception occurs.
**The pre-conditions for this procedure are:**
\- The eNB is physically installed;
\- IP connectivity exists between involved telecom resources (functional
elements listed in clause 4.2);
\- The involved telecom resources (functional elements listed in clause 4.2)
are functional;
\- The relevant information is stored and available.
**The post-conditions for this procedure are:**
\- One or more secure connection exists between eNB and EM and the Core
Network(s);
\- Via the connection to the EM the eNB can receive further instructions to
become operational and carry user traffic (e.g. the administrativeState is set
to \"unlocked\").
**The exceptions:**
\- One of the steps outlined in the procedure fails.
**Procedure steps:**
1) **If a VLAN ID is available the eNB uses it**. Otherwise the eNB uses the
**native VLAN where PnP traffic is sent and received untagged.**
2) In this step eNB invokes the \"Initial IP Autoconfiguration\" procedure
(described in clause 5.2) and acquires its IP address through stateful or
stateless IP Autoconfiguration. There may be additional information provided
to the eNB.
3) In this step eNB invokes the \"Certificate Enrolment\" procedure (described
in clause 5.3).
4) In this step eNB invokes the \"Establishing Secure Connection\" procedure
(described in clause 5.4) and connects to the OAM SeGW.
5) In this step eNB invokes the \"Establishing Connection to EM\" procedure
(described in clause 5.5). In this step EM may provide the eNB with new
configuration. The configuration may contain an address to another EM that
this specific node shall use as EM. The configuration may contain an address
to another SeGW that should be used before connecting to the EM.
6) If the configuration obtained in step 5 contains the address or FQDN of the
SeGW and/or EM different from the one that eNB is currently connected to, the
eNB may execute steps 6.1 and 6.2 until the configured SeGW and EM will match
the connected SeGW and EM. The configuration may also contain OAM VLAN Id to
be used from this step onwards.
6.1) In this step, if the eNB is connected to the OAM SeGW different from the
SeGW that is configured, it releases the connection to the current SeGW and
invokes the \"Establish Secure Connection\" procedure (described in clause
5.4) and connects to the configured SeGW.
6.2) In this step, if the eNB is connected to the EM different from the EM
that is configured, it releases the connection to the current EM and invokes
the \"Establish Connection to EM\" procedure (described in clause 5.5) and
connects to the configured EM.
7) In this step eNB connects to each configured CN using the transport (VLAN
ID, IP addresses) and security parameters provided by EM in the previous step.
Figure 5.1-1: High-level plug-and-connect flow
## 5.2 Initial IP Autoconfiguration
The procedure for initial IP Autoconfiguration is described next and
illustrated in figure 5.2-1.
Operators may deploy their management infrastructure in different ways.
Specifically, the following options are possible:
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration only
(e.g. IP address, netmask, gateway, domain name, DNS server address);
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration and
the IP address of CA/RA, and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS 32.509 [5]
section 4.2.2;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration and
the FQDN of CA/RA, and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS 32.509 [5] section
4.2.2;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration and
the IP addresses of CA/RA and SeGW, and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS
32.509 [5] section 4.2.2;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration and
the FQDNs of CA/RA and SeGW, and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS 32.509
[5] section 4.2.2;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration and
the IP addresses of CA/RA, SeGW and EM, and other CA/RA attributes defined in
TS 32.509 [5] section 4.2.2;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration and
the FQDNs of CA/RA, SeGW and EM, and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS
32.509 [5] section 4.2.2;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is unable to recognize that the client is an
eNB performing\ the **multi-vendor plug-and-connect** procedure;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is able to recognize that the client is an eNB
performing\ the **multi-vendor plug-and-connect** procedure;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is unable to recognize that the client is an
eNB performing\ the **multi-vendor plug-and-connect** procedure and the
specific eNB vendor.
The procedure described in this clause applies to all deployment options
listed above.
**The exceptions:**
\- One of the steps outlined in the procedure fails.
**Procedure steps:**
1.1) In this step eNB sends a request for IP address configuration to the IP
Autoconfiguration service (e.g. DHCP server). The eNB may include the vendor
specific identifier. The data format used by the eNB in this step is specified
in 3GPP TS 32.509 [5].
1.2) Depending on the particular operator deployment scenario, the information
configured in the IP Autoconfiguration service may be different and the IP
Autoconfiguration service may or may not be able to recognize the specific
details about the client (whether it is an eNB performing **plug-and-connect**
procedure and the specific eNB vendor). Therefore, in this step the following
replies by the IP Autoconfiguration service are possible:
1.2.a) Client IP configuration only (e.g. IP address, netmask, gateway, domain
name, DNS server address);
1.2.b) Client IP configuration and the IP address of CA/RA, and other CA/RA
attributes defined in TS 32.509 [5] section 4.2.2;
1.2.c) Client IP configuration and the FQDN of CA/RA, and other CA/RA
attributes defined in TS 32.509 [5] section 4.2.2;
1.2.d) Client IP configuration and the IP addresses of CA/RA and SeGW, and
other CA/RA attributes defined in TS 32.509 [5] section 4.2.2;
1.2.e) Client IP configuration and the FQDNs of CA/RA and SeGW, and other
CA/RA attributes defined in TS 32.509 [5] section 4.2.2;
1.2.f) Client IP configuration and the IP addresses of CA/RA, SeGW and EM, and
other CA/RA attributes defined in TS 32.509 [5] section 4.2.2;
1.2.g) Client IP configuration and the FQDNs of CA/RA, SeGW and EM, and other
CA/RA attributes defined in TS 32.509 [5] section 4.2.2.
Figure 5.2-1: Initial IP Autoconfiguration flow
## 5.3 Certificate enrolment
The procedure for certificate enrolment is described next and illustrated in
figure 5.3-1.
Operators may deploy their management infrastructure in different ways. The
following options are possible:
\- The IP address of the CA/RA is known to the eNB (e.g. provided by the IP
Autoconfiguration service);
\- The IP address of the CA/RA is unknown to the eNB, but the FQDN of the
CA/RA is known to the eNB (e.g. provided by the IP Autoconfiguration service,
pre-configured at the factory);
The procedure described in this clause applies to all deployment options
listed above.
**The exceptions:**
\- One of the steps outlined in the procedure fails.
**Procedure steps:**
1) This step is executed only if the IP address of CA/RA is unknown to the
eNB, but the FQDN of the CA/RA is known (e.g. provided by the IP
Autoconfiguration service, pre-configured at the factory). The format of the
FQDN is specified in 3GPP TS 32.509 [5].
1.1) eNB sends a request containing the FQDN of the CA/RA to the DNS server.
1.2) DNS server resolves the FQDN of the CA/RA into the IP address and
provides it to the eNB.
2) In this step eNB performs actual security certificate enrolment (e.g. using
CMPv2 protocol). The sub-steps are included for the illustration purposes
only.
2.1) In this sub-step the eNB enrols using the vendor certificate (e.g. pre-
programmed at the factory) and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS 32.509 [5]
section 4.2.2 provided by IP Autoconfiguration service.
2.2) In this sub-step the eNB receives the Operator certificates from the
CA/RA.
Figure 5.3-1: Certificate enrolment flow
## 5.4 Establishing secure connection
The procedure for establishing the secure connection is described next and
illustrated in figure 5.4-1.
Operators may deploy their management infrastructure in different ways.
Specifically, the following options are possible:
\- The IP address of the SeGW is known to the eNB (e.g. provided by the IP
Autoconfiguration service, configured by EM);
\- The IP address of the SeGW is unknown to the eNB, but the FQDN of the SeGW
is known to the eNB\ (e.g. provided by the IP Autoconfiguration service,
configured by EM, pre-configured at the factory);
\- The SeGW provides eNB only with internal IP configuration;
\- The SeGW provides eNB with internal IP configuration and the IP address of
the secure (internal) DHCP server;
\- The SeGW provides eNB with internal IP configuration and the IP address(es)
of the secure (internal) DNS server(s);
\- The SeGW provides eNB with internal IP configuration and the IP addresses
of the secure (internal) DHCP and DNS servers.
The procedure described in this clause applies to all deployment options
listed above.
**The exceptions:**
\- One of the steps outlined in the procedure fails.
**Procedure steps:**
1) This step is executed only if the IP address of SeGW is unknown to the eNB,
but the FQDN of the SeGW is known (e.g. provided by the IP Autoconfiguration
service, configured by EM, pre-configured at the factory).\ The format of the
FQDN is specified in 3GPP TS 32.509 [5].
1.1) eNB sends a request containing the FQDN of the SeGW to the DNS server.
1.2) DNS server resolves the FQDN of the SeGW into the IP address and provides
it to the eNB.
2) In this step eNB establishes secure tunnel to the SeGW (e.g. using IKEv2
protocol). The sub-steps are included for the illustration purposes only.
2.1) In this sub-step the eNB establishes secure connection using the operator
certificate (e.g. provided in the Certificate Enrolment procedure described in
clause 5.3).
2.2) In this sub-step the eNB receives its inner IP configuration from the
SeGW in the Configuration Parameters of IKEv2. The \"inner\" IP address may be
the same as the \"outer\" IP address (e.g. obtained in the Initial IP
Autoconfiguration procedure described in clause 5.2).
2.3) In this optional sub-step the eNB receives the IP addresses of one or
more secure (internal) DNS servers from the SeGW in the Configuration
Parameters of IKEv2.
2.4) In this optional sub-step the eNB receives the IP address of secure
(internal) DHCP server from the SeGW in the Configuration Parameters of IKEv2.
Figure 5.4-1: Establishing secure connection flow
## 5.5 Establishing connection to Element Manager (EM)
The procedure for establishing connection to EM is described next and
illustrated in figure 5.5-1.
Operators may deploy their management infrastructure in different ways.
Specifically, the following options are possible:
\- The IP address of the EM is known to the eNB (e.g. provided by the IP
Autoconfiguration service, configured by EM);
\- The IP address of the EM is unknown to the eNB, but the FQDN of the EM is
known to the eNB (e.g. provided by the IP Autoconfiguration service,
configured by EM, pre-configured at the factory);
\- The IP address of secure (internal) DHCP server is known to the eNB (e.g.
provided in the Configuration Parameters of IKEv2);
\- The IP address of secure (internal) DNS server is known to the eNB (e.g.
provided in the Configuration Parameters of IKEv2);
\- The IP address of the EM configured in the secure (internal) DHCP server;
\- The FQDN of the EM configured in the secure (internal) DHCP server.
The procedure described in this clause applies to all deployment options
listed above.
**The exceptions:**
\- One of the steps outlined in the procedure fails.
**Procedure steps:**
1) This step is executed only if the IP address of EM is unknown to the eNB,
but the IP address of the secure (internal) DHCP server is known (e.g.
provided by the SeGW in the Configuration Parameters of IKEv2).
1.1) eNB sends a request to the secure DHCP server. The eNB may include the
vendor specific identifier. The data format used by the eNB in this step is
specified in 3GPP TS 32.509 [5].
1.2) DHCP server provides the IP address of the EM to the eNB. The data format
used by the DHCP server in this step is specified in 3GPP TS 32.509 [5].
2) This step is executed only if the IP address of EM is unknown to the eNB,
but the FQDN of the EM is known (e.g. provided by the IP Autoconfiguration
service, configured by EM, pre-configured at the factory) and the IP address
of the secure (internal) DNS server is known (e.g. provided by the SeGW in the
Configuration Parameters of IKEv2). The format of the FQDN is specified in
3GPP TS 32.509 [5].
2.1) eNB sends a request containing the FQDN of the EM to the secure
(internal) DNS server.
2.2) DNS server resolves the FQDN of the EM into the IP address and provides
it to the eNB.
3) and 4) These step are executed only if the IP address and FQDN of the EM
are unknown to the eNB, but the IP addresses of the secure (internal) DHCP and
DNS servers are known (e.g. provided by the SeGW in the Configuration
Parameters of IKEv2).
3.1) eNB sends a request to the secure DHCP server. The eNB may include the
vendor specific identifier. The data format used by the eNB in this step is
specified in 3GPP TS 32.509 [5].
3.2) DHCP server provides the FQDN of the EM to the eNB. The data format used
by the DHCP server in this step is specified in 3GPP TS 32.509 [5].
4.1) eNB sends a request containing the FQDN of the EM to the secure
(internal) DNS server.
4.2) DNS server resolves the FQDN of the EM into the IP address and provides
it to the eNB.
5) In this step eNB establishes communication with EM. The protocol used for
communication between eNB and EM is vendor specific and is out of scope of
this specification. The sub-steps listed below are for illustration purposes
only.
5.1) In this step eNB connects to the EM and identifies itself. The eNB may
provide EM with its current software version and configuration.
5.2) In this step EM may provide the eNB with new configuration
5.3) In this step EM may provide the eNB with new software.
Figure 5.5-1: Establishing connection to Element Manager (EM) flow
#