# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.601: Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Requirements**
32.602: Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (SS)
32.606: Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and network resources , and they
may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations Systems
(OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in 3GPP
TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [3], the requirements for
the present IRP: Basic Configuration Management IRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] Void.
[5] Void.
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] Void**.**
> [10] Void.
>
> [11] 3GPP TS 32.172: \"Telecommunication management; Subscription Management
> (SuM) **Network Resource Model (NRM)** Integration Reference Point (IRP):
> **Information Service (IS)** \".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
> [13] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [12], and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [13].
**Data:** is any information or set of information required to give software
or equipment or combinations thereof a specific state of functionality.
**Element Manager (EM):** provides a package of end-user functions for
management of a set of closely related types of Network Elements (NEs). These
functions can be divided into two main categories:
_\- Element Management Functions_ for management of NEs on an individual
basis. These are basically the same functions as supported by the
corresponding local terminals.
_\- Sub-Network Management Functions_ that are related to a network model for
a set of NEs constituting a clearly defined sub-network, which may include
relations between the NEs. This model enables additional functions on the sub-
network level (typically in the areas of network topology presentation, alarm
correlation, service impact analysis and circuit provisioning).
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [10].
**Information Service (IS):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [10].
**Solution Set (SS):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [10].
**Managed Object (MO):** an abstract entity, which may be accessed through an
open interface between two or more systems, and representing a network
resource for the purpose of management. The Managed Object (MO) is an instance
of a Managed Object Class (MOC) as defined in a Management Information Model
(MIM). The MIM does not define how the MO or network resource is implemented;
only what can be seen in the interface.
**Managed Object Class (MOC):** a description of all the common
characteristics for a number of MOs, such as their attributes, operations,
notifications and behaviour.
**Managed Object Instance (MOI):** an instance of a MOC, which is the same as
a MO as described above.
**Management Information Base (MIB):** the set of existing managed objects in
a management domain, together with their attributes, constitutes that
management domain\'s MIB. The MIB may be distributed over several OS/NEs.
**Management Information Model (MIM)** : also referred to as NRM -- see the
definition below. There is a slight difference between the meaning of MIM and
NRM -- the term MIM is generic and can be used to denote any type of
management model, while NRM denotes the model of the actual managed
telecommunications network resources .
**Network resource** : See definition in TS 28.622 [12].
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : See definition in TS 28.622 [12].
**Operations System (OS):** indicates a generic management system, independent
of its location level within the management hierarchy.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [13], and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR
21.905 [13].
CM Configuration Management
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
PM Performance Management
# 4 Requirements
## 4.1 General Requirements
This requirements specification defines requirements for the IS for this IRP.
As such, capabilities specified here as being required in the IS are not
necessarily required in the product implementation. That which is required in
the product implementation will be specified in the IS itself.
The following general and high-level requirements shall apply for the present
IRP:
\- IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
\- IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
\- IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
In addition to the above, the following more specific requirements shall
apply:
\- The IS defined by this IRP shall enable an NM to operate on (access) any
NRMs defined in any NRM IRPs, such as those defined in [4], [5], [6], [7],
[8], [9] and [11].
\- The IS defined by this IRP shall as far as possible be independent of any
specific definitions of MOCs, attributes etc. in the NRMs referred to in item
1.
\- The IS specified by this IRP shall assume that when this IRP is implemented
that the Kernel CM IRP is also implemented.
## 4.2 Passive CM Requirements
The IS defined by this IRP shall include the following operations that may be
invoked by the IRP Manager to retrieve management information from the MIB
maintained by the IRPAgent:
\- An operation to retrieve the value of attributes from one or more managed
object instances.
\- An operation to retrieve the containment relationships between the managed
object instances of a containment tree of managed objects.
\- An operation to retrieve the Basic CM IRP versions that are supported by
the IRPAgent.
\- An operation to cancel a previously initiated operation if it has not
completed. This operation shall, as a minimum, be able to cancel the operation
that retrieves attributes. It may be specified to cancel any operation.
## 4.3 Active CM Requirements
Active CM requirements are specified as additions to Passive CM requirements
and not intended to be implemented without implementation of Passive CM.
The IS defined by this IRP shall include the following operations that may be
invoked by the IRP Manager to communicate management information to the
IRPAgent specifying changes to be made to the MIB maintained by that IRPAgent:
\- An operation to create an instance of a managed object.
\- An operation to delete one or more instances of managed objects.
\- An operation to modify one or more attributes of one or more instances of
managed objects.
TS 32.600 [3] specifies the information that must provided in the NRM
specifications on a per managed object basis to support these Active CM
operations.
#