# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.661 Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Requirements**
**32.662 Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)**
32.666: Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and network resources , and they
may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations Systems
(OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in 3GPP
TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [3], the requirements for
the present IRP: Kernel Configuration Management IRP. It is the intent of
Kernel Configuration Management to provide an IRP that contains the
configuration management functionality that is basic and minimal. It is the
functionality that is common to and required by both Basic CM and Bulk CM.
While neither the Basic CM IRP nor Bulk CM IRP requires the other, they each
require the Kernel CM IRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.632: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Core Network Resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM): UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.652: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); GERAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[9] Void
[10] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [10], 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [10] and 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**Element Manager (EM):** provides a package of end-user functions for
management of a set of closely related types of Network Elements (NEs). These
functions can be divided into two main categories:
_Element Management Functions_ for management of NEs on an individual basis.
These are basically the same functions as supported by the corresponding local
terminals.
_Sub-Network Management Functions_ that are related to a network model for a
set of NEs constituting a clearly defined sub-network, which may include
relations between the NEs. This model enables additional functions on the sub-
network level (typically in the areas of network topology presentation, alarm
correlation, service impact analysis and circuit provisioning).
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRP Information Model:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRP Information Service:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRP Solution Set:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**Managed Object (MO):** abstract entity, which may be accessed through an
open interface between two or more systems, and representing a network
resource for the purpose of management.
NOTE 1: The Managed Object (MO) is an instance of a Managed Object Class (MOC)
as defined in a Management Information Model (MIM). The MIM does not define
how the MO or network resource is implemented; only what can be seen in the
interface.
**Managed Object Class (MOC):** description of all the common characteristics
for a number of MOs, such as their attributes, operations, notifications and
behaviour
**Managed Object Instance (MOI):** instance of a MOC, which is the same as a
MO as described above
**Management Information Base (MIB):** set of existing managed objects in a
management domain, together with their attributes, constitutes that management
domain\'s MIB. The MIB may be distributed over several OS/NEs.
**Management Information Model (MIM):** also referred to as NRM -- see the
definition below.
NOTE 2: There is a slight difference between the meaning of MIM and NRM \--
the term MIM is generic and can be used to denote any type of management
model, while NRM denotes the model of the actual managed telecommunications
Network Resources (NRs).
**Network Manager (NM):** provides a package of end-user functions with the
responsibility for the management of a network, mainly as supported by the
EM(s) but it may also involve direct access to the NEs.
NOTE 3: All communication with the network is based on open and well-
standardised interfaces supporting management of multi-vendor and multi-
technology NEs.
**Network resource** : See definition in 3GPP TS 3GPP 28.622 [11].
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** See definition in 3GPP TS 3GPP 28.622 [11].
**Operations System (OS):** indicates a generic management system, independent
of its location level within the management hierarchy
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [10] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [10].
CM Configuration Management
# 4 Requirements
## 4.1 General Requirements
This requirements specification defines requirements for the IS for this IRP.
As such, capabilities specified here as being required in the IS are not
necessarily required in the product implementation. That which is required in
the product implementation will be specified in the IS itself.
The following general and high-level requirements apply for the present IRP:
A. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
B. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
C. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
In addition to the above, the following more specific requirements apply:
1\. The IS defined by this IRP shall enable an NM to operate on (access) any
NRMs defined in any NRM IRPs, such as those defined in [4], [5], [6], [7] and
[8].
2\. The IS defined by this IRP shall as far as possible be independent of any
specific definitions of MOCs, attributes etc. in the NRMs referred to in item
1.
## 4.2 Kernel CM Requirements
The IS defined by this IRP shall include the following operations that may be
invoked by the IRP Manager to retrieve management information from the
IRPAgent:
\- An operation to retrieve the Network Resource IRP SS document versions
(IRPVersions) of the NRM Solution Sets that are supported by each Network
Resource IRP present in the subject implementation.
The IS defined by this IRP shall include a notification capability by which
the IRPAgent sends management information to the IRPManager whenever an event
of a specific type occurs. Whether these notifications are mandatory or
optional is specified in the Information Service (3GPP TS 32.662 [8]).
Specifically, the following types of notifications shall be supported:
\- A notification that identifies the instance of a managed object that was
created.
\- A notification that identifies one or more instances of a managed object
that were deleted.
\- A notification that identifies the values of one or more attributes of a
managed object instance that were changed.
\- A notification that enables reporting of state and status changes of a
managed object instance.
\- A notification which identifies that part of or the whole configuration
information of managed system should be synchronized.
#