# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
> The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
> normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
>
> The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
> \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
> they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
> external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
> style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
> document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
> The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
> elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
> used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as substitutes
for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the charging aspects of network slicing based on
TS 23.501 [201], TS 23.502 [202], TS 28.541 [221], TS 28.530 [203] and TS
28.531 [204] Release15 specifications:
\- Charging scenarios and potential requirements for different business and
service model (e.g. B2B Services, NSaaS) using network slice.
\- The possible charging aspects for network slice management, including the
impact on charging architecture charging function and charging procedures.
The stage 1 requirements from TS 22.261 [102] Release 15 and the open issues
on network slicing topic that are for further study in TR 32.899 [60] also are
considered in this study.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
[2] - [14] Void.
[15] 3GPP TS 32.255: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; 5G
data connectivity domain charging; Stage 2\".
[16] - [59] Void.
[60] 3GPP TR 32.899: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Study on charging aspects of 5G system architecture phase 1\".
[61] - [99] Void.
[100] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[101] Void.
[102] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for next generation new services
and markets; Stage 1\".
[103] - [200] Void.
[201] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[202] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[203] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[204] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[205] Void.
> [206] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture
> framework\".
[207] - [220] Void.
[221] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource
Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[222] - [229] Void.
[230] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[231] Void.
[232] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[233] Void.
[234] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[235] - [239] Void.
[240] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to
support network data analytics services\".
[241] - [250] Void.
[251] 3GPP TR 28.805: \"Study on management aspects of communication
services\".
[252] - [299] Void.
[300] ITU-T Recommendation Y.3103: \"Business role-based models in IMT-2020\".
[301] - [499] Void.
[500] GSMA NG. 116: \"Generic Network Slice Template\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[100] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[100].
**Network Slice:** A logical network that provides specific network
capabilities and network characteristics.
**Network Slice instance:** A set of Network Function instances and the
required resources (e.g. compute, storage and networking resources) which form
a deployed Network Slice.
**private slice** : a dedicated network slice deployment for the sole use by a
specific 3rd party.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [100] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [100].
> CSC Communication Service Customer
>
> CSP Communication Service Provider
>
> DN Data Network
>
> IOC Information Object Class
>
> KPI Key Performance Indicators
>
> MNO Mobile Network Operator
>
> NOP Network Operator
>
> NRM Network Resource Model
NSaaS Network Slice as a Service
> NSMF Network Slice Management Function
>
> NSMS Network Slice Management Service
>
> NSaaS Network Slice as a Service
>
> NSI Network Slice Instance
>
> NSS Network Slice Subnet
>
> NSSI Network Slice Subnet Instance
>
> NWDAF Network Data Analytics Function
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.0 General Description
Usually, network slice is considered to be a composition of network functions
to offer communication services with particular network characteristics (e.g.
Coverage, UE Mobility Level, Sharing Level, QoS etc.), as specified in TS
22.261 v15.6.0 [102] and TS 28.541 v15.1.0 [221].
Network slices may be configured and instantiated on a service-specific basis.
Network Operator can instantiate network slices dedicated to various IoT
services with different requirements, for example, low-consumption devices
(e.g. temperature sensors), versus high-consumption devices(e.g. Real-time
street traffic management). Each of these services may require different
requirements for bandwidth, latency, control, service assurance.
Network slices may be specific to the needs of an organization, such as a
large enterprise, university or research institution. For example, an electric
power enterprise may have different requirement on network slice (e.g.
Industrial control services, Information collection services and Remote
inspection of Unmanned aerial vehicle).
Network slices can also be specific to special events that take place across
particular geographies during a specific period of time, for example, concert,
sports events.
## 4.1 Background
### 4.1.1 Network Slice Lifecycle
As per the clause 4.3 Management aspects of a network slice instance in TS
28.530 v15.1.0 [203], there are 4 phases in the lifecycle of a Network Slice
Instance, which are summarized as the following.
{width="7.241666666666666in" height="1.5888888888888888in"}
Figure 4.1.1-1: An example of deployment scenario for management of a mobile
network including network slicing
**Preparation phase:** Network slice template design, network slice capacity
planning, on-boarding and, evaluation of the network slice requirements,
preparing the network environment and other necessary preparations required to
be done before the creation of an NSI.
**Commissioning phase:** All needed resources are allocated and configured to
satisfy the network slice requirements. The creation of an NSI can include
creation and/or modification of the NSI constituents.
**Operation phase:**
**Activation:** Activation makes the NSI ready to support communication
services.
**De-activation:** Making the NSI inactive and stops the communication
services.
**Decommissioning phase:** Decommissioning of non-shared constituents if
required and removing the NSI specific configuration from the shared
constituents.
### 4.1.2 Network Slice Management
5G system consists of 5G Access Network (AN), 5G Core Network and UE, see TS
23.501 v15.4.0 [201].
The Management Services and Management Function (MnF) concept are part of the
management framework for 3GPP 5G system which is specified in TS 28.533 [206].
A Mnf plays the role of either Management Service (MnS) producer or Management
Service (MnS) consumer.
Different examples of deployment models for Network Slice Management are
provided in this TS 28.533 [206]:
Annex A.1 provides an example of layered management model with the network and
network slice management layer which comprises a Network slice management
function:
\- producing Management services for consumers;
\- consuming Management services produced by lower layer including network
slice subnet management function.
Annex A.6 provides an example of management architecture with functional
blocks, which is composed of MnFs producing and consuming Management services:
the Network Slice Management Function (NSMF) producing management services for
one or more NSI, and the Communication Service Management Function (CSMF)
consuming management service(s) produced by other functional blocks.
Annex A.8 provides an example of deployment scenario for network and network
slice, with Management Services (MnS) produced and consumed by different MnFs
located at different levels. The Network and Network Slice Management Function
produces the management services for network or NSI to the Consumer, and
consumes management services produced by RAN, CN Management Functions.
The Network Slice Management, relying on this 3GPP management framework, can
be considered under two main models as per TS 28.530 [203]:
\- Network Slice as NOP model: the NOP is the network slice provider, the CSP
is the network slice customer.
\- Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS): the CSP is the network slice provider
and the CSC is the network slice customer. This belongs to Business to
business (B2B).
## 4.2 Business Roles related to network slicing charging
As per the TS 28.530 v15.1.0 [203], in the context of next generation
networks, responsibilities regarding operations have to be clearly defined and
assigned to roles. The roles related to 5G networks and network slicing
management include:
\- Communication Service Customer (CSC): Uses communication services.
\- Communication Service Provider (CSP): Provides communication services.
\- Network Operator (NOP): Provides network services.
\- Virtualization Infrastructure Service Provider (VISP): Provides virtualized
infrastructure services.
{width="5.997916666666667in" height="3.4902777777777776in"}
Figure 4.2-1: High-level model of roles
The NOP can provide the network slice instance to the CSP as the charging
party. Corresponding, the CSP can consume the network slice instance as the
charged party.
Different business roles from network slicing perspective are introduced by
ITU-T Recommendation Y.3103 [300]. The interactions between two business roles
across their interface are subject to billing settlements based on
corresponding service level agreements (SLA). In order to allow the billing
settlements, charging capabilities have to be considered for addressing each
business interface.
In the present document, the following sub-set of business roles are
considered:
\- Network slice service user: uses the service(s) provided by the NSI(s).
\- Network slice service provider: user of the NSI(s)) and is responsible for
providing services to its NS service users via the NSI(s).
\- Network slice provider: owner of the NSI(s) and provides the NSI (s).
The Network slice management and orchestration provider role is not considered
as separate from providers and Orchestration of NS(s) is out of scope.
The business interface between the Network slice service provider (charged
party) and the Network slice provider (charging party), is considered for
charging capabilities related to:
\- NSI(s) usage.
\- NSI(s) Management.
The figure 4.2-2 shows a simplified view of business interface with Network
slice service provider and Network slice provider business roles.
{width="4.294444444444444in" height="1.8263888888888888in"}
Figure 4.2-2: Simplified view of Network slice service provider and Network
slice provider business roles
In this diagram, the Network slice service user business role, as well as its
business interface with the Network slice service provider are mentioned for
illustration purpose.
The business interface between the Network slice service user (charged party)
and the Network slice service provider (charging party), is also considered
for the particular case where the service used by Network slice service user
and offered by Network slice service provider is a Network Slice (NSaaS).
Charging capabilities for this case relate to NSI(s) Management.
The figure 4.2-3 shows a simplified view of business interface for NSaaS
Figure 4.2-3: Simplified view of business interface for NSaaS
The set of models and best practice use cases in ITU-T Recommendation Y.3103
[300] are described with players combining multiple business roles.
Models which are those covered by the present document are those where Network
slice service provider and the Network slice provider are separate players.
The Figures 4.2-2 and 4.2-3 can be used with terminology from TS 28.530 [203]
where:
\- The Communication Service Customer (CSC) is the Network slice service user.
\- The Communication Service Provider (CSP) is the Network slice service
provider.
\- The Network Operator (NOP) is the Network slice provider.
## 4.3 Charging aspect requirement
As per the charging aspect requirements specified in TS 22.261 v15.6.0 [102],
the requirement related Network slice are present as following.
  * _\"The 5G core network shall support collection of all charging > information on either a network or a slice basis.\"_
  * _\"The 5G core network shall support collection of charging > information based on the slice that the UE accesses.\"_
  * _\"The 5G core network shall support collection of charging > information based on the capacity and performance metrics.\"_
# 5 Topics
## 5.1 Topic 1: Business to Business - Network Slice usage
### 5.1.1 Use Case
#### 5.1.1.1 Use Case #1.1: CSP consumes a private slice
The NOP provides private slice service to satisfy CSP's requirements.
A CSP needs a performance-guaranteed private slice to deliver its service, and
subscribes a private network slice instance from the NOP, based on network
slice's performance data (e.g. latency) and/or usage (e.g. volume, duration,
number of connections).
Based on the subscription, during the operation phase, the NOP
creates/activates a new NSI or allocates existing NSI for the sole use by the
CSP and then starts collection of charging information. The NOP enables the
private NSI charging information collection based on subscription. If
measurement method is usage, the NOP collects the NSI usage for CSP. If
measurement method is performance data, the NOP collects performance data.
Based on the subscription and collection, the NOP records and reports the NSI
charging information.
The NOP (Network Operator) is the network slice provider, the CSP is the
network slice customer.
The potential charging requirements for this UC are: REQ-3GPPCH-01,
REQ-3GPPCH-02
#### 5.1.1.2 Use Case #1.2: CSP consumes a shared network slice instance
The NOP provides network slice service to satisfy CSP's requirements.
A CSP needs a performance-guaranteed network slice to deliver its service, and
subscribes a network slice instance from the NOP based on network slice's
performance data (e.g. latency) and/or usage (e.g. volume, duration, number of
connections).
Based on the subscription, during the operation phase, the NOP
creates/activates a new NSI or allocates existing NSI. The NOP starts the
collection of charging information and enables the NSI charging information
collection based on subscription and actual usage. If measurement method is
usage, the NOP collects the NSI usage for CSP. If measurement method is
performance data, the NOP collects performance data.
Based on the subscription and collection, the NOP records and report the
shared NSI charging information per CSP.
The NOP (Network Operator) is the network slice provider, the CSP is the
network slice customer.
The potential charging requirements for this UC are: REQ-3GPPCH-03,
REQ-3GPPCH-04.
#### 5.1.1.3 Use Case #1.3: CSP consumes multiple network slice instances
The NOP provides network slice service to satisfy CSP's requirements.
A CSP needs multiple performance-guaranteed network slices to deliver its
service, and subscribes to multiple private/shared network slice instances
from the NOP based on network slice's performance data (e.g. latency) and/or
usage (e.g. volume, duration, number of connections).
Based on the subscription, during the operation phase, the NOP
creates/activates multiple new NSIs or allocates existing NSIs. For each NSI,
the NOP starts collection of charging information and enables charging
information collection based on subscription and actual usage. If measurement
method is usage, the NOP collects the network slice's usage for CSP. If
measurement method is performance data, the NOP collects performance data.
Based on the subscription and collection, the NOP records, reports the NSI
charging information and then aggregates the charging information for CSP.
The NOP (Network Operator) is the network slice provider, the CSP is the
network slice customer.
The potential charging requirements for this UC are: REQ-3GPPCH-01,
REQ-3GPPCH-02, REQ-3GPPCH-03, REQ-3GPPCH-04, REQ-3GPPCH-05
#### 5.1.1.4 Use Case #1.4: CSP subscribes the Network Slice Instances
The NOP provides network slice services subscription to satisfy CSP's
requirements.
A CSP decides to deliver a service using a network slice instance. The
characteristics of a network slice instance are defined by a set of
attributes. The CSP subscribes to the NOP for a network slice instance with
specified attributes e.g. performance guarantee, coverage, energy efficiency,
reliability, supported traffic types, supported access technologies.
Based on the customized requirements from the CSPs, the NOP provides the
network slice instances with different network slice characteristics (e.g.
eMBB, IoT and automatic driver) described under attributes and during the
operation phase, the operator creates/activates a new NSI or allocates
existing NSI and then starts collection charging information with the
customized slice attributes (e.g. latency).
Based on the customized requirements from the CSPs, the operator records and
reports the customized NSI charging information.
The NOP is the network slice provider, the CSP is the network slice customer.
The potential charging requirements for this Use Case are: REQ-3GPPCH-06,
REQ-3GPPCH-08.
#### 5.1.1.5 Use Case #1.5: CSP consumes a network slice instance under the
usage limit
A CSP needs one or more network slice instances to deliver its service. A CSP
will need a subscription from the Operator with a limit for the network slices
usage.
During the operation phase, the operator creates/activates new NSI(s) or
allocates existing NSI(s) to the CSP. The operator collects charging
information of the NSI(s), and performs usage limit control for the NSI(s).
When usage limit reached, operator perform action based on the subscription,
e.g. notify the CSP or reduce the bandwidth.
The NOP (Network Operator) is the network slice provider, the CSP is the
network slice customer.
The potential charging requirement for this UC is: REQ-3GPPCH-07.
### 5.1.2 Potential charging requirements
**REQ-3GPPCH-01** The 5G system should support collecting charging information
of performance metrics of private slice instances.
**REQ-3GPPCH-02** The 5G system should support collecting charging information
of CSP's usage of private slice instances.
**REQ-3GPPCH-03** The 5G system should support collecting charging information
of performance metrics of shared slice instances.
**REQ-3GPPCH-04** The 5G system should support collecting charging information
of CSP's usage of shared slice instances.
**REQ-3GPPCH-05** The 5G system should support aggregation of charging
information of multiple CSP's slice instances.
**REQ-3GPPCH-06** The 5G system should support customized charging information
collection of performance metrics based on different network slice instance
charging requirements.
**REQ-3GPPCH-07** The 5G system should support the usage limit control per CSP
of network slice instances.
**REQ-3GPPCH-08** The 5G system should support customized charging information
collection considering template terminology as defined in clause 4.5 of TS
28.531 [204].
The present document will focus on the study the key issue and solutions based
on the charging requirements in clause 4.3 and the potential charging
requirements for the use cases.
### 5.1.3 Key issues
#### 5.1.3.1 Key issue #1.1: Performance based charging
This key issue is for investigating how to support the performance based
charging for network slice instances considering REQ-3GPPCH-01, REQ-3GPPCH-03
and REQ-3GPPCH-06.
This investigation covers the following:
\- identification and classification of the main performance indicators for
network slice instance charging;
\- determination of which entity/entities in the 5G system are suitable to
provide the performance indicators;
\- determination of the interactions required to obtain performance indicators
for network slice instance charging.
#### 5.1.3.2 Key issue #1.2: Usage based charging
This key issue is for investigating how to support the usage based charging
for network slice considering REQ-3GPPCH-02, REQ-3GPPCH-04 and REQ-3GPPCH-05.
This investigation covers the following:
\- identification of the usage type used for network slice instance charging;
\- determination of which entity/entities in the 5G system is suitable to
provide the usage information;
\- determination of the main interactions to obtain the usage;
\- how to perform usage limit control based on subscription for NSI(s) user.
#### 5.1.3.3 Key issue #1.3: Network slice template based charging
This key issue is to investigate how to support charging for network slice
instances when the network slice templates are used in the 5G system as
described in TS 28.531 [204] and GSMA NG. 116: \"Generic Network Slice
Template\" [500]. The following requirements will be considered:
REQ-3GPPCH-01, REQ-3GPPCH-03, REQ-3GPPCH-06, REQ-3GPPCH-08 and REQ-3GPPCH-09.
This investigation covers the following:
\- identification and classification of the set of attributes that can
uniquely characterise a type of network slice within a template that are
relevant for network slice instance charging;
\- determination of which entity/entities in the 5G system are suitable to
provide data relating to the set of attributes that can characterise a type of
network slice within a template;
\- determination of the interactions required to obtain the template related
data for network slice instance charging.
### 5.1.4 Solutions
#### 5.1.4.1 Solution #1.1: Network Slice Instance Performance based charging
for Key issues #1.1
##### 5.1.4.1.1 Consideration for Network Slice Instance Performance Based
Charging
The following performance data for 5G Network slice may be used to enable
network slice instance charging for example:
\- Latency.
\- Reliability.
\- Upstream /Downstream Throughput for Single Network Slice Instance.
\- Mean number of PDU sessions of network Slice Instance.
\- Registered Subscribers of network Slice Instance.
\- Mobility related measurements.
\- Overall user density / simultaneous connected devices, etc.
NOTE: The performance data are specified in OAM specifications TS 28.552[232]
and TS 28.554[234].
One or more these performance data may be used for network slice instance
charging based on the SLA (service-level agreement) between CSP and NOP.
According to the lifecycle of network slice instances and network slice high-
level architecture in TS 28.530 v15.1.0 [203], the network slice management
system has the capability to collect and provide the performance data of
NSI(s), as the NS charging information provider.
##### 5.1.4.1.2 Architecture Description
##### 5.1.4.1.2.1 Performance based Network Slice Instance Charging Function
{#performance-based-network-slice-instance-charging-function .H6}
To leverage the capabilities of network slice management system, the
enhancement of Converged Charging System for Network slice performance based
charging is proposed:
Figure 5.1.4.1.2.1-1: Enhancement of Converged Charging System for Network
slice
The NSI charging information provider is the service producer; the Performance
based Network Slice Instances Charging Function in CCS is the service
consumer. The Performance based Network Slice Instances Charging Function
takes charge of requesting performance data based on agreement and creates the
performance data CDR. The Performance Management services specified in TS
28.550 [230] can be used for acquiring the performance data.
This is based on management architecture for 3GPP 5G system specified in TS
28.533 [206]: the Management Function is a MnF playing the role of MnS
producer and the Performance based Network Slice Instances Charging Function
is the MnS consumer.
Online charging is not applied for performance based charging of network slice
instances.
##### 5.1.4.1.2.2 Management Function - NSMF {#management-function---nsmf .H6}
The following figure 5.1.4.1.2.2-1 shows Performance based Network Slice
Instances Charging Function consumer of MnS service in the TS 28.533[206]
management architecture:
Figure 5.1.4.1.2.2-1: Performance based Network Slice Instances Charging
Function consumer of MnS service
The NSMF is the Producer of Network Slice Performance Management Service.
##### 5.1.4.1.3 Flow Description
The figure 5.1.4.1.3-1 describes the high level charging procedure for network
slice instance in solution 5.1.4.1.2.1.
{width="3.7625in" height="2.3583333333333334in"}
Figure 5.1.4.1.3-1: Charging procedure for NSI
1\. The Performance based Network Slice Instance Charging Function decides the
charging start based on subscription.
2\. The Performance based Network Slice Instance Charging Function sends the
subscription request to Management Function based on agreement.
3\. The Management Function response with the successful subscription.
4\. Management Function sends the notify request to Performance based Network
Slice Instance Charging Function.
5\. Performance based Network Slice Instance Charging Function acknowledges
the notification.
6\. Performance based Network Slice Instance Charging Function unsubscribes
the subscription.
7\. Management Function responses the successful un-subscription.
The procedure uses the _\"Subscribe-notify\" paradigm of_ management framework
for 3GPP 5G system which is specified in TS 28.533[206] in clause 5.1.2.
##### 5.1.4.1.4 Solution evaluation
For this solution the advantages are:
\- Different customers can have flexible and personalized network slice
instance performance indicators, these can be dedicated for charging or common
with other management.
\- No major change on 3GPP management functions, since they can allow
authorized NF consumer to request collection of performance data for NSI(s),
i.e. the CHF can subscribe using available services.
\- No impact on the CHF as it does not need to be a consumer as well as a
producer of services, except for the services provided by NRF.
And the disadvantages are:
\- A new NF needs to be introduced as a consumer.
\- The charging cannot directly influence the provided service, i.e. it cannot
grant or deny service access.
#### 5.1.4.2 Solution #1.2: Usage reporting for Key issues #1.2
##### 5.1.4.2.1 Consideration for usage based charging
Network Slice Instance related usage type may include following:
\- volume;
\- duration (per PDU session).
NOP may perform charging for CSP based on usage information of above unit
type.
According to the SMF capabilities in TS 32.255 v15.1.0 [15], the SMF can
collect and provide the above charging information per PDU session of NSI(s).
Therefore, the SMF can act as CTF for usage based charging.
##### 5.1.4.2.2 Architecture Description
The converged online and offline charging architecture is adapted for the
usage based charging for network slice instances.
Figure 5.1.4.2.2-1: The Converged Charging System
The SMF is responsible for reporting the usage information of network slice
instances for session based charging per PDU session.
In order to support the charging per network slice instance for CSP, the SMF
reports the charging information with the S-NSSAI to identify the network
slice instance, the Subscriber Identifier and the start timestamp of PDU
session to charging system for aggregating the usage information of network
slice instance.
##### 5.1.4.2.3 Flow Description
The figure 5.1.4.2.3-1 describes the high level charging procedure for usage
based charging, which is the same with the operation between SMF and CHF in
release 15.
Figure 5.1.4.2.3-1: Charging procedure for usage based charging
1\. The SMF collects the charging information of network slice instance.
2\. The SMF reports the usage information, including the S-NSSAI, Subscriber
Identifier and the start timestamp of PDU session start.
3\. CHF sends the charging data response.
4\. CHF includes network slice instance information in the CDR to enable
aggregation in the billing domain (e.g. a post-processing system or a
mediation device).
##### 5.1.4.2.4 Solution evaluation
For this solution the advantages are:
\- No change on SMF, i.e. the current Nchf can be reused.
\- No major impact on the Converged Charging System architecture i.e. no new
NF is added
\- The CHF can directly influence the provided service, i.e. it can grant or
deny service access.
And the disadvantages are:
\- Session based signalling is usually more intensive than event based.
#### 5.1.4.3 Solution #1.3: Event Based Charging for Key issues #1.2
##### 5.1.4.3.1 Consideration for event based charging
Network slice related usage type as chargeable information (e.g. the number of
IoT connections) only includes following:
\- number of PDU session.
NOP may perform charging for CSP based on usage information of above unit
type.
As per the description of SMF capabilities in TS 32.255 v15.1.0 [15], the
enhancement of SMF supports the event based charging is proposed.
In this scenario, the charging session is not needed, an event based charging
is assumed.
##### 5.1.4.3.2 Architecture Description
The converged online and offline charging architecture is adapted for the
event based charging for network slice, as the clause 5.1.4.2.2.
The SMF is responsible for reporting the usage information of network slice
for event based charging per PDU session.
In order to support the event based charging per network slice for CSP, the
SMF reports the charging information with the S-NSSAI to identify the network
slice instance and the Subscriber Identifier to charging system for
aggregating the usage information of network slice instance.
##### 5.1.4.3.3 Flow Description
The figure 5.1.4. 3.3-1 describes the high level charging procedure for event
based charging, which is the enhancement of the operation between SMF and CHF
in release 15.
Figure 5.1.4.3.3-1: Charging procedure for Event based charging
1\. Based on the configuration or PCC rule, start of PDU session charging
event triggers the event based charging and SMF collects the charging
information of network slice when new PDU session is created.
2\. The SMF reports the usage information with ChargingDataRequest [Event],
including the S-NSSAI, Subscriber Identifier.
3\. CHF sends the ChargingDataResponse [Event].
4\. CHF includes network slice instance information in the CDR to enable
aggregation in the billing domain (e.g. a post-processing system or a
mediation device).
##### 5.1.4.3.4 Solution evaluation
For this solution the advantages are:
\- No major impact on the Converged Charging System architecture i.e. no new
NF is added
\- Event based signalling can be less intensive than session based.
And the disadvantages are:
\- The CHF cannot directly influence the provided service, i.e. it cannot
grant or deny service access.
\- Change on SMF required, i.e. the current Nchf needs to be updated for SMF.
#### 5.1.4.4 Solution #1.4: Network Slice Instance Performance based charging
for Key issues #1.1
##### 5.1.4.4.1 Consideration for Network Slice Instance Performance Based
Charging
See clause 5.1.4.1.1.
##### 5.1.4.4.2 Architecture Description
##### 5.1.4.4.2.1 CHF consumer on MnS {#chf-consumer-on-mns .H6}
To leverage the capabilities of network slice management system, the CHF is
proposed to be a consumer of the interface provided by the 3GPP Management
Function.
Figure 5.1.4.4.2-1: CHF as producer of Nchf and consumer of the Management
Service (MnS)
The Management Function is the producer of the MnS which is consumed by the
CHF in order to do charging based on performance and configuration of a
Network Slice. Since there is currently no granting of units available on the
MnS it means that no quota management can be performed for the network slice
in this solution, it would instead rely on a subscription and notification for
the collection of the relevant charging information. The Performance
Management services specified in TS 28.550 [230] can be used for acquiring the
performance data.
This is based on management architecture for 3GPP 5G system specified in TS
28.533 [206]: the Management Function is a MnF playing the role of MnS
producer and the CHF is the MnS consumer.
##### 5.1.4.4.2.2 Management Function - NSMF {#management-function---nsmf-1
.H6}
The following figure 5.1.4.4.2-1 shows CHF consumer of MnS service in the TS
28.533 [206] management architecture, with a layered approach:
{width="6.09375in" height="2.8402777777777777in"}
Figure 5.1.4.4.2.2-1: CHF consumer of MnS service
The NSMF is the Producer of Network Slice Performance Management Service.
##### 5.1.4.4.3 Flow Description
The flow is the same as in clause 5.1.4.1.3 where the Performance based
Network Slice Instance Charging Function has been replaced by CHF.
##### 5.1.4.4.4 Solution evaluation
For this solution the advantages are:
\- Different customers can have flexible and personalized network slice
instance performance indicators, these can be dedicated for charging or common
with other management.
\- No major change on 3GPP management functions, since they can allow
authorized NF consumer to request collection of performance data for NSI(s),
i.e. the CHF can subscribe using available services.
\- No major impact on the Converged Charging System architecture i.e. no new
NF is added.
And the disadvantages are:
\- The CHF now needs to be a consumer as well as a producer of services,
except for the services provided by NRF.
\- The CHF cannot directly influence the provided service, i.e. it cannot
grant or deny service access.
#### 5.1.4.5 Solution #1.5: Network Slice Instance Performance based charging
for Key issues #1.1
##### 5.1.4.5.1 Consideration for Network Slice Instance Performance Based
Charging
See clause 5.1.4.1.1.
##### 5.1.4.5.2 Architecture Description
##### 5.1.4.5.2.1 Performance based Network Slice Charging Function
{#performance-based-network-slice-charging-function .H6}
This solution is based on the location of a Charging Trigger Function (CTF)
within the Network Slice Instance lifecycle management functionality of the
Management Function.
Figure 5.1.4.5.2-1: CTF of the Management Function interacts with Converged
Charging System using Nchf interface for performance charging.
A charging service is exposed on Nchf by CHF and consumed by the Management
Function.
The PM services specified in TS 28.550 [230] can be used for acquiring the
performance data.
##### 5.1.4.5.3 Flow Description
The flow is the same as in clause 5.1.4.2.3 where the SMF has been replaced by
the Management Function.
##### 5.1.4.5.4 Solution evaluation
For this solution the advantages are:
\- Different customers can have flexible and personalized network slice
instance charging.
\- The CHF do not need to be a consumer as well as a producer of services,
except for the services provided by NRF.
\- The CHF can directly influence the provided service, i.e. it can grant or
deny service access.
\- No major impact on the Converged Charging System architecture i.e. no new
NF or service is added.
And the disadvantages are:
\- Personalized network slice instance performance indicators for other
management cannot be reused by charging.
\- Superfluous information may be sent to CHF in order to provide the needed
flexibility and personalization possibilities.
\- Major change on 3GPP management functions, since they need to support the
Nchf service.
#### 5.1.4.6 Solution #1.6: Usage reporting for Key issues #1.2
##### 5.1.4.6.1 Consideration for usage limit for CSP
A CSP can subscribe one or more private/shared NSI(s). For CSP's usage limit
control, the following cases are taken into account.
\- Case 1: CSP subscribes the private slice instances and the all PDU sessions
in the private slice instances belongs to the CSP.
\- Case 2: CSP subscribes the shared slice instances and the dedicated PDU
sessions in the shared slice instances belongs to the CSP.
\- Case 3: CSP subscribes the shared slice instances and the partial SDFs of
PDU session in the shared slice instances belong to the CSP.
Network Slice Instance related usage type may include following:
\- volume;
\- number of PDU sessions.
NOP may perform usage limit of above unit type for CSP.
##### 5.1.4.6.2 Architecture Description
The converged online and offline charging architecture is adapted for usage
limit for CSP.
Figure 5.1.4.6.2-1: The Converged Charging System
The solutions are based on the CHF selection mechanism specified in TS 32.255
[15]. The SMF performs usage limit control per PDU session in each NSI.
\- For case 1, the CHF addresses can be provided for PDU sessions in private
slice instance and charging information of the CSP is routed to the same CHF
which performs the usage limit control.
\- For case 2, the CHF addressed can be provided based on the PDU sessions.
The charging information associated to the usage of same CSP's PDU sessions
can be routed to the same CHF to perform the usage limit control of CSP.
\- For case 3, the solution is out of scope.
##### 5.1.4.6.3 Flow Description
The figure 5.1.4.6.3-1 describes the high level charging procedure for case 1
and 2.
Figure 5.1.4.6.3-1: Charging procedure for case 1 and 2
1\. The SMF determines CHF address for PDU session.
2\. The SMF sends usage information and requested quota to CHF.
3\. CHF performs quota management for CSP's usage limit.
4\. CHF sends granted quota for the PDU session to the SMF.
##### 5.1.4.6.4 Solution evaluation
In this solution, there is no impact on existing Nchf between SMF and CHF.
#### 5.1.4.7 Solution #1.7: Network Slice Instance Analytics based charging
for Key issues #1.1
##### 5.1.4.7.1 Consideration for Network Slice Instance Analytics Based
Charging
The following information related to 5G Network slice may be used to enable
network slice instance charging:
\- Load level
This information may be used for network slice instance charging based on the
SLA (service-level agreement) between CSP and NOP.
NOTE: which data may be used for network slice instance analytics charging
will be determined during the normative work and load level is candidate to be
one of them.
##### 5.1.4.7.2 Architecture Description
To leverage the capabilities of NWDAF offering Slice load level related
network data analytics, the CHF is proposed to be a consumer of the service
provided by the NWDAF:
Figure 5.1.4.7.2-1: CHF as producer of Nchf and consumer of the NWDAF (Nnwdaf)
The NWDAF is the producer of Analytics service over Nnwdaf which is consumed
by the CHF in order to do charging based on load level of a Network Slice.
The NWDAF and its services are specified in TS 23.288 [240]: they can be used
when specified for acquiring Slice load level analytics.
##### 5.1.4.7.3 Flow Description
The figure 5.1.4.7.3-1 describes the high level charging procedure for
Analytics based network slice instance:
{width="4.270138888888889in" height="3.051388888888889in"}
Figure 5.1.4.7.3-1: Charging procedure for NSI
1\. Charging starts based on subscription.
2\. CHF subscribes to subscription to analytics information by invoking the
Nnwdaf_AnalyticsSubscription_Subscribe service, indicating load level
information for a specific NSI.
3\. The NWDAF notifies the CHF with the Slice load level analytics information
by invoking Nnwdaf_AnalyticsSubscription_Notify service
4\. Charging stops based on subscription
5\. CHF unsubscribes to Slice load level analytics information by invoking the
Nnwdaf_AnalyticsSubscription_Unsubscribe service.
##### 5.1.4.7.4 Solution evaluation
For this solution the advantages are:
\- Different customers can have flexible and personalized network slice
instance Load level/ Threshold performance indicators, these can be dedicated
for charging.
\- No change on NWDAF, since they can allow CHF as an authorized NF consumer,
to subscribe to Slice load level related network data analytics, when they are
specified.
\- No major impact on the Converged Charging System architecture i.e. no new
NF is added.
\- Other Analytics beyond the Slice load level could be subscribed-to by CHF
in the future.
And the disadvantages are:
\- The CHF now needs to be a consumer as well as a producer of services,
except for the services provided by NRF.
\- The CHF cannot directly influence the provided service, i.e. it cannot
grant or deny service access.
\- Additional NF (i.e. NWDAF) for CHF to consume service(s) from.
#### 5.1.4.8 Solution #1.8: Network Slice Instance Performance based charging
for Key issues #1.1
##### 5.1.4.8.1 Consideration for Network Slice Instance Performance Based
Charging
See clause 5.1.4.1.1.
##### 5.1.4.8.2 Architecture Description
##### 5.1.4.8.2.1 Network Slice Charging Trigger Function {#network-slice-
charging-trigger-function .H6}
This solution is based on the location of a CTF within a new Network Slice
Charging Trigger Function.
The following figure 5.1.4.8.2.1-1 shows the Network Slice Charging Trigger
Function and the CHF in the TS 28.533[206] management architecture:
Figure 5.1.4.8.2.1-1: Network Slice Charging Trigger Function using Nchf
interface for performance charging.
A charging service is exposed on Nchf by CHF and consumed by the Network Slice
Charging Trigger Function.
The NSMF is the Producer of Network Slice Performance Management Service.
The Network Slice Charging Trigger Function is the MnS consumer of Network
Slice Performance Management Service.
##### 5.1.4.8.3 Flow Description
The flow is the same as in clause 5.1.4.2.3 where the SMF has been replaced by
the Network Slice Charging Trigger Function.
##### 5.1.4.8.4 Solution evaluation
For this solution the advantages are:
\- Different customers can have flexible and personalized network slice
instance charging.
\- The CHF do not need to be a consumer as well as a producer of services,
except for the services provided by NRF.
\- The CHF can directly influence the provided service, i.e. it can grant or
deny service access.
\- No major impact on the Converged Charging System architecture i.e. no new
NF or service is added.
And the disadvantages are:
\- Personalized network slice instance performance indicators for other
management cannot be reused by charging.
\- Superfluous information may be sent to CHF in order to provide the needed
flexibility and personalization possibilities.
\- A new Network Slice Charging Trigger Function needs to be defined to
support consumption of PM service as well the Nchf service.
#### 5.1.4.9 Solution #1.9: Network Slice Instance Performance based charging
for Key issues #1.1
##### 5.1.4.9.1 Consideration for Network Slice Instance Performance Based
Charging
See clause 5.1.4.1.1.
##### 5.1.4.9.2 Architecture Description
To leverage the capabilities of NWDAF to collect performance measurements, the
CHF can be a consumer of the service provided by the NWDAF for performance
based Charging.
The Architecture is the same as Figure 5.1.4.7.2-1.
The NWDAF is the producer of Network Performance Analytics service over Nnwdaf
which is consumed by the CHF in order to do charging based on Performance of a
Network Slice.
The NWDAF of Network Performance Analytics service is specified in TS 23.288
[240].
##### 5.1.4.9.3 Flow Description
The flow is the same as in clause 5.1.4.7.3 where the CHF subscribes to
subscription to analytics information by invocation of
Nnwdaf_AnalyticsSubscription_Subscribe indicating \" Network Performance\".
##### 5.1.4.9.4 Solution evaluation
For this solution the advantages are:
\- Different customers can have flexible and personalized network slice
instance performance indicators, these can be dedicated for charging or common
with other management.
\- No change on NWDAF, since they can allow authorized NF consumer to request
collection of performance data for NSI(s), i.e. the CHF can subscribe using
available services.
\- No change on 3GPP management functions, NWDAF is expected already to be an
authorized NF consumer of OAM for collection of performance data for NSI(s),
i.e. the CHF can subscribe using available services.
\- No major impact on the Converged Charging System architecture i.e. no new
NF is added.
\- Other Analytics beyond the Performance data could be subscribed-to by CHF
in the future.
And the disadvantages are:
\- The CHF now needs to be a consumer as well as a producer of services,
except for the services provided by NRF.
\- The CHF cannot directly influence the provided service, i.e. it cannot
grant or deny service access.
\- Two steps to retrieve Performance data: NWDAF retrieves PM data from OAM
and CHF retrieves PM data from NWDAF.
#### 5.1.4.10 Solution #1.10: Network Slice Instance Template based charging
for Key issues #1.3
##### 5.1.4.10.1 Consideration for Network Slice Instance Template Based
Charging
Network Slice Instance templates are a possible mechanism to assist in
creating network slice instances by the 5G Management system as described in
TS 28.531 [204]. The attributes that can be used within a template to
characterize a network slice instance are described by the attributes of
ServiceProfile in 3GPP TS 28.541 [221].
##### 5.1.4.10.2 Architecture Description
##### 5.1.4.10.2.1 Template based Network Slice Charging Function {#template-
based-network-slice-charging-function .H6}
This solution is based on the location of a Charging Trigger Function (CTF)
within the Network Slice Instance lifecycle management functionality of the
Management Function.
Figure 5.1.4.10.2.1-1: CTF of the Management Function interacts with Converged
Charging System using Nchf interface for template based charging.
A charging service is exposed on Nchf by CHF and consumed by the Management
Function.
The Management Function creates and populates charging events based on the
characteristics of a network slice instance described by a template.
##### 5.1.4.10.3 Flow Description
The flow is the same as in clause 5.1.4.2.3 where the SMF has been replaced by
the Management Function.
##### 5.1.4.10.4 Solution evaluation
For this solution the advantages are:
\- Different customers can have flexible and personalized network slice
instance charging.
\- The CHF do not need to be a consumer as well as a producer of services,
except for the services provided by NRF.
\- The CHF can directly influence the provided service, i.e. it can grant or
deny service access.
\- No major impact on the Converged Charging System architecture i.e. no new
NF or service is added.
And the disadvantages are:
\- Major change on 3GPP management functions, since they need to support the
Nchf service.
### 5.1.5 Evaluation
#### 5.1.5.1 Solutions evaluation for Key issue #1.1
All solutions #1.1, #1.4, #1.5, #1.7 #1.8 and #1.9 solve Key issue #1.1.
In the solutions #1.1, #1.4, #1.7 and #1.9 the Converged Charging System
becomes a consumer of services (beyond the services provided by NRF), which
deviates from how Converged Charging System is currently designed.
The solutions #1.5 and #1.8 are futureproof from charging\'s perspective since
they allow influence on the provided service, i.e. it cannot grant or deny
service access, although this capability may not be needed for performance
based charging. However, the solution #1.5 has the drawback to strongly impact
3GPP management, therefore the solution #1.8x is preferred for Performance
based charging.
The solutions #1.9 and #1.7 allow the NWDAF as a new source to collect data,
and benefit from analytics beyond the Performance data in the future. They are
both retained for Analytics based charging.
The solutions #1.8, #1.9 and #1.7 can be combined to specify Performance and
Analytics based charging.
#### 5.1.5.2 Solutions evaluation for Key issue #1.2
All solutions #1.2, #1.3 and #1.6 solve Key issue #1.2.
Solution #1.2 about network slice charging based on volume and duration (per
PDU session), has no impact on existing Nchf between SMF and CHF.
Solution #1.3 about network slice charging based on the number of PDU session
can be solved by existing charging mechanism (session based charging).
Solution #1.6 about network slice charging based on usage limit for CSP has no
impact on existing Nchf between SMF and CHF.
#### 5.1.5.3 Solutions evaluation for Key issue #1.3
Solution #1.10 solves Key issue #1.3.
### 5.1.6 Conclusions
It is concluded on Performance and Analytics based Charging for Key issue #1.1
with:
\- Solution #1.8 in clause 5.1.4.8.
\- Solution #1.9 in clause 5.1.4.9.
\- Solution #1.7 in clause 5.1.4.7.
It is concluded on usage based charging for Key issue # 1.2 with:
\- Solution #1.2 in clause 5.1.4.2, and no further normative work.
\- Solution #1.6 in clause 5.1.4.6, and no further normative work.
It is concluded that Key issue #1.3 is more relevant to topic 2 and is covered
by solutions #2.1 and #2.2. Thus, there is no requirement for any normative
work to address topic 1.
It is concluded that charging requirement for capacity based network slice
charging described in clause 4.3 can be covered in Performance and analytics
based charging.
## 5.2 Topic 2: Business to Business - Network Slice management
### 5.2.1 Use Cases
#### 5.2.1.1 Use Case #2.1: NSI provisioning -- NOP model
The NOP (Network Operator) is the network slice provider, the CSP is the
network slice customer.
The CSP needs to perform Network Slices management in order to offer
Communication Services (e.g. eMBB services) to a CSC.
Management of Network slices by a CSP is achieved under the 4 phases in the
lifecycle of a Network Slice Instance identified in clause 4.1.1:
\- Preparation phase: this phase is not considered under in the present
document.
\- Commissioning phase: NSI creation.
\- Operation phase: NSI modification, NSI Activation, De-Activation.
\- Decommissioning phase: NSI termination.
Based on information received from the CSP upon NSI creation and modification,
the NOP determines whether a private NSI needs to be allocated (private NSI)
or an existing NSI can be re-used (shared NSI).
The NOP collects charging information for the different operations performed
by the CSP on Network Slice instances.
The potential charging requirements for this Use Case are: REQ-CH-NSIMNG-01,
REQ-CH-NSIMNG-02, REQ-CH-NSIMNG-03, REQ-CH-NSIMNG-04, REQ-CH-NSIMNG-05 and
REQ-CH-NSIMNG-06.
#### 5.2.1.2 Use Case #2.2: NSI provisioning -- NSaaS model
As per TS 28.530 [203] description of NSaaS, the Network Slice is considered
as a Communication Service offered by a CSP to a CSC.
The CSP is the network slice provider (NSaaS provider), the CSC is the network
slice customer (NSaaS consumer).
The CSC is authorized by the CSP for operations on NSI in commissioning
phase/Operation phase/ Decommissioning phase.
The CSP collects charging information for the different operations performed
by the CSC on Network Slices.
The potential charging requirements for this Use Case are: REQ-CH-NSIMNG-07,
REQ-CH-NSIMNG-08.
### 5.2.2 Potential charging requirements
**REQ-CH-NSIMNG-01** The 5G system should support collecting charging
information for NSI creation, modification and termination by CSP.
**REQ-CH-NSIMNG-02** The 5G system should support collecting charging
information for NSI Activation, De-Activation by CSP.
**REQ-CH-NSIMNG-03** The 5G system should support collecting charging
information for NSI creation, modification and termination by CSP for private
NSI(s).
**REQ-CH-NSIMNG-04** The 5G system should support collecting charging
information for NSI Activation, De-Activation by CSP for private NSI(s).
**REQ-CH-NSIMNG-05** The 5G system should support collecting charging
information for NSI creation, modification and termination by CSP for shared
NSI(s).
**REQ-CH-NSIMNG-06** The 5G system should support collecting charging
information for NSI Activation, De-Activation by CSP for shared NSI(s).
**REQ-CH-NSIMNG-07** The 5G system should support collecting charging
information for NSI creation, modification and termination by authorized CSC
(NSaaS consumer).
**REQ-CH-NSIMNG-08** The 5G system should support collecting charging
information for NSI Activation, De-Activation by authorized CSC (NSaaS
consumer).
**REQ-CH-NSIMNG-09** The 5G system should support collecting charging
information in alignment with network slice templates/attributes of service
profile used for NSI creation as described in TS 28.531 [204] and TS
28.541[221].
### 5.2.3 Key issues
#### 5.2.3.1 Key issue #2.1: Network Slice management based charging -- NOP
model
This key issue is for investigating how to support the Network Slice
management based charging for network slice instances considering REQ-CH-
NSIMNG-01, EQ-CH-NSIMNG-02, REQ-CH-NSIMNG-03, REQ-CH-NSIMNG-04, REQ-CH-
NSIMNG-05, REQ-CH-NSIMNG-06 and REQ-CH-NSIMNG-09.
This investigation covers the following:
\- determination of which entity/entities in the management framework for 3GPP
5G system is suitable for achieving Network Slice management based charging;
\- identification of the main charging information to be collected;
\- possible alignment with Network Slice templates.
#### 5.2.3.2 Key issue #2.2: Network Slice management based charging -- NSaaS
Model
This key issue is for investigating how to support the Network Slice
management based charging for network slice instances considering REQ-CH-
NSIMNG-07, REQ-CH-NSIMNG-08.
This investigation covers the following:
\- determination of which entity/entities in the management framework for 3GPP
5G system is suitable for achieving Network Slice management based charging;
\- identification of the main charging information to be collected.
### 5.2.4 Solutions
#### 5.2.4.1 Solution #2.1: Network Slice Management based charging for Key
issues #2.1
##### 5.2.4.1.1 Consideration for Network Slice Management based Charging
Based on the TS 28.530 [203] Network Slicing Management requirements, the 3GPP
Management system is specified with NSI provisioning capabilities in TS 28.531
[204].
The Information Object Classes (IOC) for the Network Resource Model (NRM)
definitions of network slice are defined in TS 28.541 [221] and used for NSI
provisioning. Different network slice templates may be used as input to create
instances of Network Slice IOC as specified in TS 28.531 [204].
Deployments models for Network Slice Management in 5G system rely on 3GPP
Management system composed of Management Functions (MnF) producing and
consuming Management Services (MnS), which includes NSI provisioning.
In order to focus on Management Functions and Management Services (MnS) for
NSI provisioning the following terminology is retained:
\- Network Slice Management Function (NSMF) is the Network Slice Management
Service (NSMS) Producer.
\- Network Slice Management Service (NSMS) Consumer.
##### 5.2.4.1.2 Architecture Description
This solution is based on a Charging Trigger Function (CTF) located in the
NSMF.
Figure 5.2.4.1.2-1: CTF of the NSMF interacts with Converged Charging System
using Nchf interface for Network Slice Management charging.
A charging service is exposed on Nchf by CHF and consumed by the NSMF.
This NSMF produces the Network slice management provisioning services defined
in TS 28.531 [204] consumed by the NSMS Consumer.
##### 5.2.4.1.3 Flow Description
The NSMF represents the Network Slice Management Service (NSMS) Producer in
the different diagrams.
The figure 5.2.4.1.3-1 describes the high level charging procedure for Network
Slice Management -- NSI creation, based on the procedure defined in clause 7.2
of TS 28.531 [204].
Figure 5.2.4.1.3-1: Charging procedure for NSI creation
1\. The NSMS Consumer invokes \"Create NSI\" service produced by the NSMF.
2\. NSI creation process.
3\. The NSMF answers to NSMS Consumer with the result of NSI creation.
4-6. Charging Data Request/ Response [Event] between NSMF and CHF for the NSI
creation and CDR creation
The figure 5.2.4.1.3-2 describes the high level charging procedure for Network
Slice Management -- NSI modification, based on the procedure defined in clause
7.6 of TS 28.531 [204].
Figure 5.2.4.1.3-2: Charging procedure for NSI modification
1\. The NSMS Consumer invokes \"Modify NSI\" service produced by the NSMF.
2\. NSI modification process.
3\. The NSMF answers to NSMS Consumer with the result of NSI modification.
4-6. Charging Data Request/ Response [Event] between NSMF and CHF for the NSI
modification and CDR creation
The figure 5.2.4.1.3-3 describes the high level charging procedure for Network
Slice Management -- NSI termination, based on the procedure defined in clause
7.4 of TS 28.531 [204].
Figure 5.2.4.1.3-3: Charging procedure for NSI termination
1\. The NSMS Consumer invokes \"Terminate NSI\" service produced by the NSMF.
2\. NSI termination process.
3\. The NSMF answers to NSMS Consumer with the result of NSI termination.
4-6. Charging Data Request/ Response [Event] between NSMF and CHF for the NSI
termination and CDR creation
The high level charging procedures for Network Slice Management - NSI creation
and termination are similar for NSI activation and deactivation respectively.
The details of TS 28.531 [204] procedures and TS 28.541 [221] NRM to be used
will be addressed during the normative work.
##### 5.2.4.1.4 Solution evaluation
For this solution the advantage is:
\- Different customers can have flexible and personalized network slice
instance charging for NSIs operations.
\- The CHF does not need to be a consumer as well as a producer of services,
except for the services provided by NRF.
\- The CHF can directly influence the provided service, i.e. it can grant or
deny service access.
And the disadvantages are:
\- Major change on 3GPP management functions, since they need to support the
Nchf service.
#### 5.2.4.2 Solution #2.2: Network Slice Management based charging for Key
issues #2.1 - MnS
##### 5.2.4.2.1 Consideration for Network Slice Management based Charging
See clause 5.2.4.1.1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2 Architecture Description
This solution is based on the use of NSMF producing Management service over
MnS consumed by CHF.
Figure 5.2.4.2.2-1: CHF consumer of the Management Service (MnS).
This NSMF produces the Network slice management provisioning services defined
in TS 28.531 [204] consumed by the NSMS Consumer over MnS.
The NSMF produces the Network slice management charging collection service
consumed by the CHF over MnS, in order to achieve charging for operations on
Network slice instances.
The Network slice management charging collection service is a new MnS service
to be introduced.
##### 5.2.4.2.3 Flow Description
The figure 5.2.4.2.3-1 describes for this solution, the high level charging
procedure for Network Slice Management -- NSI operation.
Figure 5.2.4.2.3-1: Operations on NSI charging using new MnS service
1\. Charging starts based on account creation for a CSP in the CHF
2\. CHF subscribes to the NSMF for the \"Network slice management charging
collection service\" for being notified of each Operation on NSIs performed by
a particular CSP.
3\. The NSMF confirms the subscription.
4\. The NSMS Consumer (i.e. CSP) invokes an Operation on NSI (e.g.
creation/activation/modification...) service produced by the NSMF.
5\. Operation on NSI process is performed.
6 The NSMF answers to NSMS Consumer with the result of NSI operation.
7\. The NSMF notifies the CHF with charging information for \"Operation on
NSI\" by invoking the \"Network slice management charging collection service
-- Notify\". Information indicating whether the NSI is a shared NSI or private
NSI is included.
8\. A CDR is created.
##### 5.2.4.2.4 Solution evaluation
For this solution the advantage is:
\- Different customers can have flexible and personalized network slice
instance charging for NSI operations.
And the disadvantages are:
\- Change on 3GPP management function by introduction of the new \"Network
slice management charging collection service\".
\- Change to CHF for consuming the new service.
\- The CHF now needs to be a consumer as well as a producer of services,
except for the services provided by NRF.
\- The CHF cannot directly influence the provided service, i.e. it cannot
grant or deny service access.
#### 5.2.4.3 Solution #2.3: Network Slice Management based charging for Key
issues #2.2 - CTF
##### 5.2.4.3.1 Consideration for Network Slice Management based Charging
The TS 28.530 [203] Network Slicing Management requirements includes an
Exposure of network slice management capability, and the 3GPP Management
system is specified with Provisioning exposure for NSI capabilities in clause
6.1 of TS 28.531 [204].
A deployment model in TS 28.533 [206], clause A.3 Utilization of management
services by Exposure Governance Management Function (EGMF) is considered for
this solution.
In order to focus on Management Functions and Management Services (MnS) for
Provisioning exposure for NSI capabilities the following terminology is
retained:
\- Exposure Governance Management Function (EGMF) is the Network Slice
Management Service (NSMS) Producer.
\- Network Slice Management Service (NSMS) Consumer.
##### 5.2.4.3.2 Architecture Description
This solution is based on a Charging Trigger Function (CTF) located in the
EGMF.
Figure 5.2.4.3.2-1: CTF of the EGMF interacts with Converged Charging System
using Nchf interface for Network Slice Management charging.
A charging service is exposed on Nchf by CHF and consumed by the EGMF.
This EGMF produces the Network slice management provisioning services defined
in TS 28.531 [204] consumed by the NSMS Consumer.
##### 5.2.4.3.3 Flow Description
The flow description is the same as in clause 5.2.4.1.3 with the NSMF replaced
by the EGMF.
##### 5.2.4.3.4 Solution evaluation
For this solution the advantage is:
\- Different customers can have flexible and personalized network slice
instance charging for NSIs operations.
\- The CHF does not need to be a consumer as well as a producer of services,
except for the services provided by NRF.
\- The CHF can directly influence the provided service, i.e. it can grant or
deny service access.
And the disadvantages are:
\- Major change on 3GPP management functions, since they need to support the
Nchf service.
#### 5.2.4.4 Solution #2.4: Network Slice Management based charging for Key
issues #2.2 - MnS
##### 5.2.4.4.1 Consideration for Network Slice Management based Charging
See clause 5.2.4.3.1.
##### 5.2.4.4.2 Architecture Description
This solution is based on the use of EGMF producing Management service over
MnS consumed by CHF.
The same architecture as figure 5.2.4.2.2-1 with NSMF replaced by EGMF.
##### 5.2.4.4.3 Flow Description
The flow description is the same as in clause 5.2.4.2.3 with the NSMF replaced
by the EGMF.
##### 5.2.4.4.4 Solution evaluation
Same evaluation as clause 5.1.4.2.4.
#### 5.2.4.5 Solution #2.5: Communication Service using Network Slice
Management based charging for Key issues #2.1
##### 5.2.4.5.1 Consideration for Network Slice Management based Charging
Based on the TS 28.530 [203] Network Slicing Management requirements, the 3GPP
Management system is specified with NSI provisioning capabilities in TS 28.531
[204]. The management of network slicing when used as communication services
are studied in TR 28.805 [251].
In the study the CSMF receives all information about creation, activation,
deactivation and termination of a CSI from the Order care that it needs. This
means that all relevant charging information will be in the Order care and in
this case charging or billing could interface directly with Order care. The
interaction with Order care from a charging perspective would be considered
outside the scope of the current study.
### 5.2.5 Evaluation
#### 5.2.5.1 Solutions evaluation for Key issue# 2.1
Both solutions #2.1 and #2.2 solve Key issue #2.1.
In the solution #2.2 the CHF becomes a consumer of services (beyond the
services provided by NRF), which deviates from how CHF functionality is
currently designed.
The **s** olution #2.1 has the advantage of being futureproof from charging\'s
perspective since it allows influence on the provided service, i.e. it cannot
grant or deny service access, which is not the case in solution #2.2.
#### 5.2.5.2 Solutions evaluation for Key issue# 2.2
Both solutions #2.3 and #2.4 solve Key issue #2.2.
In the solution #2.4 the CHF becomes a consumer of services (beyond the
services provided by NRF), which deviates from how CHF functionality is
currently designed.
The solution #2.3 has the advantage of being futureproof from charging\'s
perspective since it allows influence on the provided service, i.e. it cannot
grant or deny service access, which is not the case in solution #2.3.
### 5.2.6 Conclusions
It is concluded on:
\- Solution#2.1 for Key issue #2.1.
\- Solution#2.3 for Key issue #2.2.
## 5.3 Topic 3: Business to Consumer
### 5.3.1 Use Case
#### 5.3.1.1 Use Case #3.1: Consumer consumes communication services
The NOP/CSP provides communication services using different network slice
instances.
Consumer subscribes the services with specific requirements. UE establishes
PDU session to access the services in the specific NSI. The NOP/CSP collects
charging information and/or performs credit control per UE per PDU session.
The NOP/CSP is the service provider to provide communication services using
different NSIs.
The potential charging requirements for this UC are: REQ-3GPPCH-X1 and
REQ-3GPPCH-X2.
### 5.3.2 Potential charging requirements
**REQ-3GPPCH-X1** The 5G system should support collecting charging information
of service using NSIs.
**REQ-3GPPCH-X2** The 5G system should support perform credit control for
service consumption using NSIs.
### 5.3.3 Key issues
#### 5.3.3.1 Key issue #3.1: Usage based charging related to the specific NSI
This key issue is for investigating how to support the usage based charging
related to the S-NSSAI considering REQ-3GPPCH-X1 and REQ-3GPPCH-X2.
This investigation covers the following:
\- identification of the usage type used for usage based charging related to
the S-NSSAI;
\- determination of which entity/entities in the 5G system is suitable to
provide the usage information;
\- how to perform credit control for service usage related to the specific
S-NSSAI.
### 5.3.4 Solutions
#### 5.3.4.1 Solution #3.1: Usage based charging for Key issues #3.1
##### 5.3.4.1.1 Consideration for usage based charging
For consumer, service delivery related usage type may include following:
\- volume;
\- duration (per PDU session).
The NOP may collect usage information and/or perform credit control of above
unit types for consumer per PDU session.
According to the SMF capabilities specified in TS 32.255 v15.1.0 [15], the SMF
can collect and provide the above charging information per PDU session of
S-NSSAI. Therefore, the SMF can act as CTF for usage based charging related to
the specific S-NSSAI.
##### 5.3.4.1.2 Architecture Description
The converged online and offline charging architecture is adapted for the
usage based charging related to network slice instances.
Figure 5.3.4.1.2-1: The Converged Charging System
The SMF requests quota from CHF and consumes quota for service delivery,
and/or reports the usage information of network slice instances per PDU
session.
##### 5.3.4.1.3 Flow Description
The same message flow to specify the interaction between the SMF and the CHF
for 5G data connection in different scenarios in clause 5.2.2 of TS 32.255
[15].
##### 5.3.4.1.4 Solution evaluation
In this solution, there is no impact on existing Nchf between SMF and CHF.
### 5.3.5 Evaluation
#### 5.3.5.1 Solutions evaluation for Key issue# 3.1
Solution #3.1 solves the Key issue #3.1.
The solution #3.1 has no impact on existing Nchf between SMF and CHF.
### 5.3.6 Conclusions
It is concluded for Key issue # 3.1 as per solution #3.1 in clause 5.3.4.1,
and no further normative work.
## 5.4 Topic 4: Business to Business to X (B2B2X)
### 5.4.1 General
Each of the parts of the business models B2B2X (e.g. B2B, B2C, etc) described
in TS 28.530 [203] are already covered in this study.
# 6 Conclusions and Recommendations
The conclusion for identified key issues are:
\- Performance and Analytics based charging: solutions as per clause 5.1.6
conclusion.
\- Usage based charging: solutions as per clause 5.1.6 conclusion.
\- Capacity based network slice charging: solutions as per clause 5.1.6
conclusions.
\- Network Slice management: solutions as per clause 5.2.6 conclusion.
\- Network slice charging for Business to Consumer: solutions as per clause
5.3.6 conclusion.
The charging architecture and charging information is recommended to be
specified at normative phase.
# Annex A: Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | Doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5‑1 | | | | U | 0.1.0 | | 18-11 | #122 | 87187 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | S5-1 | | | | the | | | | | 87448 | | | | Ske | | | | | | | | | leton | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 87449 | | | | Scope | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | Add | 0.2.0 | | 19-01 | #123 | 91401 | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | S5-1 | | | | the | | | | | 91318 | | | | Refer | | | | | | | | | ences | | | | | S5-1 | | | | and | | | | | 91319 | | | | Abb | | | | | | | | | revia | | | | | S5-1 | | | | tions | | | | | 91320 | | | | | | | | | | | | | Intr | | | | | S5-1 | | | | oduce | | | | | 91321 | | | | the | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | S5-1 | | | | twork | | | | | 91322 | | | | Sl | | | | | | | | | icing | | | | | S5-1 | | | | Re | | | | | 91323 | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ncept | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Intr | | | | | | | | | oduce | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | Roles | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | Sl | | | | | | | | | icing | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | spect | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Use | | | | | | | | | Case | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Pote | | | | | | | | | ntial | | | | | | | | | Cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Key | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ssues | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Usage | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | Cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Key | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ssues | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SLA | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | Cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | Add | 0.3.0 | | 19-03 | #124 | 92290 | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | S5-1 | | | | sol | | | | | 92291 | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | evalu | | | | | S5-1 | | | | ation | | | | | 92292 | | | | for | | | | | | | | | sol | | | | | S5-1 | | | | ution | | | | | 92293 | | | | #1.1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | Add | | | | | 92295 | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Use | | | | | | | | | Case | | | | | | | | | about | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | Slice | | | | | | | | | Su | | | | | | | | | bscri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | Cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | few | | | | | | | | | edit | | | | | | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | many | | | | | | | | | clar | | | | | | | | | ifica | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | NW | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | Add | 0.4.0 | | 19-04 | #125 | 93335 | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | S5-1 | | | | sol | | | | | 93336 | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | S5-1 | | | | NSI | | | | | 93337 | | | | P | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | S5- | | | | mance | | | | | 19306 | | | | Cha | | | | | 9 | | | | | | | | | | | | | Cl | | | | | S5-1 | | | | arify | | | | | 93338 | | | | the | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Cl | | | | | | | | | arify | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | slice | | | | | | | | | ins | | | | | | | | | tance | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Cla | | | | | | | | | rific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | NSI | | | | | | | | | Cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | [ | | | | M | 0.5.0 | | 19-06 | # | S5-19 | | | | odify | | | | 125Ad | 4107] | | | | the | | | | | (http | | | | key | | | | | ://ww | | | | i | | | | | w.3gp | | | | ssues | | | | | p.org | | | | for | | | | | /ftp/ | | | | r | | | | | TSG_S | | | | equir | | | | | A/WG5 | | | | ement | | | | | _TM/T | | | | 6 | | | | | SGS5_ | | | | | | | | | 125AH | | | | Cl | | | | | /Docs | | | | arify | | | | | /S5-1 | | | | on | | | | | 94107 | | | | the | | | | | .zip) | | | | p | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | S5-1 | | | | mance | | | | | 94344 | | | | data | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | S5-1 | | | | cap | | | | | 94345 | | | | acity | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | Cl | | | | | 94346 | | | | arify | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | S5-1 | | | | the | | | | | 94347 | | | | p | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | [ | | | | mance | | | | | S5-19 | | | | data | | | | | 4052] | | | | and | | | | | (http | | | | KPI | | | | | ://ww | | | | | | | | | w.3gp | | | | New | | | | | p.org | | | | topic | | | | | /ftp/ | | | | - | | | | | TSG_S | | | | Ne | | | | | A/WG5 | | | | twork | | | | | _TM/T | | | | Slice | | | | | SGS5_ | | | | Manag | | | | | 125AH | | | | ement | | | | | /Docs | | | | | | | | | /S5-1 | | | | Ne | | | | | 94052 | | | | twork | | | | | .zip) | | | | Slice | | | | | | | | | Manag | | | | | S5-1 | | | | ement | | | | | 94348 | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | S5-1 | | | | -- | | | | | 94349 | | | | sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94350 | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | S5-1 | | | | Slice | | | | | 94352 | | | | Manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | S5-1 | | | | cha | | | | | 94353 | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | - Key | | | | | S5-1 | | | | Issue | | | | | 94354 | | | | | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | evalu | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | concl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | usage | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | use | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | pote | | | | | | | | | ntial | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | B2B | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Key | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ssues | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | usage | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Add a | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | topic | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Bus | | | | | | | | | iness | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | sumer | | | | | | | | | (B2C) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | NWDAF | | | | | | | | | sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | H | | | | | | | | | armon | | | | | | | | | izing | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | Sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | valua | | | | | | | | | tions | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | Solu | 0.6.0 | | 19-08 | #126 | 95151 | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | S5-1 | | | | Key | | | | | 95598 | | | | issue | | | | | | | | | #2.2 | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 95599 | | | | Solve | | | | | | | | | Edit | | | | | S5-1 | | | | or\'s | | | | | 95600 | | | | note | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | S5-1 | | | | Bus | | | | | 95601 | | | | iness | | | | | | | | | Roles | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 95602 | | | | Use | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | S5-1 | | | | MnS | | | | | 95604 | | | | for | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | S5-1 | | | | erfor | | | | | 95605 | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | S5-1 | | | | and | | | | | 95606 | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | chite | | | | | S5-1 | | | | cture | | | | | 95607 | | | | im | | | | | | | | | plica | | | | | S5-1 | | | | tions | | | | | 95608 | | | | | | | | | | | | | Use | | | | | S5-1 | | | | of | | | | | 95609 | | | | MnS | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | S5-1 | | | | NWDAF | | | | | 95610 | | | | for | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | S5-1 | | | | erfor | | | | | 95611 | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 95612 | | | | Use | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | S5-1 | | | | NWDAF | | | | | 95613 | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Load | | | | | S5-1 | | | | - | | | | | 95614 | | | | evalu | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 95615 | | | | Solu | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | S5-1 | | | | evalu | | | | | 95713 | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | S5-1 | | | | Key | | | | | 95714 | | | | issue | | | | | | | | | #1.1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Intr | | | | | | | | | oduce | | | | | | | | | flows | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | NSI | | | | | | | | | Opera | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | New | | | | | | | | | topic | | | | | | | | | 2 use | | | | | | | | | cases | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hared | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | ivate | | | | | | | | | NSI | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | #2.1 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | evalu | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | New | | | | | | | | | Sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Key | | | | | | | | | issue | | | | | | | | | #2.1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Com | | | | | | | | | munic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | rvice | | | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | Slice | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | New | | | | | | | | | topic | | | | | | | | | 2 use | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | NSaaS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | pote | | | | | | | | | ntial | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Topic | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Use | | | | | | | | | Case | | | | | | | | | 1.4 | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | | dress | | | | | | | | | non-p | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | attri | | | | | | | | | butes | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | pote | | | | | | | | | ntial | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Topic | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | New | | | | | | | | | key | | | | | | | | | issue | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Topic | | | | | | | | | 1 - | | | | | | | | | Tem | | | | | | | | | plate | | | | | | | | | Based | | | | | | | | | Cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Up | | | | | | | | | dates | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | | dress | | | | | | | | | Tem | | | | | | | | | plate | | | | | | | | | Based | | | | | | | | | Cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | New | | | | | | | | | topic | | | | | | | | | about | | | | | | | | | Bus | | | | | | | | | iness | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Bus | | | | | | | | | iness | | | | | | | | | to X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | evalu | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Solu | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | evalu | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | topic | | | | | | | | | 2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | S | SP-1 | | | | Pres | 1.0.0 | | 19-09 | A#85 | 90776 | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | []{. | | | Concl | 1.1.0 | | 19-10 | #127 | 96549 | under | | | usion | | | | | | line} | | | on | | | | | S5-1 | | | | Bus | | | | | 96550 | | | | iness | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | S5-1 | | | | Con | | | | | 96551 | | | | sumer | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | Concl | | | | | 96552 | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | S5-1 | | | | event | | | | | 96553 | | | | based | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Concl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | 1.6 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rel | | | | | | | | | ocate | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | concl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | topic | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Corre | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edit | | | | | | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | Com | | | | | | | | | ments | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | R | 1.2.0 | | 19-11 | #128 | 97525 | | | | emove | | | | | S5-1 | | | | the | | | | | 97526 | | | | edit | | | | | | | | | or\'s | | | | | | | | | note | | | | | | | | | about | | | | | | | | | cap | | | | | | | | | acity | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Concl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | study | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | S | SP-1 | | | | Pres | 2.0.0 | | 19-12 | A#86 | 91184 | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roval | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | S | | | | | C | 1 | | 19-12 | A#86 | | | | | hange | 6.0.0 | | | | | | | | co | |