# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies and studies the key issues and the potential
solutions in defining Energy Efficiency Key Performance Indicators and the
Energy Efficiency optimization operations in existing and future 3GPP
networks.
The study includes:
\- identifying the 3GPP system wide high-level goals and feasible tasks
including the definition of system-wide energy efficiency KPIs where it is
applicable to systematically address energy efficiency aspects more
effectively;
\- investigating feasible common approaches and methodology including the
assessment of the relevance and the applicability of existing energy
efficiency definitions and the related work to address and improve 3GPP
system-wide energy efficiency.
Recommendations are provided applicable to EPS (taking into account backward
compatibility to legacy UEs), and to 5G systems.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI ES 202 706: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Measurement method for
power consumption and energy efficiency of wireless access network
equipment\".
[3] ETSI ES 203 228 V1.1.4: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Assessment of
mobile network energy efficiency\".
[4] ETSI ES 201 554: \"Measurement method for Energy efficiency of Mobile Core
network and Radio Access Control equipment\".
[5] 3GPP TR 22.891: \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets Technology
Enablers - Enhanced Mobile Broadband\".
[6] 3GPP TR 38.913: \"Study on Scenarios and Requirements for Next Generation
Access Technologies\".
[7] NGMN 5G White Paper v1.0: \"NGMN 5G Initiative White Paper\".
[8] European Commission\'s 5G PPP \"5G Vision\", Feb. 2015:
https://5g-ppp.eu/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/5G-Vision-Brochure-v1.pdf.
[9] 3GPP TR 23.799: \"Study on Architecture for Next Generation System\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Concept, architecture and
requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.510: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[12] ETSI GS NFV-INF 005 v1.1.1 (2014-12): \"Network Functions Virtualization
(NFV); Infrastructure; Network Domain\".
[13] ETSI GS NFV-INF 004 v1.1.1 (2015-12): \"Network Functions Virtualization
(NFV): Infrastructure; Hypervisor Domain\".
[14] ITU-T G.984: \"Gigabit-capable passive optical networks (G-PON)\".
[15] ITU-T G.987: \"10-Gigabit-capable passive optical networks (XG‑PON)\".
[16] ITU-T G.9807: \"10-Gigabit-capable symmetric passive optical network
(XGS-PON) (still pending publication)\".
[17] ITU-T G.989: \"40-Gigabit-capable passive optical networks (NG-PON2)\".
[18] BBCoC v5: \"Code of Conduct on Energy Consumption of Broadband Equipment,
Version 5.0\".
[19] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[20] ETSI ES 202 336‑1: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Monitoring and
control interface for infrastructure equipment (power, cooling and building
environment systems used in telecommunication networks); Part 1: Generic
Interface\".
[21] ETSI ES 202 336‑12: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Monitoring and
control interface for infrastructure equipment (power, cooling and building
environment systems used in telecommunication networks); Part 12: ICT
equipment power, energy and environmental parameters monitoring information
model\".
[22] IETF RFC 1157: \"A Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)\".
[23] ComGreen project: website, http://www.communicate-green.de/results.
[24] Bayer, N., Gomez, K., Sengul, C., von Hugo, D., Göndör, S., and Uzun, A.:
\"Load-Adaptive Networking for Energy-Efficient Wireless Access\", Computer
Communications, Volume 72, 1 December 2015, Pages 107--115, available at
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366415001590.
[25] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[26] ETSI EN 300 019-1-3: \"Equipment Engineering (EE); Environmental
conditions and environmental tests for telecommunications equipment Part 1-3:
Classification of environmental conditions Stationary use at weather protected
locations\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ANI Access Network Interface
CBU Cellular Backhaul Unit
CoE Class of Energy
CPRI Common Public Radio Interface
DSL Digital Subscriber Loop
EE Energy Efficiency
FSAN Full Service Access Network
FTTB Fibre To The Building
FTTH Fibre To The Home
FTTO Fibre To The Office
FTTW Fibre To the Wireless
HGU Home Gateway Unit
KPI Key Performance Indicator
MDU Multi-Dwelling Unite (pure residential)
OA Optimal Access
OBSAI Open Base Station Architecture Initiative
OLT Optical Line Terminal (CO side)
ONU Optical Network Unit (User side)
PON Passive Optical Network
Pt2Pt Point to Point
RAN Radio Access Network
SFP Small From Pluggable
SFU Single Family Unit
SNI Service Node Interface
QoE Quality of Experience
QoS Quality of Service
UNI User Network Interface
# 4 3GPP System Energy Efficiency Requirements and Principles
## 4.1 High Level Requirements
\- System-wide Energy Efficiency Key Performance Indicator (EE KPI) for both
LTE/EPC Evolution and Next Generation Mobile System/5G shall be defined with
references to the standard specifications in other SDO\'s such as ETSI.
\- Energy efficiency shall be considered in architecture and functions, in
3GPP standards including LTE/EPC evolution and Next Generation Mobile
Systems/5G.
\- 3GPP standards should support energy saving control to maximize energy
efficiency under different network loads varying from zero to fully loaded
network conditions.
\- 3GPP standards shall aim to ensure that enhancements of standard functions
increase the system capacity and coverage, and improve energy efficiency.
\- Energy efficiency control and the associated management (statistics
collection, monitoring, and report etc) should not adversely affect the system
capacity and performance as well as the QoE/QoS.
\- In order to provide a holistic view of energy efficiency, this study may
consider aspects such as extending the operation conditions, e.g. larger
ranges of temperature and humidity in equipment rooms (i.e. the operation
conditions in which performance and equipment life duration are not affected)
to reduce power consumption due to air conditioning.
## 4.2 Architectural Requirements
\- The architecture definition and evolution should consider supporting energy
saving capabilities.
\- Energy saving at three levels: network, site and equipment should be
enabled.
\- System-wide energy saving standards should consider the coexistence of
multi-radio access technologies 2G/3G/4G and NextGen New Radio as well as
non-3GPP accesses to improve energy efficiency.
\- Resource sharing and network collaborations shall be allowed and necessary
enhancements shall be made to improve energy efficiency.
\- Energy saving operations in different network nodes/sub-systems (e.g. base
stations, backhaul networks, core network, backbone as well as UE\'s) shall be
enabled in a coordinated manner.
\- Energy efficiency shall be able to acquire spatial and temporal knowledge
of the radio network environment to enable energy efficient control of the
available radio resources to meet the demand.
## 4.3 Functional Requirements
\- Energy efficiency control and the associated management (statistics
collection, monitoring, and report etc) should not adversely affect the system
capacity and performance as well as the QoE/QoS.
\- The energy efficiency control may be localized to a specific network entity
and limited to a set of functions to achieve an energy saving target.
\- Balance between distributed and centralized energy efficiency control
operations should be made to avoid extra network complexity and signalling.
\- Energy efficiency control should be performed based on:
\- operators\' policy to meet the targeted energy efficiency KPI;
\- the desired level of QoE/QoS network capability in terms of capacity and
coverage;
\- spatial resolution and the resulting acquisition of measurements data
including the deployment scenarios (dense urban, urban, hotspot, indoor, rural
areas), network load, traffic density, connection density as well as the types
of services.
\- The extra complexity and signalling to enable energy efficiency control
shall be minimized.
## 4.4 The Energy Efficiency Control Principles
\- Leverage, when possible or applicable (e.g. for UEs in networks supporting
dual connectivity) the separation of control plane and user plane traffic
(e.g. carried over separate bearers or even network elements/entities) to
enhance energy efficiency by enabling separate handling of signalling traffic
from data traffic e.g. signalling traffic on long-range low-bandwidth
transmission on macro cells while user data on short distance and high-
throughput transmission such as small cells.
\- Consider applying separate energy efficiency improvement mechanisms in
consideration of the different traffic profiles, patterns , network/link load
and deployment scenarios (dense urban/urban/hotspot/indoor/rural).
\- Leverage simplification of control functions such as access control,
session, mobility/handover, location management etc to reduce signalling
traffic to improve energy efficiency.
\- Consider \"on-demand\" power saving y by enabling energy saving operations
such as switch off or enabling \"energy saving mode\" (e.g. sleep mode) of
those \"redundant\" network nodes with no or low data traffic load.
\- Dynamic Management of \"Energy\" Resource:
\- Classification of Energy Efficiency (CoE) levels and association of CoE
with services types of traffic (common channel signalling, data session
management signalling, user data etc), network functions/components and
deployment scenarios.
\- On-demand allocation of \"energy\" depending on the network status
(deployment scenarios network capacity and load conditions , data vs.
signalling traffic, and the energy consumption status) and the user status
(traffic/connection density, services/applications).
\- Operators Policies Control based on CoE: allocate network resources based
on QoS and CoE, e.g. macro cell for less stringent CoE traffic such as common
control signalling traffic (broadcast channels, synchronization signals) and
small cells for session management signalling traffic and data traffic.
\- Synchronize and coordinate the energy saving operations in different
network nodes/sub-systems (e.g. base stations, backhaul networks, core
network, backbone).
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key Issue 1: Energy Efficiency KPI Definitions
### 5.1.1 Description
The energy efficiency KPIs definition applies to packet switched network only.
It includes the measurements of both Energy Consumption (EC) and Energy
Efficiency. EE and EC are measured at RAN and system wide level including
during a predefined time intervals such daily, weekly, monthly and yearly.
Energy Efficiency should be evaluated at least in coverage limited
environments (Rural) and capacity limited environments (Dense Urban/Urban/Hot
Spot/Hot Zone) and both coverage and capacity limited environments such as
indoor.
The goal of these KPIs is to measure network wide energy consumption and
derive the related energy efficiency and as such describe how to synthesize
system wide values based on nodal, functional, or subsystem energy consumption
measurements. The derivations of these specific parameters, e.g. V, EC,
coverage area as shown in the definitions of the energy efficiency KPIs below
are not part of this study but expected to be addressed elsewhere within 3GPP
or other organizations.
NOTE: The use of EE KPI for benchmarking is out of the scope of the study.
### 5.1.2 Definitions
The energy efficiency per each deployment scenario i with a load level of l is
defined as:
Where:
_EE~scenario~_ is calculated per deployment scenario: the sum of traffic load
points over the Energy Consumption weighted by _a~i~_ in consideration of the
traffic load per each scenario. The traffic load measurement points with their
corresponding weight for each traffic load point depend on the location of the
system-wide EE control and measurement and network configurations.
As an example, the traffic load measurement can be performed over the
reference point between the based station and the core network such as S1 per
those areas covered by each of MME and the corresponding SGW(s) in LTE/EPC and
SGi between the core network and the external public data network for the
total amount of traffic load supported by the EPC.
Vl (in Mbps): the aggregated throughput served in the simulated or measured
area for traffic level l, or equivalently served traffic volume divided by the
simulation or measurement period. E.g. per each targeted area or deployment
scenario at a load level l = x%, Vl is calculated as the peak target traffic
throughput multiplied by x%. For example, the Vl with load level of 10% is
calculated to be total network or node capacity multiplied by 0.1
ECl (in Watt): sum of the average power consumption of all nodes in the
simulated or the measurement area under the load level l: the weight for load
level l; For example, for RAN Equipment Energy Efficiency testing (ETSI ES 202
706 [2]) three load levels can be taken into account: 10%, 30% and 50%, the
weight can be calculated, based on a daily traffic model, as:
\- = 6/24 for 10% Load;
\- = 10/24 for 30% Load;
\- = 8/24 for 50% Load.
The total energy efficiency for the whole system including all the targeted
scenarios is defined as:
Where:
_EE~global~_ is calculated as the sum of the _EE~scenario~_ per each
deployment scenario multiplied by the corresponding weight, _b~i~_ , for each
deployment scenario.
_b~i~_ is determined by summing the \"rural/suburban\" weights for the
coverage-limited scenario and the \"urban/dense urban\" weights for the
capacity-limited scenario.
To complement the definition and measurement EE KPI per specific throughput
during the measurement interval, it is also useful to consider the size of the
area covered by a network and the corresponding energy efficiency (ETSI ES 202
706 [2]):
coverage area in m² (ETSI ES 203 228 [3] or Sq.km (ETSI ES 202 706 [2])) is
the size of the area covered by the network in deployment scenario _i_.
_EC~i~_ in Watt (ETSI ES 202 706 [2] ) or J/Y (ETSI ES 203 228 [3]) is the sum
of the average power consumption of all nodes in the simulated or the
measurement area under the scenario _i_.
_C~i~_ is the weight to be applied to each of the measured energy efficiency
per each of the network deployment scenario by taking into account of the size
of coverage per the deployment scenario, and the relevance of the deployment
scenario to the total power consumption of a network, e.g. the percentage of
total power consumptions in dense urban versus rural area.
The energy efficiency measurement and assessment for CS domain and services
should consider ETSI ES 202 706 [2] for lab test, ETSI ES 203 228 [3] for
field assessment and ETSI ES 201 554 [4] for equipment based on the energy
efficiency related information such as traffic profiles, the number of
subscribers, data sheet, etc.
The energy efficiency measurement and assessment for packet switched domain is
consistent with the above ETSI specifications. In addition, it has considered
inclusions of different deployment scenarios\' contribution to the total
system energy efficiency by applying different weighting factors which are
described in clause 5.1.3.
### 5.1.3 Deployment Scenarios
#### 5.1.3.1 The general description
The deployment scenarios are described in terms of:
\- coverage.
\- traffic density.
\- connection density.
The general definition of a deployment scenario is not restricted to any
specific technical solutions to provide the required coverage and the traffic
density.
**Coverage:**
The coverage is the geographic area where the network or a network node such
as a base station can communicate with the mobile devices with the required
(minimum) QoS/QoE.
For coverage per base station, it is defined to be the Maximum Coupling Loss
(MCL) in uplink and downlink between a device and the Base Station site
(antenna connector(s)) for a specific data rate target. The coupling loss is
defined as the total long-term channel loss over the link between the UE
antenna ports and the eNodeB antenna ports, and includes, in practice, antenna
gains, path loss, shadowing and penetration loss, body loss, etc.
\- UL MCL = UL Max Tx power - eNB Sensitivity;
\- DL MCL = DL Max Tx power - UE Sensitivity.
In the following description, the coverage is described in Inter Site Distance
(ISD) to represent the maximum distance between base stations in a given area
where the QoE such as the minimum bit rate and service continuity are
guaranteed.
For air-bone access such as ground to air, cell range is used to describe
coverage.
**Traffic Density & Connection Density**
The traffic density is defined as the data volumes or the aggregates of
average bit rates for all the active devices (e.g. in CONNECTED mode) per unit
of area. The connection density is defined to be the number of connections or
devices in connected mode per unit of area. For example, a scenario of
enhanced mobile broadband services for NextGen 3GPP system has the following
requirements of the traffic and connection density, see TR 22.891 [5]:
\- For devices with pedestrians (up to 10 kmph) and urban vehicles (up to 60
kmph), the 3GPP system shall support the aggregate traffic volume in the area
at least the level of Tbps/km2 with 200-2500 / km2 connection density.
\- For mobile broadband such as live video, the 3GPP system shall support a UL
of 50 Mbps and DL of 300 Mbps with 200-2500/km2 connection density.
The potential deployment scenarios are described with the typical parameters
related to the EE KPI assessment e.g. deciding the relative importance of each
of the scenarios to the total system power consumption and subsequently the
calculation of the weight factors associated with each of the scenarios in the
global EE KPI calculation.
#### 5.1.3.2 The possible deployment scenarios
The following table shows the descriptions of the possible deployment
scenarios for next generation 3GPP systems in references to TR 22.891 [5], TR
38.913 [6], NGMN 5G White Paper [7] European Commission\'s 5G PPP \"5G
Vision\" [8]. It includes the typical Inter Site Distance (ISD), the
Traffic/Connection Density and the antennas elements for UE and Base Stations
to be considered in assessing the system-wide (_EEglobal_) power consumption
and energy efficiency.
Table 5.1.3.2-1: Deployment Scenarios for NextGen
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Deployment | D | Inter Site | Traffic | UE/BS | | Scenarios | escriptions | Distance | /Connection | Antenna | | | | (ISD)/Cell | Density | Eleme | | | | Range | | nts/Carrier | | | | | (max) | Frequency | | | | (max) | | (Note 1) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Dense urban | Areas | Typical | 10 to 20 | **UE:** | | | covered by | | users per | | | | macro cells | Macro \~ | cell/TRP. | Up to 32 Tx | | | (or TRPs: | 200 m. | Other | and Rx | | | T | | densities | antenna | | | ransmission | Micro: | FFS. | elements | | | Reception | three TRPs. | | (\~30 GHz) | | | Point) | | eMBB: | | | | w | | | Up to 8 Tx | | | ith/without | | DL rate of | and Rx | | | micro cells | | 300Mbps and | antenna | | | (or TRPs) | | UL rate of | elements | | | such as | | 50Mbps per | (\~ 4GHz) | | | city | | connection | | | | centres, | | in 200-2500 | **BS:** | | | commercial | | /km^2^ | | | | zones, | | connection | Up to 256 | | | transport | | density. | Tx and Rx | | | hubs such | | | antenna | | | as train | | | elements | | | stations | | | (\~30 GHz | | | etc with | | | or \~4 | | | devices | | | GHz)) | | | moving at a | | | | | | speed of a | | | | | | pedestrian | | | | | | (\ 0).
Table 6.5.3-1: Parameters of a load-adaptive system for energy-efficient
configuration of a communication system
* * *
Type Parameter Description Context-based Current context (C) Current load,
number of users and their location etc. Current load (V) Current IP-layer data
to be transported. Context collection delay (ε) Signalling and processing
delay for context collection. Context collection error (Γ) Error in context
collection and prediction mechanisms. Deployment-based Capacity demand (C~D~)
V translated to capacity demand at the physical layer. Re-configuration delay
(τ) Software and hardware delays of re-configurations. Re-configuration energy
(E~rec~) Energy used in activating a configuration. Re-configuration
granularity (G) The granularity in which a configuration affects capacity.
Context collection E (E~CoCo~) Energy required for context collection. Tunable
operation Re-configuration interval (δ) Time between re-configurations (δ >
τ). Provided capacity (C~P~) Capacity provided by the current configuration
(C~P~ > C~D~). Over-provisioning factor (OP) Excess capacity provided by the
current configuration. Overload thresh. (T~over~) The maximum load threshold
used in load-balancing. Underload thresh. (T~under~) The minimum load
threshold used in load-balancing.
* * *
### 6.5.4 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s note: This clause will contain evaluation on the system impacts,
e.g. UE, access network and non-access network.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Definition and Calculation of EE KPI in 3GPP Systems
The EE KPI definitions in clause 5.1 meet the high level 3GPP System Energy
Efficiency Requirements and Principles.
The 3GPP system EE KPI are defined based on related ETSI EE KPI definitions
for per scenario and global system EE metrics measurements and monitoring.
The 3GPP system EE KPI definitions are independent of system architecture,
functions, control and monitoring environment (lab or fields test and
assessments), deployment scenarios to include both per scenario and a global
system which consists of different deployment scenarios.
The 3GPP system EE KPI definitions apply to 3GPP systems at the network,
equipment and site levels.
The EE KPI definitions do not cover the methods of measurements and monitoring
which are covered in 3GPP SA WG5 and related ETSI TC\'s such as ETSI TC EE.
Note: the existing 3GPP systems such as LTE/LTE-A should use the EE KPI
definitions and the monitoring and measurements methods defined in the
relevant ETSI specifications, ETSI ES 202 706 [2], ETSI ES 203 228 [3], ETSI
ES 201 554 [4], ETSI ES 202 336‑1 [20].
It is suggested that SA WG5 take the lead to investigate the 3GPP system EE
KPI definitions in coordination with the relevant WG\'s and make the necessary
normative specifications.
## 7.2 Energy Efficiency Control in 3GPP Systems
The following key EE control functional elements are identified to achieve and
maximize system wide energy efficiency according to operators\' EE policy
including EE KPI.
\- The EE Policy Control to describe and provide operators\' defined Energy
Efficiency policy information including EE KPI\'s.
\- The EE Control and Coordination Function: a self-managed automated process
to control and coordinate system wide power saving operations including the
access networks, core network, backhaul/fronthaul transmission networks,
backbone networks and other subsystems.
\- The EE Profile Management Functions to monitor, collect and process the
energy efficiency control information and related statistics including
achievable EE KPI, traffic density, network load, and operational conditions
(e.g. humidity and temperature), etc.
\- The EE Optimisation Entity located in the network, equipment and site to
activate and deactivate power saving control according to the EE policy and
the network conditions such as the traffic density, network load, QoS/QoE,
operational conditions, etc. This includes network configuration for optimised
network resources utilisation and energy consumption.
It is suggested that SA WG5 take the lead to investigate the energy efficiency
control functions above in coordination with other WGs.
## 7.3 Coordinated Energy Saving in RAN and other subsystem in 3GPP Systems
Coordinated energy saving control in RAN and other related network elements or
subsystems maximizes system wide energy efficiency. The key functions elements
include but not necessarily limited to:
\- Power saving control management in RAN.
\- Power saving control and management in backhaul network links such as line
rate adaptations.
\- Detection of low traffic periods.
\- Coordinated switching process between the optical network link transmission
and the radio transmission.
\- Monitoring and guarantee of QoS/QoE with/without power saving control.
To achieve and maximize system wide energy saving, SA WG5 is requested to
further investigate and if necessary involve other WGs, or other external
organizations dealing with backhaul network links.
## 7.4 Power Consumption Reduction at the Site Level
It is possible to reduce energy consumption by extending the operating
conditions, e.g. the humidity and temperature, in equipment rooms in
compliance of labour regulations and standard specifications on equipment
operational conditions. Consideration of operational conditions is specified
in ETSI EN 300 019-1-3 [26].
## 7.5 Energy Efficiency in 3GPP systems with NFV
It is suggested for future 3GPP work in SA WG5 to make further detailed
analysis of EE metrics including EE KPIs for specific virtualized network
functions in 3GPP system. It is also suggested to apply an EE control
framework that includes the key issues as defined in clause 5.6 in reference
to the related 3GPP and ETSI EE and NFV specifications and studies, to the
3GPP system.
## 7.6 Energy Efficiency in Self-Organizing Networks
It is proposed to proceed as follows:
1\. SA WG5 to make further detailed analyses of metrics and methods for 5G and
collaborate with ETSI TC EE in this domain.
2\. SON should be evolved and become even more important for 5G that has
increasing network dimensions and complexity, especially considering the
multiple services and devices in 5G networks.
#