# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation and
interrogation of line identification supplementary services within the 3GPP
system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 0 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for
normal operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation
and interrogation of line identification supplementary services. Provision and
withdrawal of supplementary services is an administrative matter between the
mobile subscriber and the service provider and cause no signalling on the
radio interface.
In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.
3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS
22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 22.081 is related
specially to line identification supplementary services.
Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS 23.011
and 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 23.081 is related
specially to line identification supplementary services.
The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and
3GPP TS 24.008.
The following supplementary services belong to the line identification
supplementary services and are described in the present document:
\- Calling line identification presentation (CLIP) (clause 1);
\- Calling line identification restriction (CLIR) (clause 2);
\- Connected line identification presentation (COLP) (clause 3);
\- Connected line identification restriction (COLR) (clause 4).
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) \- Stage
1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.084 \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation ‑ Stage
2\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
## 1.1 Normal operation
The calling line identity consists of a calling party BCD number and
optionally, a calling party subaddress and/or a cause of no CLI.
The calling party BCD number information element is made up of a number of
information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.
In addition to or instead of the calling party\'s digits, the subscriber may
be given the following information:
\- screening indicator;
\- presentation indicator.
Indicator values are given in 3GPP TS 24.008.
The calling party subaddress information element is made up of a number of
information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.
The cause of no CLI information element is made up of a detailed cause of no
CLI as indicated in TS 24.008.
A called mobile subscriber subscribing to calling line identification
presentation service receives the call with the information indicated above,
see figure 1.1.
MSb Network
SETUP
\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CLIP))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
CLIR suppression
FACILITY
\
CLIR invocation
DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CLIR))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (COLP))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (COLR))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\ New Version Subject/Comment Apr 1999 GSM
04.81 6.0.0 Transferred to 3GPP CN1 CN#03 24.081 3.0.0 Approved at CN#03 CN#08
24.081 3.0.0 001 R99 3.1.0 Cause of no CLI indication CN#11 24.081 3.1.0 Rel-4
4.0.0 Release 4 after CN#11 CN#15 24.081 4.0.0 Rel-4 4.0.1 References updated
CN#16 24.081 4.0.1 Rel-5 5.0.0 Release 5 after CN#16 CN#26 24.081 5.0.0 Rel-6
6.0.0 Release 6 after CN#26 CT#36 24.081 6.0.0 Rel-7 7.0.0 Upgraded unchanged
from Rel-6 CT#42 24.081 7.0.0 Rel-8 8.0.0 Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7
2009-12 24.081 8.0.0 - Rel-9 9.0.0 Update to Rel-9 version (MCC) 2011-03
24.081 9.0.0 - Rel-10 10.0.0 Update to Rel-10 version (MCC) 2012-09 24.081
10.0.0 - Rel-11 11.0.0 Update to Rel-11 version (MCC) 2014-09 24.081 11.0.0 -
Rel-12 12.0.0 Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)