# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 183 016 [12].
It was transferred to the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in
December 2007.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage three Protocol Description of the
Malicious Call Communication Identification (MCID) service based on the stage
one and two of ISDN Malicious Call Identification supplementary service. It
provides the protocol details in the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN)
subsystem based on the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the Session
Description Protocol (SDP). The MCID service will store session related
information independent of the service requested.
The present document is applicable to User Equipment (UE) and Application
Servers (AS) which are intended to support the MCID supplementary service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.173: \" IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services, Stage 1 \".
[2] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); Stage 3\".
[3] Void.
[4] ETSI TS 181 006: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN);Direct Communication Service in
NGN; Service Description [Endorsement of OMA-ERELD-PoC-V1] NGN DC stage 1\".
[5] Void.
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx Interfaces;
Signalling flows and message contents\".
[10] IETF RFC 3966: \"The tel URI for Telephone Numbers\".
[11] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[12] ETSI TS 183 016 V2.5.0: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); PSTN/ISDN simulation
services; Malicious Communication Identification (MCID); Protocol
specification\".
[13] ETSI TR 180 000: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); NGN Terminology\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 22.173 [1], ETSI TS 181 006 [4], ETSI TR 180 000 [13] and the
following apply:
**communication information:** information collected and registered by the
MCID service
**identity information: includes all the information (IETF RFC 3966 [** 10**]
and IETF RFC 3986 [** 11**]) identifying a user, including trusted (network
generated) and/or untrusted (user generated) identities**
**trusted identity:** network generated user address information
**untrusted identity:** user generated user address information
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACR Anonymous Communication Rejection
AS Application Server
CB Communication session Barring
CD Communication Deflection
CDIV Communication DIVersion Services
CFB Communication Forwarding Busy
CFNL Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in
CFNR Communication Forwarding No Reply
CFU Communication Forwarding Unconditional
CONF Conference
CW Call Waiting
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
HOLD communication Hold
IM IP Multimedia
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
ISDN Integrated Service Digital Network
MCID Malicious Call Identification
MGCF Media Gateway Control Function
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
PSTN **Public Switched Telephone Network**
S-CSCF Service - Call Session Control Function
SDP Session Description Protocol
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification Restriction
UE User Equipment
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
# 4 Malicious Communication Identification (MCID)
## 4.1 Introduction
The MCID service will store session related information of incoming
communications independent of the service requested. The following
communication information shall be registered:
\- Destination Party Identity Information;
\- originating Party Identity Information; and
\- local time and date of the invocation in the network serving the called
user.
The communication information shall not be available to the terminal equipment
under the control of the called user nor the originating user. The
communication information shall be stored at a location(s) under the control
of the network operator. In order for the MCID service to operate when two
networks are involved both networks need to be within the same trust domain
for identity information transfer.
A network subscription option can be provided which allows automatic
invocation of MCID service on communications to the served user which are not
answered.
_NOTE_ : The purpose of this option is to allow for registration of
communications that ring for a short time only.
A user subscription option can be provided where the MCID service can either
be invoked during the active phase of the communication, or for a limited
period after the communication has ceased.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 General description
The Malicious Communication Identification (MCID) service allows the service
provider to trace the identity information of the source of an incoming
communication on request of the destination user.
## 4.3 Operational requirements
### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
This service shall be provided and withdrawn after pre-arrangement with the
service provider, in accordance with national legal requirements.
This service has two modes: permanent mode and temporary mode. In permanent
mode the MCID service is invoked for all incoming communications, and in
temporary mode the MCID service is invoked only for the incoming
communications declared by the served user.
As a network option, the MCID service can be offered with several subscription
options. A network providing the MCID service shall support permanent mode at
a minimum. Subscription options are summarized in table 4.3.1.1.
Table 4.3.1.1: Subscription options for MCID services
* * *
Subscription options Value
Mode Permanent Mode\ Temporary Mode
* * *
### 4.3.2 Requirements on the originating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the originating network.
### 4.3.3 Void
Void.
### 4.3.4 Requirements on the terminating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the terminating network.
NOTE: If the subscriber has a permanent or case by case subscription, based on
Initial Filter Criteria (IFC) the INVITE request is forwarded to the AS that
provides the MCID service. Annex B provides an example on how an Initial
Filter Criteria (IFC) can be configured.
## 4.4 Coding requirements
The present clause defines the XML Schema to be used for providing the MCID
Request/Response and to invoke the temporary mode of the MCID Service.
The application/vnd.etsi.mcid+xml MIME type used to provide request of a
missing originating ID and the delivery of the requested originating id AS of
the served user shall be coded as following described:
\
\
\
\XML Schema Definition to the mcid request-response to the
Malicious Communication Identification service\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## 4.5 Signalling requirements
### 4.5.1 Activation/deactivation
The MCID service is provisioned only by the network operator. The MCID service
is activated at provisioning and de-activated at withdrawal.
4.5.1a Registration/erasure
The MCID service requires no registration. Erasure is not applicable.
4.5.1b Interrogation
Interrogation of MCID is not applicable.
### 4.5.2 Invocation and operation
#### 4.5.2.1 Actions at the originating UE
Basic communication procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.2 Void
#### 4.5.2.3 Void
#### 4.5.2.4 Void
#### 4.5.2.5 Actions at the AS of the terminating user
##### 4.5.2.5.0 General
The AS shall at the minimum store the following elements of a received INVITE
request:
\- Destination Party Identity Information included in the Request-URI;
\- Originating Party Identity Information included in the P-Asserted-Identity
header field, if the\ P-Asserted-Identity header field is included in the
request;
\- local time and date of the invocation in the network serving the called
user;
\- call diversion information (\"cause\" SIP URI parameter) received in the
History-Info header field, if included in the request;
\- Referred-By header field when available;
\- Contact header field;
\- To header field; and
\- From header field.
NOTE: The Originating Party Identity Information included in the P-Asserted-
Identity header field is always present in the INVITE request if the request
is originated in a trusted network.
If the INVITE request does not contain the information of the originating
party, the AS shall send an INFO request including an Identification Request
MIME body.
When receiving the INFO request containing identification information, the AS
shall in addition to the already stored information elements of the earlier
received INVITE request, at the minimum store the information as received in
the body of the INFO request.
##### 4.5.2.5.1 Subscriber has a permanent subscription
The AS shall register stored information. The exact procedure to register the
information is implementation dependent and out of scope of the present
document.
4.5.2.5.2 Subscriber has a temporary subscription
The AS shall store the required elements of a received INVITE request for a
limited period after the communication has been released. If an initial INVITE
request as specified in subclause 4.5.2.12.1 is received during this period
the AS shall register the stored information as in subclause 4.5.2.5.1. If no
MCID request is received during that period the stored elements for the last
communication can be deleted.
A received reINVITE request of the served user as defined in subclause
4.5.2.12.1 is identified as MCID request and the AS shall register the
required information.
The exact procedure to register the information is implementation dependent
and out of scope of the present document.
After receiving a BYE request from the originating side the call state shall
be held for a current time defined by Timer\ TMCID-BYE.
With expiry of the TMCID-BYE the BYE request shall be forwarded to the served
user and the communication shall be released according to the basic
communication procedures defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
If no MCID request was received the stored elements for the last communication
can be deleted.
4.5.2.5.3 Request of a missing or incomplete originating Id (network option)
The present subclause is applicable when interacting with the PSTN/ISDN.
If a received initial INVITE request does not contain an originating
identification or a incomplete originating identification and only if
requested by operator policy regarding the received P-Asserted-Identity header
field, the AS shall send a INFO request containing a XML mcid body with MCID
XML Request schema requesting the originating ID towards the originating
network. If requested by operator policy and proprietary signalling, the AS
shall skip sending the INFO request containing a XML mcid body with MCID XML
Request schema and continue with the session setup as defined in 3GPP TS
24.229 [2].
NOTE: The received P-Asserted-Identity header field can contain a specific
value indicating to skip sending INFO requests as the INFO request can
indicate the request for identity towards the originating UA. The specific
content of the P-Asserted-identity header field that triggers this behaviour
is operator specific and is outside the scope of this specification.
After sending of the INFO request requesting the originating id, timer TO-ID
(as defined in subclause 4.8) is started.
When the Identification response (INFO request containing a XML mcid body with
MCID XML Response schema containing the originating identity) is received:
\- the timer TO-ID is stopped; and
\- the MCID information is stored;and
\- a 180 (Ringing) response is sent towards the originating user according to
the basic communication procedures.
When a Identification response INFO request is received without the
Originating Party Identity information:
\- timer TO-ID is stopped; and
\- a 180 (Ringing) response is sent towards the originating user according to
the basic communication procedures.
When the timer TO-ID expires before an Identification response INFO request is
received, a 180 (Ringing) response is sent towards the originating user
according to the basic communication procedures.
#### 4.5.2.6 Void
#### 4.5.2.7 Void
#### 4.5.2.8 Void
#### 4.5.2.9 Void
#### 4.5.2.10 Void
#### 4.5.2.11 Void
#### 4.5.2.12 Actions at the destination UE
##### 4.5.2.12.0 Subscriber has a permanent subscription
Basic communication procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] shall apply.
##### 4.5.2.12.1 Subscriber has a temporary subscription
In order to invoke the MCID service during the call the UE shall send a
reINVITE request including a XML MIME with XML mcid body with MCID XML Request
schema containing a McidRequestIndicator set to 1.
As a network operator option, the UE can skip including the XML MIME with XML
mcid body in the reINVITE.
NOTE 1: A reINVITE request without the XML MIME with XML mcid body can not be
clearly identified as a trigger for the MCID service in an AS and therefore
this reINVITE request will be sent towards the originating side. Additionally,
if this network option is chosen, the AS will register MCID data for every
reINVITE that the UE sends.
In order to invoke the MCID service after a completed call, the UE shall send
an initial INVITE request in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] and include a
Request-URI set to an operator specific URI provided by the user, and in the
SDP offer media for which the UE can receive an announcement.
## 4.6 Interaction with other services
### 4.6.1 Communication Hold (HOLD)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.2 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.4 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.5 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
Even if the originating identification is a secret (restricted)
identification, MCID invocation is possible.
### 4.6.6 Conference (CONF)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.7 Communication Diversion Services (CDIV)
The MCID service can be invoked for a diverted communication. In addition to
the normal operation of the MCID service, the identity of the first diverting
user shall be registered and, as a network option, the last diverting user can
be registered.
#### 4.6.7.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
If the served user has activated CFU service, once forwarding has taken place,
the forwarding user cannot invoke the MCID service.
#### 4.6.7.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB)
If the served user has activated CFB, once forwarding has taken place, the
forwarding user cannot invoke the MCID service.
#### 4.6.7.3 Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR)
If the served user has activated CFNR, once forwarding has taken place, the
forwarding user (served user) cannot invoke the MCID service.
The MCID service shall not be automatically invoked when an alerting
communication is terminated due to the invocation of the communication
forwarding no reply service.
#### 4.6.7.4 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-In (CFNL)
If the served user has activated CFNL, once forwarding has taken place, the
forwarding user (served user) cannot invoke the MCID service even after a log-
in procedure.
The MCID service shall not be automatically invoked when an alerting
communication is terminated due to the invocation of the communication
forwarding not logged in service.
#### 4.6.7.5 Communication Deflection (CD)
If the served user has activated communication deflection, once deflection has
taken place, the deflecting user cannot invoke the MCID service.
The MCID service shall not be automatically invoked when an alerting
communication is terminated due to the invocation of the communication
deflection service.
### 4.6.8 Call Waiting (CW)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.9 Anonymous Communication Rejection and Communication session Barring
(ACR/CB)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.10 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
If the transferor invokes the malicious communication identification service
on an initial communication after that communication has been successfully
transferred then the AS will reject the request.
### 4.6.11 Enhanced Calling Name (eCNAM)
No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other service.
## 4.7 Interactions with other networks
### 4.7.1 Void
### 4.7.2 Void
### 4.7.3 Void
## 4.8 Parameter values (timers)
A new timer is identified in the destination exchange:
Timer TO-ID: 4-15 seconds.
Timer TO-ID is initiated only at the AS of the served user after sending an
MCID request in an INFO request and is stopped at the receipt of an INFO
request containing a XML mcid body with MCID XML Response schema.
At expiry of the timer, the communication continues according to the basic
communication procedures.
A new timer is identified in the AS to count the post time for invoking the
MCID temporary mode.
Timer TMCID-BYE: recommended 0-120 seconds. The timer value is defined by the
Operator.
Timer TMCID-BYE initiated only at the AS of the served user after receiving a
CANCEL request or BYE request.
At expiry of the timer, the communication continues shall be released
according to the basic communication procedures defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
###### ## Annex A (informative): Signalling Flows
## A.1 MCID invocation
The MCID invokes, in the destination, the storage of data.
Figure A.1 shows an example signalling flow for the scenario.
{width="5.084722222222222in" height="4.510416666666667in"}
Figure A.1: MCID Permanent and triggered by the B user
The steps of the flow are as follows:
1) INVITE request (to S-CSCF).
The INVITE request is sent from the UE to S-CSCF. The INVITE request includes
P-Asserted-Identity header fields as follows:
\- P-Asserted-Identity: \"John Doe\" \;
\- Privacy header field: id or Privacy header or Privacy user; and
\- P-Asserted-Identity: \"John Doe\" \.
2) 100 (Trying) response (from S-CSCF).
3) Evaluation of initial filter criteria.
The initial Filter criteria identifies that the requested URI is subscribed to
the MCID service. Therefore the S-CSCF forwards the INVITE request to the MCID
AS.
4) INVITE request (S-CSCF to AS).
INVITE request is send to the AS.
5) 100 (Trying) response from S-CSCF.
6) AS stores Data.
AS stores:
\- Request URI.
\- To header field.
\- P-Asserted-Identity header fields.
\- From header field.
\- Contact header field.
\- Time and date field.
7-12) INVITE request (S-CSCF to AS).
INVITE request is send towards the UE:B.
## A.2 Identity information not present in the initial request
Hereby, we show a PSTN to IMS scenario, but notice that any call, originated
in the PSTN domain and being diverted before reaching the served user AS, must
be treated in the same manner. The terminating AS sends a 18x provisional
response previous to sending a SIP INFO request, which requests the
information from the originating network. It can then route the call while
waiting for an answer to the INFO request. Note that the 18x response is sent
reliably, this is not intended to indicate ringing (not be a 180 (Ringing)
response), and contains no SDP. This 18x response establishes a early dialog,
which is needed before the INFO request can be sent.
{width="6.125in" height="2.9479166666666665in"}
Figure A.2.1:MCID with Information Request towards the ISDN/PSTN
The Terminating AS will then wait for an INFO request containing the response
to the information query in the previous INFO request. This request provides
the requested identity. If such a request is not received within a period of
time, the service cannot be provided.
{width="6.125in" height="2.9479166666666665in"}
Figure A.2.2: MCID with Information Response towards the ISDN/PSTN
## A.3 MCID invocation during the call in temporary mode
The MCID invokes, in the destination, the storage of data.
Figure A.3.1 shows an example signalling flow for the scenario.
{width="4.207638888888889in" height="5.595833333333333in"}
Figure A.3.1: MCID Permanent and triggered by the B user
The steps of the flow are as follows:
1) INVITE request (to S-CSCF).
The INVITE request is sent from the UE to S-CSCF The INVITE request includes a
P-Asserted-Identity header fields as follows:
\- P-Asserted-Identity: \"John Doe\" \, \"John Doe\"
\;
\- Privacy header field: id or Privacy header or Privacy user.
2) 100 (Trying) response (from S-CSCF).
3) Evaluation of initial filter criteria.
The initial Filter criteria identifies that the requested URI is subscribed to
the MCID service. Therefore the S-CSCF forwards the INVITE request to the MCID
AS.
4) INVITE request (S-CSCF to AS).
INVITE request is send to the AS.
5) 100 (Trying) response from S-CSCF.
6) Temporarily AS stores Data.
AS stores:
\- Request URI.
\- To header field.
\- P-Asserted-Identity header fields.
\- From header field.
\- Contact header field.
\- Time and date field.
7-12) INVITE request (S-CSCF to AS).
INVITE request is send towards the UE:B.
NOTE: 180 (Ringing) response is not shown.
13-18) UE-B takes the communication. A 200 (OK) response is sent towards UE-A.
19) UE-B initiates the temporary mode with sending a reINVITE request - see
example in table A.3-19.
Table A.3-19: re-INVITE request (UE-B to P-CSCF)
> INVITE sip:user1_public1\@home1.net;
> gr=urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6 ;comp=sigcomp
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \,
> \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From: \; tag=171828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Require: sec-agree
>
> Proxy-Require: sec-agree
>
> Supported: precondition, 100rel, gruu, 199
>
> Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
> spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
>
> Contact:
> \ ;comp=sigcomp SIP/2.0>;+g.3gpp.icsi-ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE, REFER, MESSAGE, SUBSCRIBE,
> NOTIFY
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVPF 98 99
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendonly
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendonly
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> a=rtpmap:99:MPVMP4V-ES
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVPF 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendonly
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendonly
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
20-22) network routes the reINVITE request.
23) The AS finally stores the regarding MCID data cached at step 6).
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example of filter criteria
This annex provides an example of a filter criterion that triggers SIP
requests that are subject to initial filter criteria evaluation.
**The coding of the Initial Filter Criteria is described in** 3GPP TS 29.228
[9].
# B.1 Terminating S-CSCF
If a user identified by the Request-URI is provided with the MCID service the
IFC can be:
The S-CSCF forwards all INVITE requests to the AS providing the MCID service.
## B.2 Originating S-CSCF
For an originating user identified as provided with the MCID service the IFC
can be:
The S-CSCF forwards all INVITE request with an operator defined service URI to
the AS providing the MCID service.
###### ### Annex C: (void)
###### ## Annex D (informative): Void
#