# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
3GPP TS 23.179 [2] defines that the SIP-1 reference point between the MCPTT UE
and the SIP core uses the 3GPP Gm reference point (with necessary enhancements
to support MCPTT requirements and profiled to meet the minimum requirements
for support of MCPTT).
3GPP TS 24.229 [4] and 3GPP TS 24.301 [5] contain several options or
alternatives for the MCPTT UE and network for support of procedures on the Gm
reference point in order to obtain IMS services. In order to ensure
interoperability it is necessary to define recommendations that if adhered to
by both MCPTT UE and network will ensure that the MCPTT UE can obtain access
to the MCPTT service.
The present document makes recommendations for the P-CSCF and S-CSCF entities
defined in 3GPP TS 23.228 [6], however if the SIP core for MCPTT does not
internally comply with the architecture of 3GPP TS 23.228 [6] these
recommendations apply generically to whatever SIP core entity provides the
equivalent functionality to the P-CCSF and S-CSCF. The MCPTT UE and SIP core
adhere to the procedures on the Gm reference point defined in 3GPP TS 24.229
[4], 3GPP TS 24.301 [5] and 3GPP TS 24.379 [3].
The present document cross-references and aligns with GSMA PRD IR.92 [12],
which profiles Voice and SMS over LTE (VoLTE).
# 1 Scope
The present document describes a minimum IMS profile of the Gm reference point
for SIP core implementation to guide interoperable implementation of MCPTT
solutions. In order to support procedures over the SIP-1 reference point
defined in 3GPP TS 23.179 [2] and 3GPP TS 24.379 [3], and which exists between
the MCPTT UE Signaling User Agent and the SIP core for obtaining access to
MCPTT service and supporting MCPTT sessions, the Gm reference point is
profiled to meet the minimum requirements to support MCPTT.
The Gm reference point contains many options which are not necessarily
applicable for support of MCPTT or options which are alternative mechanisms
(e.g. P-CSCF discovery) where if the same option is not supported by both the
MCPTT UE and the network interoperability cannot be achieved.
The present document describes the following:
\- Where options exist in 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] related to provision of IMS based
services over the Gm reference point, those options which need to be supported
to ensure interoperable MCPTT service will be identified.
\- Where options exist in 3GPP TS 24.301 [5] and stage 2 functionality that
are needed to provide MCPTT service over IMS, those options which need to be
supported to ensure interoperable MCPTT service will be identified.
\- Where optional features of MCPTT are defined that require additional
options on the Gm reference point to be supported, these options will also be
identified as recommended to be supported to ensure interoperability of the
optional feature.
The present document will only cover on-network unicast operation.
The present document covers EPC aspects that are required by MCPTT to
establish MCPTT sessions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.179: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
mission critical communication; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.379: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) call control
protocol specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G security; Access security for IP-based services\".
[8] Void.
[9] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.179: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk; Codecs and media
handling\".
[12] GSMA PRD IR.92 (V9.0): \"IMS Profile for Voice and SMS\"
(http://www.gsma.com/newsroom/wp-content/uploads/IR.92-v9.0.pdf).
[13] 3GPP TS 24.383: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) Management Object
(MO)\".
**[14] 3GPP TS 29.214: \"Policy and Charging Control over Rx reference
point\".**
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**MCPTT service:** A Push To Talk communication service supporting
applications for Mission Critical Organizations and mission critical
applications for other businesses and organizations (e.g., utilities,
railways) with fast setup times, high availability, reliability and priority
handling.
**MCPTT related APN:** An APN utilised by the MCPTT service including the
MCPTT service APN for the SIP-1 reference point, an MC common core services
APN for the HTTP-1 reference point and a MC identity management service APN
for the CSC-1 reference point.
**MCPTT UE:** A UE that enables an MCPTT user to participate in MCPTT service.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
EPC Evolved Packet Core
MC Mission Critical
MCPTT Mission Critical Push To Talk over LTE
PCC Policy and Charging Control
P-CSCF Proxy Call Session Control Function
UM Unacknowledged Mode
# 4 Support of generic functions over the Gm reference point
## 4.1 General
### 4.1.1 MCPTT UE
All of the mandatory capabilities for an E-UTRAN capable UE and EPS defined in
3GPP TS 24.229 [4] are assumed as a baseline to be supported by the MCPTT UE
for this profile.
All of the mandatory capabilities for the UE defined in 3GPP TS 24.301 [5] are
assumed as a baseline to be supported by the MCPTT UE for this profile.
### 4.1.2 SIP core
All the mandatory capabilities for the P-CSCF and S-CSCF for the messages sent
and received on the Gm reference point defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] are
assumed as a baseline to be supported for this profile.
### 4.1.3 EPC
All the mandatory capabilities for the MME defined in 3GPP TS 24.301 [5] are
assumed as a baseline to be supported for this profile.
## 4.2 Registration procedures
### 4.2.1 MCPTT UE
The MCPTT UE follows the SIP registration procedures defined in 3GPP TS 24.229
[4]. In addition, when the conditions for performing IMS registration in
bullets 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 in subclause L.3.1.2 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] evaluate
to true, the MCPTT UE registers with the IMS.
### 4.2.2 SIP core
The SIP core follows the SIP registration procedures defined in 3GPP TS 24.229
[4].
The SIP core supports network-initiated de-registration as defined in 3GPP TS
24.229 [4].
## 4.3 Authentication procedures
### 4.3.1 MCPTT UE
The MCPTT UE follows the procedures defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] and 3GPP TS
33.203 [7] for authentication with IMS Authentication and Key Agreement (IMS-
AKA), Sec-Agree and IPSec. The MCPTT UE supports integrity protection.
### 4.3.2 SIP core
The SIP core follows the procedures defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] and 3GPP TS
33.203 [7] for authentication with IMS-AKA, Sec-Agree and IPSec. The SIP core
supports integrity protection.
## 4.4 Session establishment procedures
### 4.4.1 General
Session establishment procedures are described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] and 3GPP
TS 24.379 [3].
## 4.5 Integration of resource management and SIP
### 4.5.1 MCPTT UE
#### 4.5.1.1 Loss of PDN connectivity
In accordance with GSMA PRD IR.92 [12] section 2.4.2.1, if the MCPTT UE
discovers (for example during a TAU procedure) that PDN connectivity had been
lost to one or more of the MCPTT related APNs (as specified in subclause
5.2.9.1 of 3GPP TS 23.179 [2]), then the MCPTT UE attempts to re-establish the
PDN connections that were lost.
NOTE: This will trigger the network to initiate a new SIP signalling bearer in
conjunction with the PDN connection establishment for the MCPTT service APN.
When the MCPTT UE regains PDN and IP connectivity to the MCPTT service APN, if
the IP address has changed or the IMS registration expired during the period
of absence of IP connectivity then the MCPTT UE performs a new initial
registration to IMS.
#### 4.5.1.2 Loss of media bearer and Radio Connection
In accordance with GSMA PRD IR.92 [12] section 2.4.2.3, if a SIP session
includes media streams, and if a dedicated bearer for any media stream fails
to get established, or is lost mid-session, the MCPTT UE, based on its
preferences, modifies, rejects or terminates the SIP session that the
dedicated media bearer is associated with, according to subclause 6.1.1 in
3GPP TS 24.229 [4].
NOTE: The MCPTT UE is assumed to have internal logic to react to the detection
of loss of bearer/radio connection to handle its internal state. For
multimedia communication, if the radio connection is not lost, but a bearer
not used for voice is lost, then the MCPTT UE decides if the session is
maintained as is, or is modified, or is released.
If the MCPTT UE loses radio connectivity and the IMS registration expires
prior to regaining radio connectivity, then upon regaining radio connectivity
the MCPTT UE performs a new initial registration to IMS.
### 4.5.2 SIP core
#### 4.5.2.1 Loss of PDN connectivity
In accordance with GSMA PRD IR.92 [12] section 2.4.2.1, if the PDN
connectivity between the MCPTT UE and the EPC to the MCPTT service APN is
lost, then the network terminates all ongoing SIP sessions related to the
MCPTT UE, according to the procedures in subclause 5.2.8 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [4]
(for example, when the P-CSCF receives an abort session request from the
PCRF).
#### 4.5.2.2 Loss of media bearer and Radio Connection
In accordance with GSMA PRD IR.92 [12] section 2.4.2.3, if a GBR bearer used
for voice fails to get established, or is lost mid-session, then the network
terminates the session associated to the voice stream according to the
procedures in subclause 5.2.8 in 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] (P-CSCF is informed about
loss of bearer by the PCRF).
NOTE: The loss of GBR bearer can be due to loss of radio connection indicated
by a S1 release with cause \"Radio Connection With UE Lost\" and then followed
by the MME Initiated Dedicated Bearer Deactivation procedure for the GBR
bearer used for voice. Or, the GBR bearer can be lost or not established, due
to the current resource and radio situation. However, termination of the SIP
session due to loss of the voice GBR bearer is the only way for the system to
stop the IMS level charging (quickly) when the MCPTT UE loses radio
connection.
# 5 RTP and SDP considerations to support MCPTT over the Gm reference point
## 5.1 General
### 5.1.1 MCPTT UE
The MCPTT UE supports codecs for audio media as described in 3GPP TS 26.179
[11].
### 5.1.2 SIP core
The SIP core supports codecs for audio media as described in 3GPP TS 26.179
[11].
## 5.2 Data transport
### 5.2.1 MCPTT UE
The MCPTT UE uses RTP, as described in 3GPP TS 26.179 [11].
### 5.2.2 SIP core
The entities in the SIP core that terminate the user plane use RTP, as
described in 3GPP TS 26.179 [11].
## 5.3 RTCP usage
### 5.3.1 General
The RTP implementation includes an RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) implementation
according to 3GPP TS 26.179 [11].
# 6 Bearer management
## 6.1 General
### 6.1.1 MCPTT UE
The MCPTT UE and EPS use the MCPTT related APNs as specified in subclause
5.2.9.1 of 3GPP TS 23.179 [2], which can be configured in the MCPTT UE along
with other relevant information during initial MCPTT UE configuration as
specified in 3GPP TS 24.383 [13].
NOTE: The MCPTT UE can be pre-configured with the MCPTT related APNs i.e.
before the MCPTT UE configuration procedure occurs. If new APNs are received
during initial MCPTT UE configuration, then these APNs take precedence.
## 6.2 EPS bearer considerations for SIP signalling and MCPTT sessions
### 6.2.1 MCPTT UE
The MCPTT UE establishes PDN connections to the MCPTT related APNs as
specified in subclause 5.2.9.2 of 3GPP TS 23.179 [2].
For the MCPTT service APN, the MCPTT UE does not activate EPS bearers for
media streams. Since the minimum requirement for the MCPTT UE is the support
of one UM bearer which is used for voice (see subclause 7.3.1 and Annex B in
3GPP TS 36.331 [10]), the MCPTT UE multiplexes the media streams from multiple
concurrent voice sessions, in accordance with GSMA PRD IR.92 [12] section
4.3.2.
### 6.2.2 EPS
An EPS bearer with QCI value of 69 (as specified in 3GPP TS 23.203 [9]) is
created when the MCPTT UE creates the PDN connection to the MCPTT service APN.
It is used for SIP signalling.
The network initiates the creation of a dedicated bearer to transport the
voice media. The dedicated bearer for Conversational Voice utilises the
standardised QCI value of 65 and has the associated characteristics as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.203 [9].
The network, utilising dynamic PCC, creates no more than one dedicated bearer
for voice media.
NOTE: No more than one dedicated bearer is created for voice media since in
accordance to 3GPP TS 36.331 [10] states the minimum requirement for the MCPTT
UE is the support of one UM bearer for voice.
If pre-established sessions are supported, then the network supports Resource
Sharing as specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [14].
### 6.2.3 SIP core
If pre-established sessions are supported and the SIP core interacts with PCC
over the Rx reference point for control of media resource during MCPTT
sessions, then the SIP core supports resource sharing as specified in 3GPP TS
24.229 [4] and 3GPP TS 29.214 [14]. If resource sharing for MCPTT sessions is
supported the SIP core includes the Resource-Share header field in the initial
SIP REGISTER request as defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [4].
## 6.3 P-CSCF discovery
### 6.3.1 MCPTT UE
The MCPTT UE supports option I and option II procedures for P-CSCF discovery
as defined in annex L.2.2.1 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [4].
In accordance with GSMA PRD IR.92 [12] section 4.4, the MCPTT UE indicates
P-CSCF IPv6 Address Request and P-CSCF IPv4 Address Request when performing
the following procedures:
1) initial attach when establishing PDN connection to the MCPTT service APN;
2) initial attach when establishing PDN connection to the MCPTT service APN;
and
3) establishment of the PDN connection to the MCPTT service APN when already
attached.
NOTE: The MCPTT service APN is defined in 3GPP TS 23.179 [2].
If the network does not provide the MCPTT UE with a list of P-CSCF IPv4 or
IPv6 addresses, then the UE attempts to obtain P-CSCF addresses using DHCPv4
or DHCPv6, depending on if the MCPTT UE is configured to use IPv4 or IPv6 in
on‑network operation, as defined in option I procedures for P-CSCF discovery
in annex L.2.2.1 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] and subclause 9.2.1 of 3GPP TS 24.229
[4].
If both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are assigned to the MCPTT UE, then the MCPTT
UE prefers the IP version address type as indicated in MCPTT UE configuration
data when the MCPTT UE discovers the P-CSCF.
The MCPTT UE uses the discovered P-CSCF addresses as defined in 3GPP TS 24.229
[4].
In accordance with GSMA PRD IR.92 [12] section 4.4, if the MCPTT UE receives a
Modify EPS Bearer Context Request message containing a list of P-CSCF
addresses that does not include the address of the currently used P-CSCF, the
MCPTT UE acquires a P-CSCF different from the currently used P-CSCF and
initiates a new initial registration as defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [4]
subclause L.2.2.1C.
### 6.3.2 SIP core
Void.
### 6.3.3 EPC
When using the option II mechanism for P-CSCF discovery as defined in
subclause L.2.2.1 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [4], P-CSCF address(es) are transferred to
the MCPTT UE within the EPS bearer context activation procedures. The encoding
of the request and response for list of P-CSCF address(es) within the Protocol
Configuration Options information element is described in 3GPP TS 24.301 [5].
# 7 Common functionalities
## 7.1 IP version
### 7.1.1 MCPTT UE
The MCPTT UE supports both IPv4 and IPv6 for all protocols that are used for
MCPTT.
In accordance with GSMA PRD IR.92 [12] section 5.1, after the MCPTT UE has
discovered the P-CSCF and registered to IMS with a particular IPv4 or IPv6
address, the MCPTT UE uses this IP address for all SIP communication as long
as the IMS registration is valid. For all SDP and RTP/RTCP communication, the
UE uses the IPv4 address used for SIP communication or an IPv6 address with
the same IPv6 prefix as the IPv6 prefix of the IPv6 address used for SIP
communication.
### 7.1.2 SIP core
The P-CSCF supports both IPv4 and IPv6 for SIP and SDP.
NOTE: In accordance with GSMA PRD IR.92 [12] section 5.1, where interworking
between IP versions is required, (e.g. for roaming and interconnect between
networks using different IP versions) it is recommended that the interworking
be provided in a manner that is transparent to the MCPTT UE.
#