# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the internal interface characteristics of the
Contact Manager for 3GPP UICC applications [2].
The internal interface between the Contact Manager Server application on the
UICC and the Contact Manager Client application on the UICC enables Java Card™
platform based applets, defined in [3], [4] and [5], to invoke and register to
the Contact Manager Server services. In particular, the Contact Manager Java
Card™ based API provides methods to:
\- Read/Update/Create/Delete contact(s) in the Contact Manager Server;
\- Manage group of contacts in the Contact Manager Server;
\- Search for a contact in the Contact Manager Server storage;
\- manage the contacts structure;
\- Register/Un-register the application to pre-defined events (e.g.
application to be notified when contacts are modified in the Contact Manager
Server).
This API allows to develop an application running together with a Contact
Manager [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 31.220: \"Characteristics of the Contact Manager for 3GPP UICC
applications\".
[3] Sun Microsystems \"Application Programming Interface, Java Card™ Platform,
3.0.1 Classic Edition\".
[4] Sun Microsystems \"Runtime Environment Specification, Java Card™ Platform,
3.0.1 Classic Edition\".
[5] Sun Microsystems \"Virtual Machine Specification Java Card™ Platform,
3.0.1 Classic Edition\".
Note: SUN Java Card™ Specifications can be downloaded at
http://java.sun.com/products/javacard
[6] 3GPP TS 31.130: \"(U)SIM API for Java™ Card\".
[7] ETSI TS 101 220: \"Smart cards; ETSI numbering system for
telecommunication application providers\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and TS 31.130 [6] apply. A term defined in TS 31.130 [6] takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\|\| Concatenation
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
API Application Programming Interface
# 4 Contact manager internal interface characteristics
## 4.1 Reference model
The present section describes an API and a Contact Manager Runtime Environment
that enables Java Card™ platform based applets, defined in [3], [4] and [5],
to invoke and register to the Contact Manager Server services (e.g.
retrieve/modify contact information). The Contact Manager Runtime Environment
API is further described in annex A.
Figure 1: Internal interface reference model
**Contact Manager Runtime Environment:** An Extension to the Java Card™
platform described in [3][4][5] and the (U)SAT Runtime Environment described
in TS 31.130 [6] to facilitate the communications between Applets and the
Contact Manager Server.
**Applet:** these derive from _javacard.framework.Applet_ and provide the
entry points: _process, select, deselect, install_ as defined in the \"Runtime
Environment Specification, Java Card™ Platform, 3.0.1 Classic Edition\" [4].
**Event Listener List of the Contact Manager** : this is handling all the
registration information of the event listener of the Contact Manager Server
services. It is provided as a JCRE entry point object defined in [5]. The
registry is part of the Contact Manager Runtime Environment.
**Contact Manager API** : consists of the package _uicc.contactmanager_ ,
provides the methods to register and unregister, to the Contact Manager
events. It also provides methods to access the Contact Manager Server data.
This API is an extension to the \"(U)SAT API\" defined in TS 31 130 [6].
**Contact Manager Server:** application on the UICC that enables Java Card™
platform based applets, defined in [3], [4] and [5], to invoke and register to
its services. The invocation of the Contact Manager Server services is done
through methods corresponding to the Contact Manager Runtime Environment
interface.
## 4.2 Data model
The Contact Manager API gives the user application a view of the data stored
by the Contact Manager Server. This view follows the data model below:
Figure 1: data model
The contact manager is composed of a collection of contacts. Each contact
belongs to a unique contact manager.
The contact manager is also composed of a collection of field descriptors.
Each field descriptor defines the properties of a field that all contacts
belonging to the contact manager shall have. A contact field is described by:
\- its type (e.g. Name, phone number, postal address,..) and
\- its attributes (e.g. voice phone number).
Some fields such as a name or a postal address may be composed of several sub-
fields. Each field descriptor belongs to a unique contact manager.
A contact is composed of a collection of fields. Each field belongs to a
unique contact, and defines the value assigned to this contact for a unique
field descriptor.
The contact manager is also composed of a collection of groups. Each group
belongs to a unique contact manager, and is an aggregation of contacts that
belong to the same contact manager. Each contact may belong to no group, one
group, or multiple groups.
Each contact is identified by an identifier, which is unique among all
contacts in the Contact Manager database.
Each field descriptor is identified by an identifier, which is unique among
all field descriptors in the Contact Manager database.
Each group is identified by an identifier, which is unique among all groups in
the Contact Manager database.
The contact identifiers, field descriptor identifiers and group identifiers
are three distinct spaces. For example, a contact may have the same identifier
as a group.
The following figure depicts an example of a Contact Manager Server data
store.
Figure 2: Example of a Contact Manager Server data store
## 4.3 Events registration and deregistration
### 4.3.1 Overview
Registration to and Deregistration from the Contact Manager Server is done
through the register and unregister methods of the Contact Manager Runtime
Environment interface.
To be notified, the client shall implement a _ContactEventListener interface_
and register to the appropriate events. Then the Contact Manager Server will
call the following methods of all registered clients when the corresponding
event occurs:
\- _ContactEventListener.contactModified (int event, int contactIdentifier)_
each time a contact is modified.
\- _ContactEventListener.groupModified (int event, int groupIdentifier, int
contactIdentifier)_ each time a group is modified.
\- ContactEventListener.fieldDescriptorModified (int event, int
fieldDescriptorIdentifier) each time a field descriptor is modified.
### 4.3.2 Definition of events
The following events can notify an applet:
Table 1: Contact Manager events list
* * *
Event Name  
_EVENT_CONTACT_ADDED_  
_EVENT_CONTACT_MODIFIED_  
_EVENT_CONTACT_REMOVED_  
_EVENT_FIELD_DESCRIPTOR_ADDED_  
_EVENT_FIELD_DESCRIPTOR_MODIFIED_  
_EVENT_FIELD_DESCRIPTOR_REMOVED_  
_EVENT_GROUP_ADDED_  
_EVENT_GROUP_CONTACT_ADDED_  
_EVENT_GROUP_CONTACT_REMOVED_  
_EVENT_GROUP_REMOVED_
* * *
## 4.4 Services invocation
### 4.4.1 General
Before contacts can be created and used, the Contact Manager Server shall
first be configured with the contacts structure (i.e. the field descriptors).
The Contact Manager internal interface provides services to access and manage
contacts, groups of contacts, list of contacts, list of groups, and contacts
structure.
In order to access the Contact Manager Server, an application shall use the
factory methods in the _ContactManager_ class. This class, which is the
primary entry point to the API, provides the applications with factory methods
to create all objects needed to access the Contact Manager Server.
> Note: in its current form, it allows only one instance of the contact
> manager data model. However, all interfaces in this API are designed such
> that multiple contact manager information bases could co-exist.
With the exception of the _ContactManager_ factory class and the
_ContactManagerException_ class, all objects defined in the data model are
accessed using interfaces.
### 4.4.2 Services invocation API description
The invocation of the Contact Manager Server services is done through methods
corresponding to the Contact Manager Server Runtime Environment interface.
#### 4.4.2.1 View interfaces
All objects in the Contact Manager Server's data model are accessed using the
View interfaces instances:
\- The _FieldDescriptorsListView_ interface shall be used by client
applications to access the field descriptors list.
\- The _FieldDescriptorView_ interface shall be used by client applications to
access the field descriptors.
\- The _ContactsListView_ interface shall be used by client applications to
access the contacts list.
\- The _GroupsListView_ interface shall be used by client applications to
access the groups list.
\- The _ContactView_ interface shall be used by client applications to access
the contacts.
\- The _FieldView_ interface shall be used by client applications to access
the fields.
Client applications should obtain instances of these interfaces at
installation time.
The instances of _FieldDescriptorsListView_ , _ContactsListView_ and
_GroupsListView_ each gives access to a single collection during their whole
lifetime, respectively the unique list of all field descriptors, the unique
list of all contacts, and the unique list of all groups.
Conversely, each instance of _FieldDescriptorView_ , _ContactView_ and
_FieldView_ may, at different times, give successive access to distinct
objects of the Contact Manager Server's database. At some times, they may give
access to none.
At any time, each of these latter views instances are either in DESELECTED or
in SELECTED state:
\- A view in DESELECTED state does not represent any existing object in the
Contact Manager Server's data model.
\- A view in SELECTED state represents an existing object in the Contact
Manager Server's data model. It can be used to access this selected object.
#### 4.4.2.2 Lists access interfaces
The interfaces _ContactsListView_ , _GroupsListView_ ,
_FieldDescriptorsListView_ , _ContactView_ and _GroupView_ provide access to
collections:
_\- ContactsListView_ provides access to a collection of contacts;
_\- GroupsListView_ provides access to a collection of Groups;
_\- FieldDescriptorsListView_ provides access to a collection of field
descriptors;
_\- ContactView_ provides access to a collection of fields;
_\- GroupView_ provides access to a collection of contacts.
Figure 1: interfaces
These interfaces provide methods to enumerate items in these collections, as
well as methods to add and remove items.
#### 4.4.2.3 Items update interfaces
The groups, contacts, fields and field descriptors can be accessed using the
interfaces _GroupView_ , _ContactView_ , _FieldView_ and _FieldDescriptorView_
, respectively.
These interfaces shall be used to update the objects they represent.
The life cycle of the _ContactView_ , _FieldView_ , _GroupView_ and
_FieldDescriptorView_ is defined by the following state diagram:
Figure 1: state diagram
\- In the DESELECTED state, the instance does not represent any existing
group, contact, field or field descriptor in the contact manager. It can be
used to store values for a new object to be created subsequently.
\- In the SELECTED state, the instance represents an group, contact, field or
field descriptor in the contact manager.
The select operation occurs when the following methods are invoked:
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Interface | select occurs when the following methods | | | are invoked | +=======================+=============================================+ | Group _View_ | _GroupsListView.selectGroup()_ | | | | | | _GroupsListView.selectNextGroup()_ | | | | | | _GroupsListView.addGroup()_ | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Contact _View_ | _ContactsListView.selectContact()_ | | | | | | _ContactsListView.selectNextContact()_ | | | | | | _ContactsListView.addContact()_ | | | | | | _GroupView.selectContact()_ | | | | | | _GroupView.selectNextContact()_ | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Field _View_ | _ContactView.selectField()_ | | | | | | _ContactView.selectNextField()_ | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | FieldDescriptor _View_ | _FieldD | | | escriptorsListView.selectFieldDescriptor()_ | | | | | | _FieldDescr | | | iptorsListView.selectNextFieldDescriptor()_ | | | | | | _Fie | | | ldDescriptorsListView.addFieldDescriptor()_ | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
The deselect operation occurs when the following events occur:
\- UICC RESET
_\- deselect()_ method of the appropriate View is invoked.
#### 4.4.2.4 Access control
The API shall only accept requests from trusted applets, defined as follows:
\- Security Domains of UICC applications defined in chapter 4.3 of [2] are
trusted by the API.
\- Any applet of any trusted Security Domain is trusted by the API.
### 4.4.3 API classes and interfaces detailed description
Annex A provides the detailed description of the classes and interfaces that
constitute the Services Invocation API.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Java Card^TM^ platform Contact Manager API
The attached files \"31221_Annex_A_Java.zip\", and \"31221_Annex_A_HTML.zip\"
contains source files and html documentation for the Java Card™ Contact
Manager API.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Java Card^TM^ platform Contact Manager API
identifiers
The attached file \"31221_Annex_B_Export_files.zip\" contains the export files
for the uicc.contactmanager.* package.
###### ## Annex C (normative): Java Card^TM^ platform Contact Manager API
package version management
The following table describes the relationship between each TS 31.221
specification version and its packages AID and Major, Minor versions defined
in the export files.
Table 1
+-----------+----------------------------------------+--------+ | TS 31.221 | uicc. contactmanager package | | +-----------+----------------------------------------+--------+ | | AID | Major, | | | | | | | | Minor | +-----------+----------------------------------------+--------+ | | A0 00 00 00 87 10 07 FF FF FF FF 89 14 | 2.0 | | | | | | | 10 00 00 | | +-----------+----------------------------------------+--------+
The package AID coding is defined in ETSI TS 101 220 [7]. The Contact Manager
API packages\' AID are not modified by changes to major or minor version.
The major version shall be incremented if a change to the specification
introduces byte code incompatibility with the previous version.
The minor version shall be incremented if a change to the specification does
not introduce byte code incompatibility with the previous version.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Example of Java Card^TM^ platform Contact
Manager API use
The attached file \"31221_Annex_D_Example.zip\" contains an example of use of
the Java^TM^ Card Contact Manager API.
#