# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
TS 28.515 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions; Requirements\".
TS 28.516 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions; Procedures\".
TS 28.517 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions; Stage 2\".
**TS 28.518 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include
virtualized network functions; Stage 3\".**
# 1 Scope
The present document is Fault Management stage 3 specification for mobile
networks that include virtualized network functions which can be part of EPC
or IMS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.111-2 \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part 2:
Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-6 \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part 6:
Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Management concept,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions\".
[5] ETSI GS NFV-SOL 002 (V2.3.1): \"Network Function Virtualisation (NFV)
Release 2; Protocols and Data Models; RESTful protocols specification for the
Ve-Vnfm Reference Point\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [4] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [4] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [4].
IS Information Service
SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol
SS Solution Set
# 4 General descriptions
For VNF Fault Management Stage 3 solution over Itf-N, the Alarm IRP SS is
applicable. The overall description of Alarm IRP SS is specified in TS
32.111-6 [3].The semantics of Alarm IPR SS are specified in Alarm IRP
Information Service TS 32.111-2 [2]. Three solution sets are contained in [3],
which are the CORBA Solution Set, the XML definitions and the SOAP Solution
Set.
For VNF Fault Management Stage 3 solution over Ve-Vnfm reference point, the
corresponding RESTful solution of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 002 [5] shall be used as
specified in clause 5.2.
# 5 Solution Set Definitions
## 5.1 Itf-N
For Itf-N VNF alarm management, the following Solution Set Definitions defined
by AlarmIRP which is specified in 3GPP TS 32.111-6 [3] shall be used:
Annex A of 3GPP TS 32.111-6 [3] provides the CORBA Solution Set.
Annex B of 3GPP TS 32.111-6 [3] provides the XML Definitions.
Annex C of 3GPP TS 32.111-6 [3] provides the SOAP Solution Set.
## 5.2 Ve-Vnfm-em
For Ve-Vnfm-em VNF alarm management, the following shall be used:
\- the RESTful API URI structure and supported content formats specified in
clause 4.2 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 002 [5], and
\- the RESTful API common procedures specified in clause 4.3 of ETSI GS NFV-
SOL 002 [5], and
\- the RESTful API common data types specified in clause 4.4 of ETSI GS NFV-
SOL 002 [5], and
\- the VNF FM RESTful API resource structure, methods, resources, data model
and handling of errors specified in clause 7 of ETSI GS NFV-SOL 002 [5].
#