# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**TS 28.515 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include
virtualized network functions; Requirements\".**
TS 28.516 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions; Procedures\".
TS 28.517 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions; Stage 2\".
TS 28.518 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions; Stage 3\".
# 1 Scope
The present document (together with the relevant requirements described in
[2], [3], [4] and [5]) specifies the requirements applicable to Fault
Management (FM) of mobile networks that include virtualized network functions
which can be part of EPC or IMS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Management concept,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
[6] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 010 (V2.2.1): \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Functional Requirements Specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [2] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [2].
VM Virtual Machine
vNIC virtual Network Interface Card
vPORT virtual Port
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Fault Management in the context of NFV
Fault Management functionality traditionally includes fault detection,
generation of alarms, clearing of alarms, alarm forwarding and filtering,
storage and retrieval of alarms, correlation of alarms and events, alarm root
cause analysis and fault recovery. With introduction of virtualized network
functions (VNFs) into mobile networks, Fault Management functionality is
distributed over different functional blocks. These different functional
blocks may be located at different levels such as NFV Infrastructure (NFVI)
level, NE level, NFV Management and Orchestration level and 3GPP network
management level.
The decoupling of software from hardware by means of virtualization changes
the way in which the faults were managed in non-virtualized NE deployments:
\- Physical hardware faults of NFVI are detected by NFVI and corrected jointly
with the support from NFV-MANO. Only information about those faults (e.g.
faults corresponding to the virtualized resources) that affect the proper
functioning of VNF needs to be provided to 3GPP management system.
\- VNF-related virtualized resource fault information needs to be sent from
NFV-MANO to 3GPP management system, and then 3GPP management system can take
some necessary actions.
\- VNF application fault information needs to be sent from the VNF instance to
the corresponding 3GPP management system that is responsible for taking some
necessary actions.
\- VNF virtualization-specific fault information is detected by VNF and needs
to be sent from the VNF instance to both the VNFM and the corresponding 3GPP
management system so that they can take necessary actions accordingly.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
**REQ-NFV_FM-CON-1** The faulty virtualization-specific aspect of a
virtualized network function shall be able to be recovered.
**REQ-NFV_FM-CON-2** 3GPP management system shall be able to get VNF
application fault reports about a faulty NE.
**REQ-NFV_FM-CON-3** 3GPP management system shall be able to get VNF
virtualization-related fault reports from NFV-MANO.
**REQ-NFV_FM-CON-4** The content of the fault information from VNF application
fault reports and VNF virtualization-related fault reports shall enable 3GPP
management system to correlate VNF application fault(s) with VNF
virtualization-related fault(s).
**REQ-NFV_FM-CON-5** EM shall be able to send to VNFM a request to recover the
faulty virtualization-specific aspect of a virtualized network function.
## 5.2 Actor roles
See actors and roles of each use case in clause 5.4.
## 5.3 Telecommunications resources
See telecom resources of each use case in clause 5.4.
## 5.4 High-level use cases
### 5.4.1 NE alarm correlation in the context of NFV
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To correlate NE alarms in | | | | a mobile network that | | | | includes virtualized | | | | network functions. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management system | | | | (EM, NM) correlates NE | | | | alarms.\ | | | | NFV MANO functional entity | | | | VNFM notifies virtualized | | | | resource alarms to 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | VNFM, 3GPP management | | | | system (EM, NM) | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | - 3GPP management system | | | | can get VNF application | | | | alarms of the faulty NE, | | | | and | | | | | | | | - VNFM can get | | | | virtualized resource | | | | alarms and identify the | | | | corresponding VNF | | | | instance. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | N/A | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | There is a new failure | | | | which may impact the | | | | virtualized resource and | | | | the corresponding NE | | | | application. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | gets VNF application | | | | alarm(s) of a faulty NE. | | | | VNFM gets virtualized | | | | resource alarm(s) and | | | | notifies the corresponding | | | | VNF instance related | | | | virtualized resource | | | | alarm(s) to 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | Based on the virtualized | | | | resource alarm(s) sent | | | | from VNFM and those VNF | | | | application alarms | | | | reported from NE, 3GPP | | | | management system makes | | | | alarm correlation. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The virtualized resource | | | | alarm(s) and VNF | | | | application alarm(s) are | | | | correlated by 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-MAMO_FM-CON-3, | | | | REQ-MAMO_FM-CON-4, | | | | REQ-MAMO_FM-CON-5 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 5.4.2 NFVI Maintenance coordination
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To avoid the unwanted | | | | impact to VNF application | | | | from NFVI maintenance | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM, NFVO, VNFM, VIM | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | NFVO, VNFM VIM, NFVI | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | There is an agreement that | | | | NFV-MANO system should get | | | | permission from NM before | | | | scheduled NFVI | | | | maintenance, managed by | | | | NFV-MANO, can start. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | N/A | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | NFVO receives a | | | | notification from VIM | | | | informing about NFVI | | | | maintenance impacting the | | | | VRs (Virtualised | | | | Resources) that are used | | | | by a NS instance (e.g. the | | | | subordinative VNF | | | | instances and Virtual | | | | Links). | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NFVO informs NM about the | | | | NFVI maintenance. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NM confirms the NFVI | | | | maintenance positively or | | | | not positively. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO acts according to the | | | | response from NM. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | NFVI maintenance activity | | | | has been coordinated | | | | between NM and NFVO. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | FFS | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Requirements for Itf-N
**REQ-NFV_FM_Itf-N-FUN-1** IRPAgent shall have the capability to send VNF
application alarms to IRPManager.
**REQ-NFV_FM_Itf-N-FUN-2** IRPAgent should have the capability to send VNF
instance related virtualized resource alarms to IRPManager.
**REQ-NFV_FM_Itf-N-FUN-3** The existing AlarmIRP should be reused as much as
possible.
### 6.1.2 Requirements for Os-Ma-nfvo
None.
### 6.1.3 Requirements for Ve-Vnfm-em
**REQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-1** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support a
capability allowing VNFM to notify EM the VNF and/or VNFC instance related
virtualized resource failure reports, in which information (e.g. VM
Identifier, vNIC/vPORT Identifier) of faulty VNF and/or VNFC instance is
included.
**REQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-2** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support a
capability allowing VNFM to notify EM and other authorized consumers who can
play the role of EM, the virtualization-specific aspect failure reports, in
which information of faulty VNF and VNFC instance(s) is included.
**REQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-3** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support
the EM to send to VNFM a request to execute the VNF Healing of a virtualized
network function indicating the corresponding healing procedure and VNFC
instance(s).
**REQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-4** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support a
capability allowing EM to subscribe/unsubscribe to VNF and VNFC instance
related alarm notification provided by the VNFM.
### 6.1.4 Requirements for Ve-Vnfm-vnf
**REQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-vnf-FUN-1** The Ve-Vnfm-vnf reference point shall support
the capability for the VNF virtualization-specific component to notify about
faulty virtualization-specific aspects to VNFM.
## 6.2 Actor roles
See actors and roles of each use case in clause 6.4.
## 6.3 Telecommunications resources
See telecom resources of each use case in clause 6.4.
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 NE alarm correlation in the context of NFV
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \** | | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To correlate NE alarms in | | | | a mobile network that | | | | includes virtualized | | | | network functions. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | EM or NM correlates NE | | | | alarms.\ | | | | VNFM notifies virtualized | | | | resource alarms to EM.\ | | | | EM sends VNF application | | | | failure reports and VNF | | | | instance related | | | | virtualized failure | | | | reports to NM. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, EM, VNFM | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | 3GPP management system | | | | (EM, NM) can get VNF | | | | application alarms of the | | | | faulty NE. VNFM can get | | | | virtualized resource | | | | alarms and identify the | | | | corresponding VNF | | | | instance. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | N/A | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | There is a new failure | | | | which may impact the | | | | virtualized resource and | | | | the corresponding NE | | | | application. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | EM sends VNF application | | | | failure reports of a fault | | | | NE to NM. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | VNFM sends VNF instance | | | | related virtualized | | | | failure reports to EM, in | | | | which information of the | | | | failed VNF instance is | | | | included. EM reports VNF | | | | instance related | | | | virtualized failure | | | | reports to NM. | | | | | | | | > Note: Sequence of step 1 | | | | > and step 2 may be | | | | > reversed. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | Based on the virtualized | | | | resource failure reports | | | | sent from VNFM and VNF | | | | application alarms, EM or | | | | NM makes the alarm | | | | correlation. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | Failure reports of a | | | | faulty NE are reported and | | | | correlated by 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_FM_Itf-N-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-NFV_FM_Itf-N-FUN-2, | | | | REQ | | | | -NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-1 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 6.4.2 VNF Healing through operation request to VNFM by EM
Note: In the context of this use case, VNF Healing [6] refers to corrective
actions performed by the VNFM to recover a VNF which fails to perform as
expected, and/or its VNFC instances and internal VNF Virtual Link(s), and it
concerns the actions for which the VNFM is responsible, i.e., corrective
action(s) toward virtualised resources, instantiation of VNFC, configuration
of VNF deployment specific parameters, etc.
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | To recover the faulty | | | | virtualization-specific aspect | | | | of a virtualized network | | | | function by executing a VNF | | | | Healing through an operation | | | | request to VNFM by EM and | | | | notify about the execution of | | | | the VNF healing through | | | | reference point Ve-Vnfm-em. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | EM requests the VNFM to | | | | execute the VNF healing based | | | | on the information included in | | | | the request. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | EM. | | | | | | | | VNFM. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | EM is subscribed to VNF | | | | lifecycle change notifications | | | | from the VNFM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | The subject VNF instance is | | | | not being healed at the | | | | moment. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | A faulty | | | | virtualization-specific aspect | | | | of the VNF has been notified | | | | to EM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | EM determines that VNF Healing | | | | is needed. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | EM requests the VNFM to | | | | execute the VNF Healing with | | | | indication of VNF Components | | | | to recover and indication of | | | | the healing procedure to | | | | execute with input parameters | | | | as required. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (O) | VNFM sends to EM a | | | | notification about the start | | | | of the VNF healing execution. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 4 (M) | The VNFM executes the | | | | procedure to heal the VNF | | | | instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 5 (M) | VNFM sends to EM a | | | | notification about the end and | | | | the result of the VNF Healing | | | | execution. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | All the steps identified above | | | | are successfully completed. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | The VNF Healing procedure in | | | | step 4 fails. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The faulty | | | | virtualization-specific aspect | | | | of the VNF is recovered. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-3 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
### 6.4.3 Virtualization-specific aspect failure detection and notification by
VNFM
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | To notify the EM about a | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | failure of a virtualized | | | | network function through | | | | Ve-Vnfm-em reference point. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | VNF virtualization-specific | | | | component. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | EM. | | | | | | | | VNFM. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | - VNFM receives virtualised | | | | resource fault reports from | | | | VIM. | | | | | | | | - VNF application-specific | | | | fault is reported to the EM. | | | | | | | | - EM is subscribed to | | | | VNF-related virtualization | | | | fault reports from the VNFM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | N/A | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | The virtualization-specific | | | | failure is detected by the VNF | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | component. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | VNF virtualization-specific | | | | component sends | | | | virtualization-specific fault | | | | notification to VNFM over | | | | Ve-Vnfm-vnf reference point. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | VNFM creates VNF | | | | virtualization-related fault | | | | report about the VNF and its | | | | VNF Components. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | VNFM sends the VNF | | | | virtualization-related fault | | | | report to the EM over | | | | Ve-Vnfm-em reference point. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | All the steps identified above | | | | are successfully completed. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The EM is notified about the | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | failure of the subject VNF. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | R | | | | EQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-vnf-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-2 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
### 6.4.4 Virtualization-specific aspect failure detection and notification by
EM
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | To notify the EM about a | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | failure of a virtualized | | | | network function. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | VNF virtualization-specific | | | | component | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | EM. | | | | | | | | VNFM. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | - VNF application-specific | | | | fault is reported to the EM. | | | | | | | | - EM is subscribed to | | | | VNF-related virtualization | | | | fault reports. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | N/A | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | The virtualization-specific | | | | failure is detected by the VNF | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | component. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | VNF virtualization-specific | | | | component sends | | | | virtualization-specific fault | | | | notification to EM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | All the steps identified above | | | | are successfully completed. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The EM is notified about the | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | failure of the subject VNF. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
### 6.4.5 NE alarm reporting in the context of NFV
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To send or notify NE | | | | alarms in a mobile network | | | | that includes virtualized | | | | network functions. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | EM reports NE alarms to | | | | NM.\ | | | | NFV MANO functional entity | | | | VNFM notifies VNF instance | | | | alarms related to | | | | virtualized resource to | | | | 3GPP management system EM. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | VNFM, EM, NM | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | EM can detect VNF | | | | application alarms of the | | | | faulty NE, and | | | | | | | | VNFM can get virtualized | | | | resource alarms, identify | | | | the corresponding VNF | | | | instance and notify the | | | | corresponding VNF instance | | | | alarm to EM. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | N/A | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | There is a failure which | | | | impacts the NE application | | | | and/or the corresponding | | | | virtualized resources. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | EM detects VNF application | | | | alarm(s) of a faulty NE. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | If there is virtualized | | | | resource alarm(s), VNFM | | | | notifies the corresponding | | | | VNF instance alarm(s) with | | | | related virtualized | | | | resource information to | | | | EM. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | EM reports the NE | | | | application alarm(s) | | | | and/or the VNF instance | | | | alarm(s) sent from VNFM to | | | | NM over Itf-N. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | NE alarms are sent from EM | | | | to NM. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_FM_Itf-N-FUN-3 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 6.4.6 Virtualization-specific aspect failure notification by VNFM
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal To notify authorized consumer who can play the role of EM about
virtualization-specific aspect alarms.
Actors and Roles The consumer
Telecom resources VNFM
Assumptions The consumer that requires the VNF-related virtualization fault
information produced by VNFM, has a subscription to receive such information,
Pre-conditions N/A
Begins when VNFM is aware of a VNF virtualization-specific aspect problem.
Step 1 (M) VNFM creates an alarm record.
Step 2 (M) VNFM sends the alarm record to the consumer(s) which has subscribed
to receiving such information.
Ends when All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
Exceptions
Post-conditions The consumer(s) has received the virtualization-specific
aspects failure information.
Traceability REQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-2
* * *
#