# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
TS 28.510: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements.
**TS 28.511: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Procedures.**
TS 28.512: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 2.
TS 28.513: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 3.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Configuration Management (CM) procedures
for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.510: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\"
[3] GS NFV-IFA 008 (V2.1.1) (2016-10): \"Network Functions Virtualisation
(NFV); Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm Reference Point -- Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.526: \"Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management
(LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Procedures\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Management concept,,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [7] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [7].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [7] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [7].
# 4 Configuration Management procedures
## 4.1 Introduction
The procedures listed in clause 4, as some of all the possibilities, are not
exhaustive.
## 4.2 MO configuration procedure
This procedure shows how to configure the attributes of the existing MO
corresponding to a VNF instance.
Main steps for MO configuration:
1) NM sends a request of configuring the attributes of the existing MO
corresponding to a VNF instance to EM, this request includes relevant
parameters for the MO configuration.
2) When EM receives the MO configuration request, it configures the attributes
of the existing MO.
3) EM responds the result of the MO configuration to NM.
Figure 4.2-1: MO configuration procedure
## 4.3 Procedure of updating MOI(s) after a VNF is scaled
This procedure shows how to update corresponding MOI(s) after a VNF is scaled.
The procedure can be triggered by NM or EM.
**Scenario 1: Triggered by NM**
The use case for scenario 1 is in clause 6.4.5 of [2]. In this case, the main
steps of the procedure are:
1) NM receives the message indicating the VNF instance has been scaled from
NFVO (refer to step 3 of procedure in clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 28.526 [4]).
2) NM decides the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance need to be
updated.
3) NM sends a request to EM to update the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject
VNF instance.
4) EM updates the attributes of the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF
instance.
5) EM sends the notification to NM about the update of the MOI(s).
Note: The assumption of this scenario is that NM can know the relationship
between VNF instance and corresponding MOI(s).
Figure 4.3-1: Procedure of updating MOI(s) after a VNF is scaled (Triggered by
NM)
**Scenario 2: Triggered by EM**
The use case for scenario 2 is in clause 6.4.6 of [2]. In this case, the main
steps of the procedure are:
1) EM receives the message indicating the subject VNF has been scaled from
VNFM.
2) EM decides the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance need to be
updated.
3) EM updates the attributes of the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF
instance.
4) EM sends the notification to NM about the update of the MOI(s) plus the
related information abstained in step 1.
Figure 4.3-2: Procedure of updating MOI(s) after a VNF is scaled (Triggered by
EM)
## 4.4 MO creation
### 4.4.1 MO creation after VNF instantiation (triggered by EM)
The figure 4.4.1-1 illustrates the procedure of creating MO after the
corresponding VNF instantiation is triggered by EM.
Figure 4.4.1-1: MO creation after VNF instantiation (triggered by EM)
1) When the new VNF instance is allocated with virtualized resources and
configured with non-application parameters successfully, VNFM sends a _Notify_
(see clause 7.3.3 [3]), carrying VnfLifecycleChangeNotification information
element to EM with attributes vnfInstanceId, status = \"result\", operation =
\"instantiation\", lifeycleOperationOccurrenceId, affectedVnfc, affectedVl,
and affectedVirtualStorage (see clause 9.5.2 [3]) to indicate the end and the
successful result of VNF instantiation, the parameter see clause 4.5 of [4].
2) EM creates the MOI(s) and sets attributes of the created MOI(s) (i.e. VNF
Instance Id) referring to the new VNF instance.
3) EM sends a _notifyObjectCreation_ [6] to NM to indicate the result of the
MO creation to NM.
4) EM may configure the attributes of the created MOI(s) if needed and send NM
the attributeValueChange [6] notifications if NM has subscribed to the
attributeValueChange notification.
### 4.4.2 MO creation for a specified VNF instance
Operator wants to create MOI(s) corresponding to a specified VNF instance.
Operator, via NM, knows the identifier of the specific VNF instance via NM
reception of the VNF instance instantiated notification.
The figure 4.4.2-1 illustrates the procedure of creating MOI(s) for a
specified VNF instance.
Figure 4.4.2-1: Creating MO with VNF instance identifier specified
1) NM sends a createMO (see clause 7.6.1 in [5]) to EM to create MOI(s)
corresponding to the specified VNF instance with VNF instance identifier
included. The other configuration parameters are also included in the request
if needed.
> 2) EM creates the MOI(s) and sets the relevant MOI(s) attribute with the VNF
> Instance identifier referring to the specified VNF instance. EM may
> configure other attributes of the created MOI(s) if needed.
>
> 3) EM sends a _notifyObjectCreation_ [6] to NM to indicate the result of the
> MO creation to NM.
## 4.5 VNF termination triggers MO attribute value change
This procedure shows the action of EM when it receives the VNF lifecycle
change notification indicating a VNF instance has been terminated. It is
assumed that a MO has been created to represent a VNF instance, and EM has
subscribed to receive the VNF lifecycle change notification from VNFM:
1) VNFM sends a _Notify_ (see clause 7.3.3 [3]), carrying
VnfLifecycleChangeNotification to EM (see clause 9.5.2 [3]) to indicate the
result of VNF termination, when the VNF termination operation is completed.
2) EM detects that a VNF instance has been terminated by checking the
attributes status = \"result\" and operation = \"termination\", and decides to
modify the MO attribute to remove the association with the VNF instance
identified by vnfInstanceId.
3) EM sends a _notifyAttributeValueChange_ [6] to NM to indicate the MO
attribute value has been changed.
Figure 4.5-1: VNF termination triggers MO attribute value change
## 4.6 Enabling/disabling the auto-scaling initiated through Itf-N
Figure 4.6-1 depicts the procedure of enabling/disabling the auto-scaling of
the VNF instance(s) corresponding to an NE through Itf-N.
1\. NM sends to EM a _setMOAttributes_ (see clause 7.6.3 in [5]) to EM with
the item \ in the
attribute modificationList for enabling/disabling the auto-scaling.
2\. EM requests VNFM to enable/disable the auto-scaling of the VNF instance(s)
(see procedure in clause 4.2.6.1 of [4]).
3\. EM sends a _notifyAttributeValueChange_ [6] to NM to indicate the MO
attribute(s) value has been changed..
**Figure 4.6-1: Enabling/disabling the auto-scaling initiated through Itf-N**
## 4.7 VNF instance information synchronization
Figure 4.7-1 depicts the procedure of VNF instance information synchronization
from MANO side to 3GPP side.
1\. VNFM notifies EM with VnfLifecycleChangeNotification or
VnfInfoAttributeValueChangeNotification (see clause 7.3.3 of [3]).
2\. EM sends _QueryVnfRequest_ to VNFM with filter and attributeSelector to
query the VNF instance information (see clause 7.2.9 [3]).
3\. VNFM sends _QueryVnfResponse_ to EM with vnfInfo (see clause 9.4.2 of
[3]).
4\. If the attribute values on EM do not match those of the current VnfInfo,
EM updates these values.
5\. IPRAgent notifies IPRManager about the attribute value changes.
{width="4.603472222222222in" height="2.7395833333333335in"}
**Figure 4.7-1: VNF instance information synchronization**
#