# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
TS 28.510: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements
TS 28.511: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Procedures
**TS 28.512: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 2**
TS 28.513: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 3
# 1 Scope
The present document is Configuration Management stage 2 specification for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions which can be part
of EPC or IMS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM); Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.708: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC);
Network Resource Model (NRM); Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.705: \"Telecommunication management; IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS); Network Resource Model (NRM); Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (I S)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Management concept,,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) \".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [7] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [7].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [7] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [7].
# 4 Information Model Definition
## 4.1 Itf-N
For Itf-N configuration management of virtualized network functions which can
be part of EPC or IMS, the IOCs defined in3GPP TS 28.622 [4], 28.708[5] and
28.705[6] shall be reused.
In 3GPP TS 28.622 [4], a new attribute vnfParametersList is added in the IOC
_ManagedFunction_ (see clause 4.3.4 in [4]) to support the configuration
management of virtualized network functions which can be part of EPC or IMS.
# 5 Interface Definition
## 5.1 Itf-N
For Itf-N configuration management of virtualized network functions which can
be part of EPC or IMS, the operations defined in 3GPP TS 32.602 [2] and TS
32.612 [8] and notifications defined in 3GPP TS 32.662 [3] shall be reused.
## 5.2 CM interface over Os-Ma-nfvo
None.
## 5.3 CM interface over Ve-Vnfm-em
None.
## 5.4 CM interface over Ve-Vnfm-vnf
None.
#