# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
TS 28.525: Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management (LCM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements.
TS 28.526: Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management (LCM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Procedures.
**TS 28.527: Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management (LCM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 2.**
TS 28.528: Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management (LCM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 3.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Life Cycle Management (LCM) stage 2 specification
for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions, which can be
part of EPC or IMS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Concept, architecture and
requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions\".
[3] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 (V2.1.1): \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm reference point -- Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[4] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 (V2.1.1): \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo reference point -- Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 28.500 [2] and the following apply. A term defined
in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 28.500 [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [2].
# 4 Information model definition
## 4.1 Os-Ma-nfvo
For Os-Ma-nfvo NS lifecycle management (LCM) and VNF lifecycle as part of NS
LCM, the information elements and notifications related to NS lifecycle
management which are specified in clause 8.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [4] shall
be used.
## 4.2 Ve-Vnfm-em
For Ve-Vnfm-em VNF lifecycle management, the following shall be used:
\- the information elements related to VNF lifecycle management which are
specified in clause 9.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [3],
\- the information elements and notifications related to VNF lifecycle changes
which are specified in clause 9.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [3], and
\- the information elements and notifications related to multiple interfaces
which are specified in clause 9.8 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [3].
# 5 Interface definitions
## 5.1 Os-Ma-nfvo
For NS lifecycle management the operations of the NS Lifecycle Management
interface specified in clause 7.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [4] shall be used.
For NS lifecycle change notifications and notification subscription
management, the operations of the NS Lifecycle Change Notification interface
specified in clause 7.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [4] shall be used.
## 5.2 Ve-Vnfm-em
For VNF lifecycle management the operations of the VNF Lifecycle Management
interface specified in clause 7.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [3] shall be used.
For VNF lifecycle change notifications and notification subscription
management, the operations of the VNF Lifecycle Change Notification interface
specified in clause 7.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [3] shall be used.
#