# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
> TS 28.520: Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) for
> mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements.
>
> TS 28.521: Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) for
> mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Procedures.
>
> **TS 28.522: Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) for
> mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 2.**
>
> TS 28.523: Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) for
> mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 3.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Performance Management stage 2 specification for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions, which can be part
of EPC or IMS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.412: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.520: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[4] ETSI GS NFV IFA 008 V2.1.1 (2016-10): \"Network Functions Virtualisation
(NFV); Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm reference point -- Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Management concept,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1], in 3GPP TS 28.500 [3] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [3].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], in 3GPP TS 28.500 [3] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [3].
# 4 General descriptions
For the stage 2 solution of Performance Management for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions over Itf-N, the PM IRP IS (TS 32.412
[2]) is applicable. For the purpose of notification, Notification IRP [6] is
needed.
# 5 Information Model Definition
## 5.1 Itf-N
For Performance Management for 3GPP Network Function over Itf-N, the IOCs
defined by PM IRP specified in clause 6 of 3GPP TS 32.412 [2] are reused.
## 5.2 Os-Ma-nfvo
None.
## 5.3 Ve-Vnfm-em
For Ve-Vnfm-em Performance Management, the information elements and
notifications which are specified in subclause 9.7 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [4]
for VNF Performance Management shall be used.
## 5.4 Ve-Vnfm-vnf
None
# 6 Interface Definition
## 6.1 Itf-N
For the stage 2 solution of Performance Management for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions over Itf-N, the operations and
notifications defined by PM IRP specified in 3GPP TS 32.412 [2] are reused.
## 6.2 Os-Ma-nfvo
None.
## 6.3 Ve-Vnfm-em
For Ve-Vnfm-em performance management, the operations defined in clause 7.4 of
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [4] for VNF Performance Management interface shall be
used, and the information elements and notifications which are specified in
subclause 9.7 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [4] for VNF performance management shall
be used.
## 6.4 Ve-Vnfm-vnf
None.
#