# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
**TS 28.520: Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements**
TS 28.521: Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Procedures
TS 28.522: Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 2
TS 28.523: Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 3
# 1 Scope
The present document (together with the relevant requirements described in
[2], [3], [4], [5] and [6]) specifies the requirements applicable to
Performance Management (PM) of mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions which can be part of EPC or IMS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.411: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Management concept,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.426: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Evolved Packet Core (EPC) network\".
[8] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 006 (V2.1.0): \"Network Function Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Vi-Vnfm Reference Point - Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.412: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[10] ETSI GS NFV-IFA008 (V2.1.1): \"Network Function Virtualization (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm Reference Point - Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.521: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Procedures\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.522: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.522: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] ], 3GPP TS 28.500 [4], and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 28.500 [4], and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [4].
NF Network Function
NFVI NFV Infrastructure
VNFC Virtualized Network Function Component
VR Virtualized Resource
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Overview
The evaluation of PLMN-system behaviour will require performance data
collected and recorded by VNF(s) according to a schedule established by the EM
[2]. However, not all of these measurements will be required all the time, or
from every VNF. Therefore, it is necessary to administer the measurements so
as to determine which measurement types, on which measured resources, at which
times, are to be executed (see TS 32.401 [2]).
The essence of NFV is to migrate the execution of network functions from
vertically integrated hardware to the industry standard COTS (commercial of-
the-shelf) servers in the data centre. Performance measurements that are
independent of the migration (e.g. handover, tracking area update ... related
measurements [7]) are not impacted. Therefore, these performance measurements
can be reused.
Other performance measurement that are to measure the hardware usages (e.g.
MME Processor usage [7]) are impacted by the Virtualized Resource (VR)
performance measurements.
## 4.2 Performance measurement data collection methods
Figure 4.2-1 shows the PM data collection methods for virtualized networks.
When it is necessary to collect the PM data (i.e. PM data related to 3GPP
Network Function and 3GPP NF PM data related to VR), NM needs to create a PM
collection task at EM. So EM knows the measurement types, the measured
resources, the recording periods and collection times wanted (see TS 32.401
[2]).
For PM data related to 3GPP Network Function collection, EM will request
VNF(s) to collect the PM data related to 3GPP Network Function as specified by
NM.
For VNF PM data related to VR collection, EM will create a PM collection task
at VNFM to collect VNF/VNFC PM data related to VR, based on the information
provided by NM, so VNFM knows the measurement types, the measured resources,
the recording periods, and collection times wanted. Then, VNFM will create a
PM collection task at VIM, based on the information provided by EM (see clause
7.7.2 [8]). VIM will request NFVI to collect the VR PM data as specified by
VNFM.
The various PM data collected are stored in data repositories. Data stored in
data repositories may be fetched by NM (or any authorized user).
Figure 4.2-1: PM data collection methods for virtualized networks
# 5 Business level requirements
None.
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Introduction
Note: The UCs/Requirements/Procedures/solutions defined in the present
document, TS 28.521 [11], TS 28.522 [12] and TS 28.523 [13] are focused only
on the protocol design/sequences that occur between systems and are not on the
method/algorithm for mapping/processing/conversion of the performance metric
types produced by VNFM/VIM to "3GPP NF performance measurements related to
VR".
## 6.2 Requirements
### 6.2.1 Requirements for Itf-N
**REQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-1** IRPAgent should have the capability to send 3GPP NF
performance alarms related VR to IRPManager.
**REQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-2** IRPAgent should have the capability allowing
IRPManager to create measurement job for collecting the 3GPP NF performance
measurements related to VR.
**REQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-3** IRPAgent should have the capability to send the VNF
PM data related to VR available notification to the IRPManager.
**REQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-4** IRPAgent should have the capability allowing
IRPManager to create a threshold for the 3GPP NF performance measurements
related to VR.
**REQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-5** IRPAgent should have the capability allowing
IRPManager to delete a threshold for the 3GPP NF performance measurements
related to VR.
**REQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-6** IRPAgent should have the capability allowing
IRPManager to list the detailed information of a threshold for the 3GPP NF
performance measurements related to VR.
**REQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-7** IRPAgent should have the capability allowing
IRPmanager to suspend a measurement job for 3GPP NF performance measurements
related to VR (see 3GPP TS 32.411 [3]).
**REQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-8** IRPAgent should have the capability allowing
IRPManager to resume a measurement job for 3GPP NF performance measurements
related to VR (see 3GPP TS 32.411 [3])
### 6.2.2 Requirements for Os-Ma-nfvo
None.
### 6.2.3 Requirements for Ve-Vnfm-em
**REQ- NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em -FUN-1** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall have
the capability allowing VNFM to receive request to collect the VNF/VNFC
performance measurement related to VR identified with the VNF/VNFC identifier
(see Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfPm.01 in clause 5.2.1.6 in [10]).
**REQ- NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em -FUN-2** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall have
the capability allowing VNFM to make the VNF/VNFC performance measurements
related VR available with the VNF/VNFC identifier (see Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfPm.01 in
clause 5.2.1.6 in [10]).
**REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-3** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support a
capability allowing EM to subscribe for the notifications on the availability
of the VNF/VNFC performance measurements related to VR (see Ve-Vnfm-
em.VnfPm.05 in [10]).
**REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-4** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall have the
capability allowing EM to create a PM job to collect the VNF/VNFC performance
measurements related to VR (see Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfPm.02 in [10]).
**REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-5** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall have the
capability allowing EM to delete one or more PM job(s) (see Ve-Vnfm-
em.VnfPm.03 in [10]).
**REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-6** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support a
capability allowing EM to subscribe for the notifications related to VNF/VNFC
threshold crossing alarms (see Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfPm.09 in [10]).
**REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-7** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support a
capability allowing EM to unsubscribe the notifications related to VNF/VNFC
performance measurement related to VR.
**REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-8** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall have the
capability allowing EM to query the details of one or more PM job(s) (see Ve-
Vnfm-em.VnfPm.05 in [10]).
**REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-9** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall have the
capability allowing VNFM to notify EM about the availability of VNF/VNFC
performance information related to VR (see Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfPm.02 in [10]).
**REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-10** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall have the
capability allowing VNFM to notify EM about a threshold crossing being
detected for a VNF/VNFC performance measurement related to VR (see Ve-Vnfm-
em.VnfPm.08 in [10]).
**REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-11** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall have the
capability allowing EM to create, delete, and query the thresholds on VNF/VNFC
performance information related to VR (see Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfPm.07 in [10].
### 6.2.4 Requirements for Ve-Vnfm-vnf
None.
## 6.3 Actor roles
See detailed actors and roles for each use case in clause 6.5.
## 6.4 Telecommunications resources
See detailed telecommunication resources for each use case in clause 6.5.
## 6.5 Use cases
### 6.5.1 Measurement job operations
#### 6.5.1.1 Measurement job creation for 3GPP NF performance measurements
related to VR
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable NM to know whether the 3GPP NF performance issue (if any) is
caused by resource shortage.
**Actors and Roles** NM.
**Telecom resources** NM, EM, VNFM
**Assumptions** The VNF instance is in operation.
**Pre-conditions**
**Begins when** NM decides to create a measurement job to collect the 3GPP NF
performance measurements related to VR.
**Step 1 (M)** NM sends a request to EM to create a measurement job for 3GPP
NF performance measurements related to VR (see clause 7.3.1 [9])
**Step 2 (M)** EM sends request(s) to VNFM to create the PM job(s) for
VNF/VNFC performance measurements, based on the information provided by NM
(see clause 7.4.2 [10]), if the measurement job requested by step 1 cannot be
supported by the existing PM jobs of VNFM.
**Step 3 (M)** VNFM sends response(s) to EM with the identifier of the PM
job(s) to indicate that the PM job(s) have been created successfully (see
clause 7.4.2 [10]).
**Step 4 (M)** EM sends a response to NM to indicate the result of the
measurement job creation (see clause 7.3.1.3 [9]).
**Ends when (*)** NM receives the response.
**Exceptions**
**Post-conditions** NM is notified that the measurement job has been created.
**Traceability (*)** REQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-2, REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-4, REQ-
NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-2
* * *
#### 6.5.1.2 3GPP NF performance measurement related to VR job deletion
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable NM to stop a | | | | performance measurement | | | | job that was created to | | | | collect the 3GPP NF PM | | | | data related to VR. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM, EM, VNFM | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | The VNF instance is in | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | A performance | | | | measurement job for | | | | 3GPP NF PM data related | | | | to VR collection | | | | already exists. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | NM decides to stop the | | | | measurement job. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM sends a request to | | | | EM to stop a | | | | measurement job (see | | | | clause 7.3.2 [9]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (O)** | EM may send a request | | | | to VNFM to delete the | | | | correspondibg PM | | | | job(s), with a PM job | | | | identifier, that were | | | | used to support the | | | | measurement job of step | | | | 1 (see clause 7.4.3 | | | | [10]). | | | | | | | | It is up to EM to | | | | decide whether to | | | | delete the | | | | above-mentioned PM jobs | | | | through VNFM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (O)** | VNFM sends a response | | | | to EM with the | | | | identifier of the PM | | | | job being deleted (see | | | | clause 7.4.3 [10]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | EM sends a response to | | | | NM to indicate the | | | | result of PM job | | | | deletion (see clause | | | | 7.3.2.3 [9]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when (*)** | NM receives the | | | | response. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | No PM data can be | | | | collected. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability (*)** | REQ-NFV | | | | _PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-5, | | | | REQ-NF | | | | V_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-2 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.5.1.3 Measurement job suspension for 3GPP NF performance measurements
related to VR
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable NM to suspend a | | | | measurement job that is | | | | collecting the 3GPP NF | | | | performance | | | | measurements related to | | | | VR. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM, EM, VNFM | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | The VNF instance is in | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | A measurement job | | | | exists for collecting | | | | the 3GPP NF performance | | | | measurements related to | | | | VR. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | NM decides to suspend | | | | the measurement job. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM sends a request to | | | | EM with the jobId to | | | | suspend a measurement | | | | job (see clause 7.3.3 | | | | [9]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | EM stops the reporting | | | | of the measurement | | | | result data for the | | | | measurement job | | | | identified by the | | | | jobId. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (O)** | EM may send a request | | | | to VNFM to delete the | | | | PM job(s), identified | | | | by the pmJobId that | | | | were used to support | | | | the measurement job | | | | identified by the | | | | jobId. | | | | | | | | It is up to EM to | | | | decide whether to | | | | delete the | | | | above-mentioned PM jobs | | | | through VNFM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (O)** | VNFM sends a response | | | | to EM with the | | | | identifier of the | | | | performance job being | | | | deleted. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | EM sends a response to | | | | NM to indicate the | | | | result of measurement | | | | job suspension (see | | | | clause 7.3.3.3 [9]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when (*)** | NM receives the | | | | response. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The measurement job is | | | | suspended. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability (*)** | RE | | | | Q-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-7, | | | | REQ-NFV | | | | _PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-6, | | | | REQ-NF | | | | V_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-2 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.5.1.4 Measurement job resumption for 3GPP NF performance measurements
related to VR
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable NM to resume a | | | | suspended measurement | | | | job for 3GPP NF | | | | performance | | | | measurements related to | | | | VR. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM, EM, VNFM | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | The VNF instance is in | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | EM supports the | | | | Optional operation | | | | suspend. | | | | | | | | A measurement job for | | | | 3GPP NF performance | | | | measurements related to | | | | VR has been suspended. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | NM decides to resume | | | | the suspended | | | | measurement job. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM sends a request to | | | | EM with the jobId to | | | | resume a suspended | | | | measurement job (see | | | | clause 7.3.4 [9]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (CM)** | If the PM jobs used to | | | | support the measurement | | | | job identified by the | | | | jobId do not exist | | | | anymore, EM sends a | | | | request to VNFM to | | | | create the PM job(s). | | | | | | | | The condition of the | | | | support qualifier is: | | | | the PM jobs used to | | | | support the measurement | | | | job identified by the | | | | jobId do not exist | | | | anymore. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (CM)** | VNFM sends a response | | | | to EM with the | | | | identifier of the PM | | | | job(s) being created. | | | | | | | | The condition of the | | | | support qualifier is: | | | | step 2 has been | | | | executed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | EM sends a response to | | | | NM to indicate the | | | | measureemnt job has | | | | been resumed (see | | | | clause 7.3.4.3 [9]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when (*)** | NM receives the | | | | response. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The measurement job is | | | | resumed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability (*)** | RE | | | | Q-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-8, | | | | REQ-NFV | | | | _PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-7, | | | | REQ-NF | | | | V_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-2 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.5.1.5 3GPP NF performance measurement related to VR job listing
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable EM to list the information of all or a set of specified
current performance measurement job.
**Actors and Roles** EM.
**Telecom resources** EM, VNFM
**Assumptions** The VNF instance is in operation.
**Pre-conditions** One or more performance measurement jobs for VNF PM data
related to VR collection already exist
**Begins when** EM decides to get the list of the measurement jobs.
**Step 1 (M)** EM sends a request to VNFM to list the measurement jobs with
the query criteria (see clause 7.4.6 [10]).
**Step 2 (M)** VNFM sends a response to EM with the detailed information of
the PM job in the list (see clause 7.4.6 [10]).
**Ends when (*)** EM receives the response.
**Exceptions**
**Post-conditions** PM job information is available.
**Traceability (*)** REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-8
* * *
### 6.5.2 Threshold monitoring operations
#### 6.5.2.1 Threshold creation for monitoring 3GPP NF performance measurement
related to VR
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable NM to create a threshold to monitor the 3GPP NF performance
measurement related to VR that may or may not be defined in a measurement job.
**Actors and Roles** NM.
**Telecom resources** NM, EM, VNFM
**Assumptions** The VNF instance is in operation.
**Pre-conditions** EM supports the optional PMIRPOperations_2 Interface (see
clause 7.4 of 3GPP PM IRP [9]).
**Begins when** NM decides to create a threshold to monitor the 3GPP NF
performance measurement related VR.
**Step 1 (M)** NM sends a request to EM to create a threshold (see clause
7.4.1 [9]) to monitor the 3GPP NF performance measurement related to VR.
**Step 2 (O)** EM sends a request to VNFM to create a threshold to monitor the
VNF/VNFC performance measurement related to VR (see clause 7.4.7 [10]), if the
threshold requested by step 1 cannot be supported by the existing threshold(s)
of VNFM..
**Step 3 (O)** VNFM sends a response to EM with the identifiers of the
thresholds being created (see clause 7.4.7 [10]).
**Step 4 (M)** EM sends a response to NM to indicate the result of the
threshold creation (see clause 7.4.1.3 [9]).
**Ends when (*)** NM receives the response.
**Exceptions**
**Post-conditions** The threshold is created to monitor the 3GPP NF PM data
related to VR.
**Traceability (*)** REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-11, REQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-4
* * *
#### 6.5.2.2 Threshold deletion for monitoring 3GPP NF performance measurement
related to VR
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable NM to delete a | | | | threshold that has been | | | | created to monitor the | | | | 3GPP NF performance | | | | measurement related to | | | | VR. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM, EM, VNFM | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | The VNF instance is in | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The threshold to | | | | monitor the 3GPP NF | | | | performance measurement | | | | related to VR already | | | | exists. | | | | | | | | EM supports the | | | | optional | | | | PMIRPOperations_2 | | | | Interface (see clause | | | | 7.4 of 3GPP PM IRP | | | | [9]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | NM decides to delete a | | | | threshold. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM sends a request to | | | | EM to delete a | | | | threshold (see clause | | | | 7.4.2 [9]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (O)** | EM may send a request | | | | to VNFM to delete the | | | | threshold(s) that were | | | | used to support the | | | | threshold of step 1 | | | | (see clause 7.4.8 | | | | [10]). | | | | | | | | It is up to EM to | | | | decide whether to | | | | delete the | | | | above-mentioned | | | | threshold(s) through | | | | VNFM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (O)** | VNFM sends a response | | | | to EM with the | | | | identifier of the | | | | threshold(s) being | | | | deleted (see clause | | | | 7.4.8 [10]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | EM sends a response to | | | | NM to indicate the | | | | result of threshold | | | | deletion (see clause | | | | 7.4.1.3 [9]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when (*)** | NM receives the | | | | response. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The PM data threshold | | | | monitoring is not | | | | available to NM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability (*)** | REQ-NFV\ | | | | _PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-11, | | | | R | | | | EQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-5 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.5.2.3 Threshold listing for monitoring VNF performance measurement
related to VR
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable EM to list the detailed information of thresholds that are
used to monitor the VNF performance measurement related to VR
**Actors and Roles** EM.
**Telecom resources** EM, VNFM
**Assumptions** The VNF instance is in operation.
**Pre-conditions** EM supports the optional PMIRPOperations_2 Interface (see
clause 7.4 of 3GPP PM IRP [9]).
**Begins when** EM needs to know the detailed information of thresholds being
created.
**Step 1 (M)** EM sends a request to VNFM to list the thresholds that are
identified by a list of threshold identifiers(see clause 7.4.9 [10]),
**Step 2 (M)** VNFM sends a response to EM with the details of thresholds (see
clause 7.4.9 [10]).
**Ends when (*)** EM receives the response.
**Exceptions**
**Post-conditions** The PM threshold information is available to EM.
**Traceability (*)** REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-11
* * *
### 6.5.3 Performance measurement notifications
#### 6.5.3.1 3GPP NF performance measurements related to VR available
notification
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable NM to be notified when the 3GPP NF performance measurement
related to VR file(s) are available.
**Actors and Roles** NM.
**Telecom resources** NM, EM
**Assumptions**
**Pre-conditions** VNFM/VIM have been set up to collect 3GPP NF performance
measurement related to VR.
**Begins when** The 3GPP NF performance measurements related to VR for a VNF,
are available at EM.
**Step 1 (M)** EM notifies NM the availability of the 3GPP NF performance
measurements related to VR files for a particular VNF (see clause 8.1 [9]).
**Ends when (*)** NM receives the notification.
**Exceptions**
**Post-conditions** The NM is notified.
**Traceability (*)** REQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-3
* * *
#### 6.5.3.2 Performance alarm for 3GPP NF performance measurement related to
VR
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable EM to send performance alarm to NM.
**Actors and Roles** NM.
**Telecom resources** NM, EM
**Assumptions** NM is a subscriber for receiving alarm notification from EM.
**Pre-conditions** Threshold has been created to monitor the 3GPP NF
performance measurement related to VR.
**Begins when** EM detects that the VNF/VNFC performance measurements related
to VR has crossed the threshold.
**Step 1 (M)** EM determines to generate a performance alarm, by adding the
3GPP NF related VR performance alarm into its Alarm List, and sending a 3GPP
NF related VR performance alarm to NM.
**Ends when (*)** NM receives the performance alarm.
**Exceptions**
**Post-conditions** NM is notified.
**Traceability (*)** REQ-NFV_PM_Itf-N-FUN-1
* * *
#### 6.5.3.3 VNF performance measurements related to VR available notification
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable EM to be notified when the 3GPP NF performance measurement
related to VR file(s) are available.
**Actors and Roles** EM.
**Telecom resources** EM, VNFM, VIM
**Assumptions**
**Pre-conditions** VNFM/VIM have been set up to collect 3GPP NF performance
measurement related to VR.
**Begins when** The 3GPP NF performance measurements related to VR for a VNF,
are available at VNFM.
**Step 1 (M)** VNFM notifies EM the availability of the VNF/VNFC performance
measurements related to VR files for a particular VNF/VNFC identified by the
object instance ID (see clause 7.4.5 [10]).
**Ends when (*)** EM receives the notification.
**Exceptions**
**Post-conditions** The EM is notified.
**Traceability (*)** REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-9, REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-4
* * *
#### 6.5.3.4 VNF performance measurement related to VR threshold crossing
notification
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable EM to receive the threshold crossing notification of VNF
performance measurement related to VR from VNFM.
**Actors and Roles** EM.
**Telecom resources** EM, VNFM, VIM
**Assumptions** EM is a subscriber for receiving threshold crossing
notification from VNFM.
**Pre-conditions** Threshold has been created to monitor the VNF/VNFC
performance measurement related to VR.
**Begins when** VNFM detects that the VNF/VNFC performance measurements
related to VR has crossed the threshold.
**Step 1 (M)** VNFM notifies EM that a threshold has been crossed on a
VNF/VNFC PM data related to VR performance measurement (see clause 7.4.5
[10]).
**Ends when (*)** EM receives the performance alarm.
**Exceptions**
**Post-conditions** EM is notified.
**Traceability (*)** REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-10, REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-4
* * *
### 6.5.4 Subscription operations
#### 6.5.4.1 EM subscribe the notification for VNF performance measurement
related to VR
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable EM to subscribe the notification for the VNF performance
measurement related to VR.
**Actors and Roles** EM.
**Telecom resources** EM, VNFM
**Assumptions**
**Pre-conditions**
**Begins when** EM decides to subscribe the VNF performance measurement
related to VR.
**Step 1 (M)** EM sends a request to VNFM to subscribe the VNF related VR
performance measurements (see clause 7.4.4 [10]).
**Step 2 (M)** VNFM sends a response to EM with the identifiers of the
subscription (see clause 7.4.4 [10]).
**Ends when (*)** EM receives the response.
**Exceptions**
**Post-conditions** EM has subscribed the notification of the VNF performance
measurement related to VR.
**Traceability (*)** REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em -FUN-3, REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em
-FUN-6
* * *
#### 6.5.4.2 EM unsubscribe the notification for VNF performance measurement
related to VR
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable EM to unsubscribe the notification for the VNF performance
measurement related to VR.
**Actors and Roles** EM.
**Telecom resources** EM, VNFM
**Assumptions** The VNF instance is in operation.
**Pre-conditions**
**Begins when** EM decides to unsubscribe the VNF performance measurement
related to VR.
**Step 1 (M)** EM sends a request to VNFM with the identifier of subscription
to unsubscribe the VNF performance measurement related to VR.
**Step 2 (M)** VNFM sends a response to EM with the identifiers of the un-
subscription that has been unsubscribed.
**Ends when (*)** EM receives the response.
**Exceptions**
**Post-conditions** EM has unsubscribed the notification of the VNF
performance measurement related to VR.
**Traceability (*)** REQ-NFV_PM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-7
* * *
#