# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**28.621: Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Requirements**
28.622: Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (IS)
28.623: Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in [1],
[2] and [3], the requirements for the present IRP: Generic Network Resource
Model IRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Element Manager (EM):** provides a package of end-user functions for
management of a set of closely related types of Network Elements (NEs). These
functions can be divided into two main categories:
_\- Element Management Functions_ for management of NEs on an individual
basis. These are basically the same functions as supported by the
corresponding local terminals.
_\- Sub-Network Management Functions_ that are related to a network model for
a set of NEs constituting a clearly defined sub-network, which may include
relations between the NEs. This model enables additional functions on the sub-
network level (typically in the areas of network topology presentation, alarm
correlation, service impact analysis and circuit provisioning).
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRP Information Service:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRP Solution Set:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**Information Object Class (IOC):** See 3GPP TS 28.622 [8] clause 3.1
Information Object Class (IOC).
**Network Element (NE):** is a discrete telecommunications entity, which can
be, managed over a specific interface e.g. the RNC.
**Network Resource (NR):** is a component of a NE, which can be identified as
a discrete separate entity and is in an object oriented environment for the
purpose of management represented by an abstract entity called Information
Object Class (IOC) instance.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CN Core Network
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
IRP Integration Reference Point
IOC Information Object Class
IS Information Service (see [1])
NRM Network Resource Model
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN **U** niversal **T** errestrial **R** adio **A** ccess **N** etwork
# 4 Requirements
The following general and high-level requirements apply for the present IRP:
a) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
b) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
c) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
In addition, the NRM defined by this IRP:
1) Shall be generic, i.e. not contain any domain specific definitions such as
UTRAN or CN entities. Examples of generic entities are: High-level IOCs for
containment of other more domain-specific IOCs, and abstract IOCs for sub-
classing by other more domain-specific IOCs.
2) Shall support management of UMTS-GSM Inter-system handover.
3) Shall support communications for telecommunication network management
purposes, including management of converged networks.
4) Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [6] and its
information is derived from FNIM Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [7].
5) Shall support management of networks that include virtualized network
functions.
#