# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.654: GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network (GERAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
**28.655: GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network (GERAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)**
28.656: GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network (GERAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the GERAN Network Resource Model (NRM) that can
be communicated between an IRPAgent and IRPManagers for telecommunication
network management purposes, including management of converged networks.
This document specifies the semantics and behaviour of class attributes and
relations visible across the reference point in a protocol and technology
neutral way. It does not define their syntax and encoding.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control (RRC) protocol\".
[5] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[6] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, Addressing and Identification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.652: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.658: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM);
Part 2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.662: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Radio Access
Network (RAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS) \".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM; Information service (IS)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 28.625: \"Telecommunication Management; State Management Data
Definition Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [14].
**Association** : See definition in TS 28.622 [16].
**Managed Element (ME)** : See definition in TS 28.622 [16].
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : See definition in TS 28.622 [16].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
EM Element Manager
GERAN GSM-EDGE Radio Access Network
GPRS General Packet Radio System
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
ME Managed Element
NE Network Element
NR Neighbour cell Relation
NRM Network Resource Model
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
RNC Radio Network Controller
UML Unified Modelling Language
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [16], information object class,
ManagedElement ManagedElement 3GPP TS 28.622 [16], information object class,
ManagedFunction ManagedFunction 3GPP TS 28.622 [16], information object class,
SubNetwork SubNetwork 3GPP TS 28.622 [16], information object class, Top Top
3GPP TS 28.622 [16], information object class, VsDataContainer VsDataContainer
3GPP TS 28.652 [9], information object class, UTRANRelation UTRANRelation 3GPP
TS 28.658 [10], information object class, EUTRANRelation EUTRANRelation **3GPP
TS 28.625 [18],** attribute, operationalState operationalState
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes that encapsulate information relevant
for this service. This clause provides the overview of all classes in UML.
Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects of
these classes.
The figures below show the containment/naming hierarchy and the associations
of the GERAN NRM.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="4.4375in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady-
state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion scenarios.
NOTE 2: The ExternalBSSFunction is used in the Core Network NRM.
Figure 4.2.1-1: GERAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram
Each Managed Object is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to
3GPP TS 32.300 [13] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example,
the DN of an IOC representing a cell could have a format like:
> SubNetwork =Sweden, MeContext =MEC-Gbg-1, ManagedElement =RNC-Gbg-1,
> BSSFunction=BSS1.
{width="5.770833333333333in" height="1.2604166666666667in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady-
state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion scenarios.
NOTE 2: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs.
Figure 4.2.1-2: GERAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram
The VsDataContainer is only used for the Bulk CM IRP.
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
Figure 4.2.2-1 shows the inheritance hierarchy for the GERAN NRM.
{width="6.69375in" height="2.9256944444444444in"}
Figure 4.2.2-1: GERAN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 BSSFunction
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents BSS functionality. For more information about the BSS, see
Ref 3GPP TS 23.002 [7].
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
None.
#### Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.2 BTSSiteMgr
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC contains site specific information for a BTS site.
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | Support | is | is | isI | isNo | | ttribute | Q | Readable | Writable | nvariant | tifyable | | name | ualifier | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | latitude | O | M | M | - | O | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | l | O | M | M | - | O | | ongitude | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | operatio | CM | M | - | - | M (see | | nalState | | | | | NOTE 2) | | (see | | | | | | | NOTE 1) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | No state | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | pagation | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | implied. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 2: The | | | | | | | > a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | > value | | | | | | | > change | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | conveyed | | | | | | | > by the | | | | | | | > n | | | | | | | otifySta | | | | | | | teChange | | | | | | | > notif | | | | | | | ication. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 4.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition operationalState CM support qualifier The State Management IRP
is supported.
* * *
#### 4.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC In
addition, the following set of notification, defined in 3GPP TS 32.662 [17],
is also valid.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyStateChange O
* * *
### 4.3.3 GSMCell
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents the GSM radio cell. The applicability of instantiation of
this class is depending on the ME type. It may only be instantiated under ME
of type BSC.
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable cellIdentity M M M - M cellAllocation M M M - M ncc M M M - M bcc
M M M - M lac M M M - M mcc M M M - M mnc M M M - M rac CM M M - M racc CM M M
- M tsc CM M M - M rxLevAccessMin M M M - M msTxPwrMaxCCH M M M - M
rfHoppingEnabled M M M - M hoppingSequenceList M M M - M plmnPermitted M M M -
M
* * *
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition rac CM support qualifier GPRS is supported in the cell. racc
CM support qualifier GPRS is supported in the cell. tsc CM support qualifier
RET, TMA etc. are not modelled according to Ref 3GPP TS 28.662 [12].
* * *
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.4 GSMRelation
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC contains a Neighbour cell Relation (NR) from a source cell to a
target cell, where the target cell is a GSMCell or ExternalGSMCell instance.
NOTE: In handover relation terms, the cell containing the GSMRelation object
is the source cell for the handover. The cell referred to in the GSMRelation
object is the target cell for the handover. This defines a one-way handover
relation where the direction is _from_ source cell _to_ target cell.
The source cell can be a GSMCell instance. This is the case for an Intra-GERAN
NR.
The source cell can be a UTRANGenericCell instance. This is the case for
Inter-RAT NR from UTRAN to GERAN. See 3GPP TS 28.652 [9].
The source cell can be an EUTRANGenericCell instance. This is the case for
Inter-RAT NR from E-UTRAN to GERAN. See 3GPP TS 28.658 [10].
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable bcchFrequency CM M - - M ncc CM M - - M bcc CM M - - M lac CM M -
- M isHOAllowed CM M M - M isRemoveAllowed CM M M - M isESCoveredBy CM M M - M
**Attribute related to role**  
adjacentCell CM M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bcchFrequency CM support | The EM does not guarantee | | qualifier | consistency between the cell | | | definition and what is broadcast | | | on system information and RET, | | | TMA etc. are not modelled | | | according to Ref 3GPP TS 28.662 | | | [12]. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ncc CM support qualifier | The EM does not guarantee | | | consistency between the cell | | | definition and what is broadcast | | | on system information. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bcc CM support qualifier | The EM does not guarantee | | | consistency between the cell | | | definition and what is broadcast | | | on system information. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | lac CM support qualifier | The EM does not guarantee | | | consistency between the cell | | | definition and what is broadcast | | | on system information. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | isRemoveAllowed Support | The condition is \"Inter-RAT ANR | | Qualifier | function is supported in the | | | source cell, and the source cell | | | is an EUTRANGenericCell or a | | | UTRANGenericCell \". | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | isHOAllowed Support Qualifier | The condition is \"Inter-RAT ANR | | | function is supported in the | | | source cell, and the source cell | | | is an EUTRANGenericCell or a | | | UTRANGenericCell \". | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | isESCoveredBy Support Qualifier | The condition is \"The source | | | cell is an E-UTRAN or UTRAN cell | | | which supports Inter-RAT Energy | | | Saving\". | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | adjacentCell Support Qualifier | The conditions are: | | | | | | > "The target cell and the | | | > serving cell (name-containing | | | > this GSMRelation) are managed | | | > by different IRPAgent" or "the | | | > target cell and the serving | | | > cell (name-containing this | | | > GSMRelation) are managed by | | | > the same IRPAgent". | | | | | | When former condition is true, | | | the role-attribute holds the DN | | | of an ExternalGSMCell instance. | | | When the latter condition is | | | true, the role-attribute holds | | | the DN of a GSMCell instance. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.5 ExternalGSMCell
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents a radio cell controlled by another IRPAgent. This IOC has
necessary attributes for inter-system handover. It contains a subset of the
attributes of related IOCs controlled by another IRPAgent. To maintain the
consistency between the attribute values of these two IOCs is outside the
scope of this document.
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable cellIdentity M M M - M bcchFrequency M M M - M ncc M M M - M bcc
M M M - M lac M M M - M mcc M M M - M mnc M M M - M rac CM M M - M racc CM M M
- M
* * *
#### 4.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition rac CM support qualifier GPRS is supported in the cell. racc
CM support qualifier GPRS is supported in the cell.
* * *
#### 4.3.5.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.6 ExternalBSSFunction
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents a BSSFunction controlled by another IRPAgent. It contains
a subset of the attributes of related IOCs controlled by another IRPAgent. To
maintain the consistency between the attribute values of these two IOCs is
outside the scope of the present document.
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.6.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the properties of attributes specified in the
present document.
Table 4.4.1: Attributes
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSMCell.bcc | Base station colour | type: Integer | | | code, BCC (part of | | | | BSIC). Ref | multiplicity: 1 | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | | | | [4]. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | See Ref | isUnique: N/A | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | | | | [4]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isNullable: False | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ExternalGSMCell.bcc | Base station colour | type: Integer | | | code, BCC (part of | | | | BSIC). Ref | multiplicity: 1 | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | | | | [4]. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | See Ref | isUnique: N/A | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | | | | [4]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isNullable: False | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSMRelation.bcc | Base station colour | type: Integer | | | code, BCC (part of | | | | BSIC. Ref | multiplicity: 1 | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | | | | [4]) for another | isOrdered: N/A | | | GSM cell or the | | | | external GSM cell, | isUnique: N/A | | | that is broadcast in | | | | System Information | defaultValue: None | | | in the Cell. | | | | | isNullable: False | | | See Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ExternalG | This attribute | type: Integer | | smCell.bcchFrequency | contains the | | | | absolute radio | multiplicity: 1 | | | frequency channel | | | | number of the BCCH | isOrdered: N/A | | | channel of the GSM | | | | cell. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSMRelati | This attribute | type: Integer | | on**.** bcchFrequency | contains the | | | | absolute radio | multiplicity: 1 | | | frequency channel | | | | number of the BCCH | isOrdered: N/A | | | channel of another | | | | GSM cell or the | isUnique: N/A | | | external GSM cell, | | | | that is broadcast in | defaultValue: None | | | System Information | | | | in the Cell. | isNullable: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellAllocation | This attribute | type: Integer | | | defines the set of | | | | radio frequencies | multiplicity: 0..* | | | allocated and | | | | available to a cell, | isOrdered: False | | | the first element | | | | sets the BCCH | isUnique: True | | | frequency, Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | defaultValue: None | | | [4]. | | | | | isNullable: False | | | See Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellIdentity | Cell Identity (Ref | type: Integer | | | 3GPP TS 24.008 | | | | [3]). | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | See Ref | isOrdered: N/A | | | 3GPP TS 24.008 | | | | [3]. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hoppingSequenceList | This attribute | type: | | | defines a sequence | \> | | | of structures. Each | | | | structure has two | multiplicity: 1 | | | elements. One | | | | element carries the | isOrdered: False | | | MA as defined in | | | | 44.018 [4] and the | isUnique: True | | | other element | | | | carries the HSN as | defaultValue: None | | | defined in 45.502 | | | | [6]. | isNullable: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isESCoveredBy | The value of the | type: ENUM | | | attribute is | | | | configured by the | multiplicity: 1 | | | IRPManager and is | | | | not changed by the | isOrdered: N/A | | | IRPAgent. It | | | | indicates whether | isUnique: N/A | | | the adjacentCell | | | | according to this | defaultValue: None | | | planning provides | | | | no, partial or full | isNullable: False | | | Inter-RAT coverage | | | | for the cell which | | | | name-contains the | | | | GSMRelation | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | Adjacent cells with | | | | this attribute equal | | | | to "yes" are | | | | recommended to be | | | | considered as | | | | candidate cells to | | | | take over the | | | | coverage when the | | | | original cell is | | | | about to be | | | | transferred to | | | | energySaving state. | | | | | | | | The entirety of | | | | adjacent cells with | | | | this property equal | | | | to "partial" are | | | | recommended to be | | | | considered as | | | | entirety of | | | | candidate cells to | | | | take over the | | | | coverage when the | | | | original cell is | | | | about to be | | | | transferred to | | | | energySaving state. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: No, | | | | partial, yes | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSMCell.lac | Location Area Code | type: Integer | | | (LAC). Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 24.008 | multiplicity: 1 | | | [3]. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | See Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 24.008 | isUnique: N/A | | | [3]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSMRelation.lac | Location Area Code, | type: Integer | | | LAC (Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 24.008 | multiplicity: 1 | | | [3]) for another | | | | GSM cell or the | isOrdered: N/A | | | external GSM cell, | | | | that is broadcast in | isUnique: N/A | | | System Information | | | | in the Cell. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | See Ref | isNullable: False | | | 3GPP TS 24.008 | | | | [3]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | latitude | The latitude of the | type: Integer | | | site manager | | | | location based on | multiplicity: 1 | | | World Geodetic | | | | System (1984 | isOrdered: N/A | | | version) global | | | | reference frame (WGS | isUnique: N/A | | | 84). Positive values | | | | correspond to the | defaultValue: None | | | northern hemisphere. | | | | | isNullable: False | | | allowedValues: | | | | -90.0000 to +90.0000 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | longitude | The longitude of the | type: Integer | | | site manager | | | | location based on | multiplicity: 1 | | | World Geodetic | | | | System (1984 | isOrdered: N/A | | | version) global | | | | reference frame (WGS | isUnique: N/A | | | 84). Positive values | | | | correspond to | defaultValue: None | | | degrees east of 0 | | | | degrees longitude. | isNullable: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | -180.0000 to | | | | +180.0000 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mcc | Mobile Country Code, | type: Integer | | | MCC (part of the | | | | PLMN Id, Ref. | multiplicity: 1 | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [8]). | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | See Ref | isUnique: N/A | | | 3GPP TS 24.008 | | | | [3]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mnc | Mobile Network Code, | type: Integer | | | MNC (part of the | | | | PLMN Id, Ref. | multiplicity: 1 | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [8]). | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | See Ref | isUnique: N/A | | | 3GPP TS 24.008 | | | | [3]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | msTxPwrMaxCCH | Maximum Transmission | type: Integer | | | Power for a Mobile | | | | Station on a CCH. | multiplicity: 1 | | | Attribute | | | | description Ref | isOrdered: N/A | | | 3GPP TS 45.008 [5] | | | | (M | isUnique: N/A | | | S_TXPWR_MAX_CCH). | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | See Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 45.008 | isNullable: False | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSMCell.ncc | Network Colour Code, | type: Integer | | | NCC (part of BSIC). | | | | Ref 3GPP TS 44.018 | multiplicity: 1 | | | [4]. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | See Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | isUnique: N/A | | | [4]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Ext | Network Colour Code, | type: Integer | | ernalGSMCell**.** ncc | NCC (part of BSIC. | | | | Ref 3GPP TS 44.018 | multiplicity: 1 | | | [4]) for another | | | | GSM cell or the | isOrdered: N/A | | | external GSM cell, | | | | that is broadcast in | isUnique: N/A | | | System Information | | | | in the Cell. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | See Ref | isNullable: False | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | plmnPermitted | Network Colour Code | type: Integer | | | Permitted. Attribute | | | | description | multiplicity: 1 | | | reference | | | | 3GPP TS 45.008 [5] | isOrdered: N/A | | | (NCC_PERMITTED). | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | See Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 45.008 | defaultValue: None | | | [5]. | | | | | isNullable: False | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rac | Routing Area Code, | type: Integer | | | RAC. Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | multiplicity: 1 | | | [4]. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | See Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | isUnique: N/A | | | [4]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | racc | Routing Area Colour | type: Integer | | | Code, RACC. Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | multiplicity: 1 | | | [4]. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | See Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | isUnique: N/A | | | [4]. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rfHoppingEnabled | Indicates if | type: Boolean | | | frequency hopping is | | | | enabled. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | Boolean value false | isOrdered: N/A | | | represents | | | | 'disabled'; true | isUnique: N/A | | | represents | | | | 'enabled'. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isNullable: False | | | False, True. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rxLevAccessMin | Minimum Access | type: Integer | | | Level. Attribute | | | | description Ref | multiplicity: 1 | | | 3GPP TS 45.008 [5] | | | | (RXLEV_ACCESS_MIN) | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | See Ref | isUnique: N/A | | | 3GPP TS 45.008 | | | | [5]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tsc | Training Sequence | type: Integer | | | Code, an attribute | | | | of the class channel | multiplicity: 1 | | | in Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | isOrdered: N/A | | | [4]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | See Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 | defaultValue: None | | | [4]. | | | | | isNullable: False | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isHOAllowed | This indicates if HO | type: Boolean | | | is allowed or | | | | prohibited. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | If true, handover is | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowed from source | | | | cell to target cell. | isUnique: N/A | | | The source cell is | | | | identified by the | defaultValue: None | | | name-containing | | | | UTRANGenericCell or | isNullable: False | | | EUTRANGenericCell of | | | | the GSMRelation that | | | | has the isHOAllowed. | | | | The target cell is | | | | referenced by the | | | | GSMRelation that has | | | | this isHOAllowed. | | | | | | | | If false, handover | | | | shall not be | | | | allowed. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | False, True. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isRemoveAllowed | This indicates if | type: Boolean | | | the subject | | | | GSMRelation can be | multiplicity: 1 | | | removed (deleted) or | | | | not. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | If true, the subject | isUnique: N/A | | | GSMRelation instance | | | | can be removed | defaultValue: None | | | (deleted). | | | | | isNullable: False | | | If false, the | | | | subject GSMRelation | | | | instance shall not | | | | be removed (deleted) | | | | by any entity but an | | | | IRPManager. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | False, True. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attribute related | | | | to role** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | adjacentCell | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | | GSMCell or | | | | ExternalGSMCell. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.4.2 Constraints
None.
## 4.5 Common notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in 3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11], that IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [15], would capture the
DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])
* * *
### Configuration notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in 3GPP TS 32.662 [17],
that IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [15], would capture the
DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
#