# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**28.667 Radio Planning Tool Access (RPTA) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements**
**28.668 Radio Planning Tool Access (RPTA) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)**
**28.669 Radio Planning Tool Access (RPTA) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Solution Set (SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the requirements of the Radio Planning Tool
Access (RPTA) Integration Reference Point (IRP). This IRP allows to read site
and antenna data from RPTs.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.501: \"Telecommunication management; Self-configuration of
network elements; Concepts and requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Radio Planning Tool:** The tool which is used for radio network planning,
where the planning process typically includes radio frequencies assigning,
sites and site locations determination, traffic planning, interference
analysis, and configuration parameters planning to provide sufficient coverage
and capacity for a radio network.
**Planned Data:** It is the data exposed by the RPT for read access by the NM.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
NMLS Network Management Layer Service
RPT Radio Planning Tool
RPTA Radio Planning Tool Access (RPTA)
SC Service Consumer
SP Service Provider
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 General
The initial planning of radio parameters is typically done with specialized
tools called Radio Planning Tools (RPTs). RPTs generate throughput and
capacity estimations as well as predictions for coverage and interference
maps. RPTs utilize site and antenna (equipment) information, as well as
geographic data (e.g. terrain data, type of land usage, building data and road
data). This data has to be entered into the tools.
In order to improve the initial network planning, planned site and antenna
data are adjusted until the estimated system performance meets the
requirements within the given deployment constraints.
Information about the sites and antennas is needed also by other applications,
like SON applications or CM applications on NM level. For this reason it is
beneficial if this data can be read via standardized interfaces.\ In contrast
to configuration information it is normally not possible to read this data
from the network elements.\ The only place where this data is available in
many deployment scenarios is in the RPT. Though this data represents initial
planning, site data and antenna data are not likely to be changed very often,
so that there is a fair chance that the data stored by the RPT represents also
the actual situation in the network.
For this reason it is beneficial to have a read access to site and antenna
data stored by the RPT.
It is to be noted that this TS series is only about the read access to site
and antenna data. It is not concerned with any other functionality the RPT
might have, nor with how the read data is used, nor if the read data
represents the actual information about the network or if the data is
outdated. Reading of site and antenna data stored by the RPT is hence the only
use case in scope.
## 4.2 Architecture
The RPT is a kind of NMLS (see TS 32.101 [2]).
### 4.3 Functionality
The RPT offers a capability allowing read access to site and antenna data. The
RPT is a Service Provider (SP) and the NM a Service Consumer (SC). The RPTA
IRP specifies the information model exposed by the RPT, and the operations to
access it.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
**REQ-RPT_NRM-CON-001:** The RPT shall support a capability allowing the NM to
retrieve planned data from the RPT.
## 5.2 Actor roles
The function at the NM requesting to read planned data from the RPT.
## 5.3 Telecommunications resources
**RPT** : The Radio Planning Tool storing the planned data and exposing it by
its Service Provider (SP) function.
**NM** : The Network Manager requesting the planned data by its Service
Consumer (SC) function.
**SP in the RPT** : The Service Provider (SP) in the RPT offering read access
to planned data in the RPT.
**SC in the NM** : The Service Consumer (SC) in the NM using services offered
by the RPT.
## 5.4 High-level use cases
### 5.4.1 Use Case: Read planned data from the RPT
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related | | | | | | | | use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | The NM reads planned | | | | data from the RPT. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | The function in the NM | | | | requesting to read | | | | planned data from the | | | | RPT. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | RPT, NM, SP in the RPT, | | | | SC in the NM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Connectivity exists | | | | between RPT SP and the | | | | NM SC, so that SP and | | | | SC can communicate. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The network is planned | | | | and the planned data is | | | | stored and available in | | | | the RPT. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The NM SC requests the | | | | RPT SP to provide | | | | certain planned data | | | | stored in the RPT by | | | | sending an appropriate | | | | request message to the | | | | RPT SP. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The RPT SP receives the | | | | request message. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The RPT processes the | | | | request message, | | | | identifies the | | | | requested planned data | | | | and retrieves the | | | | requested planned data. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The RPT SP sends back | | | | to the NM SC the | | | | requested planned data | | | | in a response message. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | The NM SC has received | | | | the requested planned | | | | data. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | The NM SC does not | | | | receive the requested | | | | planned data. Numerous | | | | failure reasons may be | | | | indicated. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The requested planned | | | | data has been returned. | | | | | | | | The planned data stored | | | | in RPT before and after | | | | the exchange of the | | | | request/response | | | | messages are identical. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | Requirement | | | | * | | | | _REQ-RPT_NRM-CON-001_ * | | | | in clause 5.1. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
**REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-001:** The RPT shall support a capability allowing the NM to
retrieve planned site data (e.g. site latitude, site longitude) from the RPT.
**REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-002:** The RPT shall support a capability allowing the NM to
retrieve planned antenna data (e.g. antenna latitude, antenna longitude,
antenna type, pattern label, antenna tilt) from the RPT.
**REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-003:** The RPT shall support a capability allowing the NM to
find out the planned antennas supporting a planned cell.
**REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-004:** The RPT shall support a capability allowing the NM to
find out the planned cells supported by a planned antenna.
**REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-005:** The RPT shall support a capability allowing the NM to
find out the RAT of a planned cell.
## 6.2 Actor roles
See clause 5.2.
## 6.3 Telecommunications resources
See clause 5.3.
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 Use Case 1: Read planned site data
The use case in clause 5.4.1 describes in generic fashion the use case on
reading planned data from the RPT. In the use case \"Read planned site data\"
this information is planned site data.
### 6.4.2 Use Case 2: Read planned antenna data
The use case in clause 5.4.1 describes in generic fashion the use case on
reading planned data from the RPT. In the use case \"Read planned antenna
data\" this information is planned antenna data.
### 6.4.3 Use Case 3: Find out the planned antennas supporting a planned cell
The use case in clause 5.4.1 describes in generic fashion the use case on
reading planned data from the RPT. In the use case \"Find out the planned
antennas supporting a planned cell\" this information is data about which
planned antennas support a planned cell. The data returned contains thus for
each cell identifier a set of antenna identifiers.
### 6.4.4 Use Case 4: Find out the planned cells supported by a planned
antenna
The use case in clause 5.4.1 describes in generic fashion the use case on
reading planned data from the RPT. In the use case \"Find out the planned
cells supported by a planned antenna\" this information is data about which
planned cells are supported by a planned antenna. The data returned contains
thus for each antenna identifier a set of cell identifiers.
### 6.4.5 Use Case 5: Find out the RAT of a planned cell
The use case in clause 5.4.1 describes in generic fashion the use case on
reading planned data from the RPT. In the use case \"Find out the RAT of a
planned cell\" this information is data about the RATs of the planned cells.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Relation of RPT Planned Data, ARCF data and
configuration data
There are several kinds of data defined in 32- and 28-series standards.
ARCF data are the data which are required for successful activation (of e.g.
cell, eNB) that require coordination between several cells and cannot be
generated below Itf-N. Some of the ARCF data may be used directly as eNodeB
configuration data and some of the ARCF data may be used to generate more
other eNodeB configuration data. eNodeB will use the ARCF data together with
other configuration data as initial eNodeB radio configuration data. The
eNodeB initial radio configuration data will be used for self-configuration.
Configuration data are normally defined as NRM IRP data.
Planned Data, which is the data exposed by the RPT for read access by the NM,
may be different from those used during NM normal operation of the actual
network.
The relation between different kinds of data is:
1) The Planned Data are stored in RPT. NM or other NM layer applications can
retrieve Planned Data from RPT. Some of the Planned Data retrieved from RPT
can be used directly as configuration data or ARCF data (e.g. antenna data
like antennaAzimuth and antennaTilt).
2) Some of the ARCF data are used as configuration data directly and other
ARCF data are used to generate more other configuration data, see TS 32.501
[3].
#