# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.667 Radio Planning Tool Access (RPTA) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements
**28.668 Radio Planning Tool Access (RPTA) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)**
**28.669 Radio Planning Tool Access (RPTA) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Solution Set (SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Radio Planning Tool Access (RPTA)
management operations as well as support object classes, attributes and
relations that can be communicated between the Service Provider in the RPT and
one or several Service Consumers in the NM.
This document specifies the semantics and behaviour of management operations,
support object classes, attributes and relations visible across the reference
point in a protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their
syntax and encoding.
This IRP allows the NM to read planned site and antenna data from the RPT.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.632: \"Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.662: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Radio Access
Network (RAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.667: \"Telecommunication management; Radio Planning Tool Access
(RPTA) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Radio Planning Tool:** See TS 28.667 [5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
RPT Radio Planning Tool
RPTA Radio Planning Tool (RPT) Access
SC Service Consumer
SP Service Provider
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [6], subclause 4.7. The RPT is the SP, the NM is the SC.
Figure 4.1.1: System Context for Type 7 interface
## 4.2 Compliance rules
For general definitions of compliance rules related to qualifiers
(Mandatory/Optional/Conditional) for _operations_ , _notifications_ _and_
_parameters_ (of operations and notifications) please refer to 3GPP TS 32.150
[6].
A SP that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant SC with respect to all Mandatory and
Optional managed object classes, attributes, associations, operations,
parameters and notifications without requiring the SC to have any knowledge of
the extensions.
Given that:
\- rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified; and
\- many scenarios under which SC and SP interwork may exist.
It is recognized that the SC, even though it is not required to have knowledge
of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented with an
awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Information Object Classes
## 5.1 Imported information entities and local labels
None.
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
Figure 5.2.1-1: Information Model of the RPTA IRP
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
Figure 5.2.2-1: Inheritance diagram
## 5.3 Information object class definitions
### 5.3.1 Antenna
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents an antenna.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-002  
3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-003  
3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-004
* * *
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write
Qualifier** antennaId M M - antennaName M M - antennaPatternLabel M M -
antennaType M M - antennaLongitude M M - antennaLatitude M M - antennaAltitude
M M - antennaBearing M M - antennaMechanicalOffset M M - theSupportedCells M M
-
* * *
#### 5.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 5.3.1.4 Notifications
None.
### 5.3.2 Cell
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents a cell.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-003  
3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-004
* * *
#### 5.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write
Qualifier** cellId M M - theSupportingAntennas M M -
* * *
#### 5.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 5.3.2.4 Notifications
None.
### 5.3.3 GSMCell
#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents a GSM cell.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-005
* * *
#### 5.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write
Qualifier**
* * *
#### 5.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 5.3.3.4 Notifications
None.
### 5.3.4 EUTRANCell
#### 5.3.4.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents an E-UTRAN cell.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-005
* * *
#### 5.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **Read Qualifier** **Write Qualifier**
* * *
#### 5.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 5.3.4.4 Notifications
None.
### 5.3.5 Site
#### 5.3.5.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents a site. A site designates the location of the base
station (TR 21.905 [1]), and properties associated to the site such as site
address, exact location and site name. In case the antenna is not at the same
location as the (rest of the) base station, site designates the location of
the main base station equipment.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-001
* * *
#### 5.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **Read Qualifier** **Write Qualifier** siteId
M M - siteAddress M M - siteName M M - siteLongitude M M - siteLatitude M M -
siteAltitude O M -
* * *
#### 5.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 5.3.5.4 Notifications
None.
### 5.3.6 SiteList
#### 5.3.6.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents a list of sites.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-001
* * *
#### 5.3.6.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write
Qualifier**
* * *
#### 5.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 5.3.6.4 Notifications
None.
### 5.3.7 UTRANCell
#### 5.3.7.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents a UTRAN cell.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-005
* * *
#### 5.3.7.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write
Qualifier**
* * *
#### 5.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 5.3.7.4 Notifications
None.
## 5.4 Information relationship definitions
### 5.4.1 A1 (M)
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This association represents the bidirectional relation between Antenna and
Cell.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-003  
3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-FUN-004
* * *
#### 5.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
**Name** **Definition** theSupportingAntennas This role represents the Antenna
instances supporting a Cell instance. theSupportedCells This role represents
the Cell instances supported by an Antenna instance.
* * *
#### 5.4.1.3 Constraints
None.
## 5.5 Information attribute definitions
### 5.5.1 Definition and legal values
The following table defines the attributes that are present in the Support
Object Classes of the present document.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | **Definition** | **Information Type / | | | | Legal Values** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | antennaBearing | The bearing that the | type: Integer | | | antenna is pointing | | | | to, see TS 23.032 | | | | [2] | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | TS 23.032 [2] | | | | | | | | NOTE: Identical to | | | | TS 28.662 [4] | | | | Ante | | | | nnaFunction::bearing | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | antennaAltitude | The elevation of the | type: Integer | | | antenna above sea | | | | level. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: An | | | | integral value | | | | representing a | | | | number of meters in | | | | 0.1 meter | | | | increments. | | | | | | | | NOTE: Identical to | | | | TS 28.662 [4] | | | | Ant | | | | ennaFunction::height | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | antennaId | Operator defined | type: String | | | antenna identifier | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | antennaLatitude | The latitude of the | type: Real | | | antenna location | | | | based on the World | | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | | | | | | | | Positive values | | | | correspond to north | | | | of 0 degrees | | | | latitude (northern | | | | hemisphere). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: valid | | | | values are described | | | | in TS 23.032 [2] | | | | | | | | NOTE: Identical to | | | | TS 28.632 [3] | | | | AntennaInv | | | | entoryUnit::latitude | | | | | | | | Editor's note: The | | | | exact definition is | | | | ffs, and needs to be | | | | aligned with other | | | | definitions of | | | | latitude/longitude. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | antennaLongitude | The longitude of the | type: Real | | | antenna location | | | | based on the World | | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | | | | | | | | Positive values | | | | correspond to east | | | | of 0 degrees | | | | longitude. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: valid | | | | values are described | | | | in TS 23.032 [2] | | | | | | | | NOTE: Identical to | | | | TS 28.632 [3] | | | | AntennaInve | | | | ntoryUnit::longitude | | | | | | | | Editor's note: The | | | | exact definition is | | | | ffs, and needs to be | | | | aligned with other | | | | definitions of | | | | latitude/longitude. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ant | This is a value | type: Integer | | ennaMechanicalOffset | representing a | | | | non-adjustable tilt | | | | value, which is | | | | imparted to the | | | | antenna due to the | | | | physical | | | | installation. | | | | | | | | The actual tilt at | | | | any point in time is | | | | the summation of | | | | mechanicalOffset and | | | | retTiltValue. | | | | | | | | A single integral | | | | value corresponding | | | | to an angle in | | | | degrees between 0 | | | | and 360 with a | | | | resolution of 0.1 | | | | degrees. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | NOTE: Identical to | | | | TS 28.632 [3] | | | | AntennaInventoryUn | | | | it::mechanicalOffset | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | antennaName | Name of the antenna. | type: String | | | It is a free text | | | | field. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | antennaPatternLabel | The radiation | type: String | | | pattern of the | | | | antenna, also | | | | referred to as | | | | antenna pattern. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | NOTE: Identical to | | | | TS 28.632 [3] | | | | AntennaInvento | | | | ryUnit::patternlabel | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | antennaType | The type of the | Type: String | | | antenna. Types are | | | | e.g. repeaters, | | | | remote antennas, | | | | power dividers. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellId | Operator defined | type: String | | | cell identifier. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siteAddress | Address of the site | type: String | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siteAltitude | The elevation of the | type: Integer | | | site above sea | | | | level. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: An | | | | integral value | | | | representing a | | | | number of meters in | | | | 0.1 meter | | | | increments. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siteId | Operator defined | type: String | | | site identifier. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siteLatitude | The latitude of the | type: Real | | | site location based | | | | on the World | | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | | | | | | | | Positive values | | | | correspond to north | | | | of 0 degrees | | | | latitude (northern | | | | hemisphere). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: valid | | | | values are described | | | | in 3GPP TS 23.032 | | | | [2] | | | | | | | | Editor's note: The | | | | exact definition is | | | | ffs, and needs to be | | | | aligned with other | | | | definitions of | | | | latitude/longitude. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siteLongitude | The longitude of the | type: Real | | | site location based | | | | on the World | | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | | | | | | | | Positive values | | | | correspond to east | | | | of 0 degrees | | | | longitude. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: valid | | | | values are described | | | | in 3GPP TS 23.032 | | | | [2] | | | | | | | | Editor's note: The | | | | exact definition is | | | | ffs, and needs to be | | | | aligned with other | | | | definitions of | | | | latitude/longitude. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siteName | Name of the site. It | type: String | | | is a free text | | | | field. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attributes related | | | | to role** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | theSupportedCells | This attribute | | | | carries a set of | | | | cellId. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | t | This attribute | | | heSupportingAntennas | carries a set of | | | | antennaId. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.5.2 Constraints
None.
# 6 Interface definitions
## 6.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
Figure 6.1-1: Class diagram representing interfaces
## 6.2 Generic rules
Rule 1: Each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
Rule 2: Each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports a
set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where \"xxx\" is
the name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition indicates that
the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally, each
such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
Rule 3: Each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem that is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 6.3 RptOperations_1 Interface (M)
### 6.3.1 Operation getPlannedData (M)
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
The NM invokes this operation to read planned data from the RPT.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.667 [5] REQ-RPT_NRM-CON-001
* * *
#### 6.3.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Matching Type Comment scope M Information specifying the scope
This parameter defines the subset of planned data to be returned. In Rel-12
only all planned data can be selected. The absence of an input parameter is
equivalent to ALL. The semantics of scope is undefined in Rel-12.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Output parameters
+-------------+-----------+--------------------+--------------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-------------+-----------+--------------------+--------------------+ | plannedData | M | SiteList | This parameter | | | | | returns all | | | | | planned data held | | | | | by the RPT. The | | | | | data structure is | | | | | described by the | | | | | information model | | | | | specified in | | | | | subclause 5. | +-------------+-----------+--------------------+--------------------+ | status | M | ENUM | If | | | | (O | allScopedP | | | | perationSucceeded, | lannedDataReturned | | | | OperationFailed) | is true, status = | | | | | O | | | | | perationSucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | operation_failed | | | | | is true, status = | | | | | OperationFailed. | +-------------+-----------+--------------------+--------------------+
#### 6.3.1.4 Pre-condition
networkPlanned
* * *
Assertion Name Definition networkPlanned The network is planned and the
planned data is stored and available for reading in the RPT.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.5 Post-condition
allScopedPlannedDataReturned
* * *
Assertion Name Definition allScopedPlannedDataReturned All data selected by
the scope input parameter is returned. The planned data in the RPT is not
affected by this operation.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.6 Exception
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** The pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
#