# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
**28.671: Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements**
28.672: Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)
28.673: Telecommunication management; Home Node B (HNB) Subsystem (HNS)
Network ResourceModel (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions
# 1 Scope
The document describes the requirements for Home NodeB Subsystem (HNS), which
includes Home NodeB (HNB) and Home NodeB gateway (HNB GW). The HNS NRM IRP
requirements are targeted on both HNB and HNB GW NRM.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.467: \"UTRAN architecture for 3G Home NodeB; Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [5].
**Information Service (IS):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [5].
**Solution Set (SS):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [5].
**IRP Solution Set:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CN Core Network
GW Gateway
HNB Home Node B
HNS Home Node B Subsystem
IRP Integration Reference Point
IOC Information Object Class
NRM Network Resource Model
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
# 4 Concepts and background
HNB Subsystem is defined in TS 23.060 [6]. According to the definition, a HNB
subsystem consists of a HNB and a HNB GW. The HNB Subsystem appears as an RNS
to the core network and is connected by means of the Iu-CS interface to the
MSC and by means of the Iu-PS interface to the SGSN.
Detailed functions of HNB and HNB GW are described in TS 25.467 [7]. To be
more specific, HNB is a Customer Premise Equipment that offers the Uu
Interface to the UE. It provides RAN connectivity and supports RNC like
functions as well as UE registration over Iuh. HNB Gateway (HNB-GW) terminates
Iuh from HNB and appears as an RNC to the existing Core network using existing
Iu interface. It supports HNB registration and UE registration over Iuh.
Based on the above characteristics, this specification defines respective HNS
NRM IRP requirements.
# 5 Requirements
The following general and high-level requirements apply for the present IRP:
a) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2].
b) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [3].
c) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [4].
The NRM defined by this IRP:
d) Shall support communications for telecommunication network management
purposes, including management of converged networks.
e) Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [8] and its
information is derived from FNIM Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [9]
In addition to the above, the following more specific requirements apply:
**REQ-HNS_GW-CON-001** The Network Resource Model defined by this IRP shall
contain HNB GW specific IOCs and related definitions.
**REQ-HNS_GW-CON-002** The Network Resource Model defined by this IRP shall
provide support for enabling consistency between HNB GW, HNB and related core
network nodes.
**REQ-HNS_GW-CON-003** The NRM specified by this IRP shall be able to view
configuration information of the HNB GW entity. More detailed information is
as follows:
Shall allow for the viewing of basic configuration information including
version, equipment type, equipment provider and unique identification, etc.
Shall allow for the viewing of network configuration information including IP
address, sub-network mask, default gateway and port configuration information,
etc.
Shall allow for the viewing of service related configuration information, for
example the maximum number of HNB to be registered, the maximum number of
packets to be forwarded, etc.
**REQ-HNS_GW-CON-004** The NRM specified by this IRP shall capture Iuh
interface information of HNB GW. More detailed information is as follows:
Shall allow for the viewing of basic configuration information including Iuh
identification etc.
Shall allow for the viewing of network configuration information including
SCTP management information, etc.
**REQ-HNS_GW-CON-005** The NRM specified by this IRP shall capture the
identity of registered HNB.
#