# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.707: **\"Evolved Packet Core (EPC)** Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\";
**28.708: \"Evolved Packet Core (EPC) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\";**
28.709: \"**Evolved Packet Core (EPC)** Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); **Solution Set (SS) definitions** \";
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimization programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies **Evolved Packet Core** (EPC) network resource
information that can be communicated between an IRPAgent and an IRPManager for
telecommunication network management purposes, including management of
converged networks. . It reuses relevant parts of the Generic NRM in 3GPP TS
28.622 [6], either by direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition to that
defines EPC specific Information Object Classes.
This document specifies the semantics and behaviour of information object
class attributes and relations visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an Interface IRP such
as the \"Basic CM IRP\" is needed (3GPP TS 32.602 [7]). However, which
Interface IRP is applicable is outside the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic Configuration Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.702: \" Telecommunication management; Core Network (CN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"GPRS enhancements for E-UTRAN access\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.705: \"Telecommunication management; IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.658: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture Enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM; Information service (IS)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.003: \" Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[15] 3GPP TR 32.816-160: \"**Telecommunication management; Study on management
of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) and Evolved
Packet Core (EPC)** \".
[16] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"**Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2** \".
[17] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[18] 3GPP TS 36.331: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture".
[20] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.600 [5] and the following
apply:
**Association:** See definition in TS 28.622 [6].
**Managed Element (ME):** See definition in TS 28.622 [6].
**Managed Object (MO):** See definition in TS 28.622 [6].
**Management Information Model (MIM):** also referred to as NRM - see the
definition below.
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** See definition in TS 28.622 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CIM Common Information Model
EM Element Manager
eNodeB evolved NodeB
EPC Evolved Packet Core
ePDG evolved Packet Data Gateway
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
GPRS General Packet Radio System
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
ME Managed Element
MIM Management Information Model
MME Mobility Management Entity
MO Managed Object
NE Network Element
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
PCRF Policy and Charging Rules Function
P‑GW PDN Gateway
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [4])
S‑GW Serving Gateway
TMN Telecom Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label TS 28.658 [11], information object class,
ENBFunction ENBFunction TS 28. 705 [10], information object class, HssFunction
HssFunction TS 28.622 [6], information object class, Link Link TS 28.622 [6],
information object class, ManagedElement ManagedElement TS 28.622 [6],
information object class, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction TS 28.632 [8],
information object class, SgsnFunction SgsnFunction TS 28.622 [6], information
object class, SubNetwork SubNetwork TS 28.622 [6], information object class,
EP_RP EP_RP
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information relevant for
this service. This clause provides the overview of the relationships of
relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed
specification of various aspects of these classes.
The figures below show the containment/naming hierarchy and the associations
of the information object classes defined in the present document.
NOTE: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady-
state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion scenarios
in all figures.
Each IOC is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to 3GPP TS
32.300 [4] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example, the DN of
an IOC representing a MME (3GPP TS 23.401 [9]) could have a format like:
> SubNetwork=China, MeContext =MEC-Gbg-1, ManagedElement =MME-Gbg-1,
> MMEFunction=MME-1.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="3.76875in"}
Figure 4.2.1-1: EPC NRM Containment/Naming Relationships
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="4.7555555555555555in"}
Figure 4.2.1-2: EPC NRM Containment/Naming and Association_1
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="1.9472222222222222in"}
Figure 4.2.1-3: EPC NRM Containment/Naming and Association_2
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="3.35625in"}
Figure 4.2.1-4: EPC NRM Containment/Naming and Association3
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="3.5166666666666666in"}
Figure 4.2.1-5 MME Pool Object Model of EPC NRM
{width="2.53125in" height="2.0104166666666665in"}
NOTE: QCISet shall be contained in the root SubNetwork instance.
Figure 4.2.1-6: EPC NRM Containment/Naming and Association 3
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="2.2583333333333333in"}
Figure 4.2.1-7: EPC NRM Containment/Naming and Association 4
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
The figures below show the inheritance hierarchy for the EPC NRM.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="3.7819444444444446in"}
Figure 4.2.2-1: EPC NRM Inheritance Hierarchy_1
{width="6.69375in" height="3.8868055555555556in"}
Figure 4.2.2-2: EPC NRM Inheritance Hierarchy_2
{width="2.5625in" height="2.3333333333333335in"}
Figure 4.2.2-3: EPC NRM Inheritance Hierarchy_3
{width="3.1979166666666665in" height="2.1041666666666665in"}
Figure 4.2.2-4: EPC NRM Inheritance Hierarchy_4
{width="2.4895833333333335in" height="2.0520833333333335in"}
Figure 4.2.2-5: E-UTRAN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy_5
### 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 EPDGFunction
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents ePDG functionality. For more information about the ePDG,
see 3GPP TS 23.402 [12].
### 4.3.2 MMEFunction
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents MME functionality. For more information about the MME, see
3GPP TS 23.401 [9].
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable pLMNIdList M M - - M mMEC M M - - M **Attribute related to role**  
mMEPool M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
### 4.3.3 PCRFFunction
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents PCRF functionality. For more information about the PCRF,
see 3GPP TS 23.401 [9].
### 4.3.4 PGWFunction
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC represents PDN Gateway functionality. For more information about the
PDN Gateway, see 3GPP TS 23.401 [9].
### 4.3.5 ServingGWFunction
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents Serving Gateway functionality. For more information about
the Serving Gateway, see 3GPP TS 23.401 [9].
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable pLMNIdList M M - - M tACList M M - - M
* * *
### 4.3.6 MMEPool
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents MME Pool. For more information about the MME Pool, see
3GPP TS 23.401 [9].Key concepts related to MME Pool are:
\- An MME Pool consists of one or more MME nodes. A particular node can be a
member of one and only one MME Pool.
\- One MME Pool serves at most one MME Pool Area. One MME Pool Area can be
served by at most one MME Pool.
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable mMEGI M M - - M **Attribute related to role**  
mMEPoolMemberList M M M - M mMEPoolArea M M M - M
* * *
#### 4.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
None.
### 4.3.7 MMEPoolArea
#### 4.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents MME Pool Area. For more information about the MME Pool
Area, see 3GPP TS 23.401 [9]. Key concepts related to MME Pool Area are:
\- An MME Pool Area is defined as an area within which an UE may be served
without the need to change the serving MME. It is a collection of complete
Tracking Areas (TAs).
\- A particular TA can be a member of one or more MME Pool Areas. In the
latter case, the MME Pool Areas involved are called "overlapping MME Pool
Areas".
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable tACList M M - - M pLMNIdList O M - - M **Attribute related to
role**  
mMEPool M M M - M
* * *
#### 4.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
None.
### 4.3.8 **Link_ENB_MME**
#### 4.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC models the S1-MME reference point as defined in TS 23.401 [9].
### 4.3.9 **Link_ENB_ServingGW**
#### 4.3.9.1 Definition
This IOC models the S1-U reference point as defined in TS 23.401 [9].
### 4.3.10 **Link_EPDG_PCRF**
#### 4.3.10.1 Definition
This IOC models the Gxb reference point as defined in TS 23.402 [12].
### 4.3.11 **Link_EPDG_PGW**
#### 4.3.11.1 Definition
This IOC models the S2b reference point as defined in TS 23.402 [12].
### 4.3.12 **Link_HSS_MME**
#### 4.3.12.1 Definition
This IOC models the S6a reference point as defined in TS 23.401 [9].
### 4.3.13 **Link_MME_MME**
#### 4.3.13.1 Definition
This IOC models the S10 reference point as defined in TS 23.401 [9].
### 4.3.14 **Link_MME_SGSN**
#### 4.3.14.1 Definition
This IOC models the S3 reference point as defined in TS 23.401 [9].
### 4.3.15 **Link_MME_ServingGW**
#### 4.3.15.1 Definition
This IOC models the S11 reference point as defined in TS 23.401 [9].
### 4.3.16 **Link_PCRF_ServingGW**
#### 4.3.16.1 Definition
This IOC models the Gxc reference point as defined in TS 23.402 [12].
### 4.3.17 **Link_PCRF_PGW**
#### 4.3.17.1 Definition
This IOC models the Gx reference point as defined in TS 23.401 [9].
### 4.3.18 **Link_PGW_ServingGW**
#### 4.3.18.1 Definition
This IOC models the S5 reference point as defined in TS 23.401 [9].
### 4.3.19 **Link_SGSN_ServingGW**
#### 4.3.19.1 Definition
This IOC models the S4 reference point as defined in TS 23.401 [9].
### 4.3.20 EP_RP_EPS
#### 4.3.20.1 Definition
This IOC represents an end point of reference point in EPS as defined in TS
23.401 [9].
#### 4.3.20.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable farEndNeIpAddr O M CM - M
* * *
#### 4.3.20.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition farEndNeIpAddr's write qualifier When the EP_RP_EPS object
belongs to a different Domain Manager than the NE pointed by the
farEndNeIpAddr attribute, the Write Qualifier of farEndNeIpAddr attribute is
needed.
* * *
#### 4.3.20.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.1.6 of 3GPP TS 28.622[6] are
valid for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.21 ExternalServingGWFunction
#### 4.3.21.1 Definition
This IOC represents SGW functionality controlled by another IRPAgent. For more
information about the SGW, see 3GPP TS 23.401 [9].
#### 4.3.21.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable id M M - - M pLMNIdList M M M - M tACList M M M - M
* * *
### 4.3.22 ExternalMMEFunction
#### 4.3.22.1 Definition
This IOC represents MME functionality controlled by another IRPAgent. For more
information about the MME, see 3GPP TS 23.401 [9].
#### 4.3.22.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable id M M - - M pLMNIdList M M M - M mMEC M M M - M **Attribute
related to role**  
mMEPool M M M - M
* * *
###
### 4.3.23 IOC QCISet
#### 4.3.23.1 Definition
This IOC represents a set of QCI as defined in section 6.1.7.2 of TS 23.203
[19].
#### 4.3.23.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable id M M - - M qCIList M M M - M
* * *
#### 4.3.23.3 Attribute constraints
Null.
#### 4.3.23.4 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS
32.662 [13])  
notifyObjectCreation See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [13])  
notifyObjectDeletion See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [13])
* * *
### 4.3.24 **MBMSGWFunction**
#### 4.3.24.1 Definition
This IOC represents MBMS GW functionality. For more information about the MBMS
GW, see 3GPP TS 36.300 [16].
#### 4.3.24.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable id M M - - M
* * *
### 4.3.25 **Link_MBMSGW_ENB**
#### 4.3.25.1 Definition
This IOC represents the M1 reference point as defined in 3GPP TS 36.300 [16].
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4\. 4.1 Attribute properties {#attribute-properties .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
The following table defines the attributes that are present in several
Information Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
###
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | **Documentation and |** Properties**| | | Allowed Values** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | farEndNeIpAddr | The IP address(s) of | type: String | | | the far end network | | | | entity to which the | multiplicity: 1..* | | | reference point is | | | | related. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | The IP address can | isUnique: N/A | | | be either IPv4 or | | | | IPv6. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mMEC | MME Identifier | type: Integer | | | (MMEI) is | | | | constructed from an | multiplicity: 1 | | | MME Group ID (MMEGI) | | | | and an MME Code | isOrdered: N/A | | | (MMEC). The MMEC is | | | | unique within the | isUnique: N/A | | | MME pool area and, | | | | if overlapping pool | defaultValue: None | | | areas are in use, | | | | unique within the | isNullable: True | | | area of overlapping | | | | MME pools. (Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | 23.003[14]) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mMEGI | MME Identifier | type: Integer | | | (MMEI) is | | | | constructed from an | multiplicity: 1 | | | MME Group ID (MMEGI) | | | | and an MME Code | isOrdered: N/A | | | (MMEC). The MMEGI is | | | | the unique identity | isUnique: N/A | | | of MME Pool within | | | | the context of PLMN. | defaultValue: None | | | ( Ref.3GPP TS | | | | 23.003[14]). | isNullable: True | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | An UE, supported by | | | | a cell, can connect | | | | to one out of a | | | | group of MMEs. The | | | | group consists of | | | | the MMEs supporting | | | | the tracking area | | | | for the cell limited | | | | to those that are | | | | connected to the | | | | serving eNB. The MME | | | | is identified by the | | | | combination | | | | PLMNID-MMEGI-MMEC. | | | | The combination is | | | | called GUMMEI. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pLMNIdList | It is a list of | type: Integer | | | PLMN-Id, PLMN-Id= | | | | Mobile Country Codes | multiplicity: 1..* | | | (MCC)\|\| Mobile | | | | Network Codes(MNC) | isOrdered: N/A | | | (Ref. 3GPP TS | | | | 23.003[14]) | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | The | defaultValue: None | | | MM | | | | EPoolArea.pLMNIdList | allowedValues: N/A | | | purpose is to | | | | identify the PLMNs | isNullable: True | | | (related to | | | | MMEFunction) the MME | | | | Pool is serving. | | | | | | | | The | | | | MM | | | | EEunction.pLMNIdList | | | | purpose is as | | | | following. One | | | | operator may have | | | | several PLMN Ids and | | | | accordingly RAN | | | | broadcasts these Ids | | | | to enable UEs of | | | | different PLMN (i.e, | | | | UEs with different | | | | MNC in their IMSIs) | | | | to access its | | | | network. If CN node | | | | does not know this | | | | PLMN list, UEs of | | | | different PLMN than | | | | the one combined in | | | | MME might be treated | | | | as UEs from other | | | | operators. This will | | | | affect Location | | | | Update and Inter-MME | | | | handover procedures, | | | | and also the | | | | changing rate. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: A | | | | list of at most six | | | | entries of PLMN | | | | Identifiers. The | | | | PLMN Identifier is | | | | composed of a Mobile | | | | Country Code (MCC) | | | | and a Mobile Network | | | | Code (MNC). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | qCIList | It is a list of QCI | Refer to 3GPP TS | | | characteristic, | 23.203[19] | | | which is a structure | | | | including the | | | | element QCI, | | | | Resource_Type, | | | | Priority, | | | | P | | | | acket_Delay_Budget | | | | and | | | | Packet | | | | _Error_Loss_Rate; | | | | | | | | Wherein | | | | | | | | - QCI representing | | | | the number of the | | | | QCI, is an integer; | | | | | | | | - Resource­_Type | | | | representing the | | | | Resource Type(GBR or | | | | Non-GBR) of the QC; | | | | | | | | - Priority | | | | representing the | | | | Priority of QCI, is | | | | an integer; | | | | | | | | - | | | | P | | | | acket_Delay_Budget | | | | representing the | | | | Packet Delay Budget | | | | of the QCI, is an | | | | integer with the | | | | unit of | | | | millisecond(ms); | | | | | | | | - | | | | Packe | | | | t_Error_Loss_Rate | | | | representing the | | | | Packet Error Loss | | | | Rate of the QCI, is | | | | a real. | | | | | | | | ( Ref.3GPP TS | | | | 23.203[x]) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tACList | It is the list of | type: Integer | | | TAC of the | | | | MMEPoolArea **that | multiplicity: 1..* | | | is used for traffic | | | | handling. Each TAC | isOrdered: N/A | | | is provisioned over | | | | the S1 interface | isUnique: N/A | | | from the eNodeB** , | | | | Ref 3GPP TS | defaultValue: None | | | 36.413[18]. | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | Note: | | | | | isNullable: True | | | A cell can only | | | | broadcast one TAC. | | | | See TS 36.300 v8.4.0 | | | | [16], section | | | | 10.1.7 (PLMNID and | | | | TAC relation). | | | | | | | | The Tracking Area | | | | Identity is | | | | constructed from the | | | | MCC (Mobile Country | | | | Code), MNC (Mobile | | | | Network Code) and | | | | TAC (Tracking Area | | | | Code). ( Ref.3GPP TS | | | | 23.401[9]) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | **Documentation and |** Properties**| | related to role | Allowed Values** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mMEPool | It is the DN of a | type: DN | | | MMEPool instance. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mMEPoolArea | It is the DN of a | type: DN | | | MMEPoolArea | | | | instance. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mMEPoolMemberList | It is the list of | type: DN | | | DNs of MMEFunction | | | | instances of the | multiplicity: 1 | | | MMEPool. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 4.5 Common notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [3], that IRPManager
can receive. The notification header attribute objectClass/objectInstance,
defined in [20], would capture the DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this
IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[3])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3])
* * *
### Configuration notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [12], that IRPManager
can receive. The notification header attribute objectClass/objectInstance,
defined in [20], would capture the DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this
IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS
32.662 [13])  
notifyObjectCreation See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [13])  
notifyObjectDeletion See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [13])
* * *
#