# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**28.734: Signalling Transport Network (STN) interface Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements.**
28.735: Signalling Transport Network (STN) interface Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS).
28.736: Signalling Transport Network (STN) interface Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions.
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines , in addition to the requirements defined in [1],
[2] and [3], the requirements for the Signalling Transport Network (STN)
interface NRM IRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication Management, Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.202: \"Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) signalling transport in
core network; Stage 3\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation Q.751.1 (10/95): \"Network Element Management
Information Model for The Message Transfer Part (MTP)\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation M.3100 (07/95): \"Generic Network Information
Model\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation Q.704 (07/96): \"Signalling network functions and
messages\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation Q.702 (11/88): \"Signalling Data Link\".
[9] 3GPP TS.28.622: "Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.405: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(UTRAN)\".
[11] IETF RFC 3332: \"Signalling System 7 (SS7) Message Transfer Part 3 (MTP3)
- User Adaptation Layer (M3UA).
[12] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** see 3GPP TS 32.150 [12].
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : See definition in TS 28.622 [9].
**Termination Point:** see ITU-T M.3100 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
IP Internet Protocol
IRP Integration Reference Point
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union, Telecommunication Standardisation
Sector
MTP Message Transfer Part
NE Network Element
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
OS Operations System
QoS Quality of Service
RNC Radio Network Controller
STN Signalling Transport Network
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
# 4 Requirements
The following general and high-level requirements apply for the present IRP:
A. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
B. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
C. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
The NRM defined by this IRP:
D. Shall support communications for telecommunication network management
purposes, including management of converged networks.
E. Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [13] and its
information is derived from FNIM Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [9].
In addition to the above, the following more specific requirements apply.
## 4.1 MTP3 Configuration Management
a) It shall be possible for IRPManager to retrieve configuration information
related to MTP3 signalling managed entity.
b) When the configuration information of MTP3 signalling managed entities
changes, corresponding notifications shall be generated to IRPManager.
c) When the status of MTP3 signalling managed entities changes, corresponding
notifications shall be generated to IRPManager.
d) It shall be possible for IRPManager to identify which technology that the
STN is based on (e. g. MTP3, MTP3B [4]);
e) The interface shall allow for the viewing of parameters of the MTP3
signalling point, MTP3 signalling link set termination point, MTP3 signalling
link termination point, MTP3 signalling route and MTP3 signalling route set
[4], [5], [7], [8].
## 4.2 M3UA Configuration Management
a) It shall possible for IRPManager to retrieve configuration information
related to M3UA signalling managed entities.
b) When the configuration information of M3UA signalling managed entities
changes, corresponding notifications shall be generated to IRPManager.
c) When the status of M3UA signalling managed entities changes, corresponding
notifications shall be generated to IRPManager.
d) The interface shall allow for the viewing of parameters of the M3UA
signalling point, M3UA signalling link set termination point, M3UA signalling
link termination point, M3UA signalling route and M3UA signalling route set
([4], [11]).
## 4.3 Fault Management
Any fault detected by the signalling managed entity (including signalling
point, signalling link set termination point, signalling link termination
point, signalling route and signalling route set [4], [5], [7], [8]) shall be
passed up to the IRPManager.
## 4.4 Performance Management
It shall be possible for IRPManager to collect and monitor performance data.
The detailed mesurement data to be defined in 3GPP TS 32.405 [10].
# 5 Issues
The NRM shall allow to be extended to support other technologies based
Signalling Transport Network in the future (e.g. IP-based; see 3GPP TS 29.202
[4]).
#