# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**28.731 Transport Network (TN) interface Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements.**
28.732 Transport Network (TN) interface Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS).
28.733 Transport Network (TN) interface Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in [1],
[2] and [3], the requirements for the present IRP: Transport Network (TN)
interface Network Resource Model (NRM).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication Management, Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS.28.622: "Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**IRP:** see 3GPP TS 32.101 [1]
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : See definition in TS 32.622 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
IRP Integration Reference Point
NRM Network Resource Model
# Requirements
The following general and high-level requirements apply for the present IRP:
a) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
b) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
c) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
The NRM defined by this IRP:
d) Shall support communications for telecommunication network management
purposes, including management of converged networks.
e) Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [4] and its
information is derived from FNIM Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [5]
In addition, the following more specific requirements apply:
> **REQ-TN_NRM-CON-001:** The NRM specified by this IRP shall allow for the
> configuration of the ATM Termination Points of the UTRAN inter element links
> (Iub-link, Iur-link, Iu-link), which are residing in a Node B or RNC. More
> specifically, the NRM:
1) shall allow for the viewing of the physical layer used by the ATM network
(e. g. E1);
2) shall allow for the viewing of parameters of the virtual circuits
associated with each link (e.g. VPI/VCI, ATM Service Category, AAL type, Peak
Cell Rate, Sustainable Cell Rate, Maximum Burst Size);
3) shall allow the assigning of a UTRAN interface logical channel (e.g. Iub-
NBAP) to a virtual circuit and configuration of parameters of the virtual
circuit (e.g. VPI/VCI, ATM Service Category, AAL type, Peak Cell Rate,
Sustainable Cell Rate, Maximum Burst Size);
4) shall allow to relate the ATM Termination Point easily to the associated
link;
5) shall allow to relate the ATM Termination Point easily to the network
element and the type of network element it is connected to.
> **REQ-TN_NRM-CON-002:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall be generic in the
> sense to allow support for multiple transport technologies (e.g. IP) in the
> future;
>
> **REQ-TN_NRM-CON-003:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall be generic in the
> sense to allow support for the management of termination points of other
> interface links (e. g. links between network elements of the CN) in the
> future.
#