# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The Study on management and orchestration architecture of next generation
networks and services is to align the next generation management architecture
with consideration of support the next generation management functions.
Studying the management and orchestration architecture will evaluate whether
the existing management mechanisms can be applicable or need to be enhanced to
support the next generation management and orchestration features.
# 1 Scope
The study investigates and makes recommendations on management and
orchestration architecture of next generation networks and services which
includes:
  * **The terminology associated with management and orchestration of** next generation **networks and services.**
  * The use cases on the management and orchestration architecture from the output of other next generation management functional studies (e.g. management and orchestration of network slicing, management of next generation features, service management and orchestration, etc.).
  * The use cases that may impact the management and orchestration architecture which are not addressed by functional studies.
  * The management and orchestration architecture to support network operational features such as real-time, on demand, automation etc. as evolution from LTE management.
  * The management and orchestration architecture to support vertical applications (e.g. management architecture support to the V2X, critical communications etc.) in the next generation network based on the other management functional studies.
  * The management and orchestration architecture to support the scenario in which the applications are hosted close to the access network based on the other management functional studies.
  * The management and orchestration architecture to support management and orchestration aspect of E2E user services in the next generation network based on the other management functional studies.
  * Investigate whether the existing 3GPP management architecture can be reused, or needs to be enhanced.
  * Take into consideration the outcome on next generation network architecture and study the potential management and orchestration architecture aspects of the end to end architecture.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.799: \"Study on Architecture for Next Generation System.\"
[3] ETSI GS NFV 003: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Terminology for
Main Concepts in NFV\".
[4] Draft 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Management concept, architecture and requirements
for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions.\"
[5] NGMN Description of Network Slicing Concept
[6] 3GPP TR 38.801 Study on New Radio Access Technology; Radio Access
Architecture and Interfaces
[7] 3GPP TS 23.501 V0.2.0 (2017-01) System Architecture for the 5G System;
Stage 2.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5G NE: refers to a Network Element that is considered part of a 5G system [7].
**Infrastructure Resource:** network components that build up the environment
for 3GPP NFs.
> Note: example of Infrastructure Resource can be Physical Resource, Logical
> Resource, and Network Functions Virtualization Infrastructure.
**Physical Resource:** A physical asset for computation, storage or transport
including radio access. Defined in NGMN Description of Network Slicing Concept
[5].
**Logical Resource:** Partition of a physical resource, or grouping of
multiple physical resources dedicated to a Network Function or shared between
a set of Network Functions. Defined in NGMN Description of Network Slicing
Concept [5].
**Network Functions Virtualisation Infrastructure (NFVI):** totality of all
hardware and software components which build up the environment in which VNFs
are deployed. **Defined in** ETSI GS NFV 003 **[3].**
**Network Function:** Network function is a 3GPP adopted or 3GPP defined
processing function in a network, which has defined functional behaviour and
3GPP defined interfaces. Defined in 3GPP TR 23.799 [2].
**Virtualized Network Function:** implementation of an NF that can be deployed
on a Network Function
Virtualisation Infrastructure (NFVI). Defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 **[3]**.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Management architecture introduction
The management system of next generation network will include the management
features of the network, the network slicing instances and slice subnet
instances etc.
The next generation network may be composed of virtualized network elements
and non-virtualized network elements, the management of next generation
network may make use of the management of the virtualized network functions.
The management of the network element may include the network function
management and resource management.
For the management of the virtualized network elements, the virtualized
resource of the network element is managed as specified by ETSI NFV. The
network functions are managed by network management function as specified by
3GPP. The management of virtualized core network nodes in LTE is supported in
Rel-14.
For the management of the non-virtualized network elements, both network
function and network resource is managed by network management function as
specified by 3GPP.
The next generation network may also include LTE nodes, ref. [6].
If an evolution of the LTE management system is chosen, the following needs to
be done to get basic management standards for NR and LTE. Management of new
functions will need enhancement of the LTE management systems.
  1. New NRMs (object models) are needed for the radio access network and core network for the next generation network.
  2. New measurement specifications are needed for NR features and nodes.
  3. The existing 3GPP management specifications needs to be checked for which functions will be supported in the first release of the next generation network (e.g. with respect to features like trace and MDT).
New features like Network Slicing and virtualised functions which are part of
RAN may need new management features/support.
# 5 Use cases related to management and orchestration architecture
## 5.1 Management and orchestration of networks containing non-5G NE and 5G NE
### 5.1.1 Introduction
This use case highlights potential management options/scenarios for possible
network deployments, specifically at the early stages of introducing 5G
network elements along with existing non-5G generation 3GPP network(s).
Operator wants to manage a network containing both non-5G NE(s) and 5G NE(s).
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
The network contains non-5G NE(s) and 5G NE(s).
The non-5G NE(s) are managed by existing management functions.
### 5.1.3 Description
There are following scenarios for operator to manage the 5G NE functions.
1\. Operator enhances the existing management and orchestration function to
manage both 5G NE(s) and non-5G NE(s). For example, operator may enhance the
fault management function to retrieve the faults information from both non-5G
NE and 5G NE, or
2\. Operator creates new management functions to manage both 5G NE and non-5G
NE. For example, operator may create new management function to manage the
next generation network feature massive Internet of Things.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
The non-5G network elements and 5G network elements are both managed.
## 5.2 Use case of management and orchestration architecture for network
slicing
### 5.2.1 Introduction
The operator wants to manage the next generation network slice instances; thus
the management architecture needs to provide the corresponding support.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
The requirements on the network slicing management are available.
### 5.2.3 Description
Refer to the network slicing management use cases specified in TR 28.801[x].
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
The management architecture can support the network slicing management
requirements.
# 6 Potential requirements on management and orchestration architecture
**REQ-NWA -CON-0** 1 The 3GPP management system shall support the management
requirements of network slice as defined in TR 28.801[x] section 6.
# 7 Potential management and orchestration architecture options
## 7.1 Option 1: CCC
### 7.1.1 Description
### 7.1.2 Potential interaction with network architecture (if needed)
# 8 Conclusions
# 9 Recommendations
###### ### Annex \: \
Annexes are only to be used where appropriate:
Annexes are labelled A, B, C, etc. and are \"informative\"(3GPP TRs are
informative documents by nature).
#