# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the management aspects of next generation network
architecture and features.
**The study includes**
  * the use cases for management aspects of the next generation network in terms of network architecture and high level features
  * the potential impact of the next generation network architecture and high level features to the functional blocks of 3GPP management system
  * the location and role of management functionality to support next generation network architecture
  * the potential management related requirements for the next generation network in terms of network architecture and high level features
  * the possible solutions to support the management requirements brought from the end to end next generation network architecture
  * the possible solutions of management aspects to support the key features of the next generation network.
The study also makes conclusions on the preferred solution(s), and provides
recommendations based on the conclusions of the study.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: "System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2"
[3] 3GPP TR 38.801: "Study on New Radio Access Technology; Radio Access
Architecture and Interfaces"
[4] 3GPP TR 38.804: "Study on New Radio Access Technology; Radio Interface
Protocol Aspects"
[5] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[6] RP-161917: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) Measurement Collection for
streaming services in UTRAN\"
[7] SP-160082: \"Improved Streaming QoE Reporting in 3GPP Services and
Networks\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**5G Core Network:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501[2].
**5G QoS Indicator (5QI):** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501[2].
**5G-RAN:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501[2].
**eLTE eNB:** Defined in 3GPP TR 38.801[3].
**New RAN:** Defined in 3GPP TR 38.801[3].
**New Radio:** Defined in 3GPP TR 38.801[3].
**Non-standalone NR** : Defined in 3GPP TR 38.801[3].
**Non-standalone E-UTRA** : Defined in 3GPP TR 38.801[3].
**gNB** : Defined in 3GPP TR 38.804[4].
**Master eNB:** Defined in 3GPP TS 36.300[5].
**Secondary eNB:** Defined in 3GPP TS 36.300[5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core Network
5QI 5G QoS Indicator
AUFS Authentication Server Function
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
DC Dual Connectivity
EPC Evolved Packet Core
KQI Key Quality Indicator
MeNB Master eNB
MOI Managed Object Instance
NEF Network Exposure Function
NRF NF Repository Function
NR New Radio
OTT Over The Top
PCF Policy Control function
PM Performance Management
QoE Quality of Experience
SeNB Secondary eNB
SMF Session Management Function
UPF User Plane Function
UDM Unified Data Management
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Issues for management aspects of 5G network architecture and features
The potential issues to be studied for management aspects of 5G network
architecture and features are as following:
**Issue 1. SON evolution for 5G**
> How to apply SON concept for 5G network management.
>
> 4G SON has been primarily focused on several use cases affecting the RAN.
> There are increasing network dimension and complexity in 5G networks,
> especially considering the multiple services/devices/tenants in 5G networks.
> SON supporting for 5G should be considered.
**Issue 2. Management support for functionality supporting for edge
computing**
> Edge computing enables operator and 3rd party services to be hosted close to
> the UE's access point of attachment, so as to achieve an efficient service
> delivery through the reduced end-to-end latency and load on the transport
> network.
>
> The 5G core network may expose network information and capabilities to an
> Edge Computing application. The functionality supporting for edge computing
> includes, see 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]:
>
> \- Local Routing: the 5G core network selects UPF to route the user traffic
> to the local Data Network.
>
> \- Traffic Steering: the 5G core network selects the traffic to be routed to
> the application servers in the local Data Network.
>
> \- Session and service continuity to enable UE and application mobility.
>
> \- User plane selection and reselection, e.g. based on input from
> application function.
>
> \- Network capability exposure: 5G core network and application function to
> provide information to each other via NEF as described in clause 5.3.10 [2].
>
> \- QoS and Charging: PCF provides rules for QoS Control and Charging for the
> traffic routed to the local Data Network.
>
> From SA5 network management point of view, some of the above functionality
> may need the management supporting to align with SA2 5G work.
_Editor's Note: other major issues for 5G new features management are FFS._
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Business level use cases
### 5.1.1 Collecting QoE information from end user services
**Goal** : The operator gets QoE information for end user services (including
own managed services and OTT services) that are using the operator's mobile
network based on a 3 -- 8 % sampling of UEs using a specific end user service.
**Pre-condition** : The application providing end user services (including
managed and OTT services) is able to provide QoE information about its end
user service performance that is relevant to a 3GPP mobile system.
**Steps:**
To receive QoE information for an end user service, the operator requests
collection of end user service performance information through the management
system to the mobile network.
The request is propagated through the mobile network to the UE, which in its
turn request the application providing the end user service to provide
requested information.
The end user service application provides performance information to the UE,
which transfers it to a predefined end user performance information collector
in the management system via the mobile network.
The end user performance information collector will process the information to
calculate end user service KQIs which are presented to the operator.
### 5.1.2. Use case for supporting management of NR deployment option 3/3A
### 5.1.2.1 NR deployment option 3/3A introduction
In 5G initial deployment phase, a likely scenario is to deploy NR according to
NR deployment option 3/3A (i.e. LTE-NR Dual Connectivity via EPC scenario):
LTE eNB and non-standalone gNB are assumed to have the role similar to MeNB
and SeNB respectively. Since LTE eNB as MeNB is already connected to EPC,
leveraging EPC can further drive cost effective and early launch of the NR
service for eMBB.
Editor's note: The interface between LTE eNB and non-standalone gNB (working
name as Xx) will be decided later whether the interface functions are
specified in X2AP or a new XnAP or a separate AP by RAN3.
Note: management procedures related to virtualized RAN will be studied in TR
32.864, and not specified in this TR.
### 5.1.2.2 Goal
Based on existing LTE/EPC management system, the operator can manage the Non-
standalone gNB involved in NR deployment option 3/3A appropriately.
### 5.1.2.3 Pre-conditions
Operator has prepared infrastructure environment used to deploy the Non-
stanalone gNB in deployment option 3.
The LTE eNB and EPC are available, and managed by existing management system
appropriately.
### 5.1.2.4 Steps
1\. The Non-standalone gNB is initially configured with basic setup
information (e.g. local OAM IP address and EM information etc.) to establish
OAM connection, then self-configuration related instance (e.g. EM) will
execute self-configuratoin on the Non-standalone gNB with planned
configuration data (including anchored MeNB configuration data etc.).
2\. Before the Non-standalone gNB taking into operation, autonomous
optimisation operation should be activated on the neighbour RAN nodes to
include new cells in theirs corresponding neighbourhood list and set neighbour
specific parameters.
3\. After the Non-standalone gNB taking into operation, operator can be
informed about any fault detected by the gNB via alarms or event reports.
4\. The operator monitors the status of the Non-standalone gNB and collect
performance measurement data from the Non-standalone gNB, which can be used
for NR related KPI assessment.
5\. If necessary, operator re-configures the Non-standalone gNB for purpose of
radio network optimisation or adjustment.
### 5.1.3. Use cases for supporting management of 5G-RAN
### 5.1.3.1 5G-RAN deployment options introduction
When the 5GC is introduced, depending on possible existing early 5G network
and 5G deployment strategy, operator can establish 5G-RAN with one or more
deploying options, including:
  * Option 2: Standalone gNB is connected to the 5GC.
  * Option 4/4A: the gNB is connected to the 5GC with non-standalone > eLTE eNB. The non-standalone eLTE eNB's user plane connection to > the 5GC goes via the gNB (Option 4) or directly (Option 4A).
  * Option 5: the standalone eLTE eNB is connected to the 5GC.
  * Option 7/7A, the eLTE eNB is connected to the 5GC with > non-standalone gNB. The non-standalone gNB's user plane connection > to the 5GC goes via the eLTE eNB (Option 7) or directly (Option > 7A).
5G-RAN option 2, 4, 5 and 7 are specified in 3GPP TR 38.801 [3].
Note: management procedures related to virtualized RAN will be studied in TR
32.864, and not specified in this TR.
### 5.1.3.2 Use case for supporting management of standalone gNB connected to
5GC (option 2)
### 5.1.3.2.1 Goal
The operator establishes 5G-RAN with gNB according to option 2, and manages
the involved standalone gNB appropriately.
### 5.1.3.2.2 Pre-conditions
Operator has prepared infrastructure environment used to deploy standalone gNB
.
The 5GC is available, and managed by management system appropriately.
### 5.1.3.2.3 Steps
1\. The standalone gNB is initially configured with basic setup information
(e.g. local OAM IP address and EM information etc.) to establish OAM
connection, then self-configuration related instance (e.g. EM) will execute
self-configuratoin operation on the gNB with planned configuration data
(including radio configuration data and 5GC connectivity data etc.).
2\. Before the gNB taking into operation, autonomous optimisation operation
should be activated on the neighbour gNBs or eNBs (if applied) to include new
cells in their corresponding neighbourhood list and set neighbour specific
parameters.
3\. After the gNB taking into operation, operator can be informed about any
fault detected by the gNB via alarms or event reports.
4\. The operator monitors the status of the gNB and collect performance
measurement data from the gNB, which can be used for NR related KPI
assessment.
5\. If necessary, operator re-configures the gNB for purpose of radio network
optimisation or adjustment.
### 5.1.3.3 Use case for supporting management of eLTE eNB connected to 5GC
(option 4, 5 and 7)
### 5.1.3.3.1 Goal
The operator establishes 5G-RAN with eLTE eNB according to option 4, 5 and 7,
and manages the involved eLTE eNB and gNB (if applied) appropriately. Operator
can collect and manage E-UTRA and NR related performance respectively if NR is
deployed.
### 5.1.3.3.2 Pre-conditions
Operator has prepared infrastructure environment used to deploy eLTE eNB.
The 5GC is available, and managed by management system appropriately.
### 5.1.3.3.3 Steps
1\. The eLTE eNB is initially configured with basic setup information (e.g.
local OAM IP address and EM information etc.) to establish OAM connection,
then self-configuration related instance (e.g. EM) will execute self-
configuratoin on the eLTE eNB with planned configuration data (including radio
configuration data (including DC configuration data if applied) and 5GC
connectivity data etc.).
2\. Before the eLTE eNB taking into operation, autonomous optimisation
operation should be activated on the neighbour eLTE eNBs, gNBs (if applied)
and eNBs (if applied) to include new cells in theirs corresponding
neighbourhood list and set neighbour specific parameters.
3\. After the eLTE eNB taking into operation, operator can be informed about
any fault detected by the eLTE gNB via alarms or event reports.
4\. The operator monitors the status of the eLTE eNB and collect performance
measurement data from the eLT eNB, which can be used for E-UTRA related KPI
assessment.
5\. If requested, operator re-configures the eLTE eNB for purpose of radio
network optimisation or adjustment.
### 5.1.4. Use case for supporting management of 5GC
### 5.1.4.1 Goal
The operator establishes 5GC with multiple NFs/NEs according to 5G reference
architecture, and operator manages the 5GC and involved NFs/NEs appropriately.
### 5.1.4.2 Pre-conditions
Operator has prepared infrastructure environment used to deploy 5GC with
complete or partial set of 5GC NFs/NEs.
### 5.1.4.3 Steps
1\. The 5GC NF/NE is initially configured with basic setup information (e.g.
local OAM IP address and EM information and etc.) to establish OAM connection,
and then self-configuration related instance (e.g. EM) will execute autonomous
configuratoin operation on the 5GC NF/NE with planned configuration data
(including application configuration data).
2\. After the 5GC NF/NE takes into operation, operator can be informed about
any fault detected by the NF/NE via alarms or event reports.
3\. The operator monitors the status of the 5GC NF/NE and collect performance
measurement data from the NE, which can be used for 5GC related KPI
assessment.
4\. If necessary, operator re-configures the NF/NE for purpose of 5GC
optimisation or adjustment.
Note: management procedures related to network slicing is studied in TR
28.801, and are not specified in this TR.
# 6 Potential requirements
## 6.1 Business level requirements on end user service performance collection
**REQ-ESPC-CON-1:** The 3GPP management system shall have a capability to
request to collect end user service performance information that is relevant
to a 3GPP mobile system per end user service/end user service type via the
mobile network and the UE. The request may include an address of an end user
service information collector to which the collected information shall be
delivered.
**REQ-ESPC-CON-2:** The application providing the end user service performance
information that is relevant to a 3GPP mobile system should have the
capability to provide end user service performance information to an end user
service information collector via the UE and the mobile network.
**REQ-ESPC-CON-3:** The end user service information collector shall have the
capability to process the end user service performance information collected
to provide the operator with KQI information for the end user service/end user
service type.
**REQ-ESPC-CON-4:** It should be possible to restrict the information
collection to a subset of the population of the UEs using a end user
service/end user service type.
## 6.2 NR deployment option 3/3A management requirements
**REQ-NRO3-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
configuration management (e.g. CRUD of MOI) on the Non-standalone gNB via
maximizing existing E-UTRAN management system.
**REQ-NRO3-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall know the non-standalone
gNB mode information, including the relation between anchored LTE eNB (aka
MeNB) and secondary Non-standalone gNB (similar to SeNB), and the option 3 or
option 3A used on one specific Non-standalone gNB.
**REQ-NRO3-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support smooth
management migration from the Non-standalone gNB in option 3 to other 5G-RAN
options.
**REQ-NRO3-CON-4** The 3GPP management system shall be able to collect LTE and
NR related performance data respectively.
**REQ-NRO3-CON-5** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support fault
management on the Non-standalone gNB.
Note: management requirement related to virtualized RAN will be studied in TR
32.864, and not specified in this TR.
## 6.3 5G-RAN option 2 management requirements
**REQ-NRO2-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
configuration management (e.g. CRUD MOI) on the standalone gNB connected to
5GC.
**REQ-NRO2-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall be able to collect NR
related performance data from the standalone gNB.
**REQ-NRO2-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support fault
management on the standalone gNB.
Note: management requirement related to virtualized RAN will be studied in TR
32.864, and not specified in this TR.
## 6.4 5G-RAN with eLTE eNB (option 4, 5 and 7) management requirements
**REQ-NREL-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
configuration management (e.g. CRUD MOI) on the eLTE eNB.
**REQ-NREL-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall kown the non-standalone
eLTE eNB mode information, including the relation between anchored gNB and
secondary non-standalone eLTE eNB, and the option 4 or option 4A used on one
specific eLTE eNB.
**REQ-NREL-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall be able to know the non-
standalone gNB mode information in option 7, including the relation between
anchored eLTE eNB and secondary non-standalone gNB, and the option 7 or option
7A used on one specific gNB.
**REQ-NREL-CON-4** The 3GPP management system may be required to collect
E-UTRA and NR related performance data respectively.
**REQ-NREL-CON-5** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support fault
management on the eLTE eNB.
Note: management requirement related to virtualized RAN will be studied in TR
32.864, and not specified in this TR.
## 6.5 5GC management requirements
**REQ-5GCN-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
configuration management (e.g. CRUD MOI) on the 5GC NF/NE.
**REQ-5GCN-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall be able to collect
performance data from the 5GC NF/NE.
**REQ-5GCN-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support fault
management on the 5GC NF/NE.
**REQ-5GCN-CON-4** The 3GPP management system should reflect the service based
architecture characteristic in the NRM of 5GC CP NF/NE.
Note: management requirements related to network slicing is studied in TR
28.801, and are not specified in this TR.
# 7 Potential solutions
## 7.1 Collecting QoE information from end user services
RAN2 is specifying a solution for UMTS in Rel-14 on the RRC interface, ref.
[6]. SA4 is specifying Video Streaming information, ref. [7].
As NR is a mobile data network, it is very important for the operator to
optimise the mobile network according to the needs of the end user services.
So it is foreseen that a similar function will be developed for NR.\ The
management solution should be the same regardless of which 3GPP mobile system
the QoE collection is implemented in. So the use case(s), requirement(s) and
the solution should be valid for older generations of mobile systems as well
as 5G-RAN.
Proposed management solution:
A new interface IRP should be developed for collecting the QoE information. It
should contain:
  * An operation for activation of collection QoE information to be sent > to the appropriate traffic node including what QoE information is > to be collected, an address to a collection point where the QoE > information is to be collected.
  * An operation for deactivation of collection QoE information to be > sent to the appropriate traffic node including what QoE > information is to be stopped,
  * An operation for listing requested QoE collections to be sent to the > base stations that should answer with what QoE collections has > been requested.
  * An operation for listing active sessions that are collecting QoE > information to be sent to the base stations that should answer > with what sessions has QoE collection ongoing.
  * A notification for when a QoE collection job has become active.
The base station requests the QoE information collection towards the UE. It
should be possible to execute more than one QoE information collection
simultaneously in the UE.
The QoE information collections should survive handover within a PLMN.
A specification that describes the feature from end to end should be
developed.
The solution is intended to be used for previous 3GPP systems that supports
this function.
Cooperation is needed with SA4 to specify what performance information should
be collected. Cooperation with RAN2 is needed for propagating the request to
the UE and for the UE to deliver the requested information. Cooperation RAN3
and possibly CT WGs are needed for propagation of the request on traffic
interfaces (if that is needed).
## 7.2 Management of NR deployment option 3/3A
As NR option 3 relies on legacy E-UTRAN and EPC, so the management solution
for NR option 3 should support E-UTRAN and EPC management simultaneously.
Also, considering NR option 3 is developed for "early deployment" of 5G
service with limited features, and would be migrated to 5G-RAN in short term,
so the potential solution for non-standalone gNB management should fulfill
severe time-to-market requirement, and minimize the deployment efforts.
Proposed management solution for NR option 3 is to enhance existing E-UTRAN
management solution to adapt non-standalone gNB management requirement, with
reusing existing management solution as much as possible.
In order to support configuration management of NR option 3, a new NRM IRP
should be developed to support configuration management operations on the non-
standalone gNB. The non-standalone gNB NRM IRP should contain:
  * IOC for the non-standalone gNB, represents the non-standalone gNB > functionality specified in NR option 3/3A, with attribute which > can be used for identifying the non-standalone gNB and option 3 or > option 3A used. Also, the relationship with IOCs of E-UTRAN and > EPC need to be clarified.
> Editor's note: The IOC definition for non-standalone gNB functional split
> (i.e. central unit and distributed unit of gNB, and interface between them)
> is FFS, which may be no need to be visible from NMS point of view when the
> interface is proprietary.
  * IOC for NR Cell, represents the common properties of a NR cell. And > the interworking relationships between NR cell with other RAN need > to be clarified.
  * IOCs for non-standalone gNB related reference points, including Xx > reference point and S1-U reference point involved in NR option 3A.
Meanwhile, above IOCs associated to existing E-UTRAN NRM and EPC NRM need to
be added to corresponding NRM IRP specifications.
## 7.3 Management of 5GC
### 7.3.1. Configuration management of 5GC
In order to support configuration management of 5GC, a new NRM IRP should be
developed to support configuration management operations on 5GC NFs. The 5GC
NRM IRP should contain:
  * IOCs for each type of 5GC network function, including AMF, AUSF, > NEF, NRF, PCF, SMF, UDM, UPF and N3IWF. The attribute of these > IOCs should be able to show the supported network slice > information. Also, the relationship with IOCs for network slices > or network slice subnets need to be clarified.
> Editor's note: Network slicing related management object or information
> model will be defined in TR 28.801.
  * IOCs for 5GC related reference points between 3GPP managed NFs, > including N2, N3, N4, N7, N7r, N8, N9, N10, N12, N13, N14, N15, > N16 and Nx reference point.
  * IOCs for service-based interfaces insides 5GC, including Namf, > Nausf, Nnef, Nnrf, Npcf, Nsmf and Nudm.
  * IOCs for 5G QoS, including 5QI.
  * IOCs for each type of 5GC network function pool or service area (FFS).
> Editor's note: Although CCNF pool is mentioned in some solution candidate in
> TR 23. 799, but 3GPP SA2 has not define any kind 5GC NF pool or service area
> (e.g. AMF pool or UPF service area) in the draft specification (i.e. TS
> 23.501) till now,
Meanwhile, 5GC NRM IOCs associated to existing EPC NRM (e.g. IOC of AMF or Nx
reference point) need to be added to the corresponding NRM IRP specifications.
# 8 Conclusions
# 9 Recommendations
#