# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The network slicing is a key feature for the next generation network. It is
about transforming the network/system from a static "one size fits all"
paradigm, to a new paradigm where logical networks/partitions are created,
with appropriate isolation, resources and optimized topology to serve a
particular purpose or service category (e.g. use case/traffic category, or for
internal reasons) or even individual customers (logical system created "on
demand"). It can be enriched by use of NFV and SDN.
The network slicing concept consists of 3 layers: 1) Service Instance Layer,
2) Network Slice Instance Layer, and 3) Resource layer where each layer
requires management functions, see reference 3GPP TR 23.799 [2]. This document
specifies use cases for management of network slicing, potential requirements,
potential solutions and recommendations.
# 1 Scope
**The study investigates and makes recommendations on management and
orchestration for network slicing on the** Network Slice Instance Layer [2]
and for non virtualised NE's also the Resource layer**:**
1) Use cases and requirements for management and orchestration of network
slicing
2) Management and orchestration terminology and concepts for slices. The
relationship between network slice management and orchestration concepts
developed in this study and the management and orchestration concepts defined
by ETSI NFV.
3) Management of network function sharing in the context of network slicing
(e.g. network function sharing support, and lifecycle management functions of
the of mobile network resources for network slices).
4) Impacts to management when a slice instance is shared between multiple
parties (e.g. multiple partners and multiple domains etc.) based on the slice
sharing, see reference 3GPP TR 23.799 [2].
5) Isolation of management data between different parties within a slice
instance if needed.
6) Impacts derived from Management of 3GPP Network Slices on the ETSI MANO
architecture and procedures will be coordinated with ETSI.
7) Automation of management and orchestration of network slice instances and
the related policy configurations.
8) Management and orchestration mechanisms to support the isolation/separation
of mobile network resources used by different network slice instances and the
corresponding configuration of isolation/separation.
9) Solution for management and orchestration of network slicing and how it
affects the specifications (e.g. Interface IRPs, Network Resource models and
trace specifications).
Furthermore the 3GPP role for Service Instance Layer has been investigated.
The Resource layer for VNFs is excluded from this study.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.799: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Study on Architecture for
Next Generation System (Release 14)\"
[3] 3GPP TR 22.864: \"Feasibility Study on new Services and Markets Technology
Enablers -- Network Operation v14.0.0.\"
[4] NGMN 5G WS P1 Sub -- Task Network Management and Orchestration, v2.6.0.
[5] NGMN Alliance: \"Description of Network Slicing Concept\", Version 1.0,
January 13, 2016 (http://www.ngmn.org/publications/technical.html).
[6] 3GPP TS 28.500 Telecommunication management; Management concept,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**logical resource isolation:** FFS.
**network slice instance** : a set of network functions and the resources for
these network functions which are arranged and configured, forming a complete
logical network to meet certain network characteristics.
> NOTE: the concepts related to a network slice instance are described in
> paragraph 4.2
Editor's note 1: the meaning of "complete" in the definition is FFS
**network slice subnet descriptor:** description of the structure (and
contained components) and configuration of the network slice subnet instance
**network slice subnet instance:** a set of network functions and the
resources for these network functions which are arranged and configured to
form a logical network.
**physical resource isolation:** physical resource allocated for one network
slice cannot be used by other network slices in order to avoid negative effect
between multiple network slice instances.
_Editor's note 2: cleanup is needed to align the following terms:_ _"subnet",
"subnet instance", "Network Slice Subnet", "network slice subnet instance"._
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
> MANO Management and Orchestration
>
> NFV Network Functions Virtualisation
>
> NSI Network Slice Instance
>
> NSMF Network Slice Management Function
>
> NSSD Network Slice Subnet Descriptor
>
> NSSI Network Slice Subnet Instance
>
> NSSMF Network Slice Subnet Management Function
>
> SMF Service Management Function
>
> VNF Virtualized Network Function
# 4 Concepts and Background
## 4.1 Network Slice Instance (NSI) lifecycle
A Network Slice Instance (NSI) is a managed entity in the operator's network
with a lifecycle independent of the lifecycle of the service instance(s). In
particular, the service instances are not necessarily active through the whole
duration of the run-time phase. The NSI lifecycle typically includes an
instantiation, configuration and activation phase, a run-time phase and a
decommissioning phase. During the NSI lifecycle the operator needs to manage
the NSI.
The lifecycle of a network slice is described by the following phases:
  * Preparation phase
  * Instantiation, Configuration and Activation phase
  * Run-time phase
  * Decommissioning phase
Figure 4.1-1: Lifecycle phases of a NSI
Each phase defines high level tasks and should include appropriate
verification of the output of each task in the phase.
Preparation phase
In the preparation phase the NSI does not exist. The preparation phase
includes the creation and verification of network slice blueprint(s) [5], the
onboarding of these, preparing the necessary network environment which are
used to support the lifecycle of NSIs and any other preparations that are
needed in the network.
Instantiation, Configuration and Activation phase
During instantiation/configuration all resources shared/dedicated to the NSI
have been created and are configured, i.e. to a state where the NSI is ready
for operation. The activation step includes any actions that makes the NSI
active, e.g. diverting traffic to it, provisioning databases (if dedicated to
the network slice, otherwise this takes place in the preparation phase) etc.
Network slice instantiation, configuration and activation can include
instantiation, configuration and activation of other common and/or specific
network function(s).
Run-time phase
In the run-time phase the NSI is capable of traffic handling to support
communication services of certain type(s). The run-time phase includes
supervision/reporting (e.g. for KPI monitoring), as well as activities related
to upgrade and reconfiguration. Reconfiguration could map to several workflows
related to runtime tasks, e.g. scaling up capacity and moving network
functions.
Decommissioning phase
The decommissioning phase includes deactivation (taking the NSI out of active
duty) as well as the termination of dedicated resources and removal of
configuration of shared/dependent resources. After decommissioning the NSI
does not exist anymore.
## 4.2 Network slice concepts
Some of the concepts of a network slice are:
  * A NSI may be fully or partly, logically and/or physically, isolated > from another NSI.
  * The NSI contains NFs (e.g. belonging to AN and CN) as well as all > information relevant to the interconnections between these NFs > like topology of connections, individual link requirements (e.g. > QOS attributes), etc. The management of TN is out of scope of 3GPP > and takes into account topology of required connections and > individual requirements specified in 3GPP NSI.
  * The resources comprises of physical and logical resources.
  * The NSI is defined by a Network Slice Template.
  * Editor's note: the relation between NST and NSI is FFS.
  * Instance-specific policies and configurations are required when > creating a NSI.
  * Network characteristics examples are ultra-low-latency, > ultra-reliability etc.
  * NSI contains Core Network part and Access Network part.
Information model attached to network slices:
Assumption No. 1: a NSI may support zero or more communication services
Assumption No. 2: a communication service may be served by one or more (e.g.
in case of service bundle) NSIs, possibly of different network slice types.
Assumption No. 3: A NSI may be composed of subnets of Physical Network
Functions and/or Virtualized Network Functions.
Assumption No. 4: Physical Network Functions and Virtualized Network Functions
may belong to one or more network slice subnet(s).
Assumption No. 5: Virtualized Network Functions are deployed on top of
virtualized resources.
{width="3.8631944444444444in" height="5.333333333333333in"}
**Figure 4.2-1: Network Slice related information model.**
> NOTE 1: Figure 4.2-1 is not a Network Resource Model IRP IS class diagram.
Editor's note 1: Mapping the concepts of Figure 4.2-1 on ETSI ISG NFV concepts
is FFS.
Editor's note 2: it is FFS both: a/ whether a Network Function can have a
direct participation in a Network Slice, and/or b/ whether a Network Function
can have a participation in a Network Slice as part of a Network Slice Subnet
(refer to: Description of Network Slicing Concept by NGMN Alliance - Figure
1).
Editor's note 3: It is FFS whether there is an inheritance relationship
between Network Slice and Network Slice Subnet.
## 4.3 Network slice subnet concepts
Some of the concepts of a network slice subnet are:
  * A network slice subnet instance (NSSI) may be shared by one or more > network slices instances.
  * Examples of a NSSI may be a NSSI containing Core Network functions, > a NSSI containing Access Network functions, or a NSSI containing > both Core Network functions and Access Network functions.
  * The resources comprise physical and logical resources.
  * A NSSI may contain other NSSIs.
  * According to Annex B.1 in [2], a NSI may be composed of none, one > or more NSSIs, which may be shared with another NSI.
Editor's note 1: the relevance of how a NSSI is created is for FFS
Editor's note 2: the question if logical resources are also virtual resources
is for FFS
Editor's note 3: whether a network slice subnet is required to form a complete
logical network is FFS
Editor's note 4: relation between life cycle management of the NSI and NSSI is
FFS.
A NSSI constituent can include NF(s) and NSSI(s).
## 4.4 SON concepts in network slicing
**To improve the operational sustainability in 5G, SON concepts, as key
enabler which were introduced in 4G, may be reused for 5G. Evolution to 5G may
bring increased network dimension and complexity, especially considering the
multiple services/devices/tenants in 5G networks. In this context, operators
may want to use concepts of SON as key feature to leverage 5G network slicing
management.**
The lifecycle phases of NSI typically include preparation phase,
instantiation, configuration and activation phase, run-time phase and
decommissioning phase. During the lifecycle phases of NSI, applying certain
SON concepts would be helpful to achieve the automation for management and
orchestration of NSIs.
The main aspects of SON concepts that can potentially be leveraged for network
slicing management include:
  * NSI Self-Optimization. The NSIs can be modified automatically and > continually adapted to the service/network/network function > situations like traffic, topology, etc. The status of the target > NSIs is monitored, including the status of network functions and > services. Examples of parameters to be monitored at the network > functions and also for the services are throughput, latency, the > number of connections, etc. The management system may configure > some slice-specific parameters for the NSIs to get a better > performance of network slicing. For example, based on SON outputs, > the management system may re-configure the links between some > network functions to modify the topology of the NSI for > improvement in resource utilization.
  * NSI Self-Healing. For the running NSIs, SON algorithms could > identify the failures of NSIs and apply some corrective actions. > The network functions which compose the NSI support fast failure > recovery and healing mechanisms, thus enabling automatic > convergence of the affected network functions to a stable desired > state. The results of the Self-Healing needs to be notified to the > operator.
> _Editor's note: other major aspects of SON, in addition to NSI Self-
> Optimization and Self-Healing, are FFS._
## 4.5 Key issues for network slicing management
The potential key issues for network slicing management to be addressed in the
TR are as following:
**Issue 1. Align slice instance related terms**
Define the network slice related terms.
**Issue 2. Design of the network slice to support services provided by the
operator**
How the services are requested from the 3GPP management system and how they
are facilitated using a NSI.
**Issue 3. NSI FCAPS management**
How to use FCAPS management for network slicing management.
**Issue 4. SON evolution for network slice management**
How to apply SON concept for network slicing management.
**Issue 5. Orchestration of network slice**
What the different compositions of a network slice and how it is orchestrated.
**Issue 6. Shared slice instance management**
How a network slice is shared across multiple services.
**Issue 7. Multi-domain Slice orchestration**
Different ways of creating a slice across multiple administrative domains.
## 4.6 High-level functional model of business roles
In the context of next generation networks, responsibilities with regard to
operations have to be clearly defined and assigned to roles. High-level
business roles include:
  * Communication Service Customer (CSC): Uses communication services.
  * Communication Service Provider (CSP): Provides communication > services (see 4.7). Designs, builds and operates its communication > services.
  * Network Operator (NOP): Provides network services. Designs, builds > and operates its networks to offer such services.
  * Virtualization Infrastructure Service Provider (VISP): Provides > virtualized infrastructure services. Designs, builds and operates > its virtualization infrastructure(s). Virtualization > Infrastructure Service Providers may also offer their virtualized > infrastructure services to other types of customers including to > Communication Service Providers directly, i.e. without going > through the Network Operator.
  * Data Centre Service Provider (DCSP): Provides data centre services. > Designs, builds and operates its data centres.
  * Network Equipment Provider (NEP): Supplies network equipment. For > sake of simplicity, VNF Supplier is considered here as a type of > Network Equipment Provider.
  * NFVI Supplier: Supplies network function virtualization > infrastructure to its customers.
  * Hardware Supplier: Supplies hardware.
Depending on actual deployments, the roles defined here above can be played by
one single organization or by several ones. Hence, an organization can play
one or several roles defined above.
NOTE 1: the list of roles above is not exhaustive, for sake of simplicity.
{width="6.531944444444444in" height="3.8229166666666665in"}
**Figure 4.6-1. High-level model of roles**
NOTE 1: the above diagram does not carry notion of hierarchy or layering, in
particular it does not preclude from relations between non-neighbouring role
nodes.
NOTE 2: in case the Network Operator offers network services partly or wholly
based on Physical Network Functions, the responsibility for designing,
building and operating such parts of the network services is under the
responsibility of the Network Operator. It does not involve the Virtualization
Infrastructure Service Provider.
## 4.7 Types of communication services
Communication services offered by Communication Service Providers are of
various categories, among which:
\- B2C services, e.g. mobile web browsing, VoLTE, Rich Communication Services,
etc.
\- B2B services, e.g. Internet access, LAN interconnexion, etc.
\- B2B2X services: e.g. services offered to other Communication Service
Providers (e.g. international roaming, RAN sharing, etc.) or to Verticals
(e.g. eMBB, etc.) offering themselves communication services to their own
customers. B2B2X service type includes B2B2 applied recursively, i.e. B2B2B,
B2B2B2B, etc.
## 4.8 Services using the Network Slice concept
### 4.8.1 Network Slices as NOP internals
Types of services listed in 4.7 are offered by CSPs to their customers,
relying on Network Operator(s) network services. Depending on CSP requirements
and/or Network Operator own policies, the Network Operator can decide to
provide required network services using network slices. In such a case, only
the Network Operator has knowledge of the existence of network slices; the CSP
and its customers haven't.
### 4.8.2 Network Slice as a Service
Network slice as a Service can be offered by CSPs to their customers, leaving
the latter ones the possibility to offer their own services on top on network
slice services (B2B2X). Such network slice services could be characterized by
e.g.
  * radio access technology,
  * bandwidth,
  * end-to-end latency,
  * guaranteed / non-guaranteed QoS,
  * security level, etc.
Depending on service offering, CSP imposes limits on the network slice
characteristics that will be exposed to the CSC, and CSP imposes limits on the
network slice management capabilities that will be exposed to the CSC.
A CSP offering Network Slices as a Service relies on network services offered
by one or more network Operators.
## 4.9 Network slice related management functions
The following management functions are needed to manage the NSIs to support
communication services:
> \- Service Management Function (SMF)
>
> \- Responsible for translating the service related requirement to network
> slice related requirements.
>
> \- Communicate with Network Slice Management Function (NSMF).
>
> \- Network Slice Management Function (NSMF)
>
> \- Responsible for management and orchestration of NSI.
>
> \- Derive network slice subnet related requirements from network slice
> related requirements.
>
> \- Communicate with the Network Slice Subnet Management Function (NSSMF) and
> service management function.
>
> \- Network Slice Subnet Management Function (NSSMF)
>
> \- Responsible for management and orchestration of NSSI.
>
> \- Communicate with the NSMF.
**Figure 4.9-1 network slice related management functions**
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Use case for creating two new NSIs for different end user services with
shared AN and no common CN NFs
### 5.1.1 Pre-conditions
Operator wants to deploy MBB and mIoT services in the network.
The shared AN of multiple slices is available.
### 5.1.2 Description
Several inputs are relevant for differentiating among services.
In this use case, the operator decides to create two NSIs without using common
CN NFs: one for MBB services and another for mIoT services.
The operator configures the NSIs. Both the NSI for MBB and the NSI for mIoT
contain dedicated CN NF respectively.
The operator then activates the two NSIs A and B.
### 5.1.3 Post-conditions
Two NSIs with different characteristics have been created and are operational
to carry the MBB services and mIoT services.
## 5.2 Management support to the network slicing
### 5.2.1 Pre-conditions
**Operator wants to create and manage NSIs based on customers\' needs.**
### 5.2.2 Description
Network slicing is a key enabler for new business models. By exploiting the
network slice specific customization, the mobile network customers and
industry customers could share the same network infrastructure, where each
customer could have the corresponding NSI to fulfill each own different
requirements, such as policy control, security, mobility, charging, latency,
reliability, etc.
The main aspects of management support to the network slicing include:
  * The operator creates NSIs based on different service requirements. > For example, the operator may create two NSIs for two different > requirements: one NSI with medium throughput and low latency for > V2X communication and the other NSI with high throughput and high > latency toleration for HD video streaming.
  * The operator monitors the status of the target NSIs, such as network > functions, services, throughput, latency, the number of > connections, etc., and may configure some slice-specific > parameters.
  * When the service is no longer needed, the operator may delete the > corresponding NSI if that NSI does not support any services.
### 5.2.3 Post-conditions
**Different NSIs fulfil different requirements of customers using the same
network infrastructure**.
## 5.3 Creating a NSI with common and slice specific CN network functions and
shared AN
### 5.3.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to create multiple NSIs. The NSIs may contain some
functions that are common to multiple NSIs and some that are specific to a
NSI.
The shared AN supporting multiple slices is available.
### 5.3.2 Description
In some cases, common CN network functions can be shared among multiple NSIs.
The common CN network functions can be virtualized network functions or non-
virtualized network functions.
The operator selects some common CN network functions and slice specific
network functions to compose a NSI. The operator specifies the associated
parameters to create a NSI (e.g. loading and geographic constraints).
When creating a new NSI, the operator determines if existing common CN network
functions are available.
  * In the case that common CN network functions are available, only the > slice specific CN network functions may need to be created. The > existing common CN network functions may need to be reconfigured, > and the resources supporting the common CN network functions may > need to be added in order to ensure that the common CN network > functions can serve the NSI being created.
  * In the case that no common CN network functions are available, the > common CN network functions need to be created and the specific CN > network functions may need to be created respectively. The new > common CN network functions that are created only belong to the > new single NSI at this point until being shared by other NSIs.
### 5.3.3 Post-conditions
A NSI is created where some of the CN network functions are common to multiple
NSIs and some are specific to the NSI.
## 5.4 Modifying a NSI with common and slice specific CN network functions and
shared AN
### 5.4.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to modify an existing NSI that is composed of network
functions that are common to multiple NSIs and specific to the NSI.
The shared AN supporting multiple slices is available.
### 5.4.2 Description
Operator determines whether the common CN network functions or specific CN
network functions of the NSI need to be modified.
  * The operator may decide that for modification of the NSI it is > enough to modify the identified slice specific CN network > functions. Otherwise the operator may decide to create new slice > specific CN network functions in order to satisfy the network > slice modification needs and then delete the obsolete slice > specific CN network functions which are replaced by the newly > created slice specific CN network functions.
  * If the operator wants to modify the common CN network functions, the > operator checks whether the modification of common CN network > functions may impact other NSIs and takes appropriate actions as > below,
    * If there is no impact then the operator updates the common CN > network function where needed. If the modification of the > common CN network functions is not applicable then the > operator may decide to create new common CN network functions > in order to satisfy the modification needs.
    * If there is impact, the operator may not perform the > modification of common CN network functions or may decide to > create new CN network functions only for the NSI being > modified in order to satisfy the modification needs and avoid > the impact on other NSIs. The newly created CN network > functions only belong to the NSI being modified until being > shared with other NSIs by configuration.
### 5.4.3 Post-conditions
A NSI that is composed of common CN network functions and slice specific CN
network functions are modified by the operator without negatively impacting
the other NSIs.
## 5.5 Terminating a NSI with common and slice specific CN network functions
and shared AN
### 5.5.1 Pre-conditions
No service is provided any more by the NSI to be terminated.
The shared AN supporting multiple slices is available.
### 5.5.2 Description
Operator terminates an existing NSI. If the NSI to be terminated depends on
common CN network functions which are used by multiple NSIs, the common CN
network functions may need to be configured, the network slice specific
network functions may be terminated. The relation between the common CN
network functions and the NSI needs to be released. The shared AN of the NSI
needs to be re-configured.
### 5.5.3 Post-conditions
A NSI is terminated by the operator.
## 5.6 Use case for Management support to provide a customer's service request
using a NSI
### 5.6.1 Pre-conditions
The network operator has a catalogue of the types of business services it can
offer to the customers with their own end user/device population distributed
in a geographical area.
Editor's note: Customer can be a 3^rd^ party service provider or network
operator's own service department.
The customer has obtained the type of business services that can be provided
by the network operator.
### 5.6.2 Description
> The customer requests the network operator to support a specific business
> service. This request includes the service requirements such as isolation,
> security and performance requirements (e.g. traffic demand requirements for
> the coverage areas, QoS for services, etc.).
>
> The management system determines whether the service can be provided
> checking the available network resources and remaining network capacity in
> the specified geographical areas for the specified durations.
>
> If service can be provided, the management system will negotiate for an
> appropriate agreement with the customer.
>
> The NSMF creates a NSI to provide the agreed service requirements including
> the required isolation and security.
>
> The NSMF monitors the fault and performance of the NSI and ensure meeting
> the agreed service requirements including providing necessary monitoring
> information to the customer.
### 5.6.3 Post-conditions
A NSI is created to provide the service to the satisfaction of the SLA and
network KPIs required by the customer.
## 5.7 Network slice creation
### 5.7.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants a NSI which includes CN (Core Network) part and RAN part.
> NOTE: The use case do not make any assumption on any potential RAN internal
> slicing.
### 5.7.2 Description
In some case, a network slice which includes CN part and RAN part is needed.
Both CN part and RAN part of network slice can be shared by different NSIs.
Operator wants a NSI to support customer service.
The main aspects of management to support network slice creation includes:
  * The NSMF determines to reuse an existing NSI or create a new NSI. If > an existing NSI can be reused, the operator may reconfigure the > existing NSI. If no existing NSI is available, the NSMF will > determine to create a new NSI and the following steps is included.
> NOTE: two scenarios for reusing an existing NSI:
  * An existing NSI which is used to support other customer services > currently may be shared for the requested customer service.
  * An existing NSI which is not used to support any customer service > currently (e.g. retained previously) may be used for the requested > customer service.
```{=html}
``` \- The NSMF determines the CN part-related requirements and RAN > part-
related requirements based on customer requirements.
  * For the CN part-related requirements, the NSMF determines the NSI > without common CN NF as described in Section 5.1 or the NSI with > common and slice specific CN NF as described in Section 5.3.
```{=html}
``` \- For the RAN part-related requirements, the NSMF determines to > utilize
existing RAN NEs or new RAN NEs.
### 5.7.3 Post-conditions
A NSI which includes CN part and RAN part is created.
## 5.8 Use cases for management data isolation when NSI is shared by multiple
customers
### 5.8.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to use one slice instance to serve multiple customers (i.e.
other network operator or enterprises etc.) simultaneously and customers want
to get the management data of the slice instance, such as performance
measurements. It's assumed the NSMF has the ability to generate the management
data separately for different customers.
Editor's note: having access to management data by customers, and the level of
visibility of a network slice by a customer is FFS.
### 5.8.2 Description
When the service requirements of multiple customers can be fulfilled by the
same NSI, the operator may decide to create a single NSI. The created NSI is
shared to serve multiple customers.
In the case of there is fault or the performance degradation in the slice
instance, the customer service may be influenced. The customer may want to
know the fault information or the performance information of the slice
instance which cause the service problem.
The management data (e.g. fault management data, performance data etc.) for
different customers may be separated.
It's up to the operator to decide whether a customer service is to be served
by the same NSI or by different NSIs.
If the service requirements of one of the customers sharing the slice instance
changes, the operator may decide to modify the slice instance without
negatively impacting the service to other parties, if possible. For example,
the operator may check if the modification or reconfiguration is against the
resource usage policies of other services provided by the same NSI. If there
is no conflict, the operator then modifies or reconfigures the NSI.
### 5.8.3 Post-conditions
Multiple customers are served by the same NSI with access to their network
management data.
## 5.9 Supervise a NSI
### 5.9.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to supervise an instantiated network slice to be aware of
and resolve problems or potential problems with a NSI based on the received
alarm notifications.
The NSI is composed of NSSIs consisting of network functions and resources. A
NSSI can be associated with only one NSI or with multiple NSIs.
The NSMF knows which NSSIs are associated with each NSI.
### 5.9.2 Description
The NSI is configured so that appropriate alarm notifications are generated
and sent to the NSMF. The NSMF receives alarm notifications for a NSI:
  * In case the NSMF receives alarm notifications related to the > dedicated NSSI, all alarm notifications related to the dedicated > NSSI are applicable to the associated NSI. The NSMF supervises the > NSI based on the alarm notifications.
  * In case the NSMF receives alarm notifications related to the shared > NSSI, the alarm notifications might be applicable to some specific > associated NSI that is using that shared NSSI. The NSMF identifies > the alarm notifications belong to which NSI(s), and supervises > NSI(s) based on the identified alarm notifications.
The NSMF may allow or suppress alarm notifications related to the NSSI to
satisfy the fault management requirements of the associated NSI(s).
### 5.9.3 Post-conditions
The NSMF provides alarm supervision of a NSI to the operator.
Editor's note: Which function block the NSMF belongs to is FFS.
## 5.10 Monitor the performance of a NSI
### 5.10.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to understand the performance of the network slice to
ensure SLA compliance. The network slice is instantiated and configured by the
NSMF so that the appropriate performance data is generated.
The NSMF knows which NSSIs are associated with each NSI A NSSI can be
associated with multiple NSIs.
### 5.10.2 Description
Network slice performance management is carried out at both NSI level and NSSI
level. An example is shown in the following figure 5.10.2-1. NSI 1 is composed
by network slice subnet instance 1 and network slice subnet instance 2.
Firstly, performance data of network slice subnet instances is collected. Then
performance data of a NSI can be generated based on all the performance data
related to network slice subnet instances.
Figure 5.10.2-1 Example of network slice performance management
  * Performance data generation at NSI level
> In order to understand the performance of a NSI, some performance data at
> NSI level need to be obtained. For example, performance data at the NSI
> level may include traffic load data of the whole NSI, service performance
> data provided by the NSI. Traffic load data of a NSI indicates the level of
> both the total user traffic and the signalling traffic within a NSI. The
> service performance data includes the total user traffic, the signalling
> traffic and QoS data corresponding to a particular service instance. QoS
> data of services can indicate whether the NSI delivers services at expected
> QoS level.
>
> In order to obtain NSI level performance data, the NSMF firstly collects
> performance data related to NSSIs associated with the NSI. The NSMF then
> generates NSI level performance data based on performance data related to
> NSSIs.
  * Performance data collection at NSSI level
> The NSMF decides to create measurement jobs on network functions in NSSIs.
> Measurement jobs includes measurement parameters, scheduling information and
> an indication for pointing out the NSI for which performance data needs to
> be collected. The data is collected and provided to the NSMF by the NSSIs.
A NSSI can be dedicated to a NSI or can be shared by multiple NSIs.
a) In case of a dedicated NSSI all performance data from the network > slice
subnet is identified per NSI that is using that NSSI. The > data may be
collected for different QoS levels or for different > service instances
included in the NSI as per the request from the > network management function.
b) In case of a shared NSSI the performance data is segregated per NSI > that
is using that shared NSSI. The data may be collected for > different QoS
levels, for different service instances or for > different slice instance
level as per the request from the network > management function.
### 5.10.3 Post-conditions
The NSMF has the performance data of all NSSIs that are associated with the
NSI.
The NSMF generates slice instance level performance data of a NSI based on the
performance data of all NSSIs that are associated with the NSI.
Editor's note: Which function block the NSMF belongs to is FFS
## 5.11 Network slice performance threshold monitoring
### 5.11.1 Pre-conditions
A NSI is in service.
Operator wants to monitor performance parameters in a NSI by setting
thresholds and receiving alarms notifications.
### 5.11.2 Description
In order to monitor performance of a NSI, the NSMF determines thresholds for
performance parameters that need to be monitored by several NFs of the NSI.
The NSMF can set thresholds on both common and specific NFs for monitoring
performance parameters of the NSI. The performance parameters of the NSI are
monitored by NFs. Once the thresholds are met, NFs will generate threshold
crossing/reaching alarm notifications specific to the NSI.
### 5.11.3 Post-conditions
Thresholds for performance parameters of a NSI have been created on NFs.
The NSMF is ready to receive performance alarm notifications related to a NSI.
## 5.12 Use case for activation of a NSI
### 5.12.1 Pre-conditions
A NSI is configured.
The NSI is not providing telecommunication service.
### 5.12.2 Description
The NSMF activates the NSI for providing the intended telecommunication
service through activating all necessary CN network functions of the NSI, RAN
NEs of the NSI, and possibly other part of the NSI. Activation is performed by
using management interfaces to request managed entities to move to a state
which relates to activation of the telecommunication service supported by the
NSI. The activation of the CN network functions, RAN NEs and other parts of a
NSI may follow a sequential order.
The NSMF changes the NSI status to activated.
### 5.12.3 Post-conditions
The NSI is providing telecommunication service.
## 5.13 Use case for deactivation of a NSI
### 5.13.1 Pre-conditions
A NSI is activated.
### 5.13.2 Description
The NSMF deactivates the NSI to stop providing telecommunication service on
current NSI through deactivating all CN network functions of the NSI, RAN NEs
of the NSI, and possibly other part of the NSI. The ongoing telecommunication
service supported by the NSI is terminated if it is not supported by any other
NSI. Deactivation is performed by using management interfaces to request
managed entities to move to a state which relates to deactivation of the
telecommunication service supported by the NSI. The deactivation of the CN
network functions, RAN NEs and other parts of a NSI may follow a sequential
order.
The NSMF changes the NSI status to deactivated.
### 5.13.3 Post-conditions
The NSI is not providing telecommunication service.
## 5.14 Management support for policy configuration
### 5.14.1 Pre-conditions
The NSMF has decided to create a new network slice and the policies for the
operation and management of the respective slice need to be created.
### 5.14.2 Description
Policy management functionality is required to derive appropriate policies for
NSI operation and management according to service requirements and available
network resources.
The policy may be accompanied by the information on what needs to be done if
the configuration based on the policy is violated
### 5.14.3 Post-conditions
Appropriate policies are configured and enforced to ensure the proper
operation and management of the NSIs.
## 5.15 Management support for RAN configuration
### 5.15.1 Pre-conditions
The NSMF is configuring a network slice.
The NSMF has identified that a RAN part of a network slice need to be
configured.
### 5.15.2 Description
The NSMF configures the RAN part of the network slice. More details are FFS.
The NSMF configures the RAN part of the network slice with information about
the related CN part of the network slice. More details are FFS.
### 5.15.3 Post-conditions
The RAN part of the network slice has been configured.
The RAN part of the network slice has information about the related CN part of
the network slice.
## 5.16 Use case of changing capacity of a NSI
### 5.16.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to change the capacity of a NSI by enlarging the NSI or
shrinking the existing NSI with specified CN network function. The specified
CN network function can be common to multiple NSIs or specific to the NSI.
The shared AN supporting multiple slices is available.
### 5.16.2 Description
The operator determines whether the NSI needs to be enlarged or shrunk.
  * If the operator wants to enlarge the NSI, the operator may decide > that for enlarging the NSI, it is enough to change the capacity of > identified specified CN network functions. If it is not > applicable, then the operator may decide to create new specified > CN network functions for the NSI.
  * If the operator wants to shrink the NSI, the operator determines > whether the capacity of common CN network functions or specific CN > network functions of the NSI need to be changed.
a. The operator may decide that for shrinking the NSI, it is enough > to
change the capacity of identified slice specific CN network > functions. If it
is not applicable, then the operator may > decide to take out one or some of
the identical slice specific > CN network functions.
b. If the operator wants to change the capacity of the common CN > network
functions, the operator checks if the capacity > changing may negatively
impact other NSIs and takes > appropriate actions as below.
        -   If there is no negative impact, then the operator changes
        > the capacity of identified common CN network functions. If
        > the changing capacity of the common CN network function is
        > not applicable, then the operator may decide to take out
        > one or some of the common CN network functions.
    -   If there is negative impact on other NSI, the operator may
        > not perform changing capacity of the common CN network
        > functions.
```{=html}
``` \- In both cases as a part of the modification the operator may need to >
perform appropriate reconfiguration of the existing CN network > functions to
reflect these modifications.
### 5.16.3 Post-conditions
The capacity of NSI that is composed of common CN network functions and slice
specific CN network functions is changed by the operator.
Editor's note: the relation of this use case and the use case of modifying a
NSI with common and slice specific CN network functions and shared AN is FFS.
## 5.17 Use case for management support to facilitate UE roaming between NSIs
in different administrative domains
### 5.17.1 Pre-conditions
The UE may move across multiple administrative domains.
Multiple operators have roaming agreements.
### 5.17.2 Description
The operator knows the information of other NSIs which belongs to other
operators. An example of the information is the network slice selection
assistant information (NSSAI).
The operators configure the network to support the UEs roaming from the
coverage area of one NSI to the coverage area of another NSI. For example,
when NSSAI is not standardized, operator A may configure some network
functions (e.g., network slice selection function) of the NSI to be aware of
the NSSAI of NSIs from operator B to facilitate the mapping between NSSAIs
since the UE may provide the NSSAI of the NSI from operator B when it moves
from the administrative domain of operator B to the administrative domain of
operator A.
### 5.17.3 Post-conditions
NSIs from different administrative domains can provide desired service to the
customer.
## 5.18 Limited level of management exposure for multiple NSIs
### 5.18.1 Pre-conditions
Customers want specific NSIs created by the operator.
### 5.18.2 Description
Multiple network slices required by different customers may have the same type
of service but with different KPI and/or QoS/QoE.
According to NSI creation described in Section 5.3, the operator may create
multiple network slice served by the same NFs and management system to provide
the agreed service requirements including the required management exposure.
Currently, operators provide service management exposures to the customers,
that the network management (i.e. NMs and EMs) and the infrastructure
management are not typically exposed to customers. Operators will need to
extend the current service management offers into limited level of management
exposures in network and infrastructure, which the management exposure is
agreed by both operator and the customer. These limited level of exposure
should be part of the operator extended offer to NSI customer. Typical example
for this use case is from the Enterprise communication market where each
company is represented as a tenant.
### 5.18.3 Post-conditions
The limited level of management exposure agreed by customer and operator of
the created specific NSIs are provided to the customers.
## 5.19 Creating an end-to-end NSI across multiple operators
### 5.19.1 Pre-conditions
An operator wants to create an end-to-end NSI across multiple operators. Non-
management pre-requisites, such as trust relationships between operators,
legal and business related, to create such a slice are assumed to exist. The
operators in this use case have agreed upon to the limits of exposure of the
management interface.
> NOTE: The use case does not make any assumption on any potential operator
> internal slicing.
### 5.19.2 Description
An operator A wants to create an end-to-end NSI to support a telecommunication
service across multiple operators, Operator A and Operator B. The end-to-end
NSMF for this network slice resides with Operator A. This end-to-end NSI
across multiple operators will be composed of NSSIs from operator A and NSSIs
from Operator B.
Operator A performs the following actions for the creation of an end-to-end
NSI across multiple operators:
  * Operator A determines to use its own and Operator B's network to > create the end-to-end NSI, decomposes the service request of the > end-to-end network slice for Operator A's and Operator B's > network, and requests the creation of NSSIs to each operator.
  * Both operators may either create a new NSSIs or use an existing one > as a part of the end-to-end NSI.
  * When requested, Operator B provides management data (e.g., > performance data) to Operator A for the NSSI hosted by operator B > and belonging to operator A's end-to-end NSI
> NOTE: Operator A may determine to use more than two operators to support the
> end-to-end NSI. Operator A remains responsible for the management of the
> end-to-end NSI.
### 5.19.3 Post-conditions
A NSI extending multiple operators is created.
## 5.20 Changing capacity of a NSSI
### 5.20.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and NSSMF are operational. The NSSI is handling traffic
### 5.20.2 Description
The NSMF determines if the capacity of a NSSI needs to be increased or
decreased. The NSMF requests the NSSMF to increase or decrease the capacity of
the NSSI.
In case of increasing the NSSI capacity the NSSMF may decide to increase the
capacity of the NSSI constituents or adding new constituents to the NSSI. When
adding new constituents to the NSSI the NSSMF may need to re-configure the
added constituents.
In case of decreasing the capacity of the NSSI the NSSMF may decide to
decrease the capacity of the NSSI constituents or by removing constituents
from the NSSI. In case of removing constituents from the NSSI the NSSMF may
need to re-configure the remaining constituents.
### 5.20.3 Post-condition
The capacity of a NSSI has been changed.
Editor's note 1: The method of capacity change 1) validity is subject to
pending definition of NSSI capacity 2) this definition is FFS
Editor's note 2: change capacity of a shared NF participating in multiple
NSSIs which are management by a different NSSMF is for FSS
## 5.21 Activation of a NSSI
### 5.21.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and NSSMF are operational. A NSSI is configured and is not active,
and part of an NSI.. The connectivity between the NSSI and the other parts of
the NSI has been pre-provisioned.
### 5.21.2 Description
The NSMF requests the NSSMF to activate a NSSI. The NSSMF activates the NSSI
through activating all necessary constituents of the NSSI.. The NSSMF changes
the NSSI status to activated and informs the NSMF that the NSSI has been
activated.
### 5.21.3 Post-condition
The NSSI has been activated and the NSMF has been informed. The NSSI is in
run-time phase.
## 5.22 De-activation of a NSSI
### 5.22.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and the NSSMF are operational. A NSSI is activated and in run-time
phase
### 5.22.2 Description
The NSMF requests the NSSMF to de-activate a NSSI. The NSSMF de-activates the
NSSI by de-activating all necessary constituents of the NSSI.
The NSSMF changes the NSSI status to de-activated and informs the NSMF that
the NSSI has been de-activated.
### 5.22.3 Post-condition
The NSSI has been de-activated and the NSMF has been informed. The
connectivity between the NSSI and other parts of the NSI is still pre-
provisioned.
Editor's note 1: the de-activation of shared NSSI's are FFS.
Editor's note 2: de-activation of a shared NF participating in multiple NSSIs
which are management by a different NSSMF is for FSS
## 5.23 Creation of a NSSI
### 5.23.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and NSSMF are operational. The NSMF determines that a new NSSI is
needed.
### 5.23.2 Description
The NSMF requests the NSSMF to create a NSSI. The NSSMF analyses the request
from the NSMF and determines which network functions and resources are needed.
The NSSMF creates and configures the NSSI constituent parts which may include
both virtualized and non-virtualized NFs.
### 5.23.3 Post-condition
The NSSI has been created and is configured and not in run-time phase. The
NSSMF has informed the NSMF of the creation of the NSSI.
## 5.24 Termination of a NSSI
### 5.24.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and NSSMF are operational. The NSSI is not in run-time phase. The
NSMF determines that the NSSI is not required. The NSMF requests the NSSMF to
terminate the NSSI.
### 5.24.2 Description
The NSSMF terminates an existing NSSI by terminating the constituents of the
NSSI. If a constituent of the NSSI to be terminated is shared with other
NSSI's that constituent needs to be re-configured. The relation between the
shared NSSI constituents and the terminated NSSI needs to be released.
### 5.24.3 Post-condition
The NSSI has been terminated and the NSSMF has informed the NSMF
Editor's note: termination of a shared NF participating in multiple NSSIs
which are management by a different NSSMF is for FSS
## 5.25 Monitor performance of a NSSI
### 5.25.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and NSSMF are operational. The NSMF requires to monitor the
performance of an active NSSI. The NSSI is instantiated and configured by the
NSSMF. The appropriate performance data is generated by the constituent parts
of the NSSI.
### 5.25.2 Description
The NSMF requests the NSSMF to provide the performance management data of a
NSSI. The NSSMF creates a performance management job for the constituent parts
of the NSSI to enable collection of the performance data for a NSSI.
Measurement jobs includes measurement parameters, scheduling information and
an indication for pointing out the NSSI for which performance data needs to be
collected. The data is collected for and provided to the NSSMF by the
constituents of the NSSI.
c) In case of a dedicated constituents of the NSSI the performance data from
the constituents are identified per NSSI. The data may be collected by the
NSMF that manages the NSI served by the NSSI
d) In case of a shared constituents of the NSSI the performance data is
segregated per NSSI that is using that shared constituent of the NSSI. The
data may be collected by different NSMF(s) for the NSIs using the shared NSSI.
### 5.25.3 Post-condition
The NSSMF has the performance data of the constituents of a NSSI. The NSSMF
can provide the requested performance data to the NSMF.
Editor's note 1: the creation of jobs on NSSI constituent parts managed by
another NSSMF instance is for FFS
Editor's note 2: The PM data that is relevant to NSSI's is for further study
## 5.26 Supervision of a NSSI
### 5.26.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF wants to supervise an instantiated and activated NSSI to be aware of
and resolve problems or potential problems with a NSSI based on the received
alarm notifications. The NSSI is configured by the NSSMF so that appropriate
alarm notifications are generated and sent to the NSSMF
### 5.26.2 Description
The NSSMF supervises the NSSI and its constituents. The NSSMF receives alarm
notifications for a NSSI from its constituents.
In case of the constituents of the NSSI are dedicated to the NSSI all alarm
notifications from the constituents are applicable to the NSSI.
In case the constituents of the NSSI are shared with other NSSI(s) the alarm
notifications might be applicable a specific NSSI that is using that shared
constituent.
### 5.26.3 Post-conditions
The NSSMF provides alarm supervision of a NSSI to the NSMF.
## 5.27 Modification of a NSSI
### 5.27.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and NSSMF are operational. The NSI is in run-time phase. The NSMF
requires the modification of a NSSI. The change of the capability in the NSI
is within the existing network slice definitions as defined in the NST.
### 5.27.2 Description
The NSSMF modifies the constituents of the NSSI. The NSSMF receives and
analyses the modification request from the NSMF. The NSSMF determines which of
the constituents needs to be modified.
In the case a constituent of a NSSI is shared with other NSSI(s) the NSSMF
determines whether the modification of the NSSI may impact the shared
constituents.
  * If there is no impact the NSSMF modifies the shared constituents of the NSSI where needed.
  * If there is impact, the NSSMF may not modify the shared constituents or may decide to create new or remove existing constituents for the NSSI being modified in order to satisfy the modification request. The newly created constituents are added to the NSSI being modified or existing constituents are removed from the NSSI being modified.
### 5.27.3 Post-condition
The NSSI has been modified and the NSMF has been informed.
Editor's note: the relation between the modification of NSSI constituents and
the NS update and scale are FFS
Editor's note: modification of a shared NF participating in multiple NSSIs
which are managed by a different NSSMF is for FSS
## 5.28 Use case for creating network slice with shared NSSIs
### 5.28.1 Pre-conditions
None.
### 5.28.2 Description
Network slice can be created using NSSIs according to different requests from
the customer. One possible method of NSI creation is described below for
example.
NSSI A, NSSI B and NSSI C are composed by NFs, as exhibited in Figure 4.x.2-1
for example.
a. NSSI A is described by NFs (i.e. NF1-NF4);
b. NSSI B is described by NFs (i.e. NF5 and NF6);
c. NSSI C is described by NFs (i.e. NF7-NF9).
NSSI A is connected to NSSI B and NSSI C, composing two NSIs, where NSSI B and
NSSI C are independent. NSI X is composed of NSSI A and NSSI C, NSI Y is
composed of NSSI A and NSSI B.
> **Figure 5.29-1: NSI X and Y composed by NSSI A, B and C**
### 5.28.3 Post-conditions
NSI is created with shared NSSIs.
## 5.29 Instantiation, configuration and activation of NSI in the network with
virtualized NFs
### 5.29.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to create a NSI in the network that includes virtualized
NFs. The NSI is needed to support certain telecommunication services designed
in the preparation phase (see the clause 4.1).
### 5.29.2 Description
The NSMF receives requirements that need to be satisfied for establishment of
the planned services, such as network latency. Some requirements may be
triggering immediate allocation of network resources while others are defined
in terms of the policy of allocation at later time, when particular services
are activated.
According to the requirements, the NSSMF, per request from the NSMF, creates
needed NSSIs:
> \- configures and triggers the components of NFV-MANO [6] to instantiate
> and/or configure all needed VNFs and NSs and/or scale them as needed, for
> the operations of the NSSI. Such configuration takes into account sharing of
> the VNFs and NSs with other NSSIs where relevant.
>
> \- triggers necessary components of the network management system to effect
> the application level configuration of the NFs to be used by the NSSI. Such
> configuration takes into account sharing of the NFs with other NSSIs where
> relevant.
The NSMF activates the NSI.
### 5.29.3 Post-conditions
The NSI is operational in the network that includes virtualized NFs .
## 5.30 Configuration for RRM policy for NSIs
### 5.30.1 Pre-conditions
A RAN NF supports multiple NSIs.
Operator wants to configure the policy for the radio resource management for
NSIs.
### 5.30.2 Description
A RAN NE supports multiple NSIs, so the RAN NF needs a RRM policy for the NSIs
supported by the RAN NE (see clause 8.1 of 3GPP TR 38.801[x]).
The NSSMF configures the RRM policy for the NSIs.
### 5.30.3 Post-conditions
The RRM policy for the NSIs has been configured.
# 6 Potential Requirements
## 6.1 Introduction
The following requirements are potential requirements to be used in a future
normative work. The usage of normative terminology should not be interpreted
as mandatory in this study.
## 6.2 Slice Management requirements
**REQ-SLM -CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to evaluate the
feasibility of providing a new NSI without impacting other network slices in
operation.
**REQ-SLM -CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
create a NSI according to the customer's business service requirements.
**REQ-SLM -CON-3** The NSMF should have the capability to provide network
management data to multiple customers correspondingly when the customers are
served by the same NSIs.
Editor's note 1: it's FFS which management entity the slice management
function belongs to.
**REQ-SLM-CON-4** The management system should have a functionality to relate
the service requirements into network slice capabilities.
**REQ-SLM-CON-5** The NSMF should have the capability of exposing the limited
level of management agreed by operator.
Editor's note 2: The method of determining the range of limited level of
management exposure is FFS.REQ-SLM-CON-6 An operator's management system shall
be able to expose agreed upon interface to manage a network slice or a NSSI to
another operator's management system. See NOTE 1 and NOTE 2.
> NOTE 1: See clause 5.19 for the related use case.
>
> NOTE 2: The agreement between operators is currently considered out of scope
> of 3GPP SA5.
## 6.3 Requirements for network slice lifecycle management
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-1** The NSMF shall be able to create a NSI which includes CN
part and RAN part.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-2** The operator shall be able to create NSIs which may
contain some functions that are common to multiple NSIs and some that are
specific to a NSI.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-3** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capabilities when creating a new NSI:
  * Creation of new common CN network functions.
  * Creation of new slice specific CN network functions.
  * Creation of new shared AN.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-4** The operator shall be able to modify a NSI
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-5** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capabilities for modifying a NSI:
  * Instantiate a new CN network function.
  * Update an existing CN network function.
  * Add an existing CN network function into the NSI.
  * Take out an existing CN network function from the NSI.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-6** The operator shall be able to manage the NSI lifecycle.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-7** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capabilities:
  * Creation of NSIs.
  * Activation of NSIs.
  * Modification of NSIs.
  * Deactivation of NSIs.
  * Termination of NSIs.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-8** The operator shall be able to terminate a NSI.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-9** The NSMF should be able to support the following
capability when terminating a NSI for slice specific CN functions:
  * Termination of the CN network function which is not in use any > longer
  * Take out the specific CN function from the slice instance.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-10** The NSMF shall have the capability to determine to
reuse an existing NSI or create a new NSI according to customer service
requirements.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-11** The NSMF shall be able to derive the CN part-related
requirements and RAN part-related requirements from customer requirements.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-12** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capabilities for changing capacity of a NSI:
  * Change the capacity of an existing CN network function.
  * Create a new CN network function and add into the NSI.
  * Add an existing CN network function into the NSI.
  * Take out an existing CN network function from the NSI.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-13** An operator shall be able to create a NSSI based on the
request of another operator.
## 6.4 Requirements for network slice configuration management
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-1** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capability when creating a new NSI with common and slice specific CN functions
and shared AN:
  * Configuration of existing common CN network functions to support a > new NSI.
  * Configuration of existing slice specific CN network functions to > support a new NSI.
  * Configuration of existing shared AN to support a new NSI.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-2** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capability when modifying a NSI:
  * Configuration of an existing CN network function.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-3** The NSMF shall be able to support the configuration of
NSI.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-4** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capability when terminating a NSI for common CN functions:
  * Configuration of the CN network functions.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-5** The 3GPP network management system shall be able to
support the following capabilities when configuring the RAN part of a network
slice:
  * Configuration of the RAN part of the network slice.
  * Configuration of the RAN part of the network slice with information > about the related CN part of the NSI.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-6** The NSMF shall be able to configure the NSI to support
UEs moving from another administrative domain.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-7** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capability when terminating a NSI for shared AN:
  * Configuration of shared AN of the NSI.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-8** The NSSMF shall be able to configure the RAN NF with
appropriate RRM policy for NSIs.
## 6.5 Requirements for network slice fault management
**REQ-NSM_FM-CON-1** The NSMF shall be able to support the fault management of
NSIs.
**REQ-NSM_FM-CON-2** The operator's management system shall be able to
separate the fault management data related to different communication
services.
## 6.6 Requirements for network slice performance management
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-01** The NSMF shall be able to support the monitoring the
performance of the NSIs.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-02** The NSMF shall be able to set thresholds for performance
parameters related to a NSI on NFs.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-03** The NSMF shall be able to get the network function
performance alarm which is generated due to the value of monitoring
performance parameter crosses/reaches the threshold.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-04** The operator's management system shall be able to
support the monitoring of thresholds for performance parameters corresponding
to different communication services.
## 6.7 Supervision related requirements
**REQ-NSM_SPN-CON-02** The NSMF shall be able to identify which alarm
notifications belong to which NSSI.
**REQ-NSM_SPN-CON-03** The NSMF shall be able to identify which alarm
notifications belong to which NSI.
**REQ-NSM_SPN-CON-04** The NSMF shall be able to identify which alarm
notifications belong to which network function.
**REQ-NSM_SPN-CON-05** The NSMF shall be able to apply alarm filters on alarm
notifications for NSSI.
**REQ-NSM_SPN-CON-06** The NSMF shall be able to apply alarm filters on alarm
notifications for NSI.
**REQ-NSM_SPN-CON-07** The NSMF shall be able to apply alarm filters on alarm
notifications for network functions.
## 6.8 Monitor Performance related requirements
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-05** The NSMF shall support creation and management of
measurement jobs for the network functions in a NSSI.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-06** The NSMF shall support a method to indicate the NSI
being measured when creating and managing measurement jobs for the network
functions.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-07** The NSMF shall support reception and handling of the
performance measurement data from NSSIs
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-08** The NSMF shall provide a method for monitoring and
collection of performance measurement data from the NSSI aggregated per QoS
level, aggregated per service supported by the NSI and aggregated per NSIs.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-09** The NSMF shall be able to generate performance data of a
NSI based on performance measurement data related to NSSIs.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-10** An operator's management system shall be able to report
agreed upon management data (e.g., performance data of a network slice or
NSSI) to another operator's management system. See NOTE 1 and NOTE 2.
> NOTE 1: See clause 5.19 for the related use case.
>
> NOTE 2: The agreement between operators is currently considered out of scope
> of 3GPP SA5.
## 6.9 Requirements for network slice policy management
**REQ-NSM_SPM-CON-01** The 3GPP management system shall include policy
management functionality capable of configuring slice-specific or non-slice-
specific policies related to operation and management of NSIs.
## 6.10 Network slice subnet management
**REQ-NSSM -CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall support management of
NSSIs.
## 6.11 Network slice subnet lifecycle management
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-01** The NSSMF shall be able to act to a change capacity
request from the NSMF
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-02** The NSSMF shall be able to support changing capacity
of an existing NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-03** The NSSMF shall be able to add constituent parts to a
NSSI
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-04** The NSSMF shall be able to remove constituent parts
from a NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-05** The NSSMF shall be able to create a NSSI when
receiving a creation request from the NSMF.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-06** The NSSMF shall be able to terminate a NSSI when
receiving a termination request from the NSMF.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-07** The NSSMF shall be able to create a NSSI and its
constituent parts which may be shared with other NSSI(s).
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-08** The NSSMF shall be able to create a NSSI and its
constituent parts which may be shared with other NSSI(s).
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-09** The NSSMF shall be able to inform the NSMF that a NSSI
has been terminated.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-10** The NSSMF shall support the configuration of the
constituent parts of a NSSI. which may be shared with other NSSI(s).
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-11** The operator shall be able to terminate a NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-12** The NSSMF should be able to support termination of an
unused dedicated constituent part of the NSSI when terminating a NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-13** The NSSMF shall be able to receive a modification
request from the NSMF and act according to the request.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-14** The NSSMF shall be able to modify a NSSI and its
constituents.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-15** The NSSMF shall be able to support adding a new
constituent to a NSSI that is being modified.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-16** The NSSMF shall be able to support removing a
constituent from a NSSI that is being modified
## 6.12 Network slice subnet performance monitoring
**REQ-NSSM_PM-CON-01** The NSSMF shall be able to monitor the performance of a
NSSI upon reception of such request from the NSMF.
**REQ-NSSM_PM-CON-02** The NSSMF shall support performance monitoring of the
NSSI and its constituents.
**REQ-NSSM_PM-CON-03** The NSSMF shall support creation and management of
measurement jobs of the constituents of a NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_PM-CON-04** The NSSMF shall support a method to indicate the NSSI
being measured when creating and managing measurement jobs for the NFs.
**REQ-NSSM_PM-CON-05** The NSSMF shall support reception and handling of the
performance measurement data from the constituents of an NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_PM-CON-06** The NSSMF shall support the setting of thresholds for
performance parameters related to a NSSI on the constituents of the NSSI.
## 6.13 Network slice subnet fault management
**REQ-NSSM_FM-CON-01** The NSSMF shall be able to send alarm data of the NSSI
to the NSMF.
**REQ-NSSM_FM-CON-02** The NSSMF shall be able to receive alarm data of the
constituents and associate it with corresponding NSSI(s).
# 7 Potential Solutions
## 7.1 Network slice management functions
Figure 7.1-1 Network slice management functions
NOTE 1: The Customer can be a third party service provider, or the operator
itself.
NOTE 2: The SMF receives the service (NOTE 3) requirements from the Customer,
and manage the services (NOTE 3) provided by the operator.
NOTE 3: The service can be the 3GPP service running on the NSI.
NOTE 4: The SMF converts the service requirements to the network slice
requirements (such as network type, network capacity, QoS requirements, etc.)
and provides them to NSMF
NOTE 5: The NSMF manages the NSIs based on the network slice requirements
received from SMF.
NOTE 6: The NSSMF manages the NSSIs based on the network slice subnet
requirements received from the NSMF.
Editor note: How network slice management functions are mapping to OSS/BSS is
FFS.
## 7.2 Solution options for NSI creation across multiple operators
## 7.2.1 General
The potential options for creating a NSI extending multiple operators are
summarized in the following sub-clauses.
### 7.2.2 Option 1: A customer service across multiple operators' NSI
In this option the customer contacts multiple operators to create NSIs for
supporting a service hosted across multiple operators. Figure shows the
Customer who, in this option, owns the service management functionality which
has an interface to each operator for the life cycle management of NSI.
The customer's service management function (SMF) requests the creation of a
NSI to the multiple operator management systems (OMS). Each OMS internally
requests the creation of the NSI to its NSMF. The NSMF creates the NSI and
returns a success to the OMS which returns the success request to the
customer's SMF together with an agreed upon management exposure to the NSI
provided to the customer's SMF.
This option requires the customer's SMF to manage to multiple instances of NSI
to make them support a single service instance.
> NOTE: This option is actually the combination of multiple NSI or NSSI to
> host a customer service and is not per se an extension of a single NSI to
> multiple operators.
Figure 7.2.2-1 Option 1: Customer to operator interface for hosting a service
over NSIs across multiple operators
### 7.2.3 Option 2: Multi-operator slice creation by operator management
system to management system interfaces
In this option the customer requests the NSI to a single operator's management
system (OMS), operator A in Figure . The operator A's service management
function can decide to request an NSSI to another operator's management
system, operator B.
The steps for creating and requesting an NSI begin with the customer
contacting a single operator's management system and that operator's
management system requests the other operator's management system for the life
cycle management of the NSSI (to be) hosted therein.
In this option the service management functionality is hosted in Operator A
and it exposes an agreed upon management interface to the customer. Operator A
is responsible for the management of the NSI.
Figure 7.2.3-1 Option 2: Operator management system (OMS) to OMS interface for
multi-operator NSI creation
### 7.2.4 Option 3: Multi-operator NSI creation by operator NSMF to NSMF
interface
This option is similar to Option 2 in item 7.2.3. The operator A forwards the
request to its NSMF. The NSMF of operator A then decides to use another
operator NSMF to realize the NSI.
The procedures for creating and requesting a NSI are similar to option 2
except that in this case the interface between the OMS of option 2 is replaced
by the interface between NSMFs for life cycle management of the NSSI hosted in
the other operator domain.
NOTE: This option may require the establishment of mutual trust relationships
between the operator A and B, which is currently considered out of scope of
3GPP SA5.
{width="5.502083333333333in" height="2.9833333333333334in"}
Figure 7.2.4-1 Option 3: NSMF to NSMF interface for multi-operator NSI
creation
## 7.3 Making a service request with commonly agreed service types and
attributes for service provision automation
This section addresses the use case, where a mobile network operator provides
the types of services to the customers with their own end user/device
population distributed in a geographical area and how the customer should
specify the services it needs with the related requirements. The operator uses
the service management functionality in the 3GPP management system for this
purpose.
Editor's note: The placement of the functions in the service management
functionality is FFS.
The customer can identify the available types of business services and the
attribute values that need to be specified in order to uniquely identify the
customer service request. The service requirements may be finalized in several
steps of negotiation which may involve iterative changes of these attribute
values.
The network management system should have the capability to assess the types
of services it can offer knowing the network infra-structure capabilities and
made it available to the service management functionality.
An operator may decide to slice the network using different criterion, such as
application types (e.g. MTC, v2V, URLLC), QoS types, mobility, security etc.
An operator may have multiple categorization criterion or have a hybrid
categorization. The global customer service categorization should allow for
any such categorization and a standard service request format may be designed
so that there is a mutual understanding for customer-operator negotiation or
for the negotiations between different administrative domains.
The network management system also needs to see the feasibility of
facilitating those service types considering the issues such as resource
availability and capacity limits, and identify all the attributes related to
each service classification and prepare the attributes according to the global
categorization format.
There can be several levels of service type categorizations each higher level
service category having multiple sub-categories in order to cover numerous
possible customer service types that can be provided by a network operator.
The main classifications may be based on the following two aspects (1) Based
on the business service type; (2) based on high level service characteristics.
These are further described below.
1) **First level of categorization based on type of business service:**
There can be 3 types of telecommunication services that may be offered by an
MNO.
> **a) End to end (E2E) connectivity as a service:** providing E2E
> telecommunication service (e.g. user to a server) with multiple end
> users/devices (single user is a subset of this case).
>
> **b) Network as a service (NaaS):** providing a 'connected' network that can
> be used by another MNO or service provider.
>
> **c) Asset as a service - also termed infra-structure as a service (IaaS):**
> providing resources that can be used for connectivity.
Editor's note**:** This is not an exhaustive list and further additions such
as the data analytics and location information services and platform as a
service, are FFS.
This first level service category may need to be identified in any type of
negotiation, i.e. customer to operator or negotiation between different
administrative domains.
2) **Second level of categorization based on high level service
characteristics facilitated by the slices:**
In this level the key service characteristics that impacts the composition of
the network slice are used for categorization. Several examples of such key
characteristics are service function chain, security, mobility, QoS, traffic
types, and geographical locations. Different operators may choose different
chracteristics when forming different slice or service types to offer to the
customers.
An operator, for example, may map all its services into one of the three
network slice types such as eMBB, URLLC, mMTC, when serving a customer.
On the other hand, another operator may categorize the services according to
the QoS ranges and prepare slices to map a combination of different ranges of
QoS and different service function chains. For example, the MEC (mobile edge
computing) applications requiring low delay may be classified as a one service
category and best effort traffic may be categorized as another.
**Further classification and specific attributes corresponding to each
classification**
Certain service types with much more variation in service requirements may be
further classified into sub-categories to allow for an operator to offer more
granularity to its customers. For example, eMBB type may be further classified
into QoS ranges or QoS based categorization may be further classified into
user to server and user to user service (service function chain based).
Finally, there needs to have a set of attributes to specify different options
and other service requirements, which can be different for different service
types discussed above. Some of these options include:
  * end user authentication method,
  * physical or logical isolation requirements,
  * congestion control mechanisms,
  * resource specification,
  * charging method
  * dynamic policy change possibilities
  * network exposure possibilities,
  * traffic monitoring and controlling possibilities for customer,
  * Penalising methods for not meeting the SLA, etc.
Other service requirements may include performance requirements such as
capacity, delay, number of users, geographical coverage, traffic profiles etc.
The Table 7.3-1 illustrates the multiple levels of service categorization
described above.
**Table 7.3-** 1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Level 1 | Level 2 | Optional | Attributes, | | | categorization | additional | and their | | Categorization | based on | levels (3, 4, | ranges | | based on | service | 5), e.g. | | | Business | ch | exposure | e.g.: | | Service Type | aracterization | levels | Capacity, | | | | | throughput, | | (A, B, C) | (A: A1, A2, | (TBD) | delay, number | | | A3) | | of users, | | | | | geographical | | | (B: B1, B2) | | id | | | | | entifications, | | | (C1, C2, C3, | | authentication | | | C4) | | level etc. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 7.4 NSI performance alarms monitoring
**Figure 7.4-1 NSI performance alarms monitoring**
Figure 7.4-1 shows a high-level solution of NSI performance alarms monitoring.
More details are depicted as follows:
  1. The NSMF determines to monitor the performance alarms for PM > parameters of a NSI.
  2. The NSMF determines to create threshold monitoring jobs for > monitoring PM parameters on slice specific NFs, common NFs of the > NSI.
  3. In case of slice specific NFs, threshold monitoring job information > contains PM parameters and threshold values.
> Editor\'s note: In case of common NFs shared by multiple NSIs, it is FFS.
  1. The NSMF receives performance alarm notifications specific to a NSI.
## 7.5 Creating a NSI to support communication service
The potential solution for creating a NSI to support a communication service
is described below:
> 1\. The CSP sends service request to the Service Management Function with
> overall service related requirements.
>
> 2\. The Service Management Function translates the service related
> requirements into network slice related requirements, the information
> indicating whether the requested NSI can be shared with other communication
> service may be included in the network slice related requirements.
>
> NOTE: the information indicating whether the requested NSI can be shared
> with other communication services may be determined by Service Management
> Function or CSP.
>
> 3\. The Service Management Function sends a request to the NSMF to allocate
> a NSI with network slice related requirements.
>
> 4\. If there is information indicating the requested NSI can be shared with
> other communication services and if an existing available NSI can be used,
> the NSMF may use the existing NSI. Otherwise, the NSMF may create a new NSI
> to satisfy the network slice related requirements.
>
> 5\. The NSMF derives the network slice subnet related requirements from the
> network slice related requirements.
>
> 6a. If a new NSI needs to be created, the NSMF identifies the NSSIs to be
> reused and the NSSIs to be created.
>
> 6b. If an existing NSI needs to be reused, the NSMF identifies the NSSIs to
> be reused.
>
> 7a. For the NSSI to be created, the NSMF request corresponding NSSMF to
> create a new NSSI with the network slice subnet requirements.
>
> 7b. For the NSSI to be reused, the NSMF request corresponding NSSMF to
> reconfigure or modify it with the network slice subnet requirements if
> needed.
>
> 8\. The NSMF associates NSSIs with the corresponding NSI.
## 7.6 Modifying a NSI
The potential solution for modifying a NSI is described as follows.
> 1\. The NSMF receives a NSI modification request or the NSMF decides to
> modify a NSI based on a pre-defined policy. For example, the modification of
> NSI may include changing the capacity of the NSI.
>
> 2\. If the NSMF determines to modify the NSI through modifying NSSI, it
> sends request to the NSSMF with related requirements. The NSSMF modifies the
> NSSI according to the requirements from the NSMF.
Editor's note: How to protect other existing services from undesirable impacts
is FFS.
## 7.7 Terminating a NSI
The following is a high-level solution for terminating a NSI.
> 1\. The NSMF determines to terminate the NSI which is not necessary any
> longer.
>
> 2\. The NSMF de-activates the NSI. Then the NSI to be terminated is in de-
> activated state.
>
> NOTE: The solution for NSI de-activation is studied in other clauses.
>
> 3\. The NSMF identifies corresponding NSSIs to be terminated and NSSIs to be
> retained.
>
> 4\. If the NSSI needs to be terminated, the NSMF sends NSSI termination
> request to corresponding NSSMF. Then the NSSMF terminates the NSSI.
>
> 5\. The NSMF deletes the NSI information.
## 7.8 Management support to facilitate UE roaming between NSIs in different
administrative domains
The solution assumes the Operators have roaming agreement, and roaming is
supported through network slicing.
> 1\. The Operator B notifies the Operator A about the slice selection related
> information for the NSI.
>
> Editor's note 1: The detailed slice selection related information may depend
> on SA2 discussion.
>
> 2\. The NSMF of Operator A provides the slice selection related information
> to the related network functions of NSI to support the roaming users from
> the NSI of Operator B.
>
> Editor's note 2: Which network functions need to be configured may depend on
> SA2 discussion.
# 8 Conclusions
TBD
# 9 Recommendations
TBD
###### ## Annex A (informative): Analysis of potential management related
aspects for network slice based on the related content in other 3GPP WGs and
SDOs
# A.1 Introduction
This section summarizes the potential management related aspects based on the
related content discussed in other 3GPP WGs and SDOs.
# A.2 Analysis of potential management related aspects based on the
requirements in SA1
The following table describes the potential management related aspects based
on the requirements in SA1 TR 22.864 v14.0.0[3].
Table 1 Analysis the potential management related aspects based on the related
requirements in SA1 TR 22.864
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Related |** Potential | | | Requirements in TR | management related | | | 22.864 Section | aspect**| | | 5.1.2.1** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-001] | The 3GPP system | **SA5 management | | | shall allow the | related.** | | | operator to compose | | | | and manage network | | | | slices. A network | | | | slice consists of a | | | | set of network | | | | functions (e.g., | | | | potentially from | | | | different vendors), | | | | the resources to run | | | | these network | | | | functions as well as | | | | policies and | | | | configurations. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-002] | The 3GPP system | **SA5 management | | | shall allow the | related.** | | | operator to | | | | dynamically create a | | | | network slice to | | | | form a complete, | | | | autonomous and fully | | | | operational network | | | | customised for | | | | different market | | | | scenario. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-003] | The 3GPP system | FFS | | | shall be able to | | | | associate specific | | | | services, devices, | | | | UEs, and subscribers | | | | with a particular | | | | network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-004] | The 3GPP system | FFS | | | shall enable a UE to | | | | simultaneously | | | | access services from | | | | one or more network | | | | slices of one | | | | operator e.g., based | | | | on subscription or | | | | terminal type. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-005] | The 3GPP system | **SA5 management | | | shall support | related.** | | | mechanisms to enable | | | | the operator to | | | | operate and manage | | | | network slices that | | | | fulfil required | | | | criteria for | | | | different market | | | | scenarios. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-006] | The 3GPP system | **SA5 management | | | shall allow the | related.** | | | operator to | | | | simultaneously | | | | operate network | | | | slices in a manner | | | | that prevents a | | | | service in one slice | | | | from negatively | | | | impacting services | | | | offered by other | | | | slices. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-007] | The 3GPP system | Out of SA5 | | | shall have the | management scope. | | | capability to | | | | conform to | | | | service-specific | | | | security assurance | | | | requirements in a | | | | single network | | | | slice, rather than | | | | the whole network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-008] | The 3GPP system | Out of SA5 | | | shall have the | management scope. | | | capability to | | | | provide a level of | | | | isolation between | | | | network slices which | | | | confines a potential | | | | cyber-attack to a | | | | single network | | | | slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-009] | The 3GPP system | **SA5 management | | | shall allow the | related.** | | | operator to | | | | authorize 3^rd^ | | | | parties to create | | | | and manage a network | | | | slice via suitable | | | | APIs, within the | | | | limits set by the | | | | network operator. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-010] | The 3GPP system | **SA5 management | | | shall support the | related.** | | | elasticity of a | | | | network slice in | | | | terms of capacity | | | | with minimal impact | | | | on the services of | | | | this slice or other | | | | slices. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-011] | The 3GPP system | **SA5 management | | | shall be able to | related.** | | | support | | | | modifications to | | | | network slices | | | | (e.g., adding, | | | | deleting, modifying | | | | network slices) with | | | | minimal impact to | | | | active subscriber | | | | services. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-012] | The 3GPP system | **SA5 management | | | shall be able to | related.** | | | support E2E (e.g., | | | | RAN, CN) resource | | | | management in a | | | | network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-013] | The 3GPP system | **SA5 management | | | shall enable | related.** | | | operators to use the | | | | network slicing | | | | concept to | | | | efficiently support | | | | multiple 3^rd^ | | | | parties (e.g., | | | | enterprises) that | | | | require similar | | | | network | | | | characteristics. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-014] | The 3GPP system | **SA5 management | | | shall enable | related.** | | | operators to define | | | | and identify network | | | | slices with common | | | | functionality to be | | | | available for home | | | | and roaming users. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-015] | The 3GPP system | FFS. | | | shall enable | | | | operators to specify | | | | the network | | | | functionalities that | | | | a network slice is | | | | required to provide. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-016] | The 3GPP system | **SA5 management | | | shall support the | related.** | | | inclusion of 3GPP | | | | defined functions as | | | | well as proprietary | | | | 3^rd^ party or | | | | operator provided | | | | functions in a | | | | network slice, | | | | including | | | | | | | | - Hosting multiple | | | | 3^rd^ parties | | | | (e.g., | | | | enterprises) or | | | | MVNOs. | | | | | | | | - Serving home and | | | | roaming user | | | | | | | | - Supporting | | | | diverse market | | | | scenarios. | | | | | | | | NOTE: The specific | | | | functional areas for | | | | which the system | | | | should support | | | | proprietary or | | | | operator provided | | | | functions should be | | | | identified. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-017] | The 3GPP system | FFS. | | | shall support a | | | | mechanism for the | | | | VPLMN to assign a UE | | | | to a network slice | | | | with the required | | | | functionality or to | | | | a default network | | | | slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-018] | The 3GPP system | FFS. | | | shall be able to | | | | change the network | | | | slices to which UEs | | | | are connected. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-019] | A network slice | **SA5 management | | | shall support a set | related.** | | | of end-user services | | | | as defined by the | | | | network operator. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-020] | The 3GPP system | FFS. | | | shall enable the | | | | operator to assign a | | | | UE to a network | | | | slice based on | | | | services provided by | | | | the network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-021] | The 3GPP system | FFS. | | | shall support a | | | | mechanism for an | | | | operator to | | | | authorize a UE to | | | | receive service on a | | | | specific slice in | | | | response to a | | | | request from a 3^rd^ | | | | party. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# A.3 Analysis of potential management related aspects based on the related
content in SA2
The following table describes the potential management related aspects based
on the related content in SA2 TR 23.799 v0.7.0[2].
Table 2 Analysis of potential management related aspects based on the related
content in SA2 TR 23.799
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Related content in |** Potential | | | TR 23.799 Section | management related | | | 5.1**| aspect** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.1 | How to achieve | **SA5 management | | | isolation/separation | related.** | | | between network | | | | slice instances and | | | | which levels and | | | | types of | | | | isolation/separation | | | | will be required; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.2 | How and what type of | **SA5 management | | | resource and network | related.** | | | function sharing can | | | | be used between | | | | network slice | | | | instances; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.3 | How to enable a UE | FFS. | | | to simultaneously | | | | obtain services from | | | | one or more specific | | | | network slice | | | | instances of one | | | | operator; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.4 | What is within 3GPP | **SA5 management | | | scope with regards | related.** | | | to Network Slicing | | | | (e.g. network slice | | | | c | | | | reation/composition, | | | | modification, | | | | deletion); | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.5 | Which network | **SA5 management | | | functions may be | related.** | | | included in a | | | | specific network | | | | slice instance, and | | | | which network | | | | functions are | | | | independent of | | | | network slices; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.6 | The procedure(s) for | Out of SA5 | | | selection of a | management scope. | | | particular Network | | | | Slice for a UE; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.7 | How to support | FFS. | | | Network Slicing | | | | Roaming scenarios; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.8 | How to enable | FFS. | | | operators to use the | | | | network slicing | | | | concept to | | | | efficiently support | | | | multiple 3rd parties | | | | (e.g. enterprises, | | | | service providers, | | | | content providers, | | | | etc.) that require | | | | similar network | | | | characteristics. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NS_WT_#1 | **Network Slice | FFS. | | | Instance Selection | | | | and Association** | | | | | | | | 1) Initial network | | | | slice instance | | | | selection to support | | | | UE\'s service | | | | establishment and | | | | re-selection to | | | | support UE mobility | | | | and other scenarios | | | | that are TBD, | | | | | | | | NOTE: More scenarios | | | | beyond the mobility | | | | need to be | | | | identified that may | | | | trigger network | | | | slice instance | | | | re-selection. | | | | | | | | 2) Network slice | | | | instance | | | | identification, | | | | | | | | 3) Authorization | | | | for UE association | | | | with network slice | | | | instance\ | | | | Network provided and | | | | UE provided | | | | assistance | | | | information support | | | | for network slice | | | | instance selection. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NS_WT_#2 | > **Network Slicing |** SA5 management | | | > Isolation**| related.** | | | | | | | 1) Security | | | | isolation. | | | | | | | | 2) Resource | | | | isolation | | | | | | | | 3) OAM support | | | | isolation (e.g. | | | | Usage and Fault | | | | isolation etc.) | | | | | | | | > NOTE: Whether all | | | | > items listed here | | | | > are within the | | | | > scope of SA2 is | | | | > FFS. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NS_WT_#3 | **Network Slicing |** SA5 management | | | Architecture**| related.** | | | | | | | 1) Identifying | | | | impacted network | | | | functions and | | | | interfaces to | | | | support one or more | | | | network slice | | | | instances on top of | | | | a shared RAN and a | | | | shared | | | | infrastructure. | | | | | | | | 2) Identifying the | | | | common functions (if | | | | any) that need to be | | | | available in the | | | | core network and/or | | | | RAN to enable | | | | network slicing\ | | | | Identifying the | | | | approach to enable | | | | UE to associate with | | | | multiple slices | | | | simultaneously. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NS_WT_#4 | **Network Slicing | FFS. | | | Roaming support** | | | | | | | | 1) Determination | | | | what visiting and | | | | home Network | | | | Function(s) are | | | | required to support | | | | roaming. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NS_WT_#5 | **Network Slicing |** SA5 management | | | terminology & | related.**| | | definitions** | | | | | | | | 1) If Network Slice | | | | Instance is agreed | | | | to apply E2E system, | | | | then, we should | | | | consider new | | | | terminology for | | | | Access slice | | | | instance and Core | | | | slice instances. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# A.4 Analysis of potential management related aspects based on the related
content in NGMN
The following tables describes the potential management related aspects based
on the related content in NGMN NWMO [4] and NGMN \"Description of Network
Slicing Concept\" [5].
Table 3 Analysis the potential management related aspects based on the related
content in NGMN NWMO v2.6.0
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Related content in NGMN NWMO |** Potential management related | | in Section 9.1.1**| aspect** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 9.1.1 Slice Creation User Story | **SA5 management related.** | | | | | 9.1.1.1 As a 5G Operator, I want | | | to | | | | | | To design a 5G Management & | | | Orchestration Architecture to be | | | able to manage and control my | | | multi-domain network | | | infrastructure, which can be, | | | for example, 5G vs Non-5G, NFV | | | vs Non-NFV composed of 5G RATs, | | | 4G RAT, maybe 2G / 3G RAT, Fixed | | | Access, Non-3GPP RATs, Backhaul, | | | EPC Core, 5G Core | | | | | | 9.1.1.2 So that I can | | | | | | Create, deliver, manage & | | | orchestrate Slices to fulfil | | | various kinds of customers' | | | needs (end users and Enterprises | | | e.g. MVNO) and guarantee | | | Autonomic service assurance, | | | Autonomic dynamic service | | | delivery and provide Proactive | | | CEM dashboard | | | | | | 9.1.1.3 To do this I need | | | | | | 1. Pre-conditions | | | | | | • Deploy a multi-domain network | | | infrastructure, | | | | | | • Expose via Network APIs the | | | capabilities of this | | | multi-domain network | | | infrastructure | | | | | | • Deploy management and | | | orchestration system which | | | includes: | | | | | | - Editors for various items and | | | definitions, including | | | High-Level Network | | | Objectives/Goals, Policy | | | Generators that generate | | | Policies from High-Level Network | | | Objectives/Goals and Policy | | | Validators against conflicts | | | (Goals conflict resolution, | | | Policy conflict resolution, | | | Resolution), | | | | | | - ETSI MANO components (NFVO, | | | VNF Manager, VIM), | | | | | | - SDN Controllers, | | | | | | - Legacy OSS (NMS / EMS), | | | | | | - E2E Service orchestration | | | | | | 2. To create slice | | | | | | E2E Service orchestration | | | interprets and translates | | | service definition / Service | | | Design into configuration of | | | resources (physical and | | | virtualized) needed for service | | | establishment. The configuration | | | of resources may be for actual | | | amount of resources or the | | | policy of their allocation at | | | later time, when the service is | | | activated. | | | | | | The E2E Service orchestration | | | further triggers the components | | | of the management and | | | orchestration system (ETSI NFVO, | | | VNF Manager, VIM, SDN | | | Controller, legacy OSS to apply | | | the configuration of the | | | required resources which for | | | some resources may result in | | | their actual allocation. | | | | | | > NOTE: In case when the needed | | | > resources were not allocated | | | > at the previous step, they | | | > will be actually allocated at | | | > the time of service | | | > activation, according to the | | | > configuration / policies. | | | | | | - Make available a Self-Service | | | Portal and Self-Ordering APIs to | | | my customers (Residential and | | | Enterprises) to allow them for | | | self-ordering their slices with | | | SLAs and update them dynamically | | | when needed. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
**Table 4 Analysis of potential management related aspects based on the
related content in NGMN \"Description of Network Slicing Concept\"** v1.0
Date:13th January 2016
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Related content in NGMN |** Potential management related | | \"Description of Network Slicing | aspect**| | Concept\"** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | As depicted in Figure B.1-1, the | **SA5 management related** | | network slicing concept consists | | | of 3 layers: 1) Service Instance | | | Layer, 2) Network Slice Instance | | | Layer, and 3) Resource layer. | | | | | | The Service Instance Layer | | | represents the services | | | (end-user service or business | | | services) which are to be | | | supported. Each service is | | | represented by a Service | | | Instance. Typically services can | | | be provided by the network | | | operator or by 3rd parties. In | | | line with this, a Service | | | Instance can either represent an | | | operator service or a 3rd party | | | provided service. | | | | | | A network operator uses a | | | Network Slice Blueprint to | | | create a Network Slice Instance. | | | A Network Slice Instance | | | provides the network | | | characteristics which are | | | required by a Service Instance. | | | A Network Slice Instance may | | | also be shared across multiple | | | Service Instances provided by | | | the network operator. | | | | | | NOTE: Whether there is a need to | | | support sharing of Network Slice | | | Instances across Service | | | Instances provided by different | | | 3rd parties is up for discussion | | | in SDOs. | | | | | | The Network Slice Instance may | | | be composed by none, one or more | | | Sub-network Instances, which may | | | be shared by another Network | | | Slice Instance. Similarly, the | | | Sub-network Blueprint is used to | | | create a Sub-network Instance to | | | form a set of Network Functions, | | | which run on the | | | physical/logical resources. | | | | | | Figure B.1-1: Network slicing | | | conceptual outline | | | | | | **Service Instance:** An | | | instance of an end-user service | | | or a business service that is | | | realized within or by a Network | | | Slice. | | | | | | **Network Slice Instance:** a | | | set of network functions, and | | | resources to run these network | | | functions, forming a complete | | | instantiated logical network to | | | meet certain network | | | characteristics required by the | | | Service Instance(s): | | | | | | - A network slice instance may | | | be fully or partly, logically | | | and/or physically, isolated from | | | another network slice instance. | | | | | | - The resources comprises of | | | physical and logical resources. | | | | | | - A Network Slice Instance may | | | be composed of Sub-network | | | Instances, which as a special | | | case may be shared by multiple | | | network slice instances. The | | | Network Slice Instance is | | | defined by a Network Slice | | | Blueprint. | | | | | | - Instance-specific policies | | | and configurations are required | | | when creating a Network Slice | | | Instance. | | | | | | - Network characteristics | | | examples are ultra-low-latency, | | | ultra-reliability etc. | | | | | | **Network Slice Blueprint:** A | | | complete description of the | | | structure, configuration and the | | | plans/work flows for how to | | | instantiate and control the | | | Network Slice Instance during | | | its life cycle. A Network Slice | | | Blueprint enables the | | | instantiation of a Network | | | Slice, which provides certain | | | network characteristics (e.g. | | | ultra-low latency, | | | ultra-reliability, value-added | | | services for enterprises, etc.). | | | A Network Slice Blueprint refers | | | to required physical and logical | | | resources and/or to Sub-network | | | Blueprint(s). | | | | | | **Sub-network Instance:** A | | | Sub-network Instance comprises | | | of a set of Network Functions | | | and the resources for these | | | Network Functions: | | | | | | - The Sub-network Instance is | | | defined by a Sub-network | | | Blueprint. | | | | | | - A Sub-network Instance is not | | | required to form a complete | | | logical network. | | | | | | - A Sub-network Instance may be | | | shared by two or more Network | | | Slices. | | | | | | - The resources comprises of | | | physical and logical resources. | | | | | | **Sub-network Blueprint:** A | | | description of the structure | | | (and contained components) and | | | configuration of the Sub-network | | | Instances and the plans/work | | | flows for how to instantiate it. | | | A Sub-network Blueprint refers | | | to Physical and logical | | | resources and may refer to other | | | Sub-network Blueprints. | | | | | | **Physical resource:** A | | | physical asset for computation, | | | storage or transport including | | | radio access: | | | | | | - Network Functions are not | | | regarded as Resources. | | | | | | **Logical Resource:** Partition | | | of a physical resource, or | | | grouping of multiple physical | | | resources dedicated to a Network | | | Function or shared between a set | | | of Network Functions. | | | | | | **Network Function (NF):** | | | Network Function refers to | | | processing functions in a | | | network: | | | | | | - This includes but is not | | | limited to telecom nodes | | | functionality, as well as | | | switching functions e.g. | | | Ethernet switching function, IP | | | routing functions. | | | | | | - VNF is a virtualized version | | | of a NF (refer to ETSI NFV for | | | further details on VNF). | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#