# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the _Cell Broadcast Service Protocol (CBSP)_
between the Cell Broadcast Centre (CBC) and the Base Station Controller (BSC).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 44.012: \"Short Message Service Cell Broadcast (SMSCB) support on
the mobile radio interface\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.038: \"Alphabets and language-specific information\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols\".
[6] IETF RFC 793 (September 1981): \"Transmission Control Protocol\".
[7] IETF RFC 2507 (February 1999): \"IP header compression\".
[8] IETF RFC 1990 (August 1996): \"The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)\".
[9] IETF RFC 2686 (September 1996): \"The Multi-Class Extension to Multi-Link
PPP\".
[10] IETF RFC 2509 (February 1999): \"IP Header Compression over PPP\".
[11] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[12] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control Protocol\".
[13] 3GPP TS 44.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Mobile Station
(MS) - Base Station System (BSS) interface; Radio Link Control / Medium Access
Control (RLC/MAC) protocol\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**CBS message:** An information message broadcasted on the basic or extended
cell broadcast channel (CBCH) in unacknowledged mode to mobile stations
located within the Cell Broadcast area. A CBS message may contain information
such as road traffic or weather information, originating from a Cell Broadcast
Entity (CBE) communicating with the CBC (see 3GPP TS 23.041 [1]).
**CBS message reference:** Uniquely identifies a CBS message by the four
elements: Message Identifier, Serial Number, Cell Identifier and Channel
Indicator.
**Cell Broadcast area:** An area comprising of one or more cells in which the
CBS message or the emergency message is broadcasted. A Cell Broadcast area is
always contained within a BSC area (see 3GPP TS 23.002 [14]).
**CBS message operational state:** A cell in CBS message operational state is
able to broadcast CBS messages.
**Emergency message:** A warning message conveying a small amount of data to
indicate the imminent occurrence of an emergency such as earthquake, tsunami
etc. The emergency message is broadcasted to mobile stations in idle mode,
packet idle mode and dedicated mode (see 3GPP TS 44.018 [12]) and to mobile
stations in packet transfer mode and dual transfer mode (see 3GPP TS 44.060
[13]) located within the Cell Broadcast area.
**Emergency message operational state:** A cell in emergency message
operational state is able to broadcast emergency messages.
**Emergency message reference:** Uniquely identifies an emergency message by
the three elements: Message Identifier, Serial Number and Cell Identifier.
**Elementary Procedure:** CBSP consists of Elementary Procedures (EPs). An
Elementary Procedure is a unit of interactions between the CBC and the BSC.
These EPs are defined separately and are intended to be used to build up
complete sequences in a flexible manner. If the independence between some EPs
is restricted, it is described under the relevant EP description. Unless
otherwise stated by the restrictions, the EPs may be invoked independently of
each other as stand alone procedures, which can be active in parallel. Support
of parallel procedures in the BSC is optional.
An EP consists of an initiating message and possibly a response message. Two
kinds of EPs are used:
\- **Class 1:** Elementary Procedures with response (success or failure).
\- **Class 2:** Elementary Procedures without response.
For Class 1 EPs, the types of responses can be as follows:
[Successful]{.underline}
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the EP is successfully
completed.
[Unsuccessful]{.underline}
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the EP failed.
\- On time supervision expiry (i.e. absence of expected response).
Class 2 EPs are always considered as successful.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BSC Base Station Controller
CBC Cell Broadcast Centre
CBCH Cell Broadcast Channel
CBE Cell Broadcast Entity
CBS Cell Broadcast Service
CBSP Cell Broadcast Service Protocol
EP Elementary Procedure
ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
MS Mobile Station
SMSCB Short Message Service Cell Broadcast
# 4 General
## 4.1 Procedure Specification Principles
The principle for specifying the procedure logic is to specify the functional
behaviour of the BSC exactly and completely. The CBC functional behaviour is
left unspecified.
The following specification principles have been applied for the procedure
text in clause 7:
\- The procedure text discriminates between:
1) Functionality which \"shall\" be executed:
\- The procedure text indicates that the receiving node \"shall\" perform a
certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node supports
procedure X but cannot perform functionality Y requested in the REQUEST
message of a Class 1 EP, the receiving node shall respond with the message
used to report unsuccessful outcome for this procedure, containing an
appropriate cause value.
2) Functionality which \"shall, if supported\" be executed:
\- The procedure text indicates that the receiving node \"shall, if
supported,\" perform a certain function Y under a certain condition. If the
receiving node supports procedure X, but does not support functionality Y, the
receiving node shall proceed with the execution of the EP, possibly informing
the requesting node about the not supported functionality.
## 4.2 Specification Notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
Procedure When referring to an Elementary Procedure in the specification the
procedure name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case
characters followed by the word \"procedure\", e.g. Write-Replace procedure.
Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is
written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
\"message\", e.g. WRITE-REPLACE message.
IE When referring to an information element (IE) in the specification the
_Information Element Name_ is written with the first letters in each word in
upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the
abbreviation \"IE\", e.g. _Old Serial Number_ IE.
Value of an IE When referring to the value of an information element (IE) in
the specification the \"Value\" is written as it is specified in subclause 8.2
enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. \"Abstract Syntax Error (Reject)\" or
\"Background \".
# 5 Transport and Data Link layer
## 5.1 General
TCP over IP shall be supported as the transport for data streams on the BSC-
CBC interface. The data link layer is as specified in subclause 5.3.
During normal operation the CBC initiates all message transfer and query
operations. The BSC responds to the message transfer and query operations
initiated by the CBC.
The BSC only initiates the message transfer in case an error (Failure
Indication procedure) or recovery (Restart Indication procedure) is to be
reported.
The node initiating the message transfer is also responsible for the
establishment of the TCP connection, in case no TCP connection already exist.
An already established TCP connection may be used for message transfer.
The initiator of a connection is responsible for the termination of the TCP
connection.
## 5.2 TCP /IP
The transport protocol used shall be TCP, which is specified in RFC 793 [6].
The transport bearer is identified by the TCP port number and the IP address
(source TCP port number, destination TCP port number, source IP address,
destination IP address).
The TCP Destination Port number for CBSP messages is 48049/tcp. It is the
registered port number for 3GPP Cell Broadcast Service Protocol CBSP
(3gpp‑cbsp).
The 3gpp-cbsp destination port number 48049/tcp shall be used by both entities
(BSC or CBC) whenever it sets up a new TCP connection. When it sends CBSP
messages on an existing TCP connection, the sending entity (BSC or CBC) shall
use as TCP destination port number either 48049/tcp if it was the initiator of
this TCP connection, or the TCP source port number that was received from the
peer entity that had initiated this existing TCP connection.
An IP BSC/CBC-node shall support IPv4. The support of IPv6 is optional.
IP dual stack support is recommended for the potential transition period from
IPv4 to IPv6 in the transport network.
## 5.3 Data Link layer
It is recommended that a BSC/CBC using IP transport implement the data link
layer using Ethernet.
NOTE: This does not preclude the single implementation and use of any other
data link layer protocol fulfilling the GERAN requirements toward the upper
layers.
A BSC/CBC using IP transport having interfaces connected via low bandwidth PPP
links like E1/T1 shall also support IP Header Compression [7] and the PPP
extensions ML/MC-PPP [8], [9]. In this case the negotiation of header
compression [7] over PPP shall be performed according to [10].
# 6 Functions of CBSP
The CBSP has the following functions:
\- Message Handling: This function is responsible for enabling the broadcast
of new CBS and emergency messages, replacing CBS and emergency messages
currently being broadcasted and for terminating the broadcast of specific CBS
and emergency messages. This function may also be used to obtain the message
status of a specific CBS message.
\- DRX Handling: This function is responsible for the configuration of the
SMSCB DRX parameters.
\- Load Handling: This function determines the load status of the broadcast
channels at any particular point in time.
\- Reset: This function terminates the broadcasting of all CBS and emergency
messages in one or more cells.
\- Error Handling: This function allows reporting of general error situations,
for which function specific error messages have not been defined.
\- Supervision Handling: This function handles the supervision of the CBSP
availability between the CBC and the BSC.
These functions are implemented by one or several CBSP elementary procedures
described in clause 7.
# 7 CBSP Procedures
## 7.1 Elementary Procedures
In the following tables, all EPs are divided into Class 1 and Class 2
Procedures.
Table 7.1.1: Class 1 Procedures
* * *
Elementary Procedure Initiating Message Successful Outcome Unsuccessful
Outcome Response message Response message Write-Replace WRITE-REPLACE WRITE-
REPLACE COMPLETE WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE Kill KILL KILL COMPLETE KILL FAILURE
Load Status Enquiry LOAD QUERY LOAD QUERY COMPLETE LOAD QUERY FAILURE Message
Status Query MESSAGE STATUS QUERY MESSAGE STATUS QUERY COMPLETE MESSAGE STATUS
QUERY FAILURE Set DRX SET-DRX SET-DRX COMPLETE SET-DRX FAILURE Reset RESET
RESET COMPLETE RESET FAILURE Keep Alive KEEP-ALIVE KEEP-ALIVE COMPLETE -
* * *
Table 7.1.2: Class 2 Procedures
* * *
Elementary Procedure Message Restart Indication RESTART Failure Indication
FAILURE Error Indication ERROR INDICATION
* * *
## 7.2 Write-Replace
### 7.2.1 General
The purpose of the Write-Replace procedure is to broadcast a new CBS message
or emergency message or to replace an ongoing CBS message or emergency message
broadcast with a new CBS message or emergency message.
### 7.2.2 Successful Operation
#### 7.2.2.1 General
{width="6.53125in" height="2.707638888888889in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1: Write-Replace Procedure: Successful Operation
The Write-Replace procedure is initiated by the CBC sending the WRITE-REPLACE
message to the BSC (see figure 7.2.2.1.1).
The WRITE-REPLACE message may be sent as a request to broadcast a new CBS
message or emergency message without replacing an ongoing CBS message or
emergency message broadcast, or as a request to replace an ongoing CBS message
or emergency message broadcast with a new CBS message or emergency message. A
WRITE-REPLACE message shall not contain a simultaneous broadcast request of a
CBS message and an emergency message.
Broadcast request of a CBS message is defined in subclause 7.2.2.2 while
broadcast request of an emergency message is defined in subclause 7.2.2.3.
#### 7.2.2.2 Broadcast request of a CBS message
A CBS message is uniquely identified by the four elements _Message Identifier_
IE, Cell Identifier field in the _Cell List_ IE, Serial Number field in the
_New Serial Number_ IE or in the _Old Serial Number_ IE and the _Channel
Indicator_ IE.\ If only the _New Serial Number_ IE, and not the _Old Serial
Number_ IE, is included in the WRITE-REPLACE message, then the BSC shall
interpret the message as a write request, i.e. a broadcast request of a new
CBS message without replacing an ongoing CBS message broadcast. The new CBS
message is identified by the four elements _Message Identifier_ IE, the twelve
most significant bits of the _New Serial Number_ IE, Cell Identifier field in
the _Cell List_ IE and the _Channel Indicator_ IE.\ If both the _New Serial
Number_ IE and the _Old Serial Number_ IE are present in the WRITE-REPLACE
message, then the BSC shall interpret the message as a replace request, i.e. a
request to replace an ongoing CBS message broadcast with a new CBS message. In
this case the BSC shall start the Write-Replace procedure by terminating the
ongoing CBS message broadcast, as defined in subclause 7.3.2.2, before
broadcasting the new CBS message. The replaced CBS message is identified by
the four elements _Message Identifier_ IE, the twelve most significant bits of
the _Old Serial Number_ IE, Cell Identifier field in the _Cell List_ IE and
the _Channel Indicator_ IE.\ If termination of the replaced CBS message fails
in a cell, then the BSC shall not proceed with the broadcast of the new CBS
message for this particular cell. After completing the Write-Replace procedure
in the remaining cells, the BSC shall return the WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message
to the CBC, see subclause 7.2.3.
A CBS message may be broadcasted on one of two different cell broadcast
channels, a basic channel or an extended channel (see 3GPP TS 45.002 [11]), as
indicated by the _Channel Indicator_ IE.
The BSC initiates broadcasting of the CBS message within the Cell Broadcast
area, i.e. in the cell(s) as indicated by the Cell Identifier field in the
_Cell List_ IE.
The BSC shall broadcast the CBS message according to the value of the _Number
of Broadcasts Requested_ IE and the _Repetition Period_ IE. If the value of
_Number of Broadcasts Requested_ IE is set to \"0\", the BSC shall broadcast
the CBS message until the CBC requests otherwise. If the value is different
from \"0\", the BSC shall broadcast the CBS message as many times as indicated
in the _Number of Broadcasts Requested_ IE.\ The _Repetition Period_ IE
indicates the periodicity of which the CBS message is to be broadcasted.\ In
the event of a conflict where the BSC has more than one CBS message to send at
the same time, the BSC shall decide the order of such CBS messages as an
implementation matter.
The BSC shall accept the broadcast request of a CBS message according to the
value of the _Category_ IE as follows:
\- If the value of _Category_ IE is indicated as "High Priority", then the BSC
shall accept the broadcast request if message slots according to the
_Repetition Period_ IE are available on the broadcast channel following the
scheduling of already accepted high and/or normal priority CBS messages.\ The
first broadcast of a high priority CBS message is performed at the earliest
opportunity and the subsequent broadcasts according to the _Repetition Period_
IE.
\- If the value of _Category_ IE is indicated as "Normal", then the BSC shall
accept the broadcast request if message slots according to the _Repetition
Period_ IE are available on the broadcast channel following the scheduling of
already accepted high and/or normal priority CBS messages.\ The broadcast of a
normal priority CBS message is always performed according to the _Repetition
Period_ IE.
\- If the value of _Category_ IE is indicated as "Background", then the BSC
shall accept the broadcast request if message slots according to the
_Repetition Period_ IE are available on the broadcast channel following the
scheduling of high and/or normal priority CBS messages and/or already accepted
background CBS messages.\ The broadcast of a background CBS message is
performed according to the _Repetition Period_ IE.
NOTE: The repetition frequency of an ongoing CBS message broadcast of type
\"Background\" may be reduced if a CBS message broadcast request of type
\"Normal\" or \"High Priority\" is received in the BSC for the same cell. If
message slots on the particular broadcast channel become available again, the
requested repetition period of the background CBS message shall be resumed.
_Number of Pages_ IE indicates the total number of pages included in the CBS
message, i.e. the number of _Message Content_ IE's included in the WRITE-
REPLACE message. The BSC shall pass the _Data Coding Scheme_ IE and _Message
Content_ IE transparently to the radio interface protocol.
If the Write-Replace procedure is successful in all cells as indicated in the
_Cell List_ IE, the BSC shall return the WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE message to the
CBC as described in subclause 7.2.2.4.\ If the Write-Replace procedure fails
in at least one cell, the BSC shall respond to the CBC by sending the WRITE-
REPLACE FAILURE message, see subclause 7.2.3.
After completion of the broadcast according to the associated _Number of
Broadcasts Requested_ IE and the _Repetition Period_ IE, the BSC shall remove
any reference to the concerned CBS message.
#### 7.2.2.3 Broadcast request of an emergency message
The presence of the _Emergency Indicator_ IE indicates that the WRITE-REPLACE
message contains an emergency message (e.g. an ETWS Primary Notification
message).
An emergency message is uniquely identified by the three elements _Message
Identifier_ IE, Cell Identifier field in the _Cell List_ IE and the Serial
Number field in the _New Serial Number_ IE or in the _Old Serial Number_ IE.\
If only the _New Serial Number_ IE, and not the _Old Serial Number_ IE, is
included in the WRITE-REPLACE message, then the BSC shall interpret the
message as a write request, i.e. a broadcast request of a new emergency
message without replacing an ongoing emergency message broadcast. The new
emergency message is identified by the three elements _Message Identifier_ IE,
the twelve most significant bits of the _New Serial Number_ IE and Cell
Identifier field in the _Cell List_ IE.\ If both the _New Serial Number_ IE
and the _Old Serial Number_ IE are present in the WRITE-REPLACE message, then
the BSC shall interpret the message as a replace request, i.e. a request to
replace an ongoing emergency message broadcast with a new emergency message.
The BSC shall then start the Write-Replace procedure by terminating the
ongoing emergency message broadcast, as described in subclause 7.3.2.3, before
broadcasting the new emergency message. The replaced emergency message is
identified by the three elements _Message Identifier_ IE, the twelve most
significant bits of the _Old Serial Number_ IE and Cell Identifier field in
the _Cell List_ IE.\ If termination of the replaced emergency message fails in
a cell, then the BSC shall not proceed with the broadcast of the new emergency
message for this particular cell. After completing the Write-Replace procedure
in the remaining cells, the BSC shall return the WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message
to the CBC, see subclause 7.2.3.
The BSC shall construct and send the emergency message (e.g. an ETWS Primary
Notification message) to mobile stations located within the Cell Broadcast
area, i.e. to cell(s) as identified by the Cell Identifier field in the _Cell
List_ IE.
_Warning Type_ IE and _Warning Security Information_ IE, if present, contains
ETWS related warning information. These IE's are sent transparently, as part
of the ETWS Primary Notification message, to the mobile station.
The ETWS Primary Notification message is broadcasted to mobile stations in
idle mode, packet idle mode and dedicated mode (see 3GPP TS 44.018 [12]) and
to mobile stations in packet transfer mode and dual transfer mode (see 3GPP TS
44.060 [13]) located within the Cell Broadcast area.\ The BSC shall broadcast
the emergency message for the duration of time as indicated in the _Warning
Period_ IE or until the CBC requests otherwise.
Only one emergency message at the time can be broadcasted in a cell. If a
write request is received for a cell where an emergency message broadcast is
currently ongoing, the write request is considered as failed, see subclause
7.2.3.
If the Write-Replace procedure is successful in all cell(s) as indicated in
the _Cell List_ IE, the BSC shall return the WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE message to
the CBC as described in subclause 7.2.2.4.\ If the Write-Replace procedure
fails in at least one cell, the BSC shall respond to the CBC by sending the
WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message, see subclause 7.2.3.
#### 7.2.2.4 Returning WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE message to CBC
After completion of the Write-Replace procedure in the BSC, the WRITE-REPLACE
COMPLETE message is sent to the CBC containing the _Message Identifier_ IE,
the _New Serial Number_ IE and optionally the _Channel Indicator_ IE, if
received in the WRITE-REPLACE message, together with the _Number of Broadcasts
Completed List_ IE or the _Cell List_ IE.
Depending on the request of the WRITE-REPLACE message either the _Number of
Broadcasts Completed List_ IE or the _Cell List_ IE is returned in the WRITE-
REPLACE COMPLETE message. If the WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE message is returned to
the CBC,
\- as a response to a write request operation (i.e. without replacing an
ongoing CBS message or emergency message broadcast) then the Cell Identifier
for each cell is included in the _Cell List_ IE.
\- as a response to a replace request operation of an ongoing CBS message
broadcast, then the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE contains for each
cell the number of broadcasts of the replaced CBS message.
\- as a response to a replace request operation of an ongoing emergency
message broadcast then the Cell Identifier for each cell is included in the
_Cell List_ IE.
The _Old Serial Number_ IE shall only be provided in the WRITE-REPLACE
COMPLETE message if the message is returned as a response to a replace request
operation.
When the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE is returned to the CBC as a
response to a replace request operation of an ongoing CBS message broadcast
and the number of broadcasts is not known for a particular cell, then the
Number of Broadcasts Completed field shall be set to value \"0\" and the
Number of Broadcasts Info field shall be set to \"unknown\" for this cell.
If the actual number of broadcasts for a particular cell is greater than the
value reported in the _Number of Broadcasts Completed_ field, then the Number
of Broadcasts Info field shall be set to value "overflow" to indicate that the
counter for the specific cell has overflowed.
### 7.2.3 Unsuccessful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="2.707638888888889in"}
Figure 7.2.3.1: Write-Replace Procedure: Un-Successful Operation
If the Write-Replace procedure fails in at least one cell as specified in the
_Cell List_ IE in the WRITE-REPLACE message, then the BSC shall return the
WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message to the CBC. A list of cell(s) for which the
requested write or replace operation can not be completed shall be included in
the _Failure List_ IE and provided in the WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message. For
each cell in the _Failure List_ IE a Cause value is included, identifying the
reason for the failure.
The WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message may also include cell(s) for which the
requested write or replace operation is successful. If the Write-Replace
procedure is successful in at least one cell in the BSC, this cell shall be
identified in the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE or in the _Cell
List_ IE, see sub-clause 7.2.2.4, and provided in the WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE
message.
If the WRITE-REPLACE message sent from the CBC:
\- contained a _New Serial Number_ IE but not an _Old Serial Number_ IE (i.e.
a write request operation), and the CBS message or emergency message reference
is already in use in the BSC, it shall consider the Write-Replace procedure as
failed for this cell. The BSC shall then return the WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE
message with the Cell Identifier of this particular cell included in the
_Failure List_ IE together with the Cause value "Message-reference-already-
used". No entry is made in the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE or in
the _Cell List_ IE for this particular cell.
\- contained both the _New Serial Number_ IE and the _Old Serial Number_ IE
(i.e. a replace request operation), and the old CBS message _or emergency
message_ reference _is unknown to the BSC (i.e. the BSC can not terminate the
CBS message or emergency message) for a particular cell,_ the BSC shall
consider the Write-Replace procedure as failed for this cell. The BSC shall
then return the WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message with the Cell Identifier of this
particular cell included in the _Failure List_ IE together with the Cause
value "Message-reference-not-identified". No entry is made in the _Number of
Broadcasts Completed List_ IE or in the _Cell List_ IE for this particular
cell.\ In this case the _Old Serial Number_ IE provided in the WRITE-REPLACE
FAILURE message refers to the message for which the _Failure List_ IE is
supplied.
\- contained both the _New Serial Number_ IE and the _Old Serial Number_ IE,
and the new CBS message reference is already in use in the BSC, it shall
consider the Write-Replace procedure as failed for this cell. The BSC shall
then return the WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message with the Cell Identifier of this
particular cell included in the _Failure List_ IE together with the Cause
value "Message-reference-already-used". An entry is made in the _Number of
Broadcasts Completed List_ IE for the killed CBS message for this particular
cell.\ In this case the _New Serial Number_ IE provided in the WRITE-REPLACE
FAILURE message refers to the message for which the _Failure List_ IE is
supplied and the _Old Serial Number_ IE to the message for which the _Number
of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE is supplied.
## 7.3 Kill
### 7.3.1 General
The purpose of the Kill procedure is to terminate the broadcast of a specific
CBS message or emergency message.
### 7.3.2 Successful Operation
#### 7.3.2.1 General
{width="6.53125in" height="2.707638888888889in"}
Figure 7.3.2.1.1: Kill Procedure: Successful Operation
The Kill procedure is initiated by the CBC sending the KILL message to the BSC
(see figure 7.3.2.1.1). The KILL message may be sent in purpose to terminate
the broadcasting of a CBS message (see subclause 7.3.2.2) or to terminate the
broadcasting of an emergency message (see subclause 7.3.2.3).
#### 7.3.2.2 Termination of CBS message broadcast
Upon receipt of the KILL message the BSC shall stop broadcasting the CBS
message identified by the _Message Identifier_ IE, the twelve most significant
bits of the _Old Serial Number_ IE and the _Channel Indicator_ IE, for the
cell(s) as indicated in the _Cell List_ IE.\ After termination of the
broadcast the BSC shall remove the CBS message, as well as any reference to
it, for the cell(s) as indicated in the _Cell List_ IE.
The BSC shall respond to the CBC by sending the KILL COMPLETE message
containing the _Message Identifier_ IE, the _Old Serial Number_ IE and the
_Channel Indicator_ IE. The KILL COMPLETE message also contains the _Number of
Broadcasts Completed List_ IE indicating for each cell the number of times the
CBS message was broadcasted.
If the number of broadcasts is not known for a particular cell, then the
Number of Broadcasts Completed field shall be set to value \"0\" and the
_Number of Broadcasts Info_ field shall be set to \"unknown\" for this cell.
If the actual number of broadcasts for a particular cell is greater than the
value reported in the _Number of Broadcasts Completed_ field, then the Number
of Broadcasts Info field shall be set to value "overflow" to indicate that the
counter for the specific cell has overflowed.
If the Kill procedure fails in at least one cell, the BSC shall respond to the
CBC by sending the KILL FAILURE message, see subclause 7.3.3.
#### 7.3.2.3 Termination of emergency message broadcast
Upon receipt of the KILL message the BSC shall stop broadcasting the emergency
message identified by the _Message Identifier_ IE and the twelve most
significant bits of the _Old Serial Number_ IE for the cell(s) as indicated in
the _Cell List_ IE. After termination of the broadcast the BSC shall remove
the emergency message, as well as any reference to it, for the cell(s) as
indicated in the _Cell List_ IE.
The BSC shall respond to the CBC by sending the KILL COMPLETE message with the
_Message Identifier_ IE, the _Old Serial Number_ IE and the _Cell List_ IE,
containing the cells for which the kill operation succeeded, included in the
message.
If the Kill procedure fails in at least one cell, the BSC shall respond to the
CBC by sending the KILL FAILURE message, see subclause 7.3.3.
### 7.3.3 Unsuccessful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="2.707638888888889in"}
Figure 7.3.3.1: Kill Procedure: Un-Successful Operation
If the BSC fails to terminate the broadcasting of the CBS message or the
emergency message in at least one cell as indicated in the _Cell List_ IE, the
BSC shall return the KILL FAILURE message to the CBC. Cell(s) for which the
requested kill operation can not be performed (e.g. if the CBS or emergency
message reference is not recognized in the BSC) shall be included in the
_Failure List_ IE and provided in the KILL FAILURE message. For each cell in
the _Failure List_ IE a Cause value is included, identifying the reason for
the failure.
If the Kill procedure is successful in at least one cell in the BSC, this cell
shall be identified in the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE, or in the
_Cell List_ IE, and provided in the KILL FAILURE message, see subclause
7.3.2.2 or 7.3.2.3.
The sum of the cell(s) included in the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_
IE, or in the _Cell List_ IE, and the _Failure List_ IE shall be equal to the
sum of cell(s) as included in the _Cell List_ IE in the KILL message.
## 7.4 Load Status Enquiry
### 7.4.1 General
The purpose of the Load Status Enquiry procedure is to obtain the current load
status of the CBCH radio resources within a cell.
### 7.4.2 Successful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="2.707638888888889in"}
Figure 7.4.2.1: Load Status Enquiry Procedure: Successful Operation
The Load Status Enquiry procedure is initiated by the CBC sending the LOAD
QUERY message to the BSC (see figure 7.4.2.1) containing a _Cell List_ IE, for
which cell(s) the current CBCH load status is required, and the _Channel
Indicator_ IE.
Two CBCH radio resource load values per cell shall be provided by the BSC.\
The first value, included in the Radio Resource Load 1 field, shall be
calculated as the number of used CBCH message slots in relation to the number
of available CBCH message slots. Number of used CBCH message slots is defined
as message slots reserved for schedule messages, message slots used for high
and normal priority CBS messages according to their requested repetition
period and slots reserved for \"free message slot reading advised\" (see 3GPP
TS 44.012 [3]).
NOTE 1: CBCH message slots used for unscheduled scheduled messages shall not
be considered as used CBCH message slots when calculating the Radio Resource
Load 1 field.
The second value, included in the Radio Resource Load 2 field, shall be
calculated as the number of CBCH message slots used for background CBS
messages according to their requested repetition period in relation to the
number of available CBCH message slots.
NOTE 2: The repetition period of an ongoing background CBS message broadcast
may be reduced if a high or normal priority CBS message broadcast request is
received in the BSC for the same cell. The calculation of the Radio Resource
Load 2 field shall however always be calculated according to the requested
repetition period of the background CBS message.
After completion of the CBCH radio resource load calculation for the requested
cell(s) the BSC shall respond to the CBC by sending the LOAD QUERY COMPLETE
message containing the _Radio Resource Loading List_ IE, indicating the
current load status of the included cell(s), and the _Channel Indicator_ IE.
If the Load Status Enquiry procedure fails in at least one cell, the BSC shall
respond to the CBC by sending the LOAD QUERY FAILURE message, see subclause
7.4.3.
### 7.4.3 Unsuccessful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="2.707638888888889in"}
Figure 7.4.3.1: Load Status Enquiry Procedure: Un-Successful Operation
If upon receipt of the LOAD QUERY message the BSC can not calculate the
current CBCH radio resource load status in one or several cells as indicated
in the _Cell List_ IE, the BSC shall respond to the CBC by sending the LOAD
QUERY FAILURE message. Cell(s), for which the CBCH radio resource load can not
be calculated, shall be included in the _Failure List_ IE together with a
Cause value identifying the reason for the failure.
If the Load Status Enquiry procedure is successful in at least one cell in the
BSC, this cell shall be identified in the _Radio Resource Loading List_ IE (as
well as their current load status) and be included in the LOAD QUERY FAILURE
message.
The sum of the cell(s) included in the _Radio Resource Loading List IE_ and
_Failure List_ IE shall be equal to the sum of cell(s) as included in the
_Cell List_ IE in the LOAD QUERY message.
## 7.5 Message Status Query
### 7.5.1 General
The purpose of the Message Status Query procedure is to obtain the message
status of a specific CBS message in the BSC.
### 7.5.2 Successful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="2.707638888888889in"}
Figure 7.5.2.1: Message Status Query Procedure: Successful Operation
The Message Status Query procedure is initiated by the CBC sending the MESSAGE
STATUS QUERY message to the BSC (see figure 7.5.2.1) containing the _Old
Serial Number_ IE, the _Message Identifier_ IE and the _Cell List_ IE,
identifying the cells for which the status query is required, and the _Channel
Indicator_ IE.
Upon receipt of the MESSAGE STATUS QUERY message the BSC shall report for each
cell as indicated in the _Cell List_ IE, the total number of broadcasts of the
identified CBS message. The number of broadcasts is reported for each cell in
the _Number of Broadcasts Completed_ field included in the _Number of
Broadcasts Completed List_ IE.
The BSC responds to the CBC by sending the MESSAGE STATUS QUERY COMPLETE
message, containing the _Message Identifier_ IE, the _Old Serial Number_ IE,
the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE and the _Channel Indicator_ IE.
If the actual number of broadcasts for a particular cell is greater than the
value reported in the _Number of Broadcasts Completed_ field, the Number of
Broadcasts Info field shall be set to value "overflow" to indicate that the
counter for the specific cell has overflowed.
If the number of broadcasts is not known for a particular cell, the Number of
Broadcasts Completed field shall be set to value \"0\" and the _Number of
Broadcasts Info_ field shall be set to \"unknown\" for this cell.
If the Message Status Query procedure fails in at least one cell for another
reason, the BSC shall respond to the CBC by sending the MESSAGE STATUS QUERY
FAILURE message, see subclause 7.5.3.
### 7.5.3 Unsuccessful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="2.707638888888889in"}
Figure 7.5.3.1: Message Status Query Procedure: Un-Successful Operation
If upon receipt of the MESSAGE STATUS QUERY message the BSC can not report the
number of CBS message broadcasts in one or several cells as indicated in the
_Cell List_ IE (e.g. if the CBS message reference is unknown in the BSC) the
BSC shall respond by sending the MESSAGE STATUS QUERY FAILURE message to the
CBC. Cell(s), for which BSC can not report the number of broadcasts, shall be
included in the _Failure List_ IE together with a Cause value identifying the
reason for the failure.
If the Message Status Query procedure is successful in at least one cell in
the BSC, this cell shall be identified in the _Number of Broadcasts Completed
List_ IE and be included in the MESSAGE STATUS QUERY FAILURE message.
The sum of the cell(s) included in the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_
_IE_ and _Failure List_ IE shall be equal to the sum of cell(s) as included in
the _Cell List_ IE in the MESSAGE STATUS QUERY message.
## 7.6 Set DRX
### 7.6.1 General
The purpose of the Set DRX procedure is to configure SMSCB DRX specific
parameters in the BSC.\ This is an optional procedure in the BSC. If not
supported, the BSC may use default values of the SMSCB DRX specific
parameters.
### 7.6.2 Successful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="2.707638888888889in"}
Figure 7.6.2.1: Set DRX Procedure: Successful Operation
The Set DRX procedure is initiated by the CBC sending the SET-DRX message to
the BSC (see figure 7.6.2.1) containing at least one of the two IE's _Schedule
Period_ IE and _Number of Reserved Slots_ IE, the _Cell List_ IE identifying
the cell(s) for which the new SMSCB DRX specific parameter(s) is valid for,
and the _Channel Indicator_ IE.
The _Schedule Period_ IE indicates the length of the SMSCB DRX schedule period
in number of slots (see 3GPP TS 44.012 [3]). The length of the DRX schedule
period shall not be longer than 40 slots since the schedule message can not be
built entirely if more than 40 CBS messages have to be described in the
schedule period.
The _Number of Reserved Slots_ IE indicates the number of slots in the
schedule message reserved for \"free slots reading advised\" which are
normally used for broadcasting of incoming high priority CBS messages (see
3GPP TS 44.012 [3]). The value of _Number of Reserved Slots_ IE must be given
a lower value than the _Schedule Period_ IE.
The new SMSCB DRX parameters shall be taken into account starting from the
next schedule period in each cell.
After successfully changing the SMSCB DRX parameter(s) for the requested
cell(s) the BSC shall respond to the CBC by sending the SET-DRX COMPLETE
message with the _Cell List_ IE identifying the cell(s) for which the SMSCB
DRX parameter(s) is changed, and the _Channel Indicator_ IE.
If the Set DRX procedure fails in at least one cell, the BSC shall respond to
the CBC by sending the SET-DRX FAILURE message, see subclause 7.6.3.
### 7.6.3 Unsuccessful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="2.707638888888889in"}
Figure 7.6.3.1: Set DRX Procedure: Un-Successful Operation
If upon receipt of the SET-DRX message the BSC can not configure the SMSCB DRX
parameters in the cell(s) as indicated in the _Cell List_ IE, the BSC shall
respond to the CBC by sending the SET-DRX FAILURE message. Cell(s), for which
the SMSCB DRX parameters can not be configured, shall be included in the
_Failure List_ IE together with a Cause value identifying the reason for the
failure.
If the Set DRX procedure is successful in at least one cell in the BSC, this
cell shall be identified in the _Cell List_ IE and be included in the SET-DRX
FAILURE message.
The sum of the cell(s) included in the _Cell List IE_ and _Failure List_ IE
shall be equal to the sum of cell(s) as included in the _Cell List_ IE in the
SET-DRX message.
## 7.7 Reset
### 7.7.1 General
The purpose of the Reset procedure is to terminate broadcasting of all
messages (CBS and/or emergency messages) in one or more cells in the BSC.
### 7.7.2 Successful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="2.707638888888889in"}
Figure 7.7.2.1: Reset Procedure: Successful Operation
The Reset procedure is initiated by the CBC sending the RESET message to the
BSC (see figure 7.7.2.1) containing the _Cell List_ IE identifying the cells
in which the CBS message and emergency message broadcast shall be terminated.
Upon receipt of the RESET message the BSC shall terminate the broadcasting of
all CBS messages and/or emergency messages in the indicated cell(s). All CBS
messages and/or emergency messages, and any reference to them, related to the
indicated cell(s), shall be deleted in the BSC.
The BSC shall respond to the CBC by sending the RESET COMPLETE message with
the _Cell List_ IE identifying the cell(s) in which the CBS message and/or
emergency message broadcast is terminated.
If the Reset procedure, for any reason, fails in at least one cell, the BSC
shall respond to the CBC by sending the RESET FAILURE message, see subclause
7.7.3.
### 7.7.3 Unsuccessful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="2.707638888888889in"}
Figure 7.7.3.1: Reset Procedure: Un-Successful Operation
If upon receipt of the RESET message the BSC can not terminate the
broadcasting of the CBS message and/or the emergency message in the cell(s) as
indicated in the _Cell List_ IE, the BSC shall respond to the CBC by sending
the RESET FAILURE message (see figure 7.7.3.1). Cell(s), in which the Reset
procedure is unsuccessful, shall be indicated in the _Failure List_ IE
together with a Cause value identifying the reason for the failure.
If the Reset procedure is successful in at least one cell in the BSC, this
cell shall be identified in the _Cell List_ IE and provided in the RESET
FAILURE message.
The sum of the cell(s) included in the _Cell List IE_ and _Failure List_ IE
shall be equal to the sum of cell(s) as included in the _Cell List_ IE in the
RESET message.
## 7.7a Keep Alive
### 7.7a.1 General
The purpose of the Keep Alive procedure is to verify the CBSP communication
path between the CBC and the BSC and to supervise the availability of the CBSP
communication.
### 7.7a.2 Successful Operation
{width="3.0097222222222224in" height="2.290277777777778in"}
Figure 7.7a.2.1: Keep Alive Procedure: Successful Operation
The Keep Alive procedure is initiated by the CBC sending the KEEP-ALIVE
message to the BSC (see figure 7.7a.2.1) containing the _Keep Alive Repetition
Period_ IE indicating the repetition period in which the KEEP-ALIVE message is
sent. Upon sending of the KEEP-ALIVE message, the timer T1 is started in the
CBC, supervising the response message from the BSC.
At reception of the KEEP-ALIVE message in the BSC, the BSC shall return the
KEEP-ALIVE COMPLETE message to the CBC. The BSC may use the value from the
_Keep Alive Repetition Period_ IE to supervise the KEEP-ALIVE message sent
from the CBC. How to supervise the reception of the KEEP-ALIVE message is a
BSC implementation matter.
At reception of the KEEP-ALIVE COMPLETE message in the CBC, the timer T1 is
stopped.
The KEEP-ALIVE message is sent periodically from the CBC according to the
value as indicated in the _Keep Alive Repetition Period_ IE.
### 7.7a.3 Unsuccessful Operation
{width="6.530555555555556in" height="2.9159722222222224in"}
Figure 7.7a.3.1: Keep Alive Procedure: Unsuccessful Operation
If the KEEP-ALIVE COMPLETE message is not received in the CBC before the timer
T1 expires, the Keep Alive procedure is considered as failed.\ Appropriate
actions to follow in the CBC (e.g. repetition of Keep Alive procedure) are
considered as an implementation matter.
## 7.8 Restart Indication
### 7.8.1 General
The purpose of the Restart Indication procedure is to inform the CBC that a
cell broadcast related restart has occurred in one or more cells in the BSC.
The procedure may also be used to inform the CBC of the current CBS message or
emergency message operational state in one or more cells in the BSC
independently if a cell broadcast related restart has occurred or not.
### 7.8.2 Successful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="1.8854166666666667in"}
Figure 7.8.2.1: Restart Indication Procedure: Successful Operation
The Restart Indication procedure is initiated by the BSC in purpose to inform
the CBC of the CBS message operational state or the emergency message
operational state in one or more cells in the BSC.
The BSC informs the CBC by sending the RESTART message (see figure 7.8.2.1)
containing the _Cell List_ IE identifying the cell(s) being in CBS message
operational state or in emergency message operational state and the _Recovery
Indication_ IE, indicating whether the broadcast information data is lost or
not in the BSC.
The RESTART message is sent once per broadcast message type as indicated by
the _Broadcast Message Type_ IE.
## 7.9 Failure Indication
### 7.9.1 General
The purpose of the Failure Indication procedure is to inform the CBC that a
cell broadcast related problem is present in one or more cells in the BSC.
### 7.9.2 Successful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="2.0416666666666665in"}
Figure 7.9.2.1: Failure Indication Procedure: Successful Operation
The Failure Indication procedure is initiated by the BSC when a cell broadcast
related problem occurs in a cell, i.e. when CBS message broadcast or emergency
message broadcast is prevented in a cell for whatever reason.
The BSC informs the CBC by sending the FAILURE message (see figure 7.9.2.1)
containing the _Failure List_ IE identifying the cell(s) having a broadcast
related problem. For each cell a Cause value is included, indicating the
reason to the failure.
The FAILURE message is sent once per broadcast message type as indicated by
the _Broadcast Message Type_ IE.
Upon receipt of the FAILURE message, the CBC shall not initiate further WRITE-
REPLACE messages for concerned cell(s) until the CBC is informed, by the
RESTART message, that the cell(s) have resumed CBS message operational state
or emergency message operational state again.
## 7.10 Error Indication
### 7.10.1 General
The purpose of the Error Indication procedure is to inform the CBC that an
erroneous CBSP message was received in the BSC provided the detected error can
not be reported by an appropriate failure message.
### 7.10.2 Successful Operation
{width="6.53125in" height="1.96875in"}
Figure 7.10.2.1: Error Indication Procedure: Successful Operation
The Error Indication procedure is initiated by the BSC when a CBSP message is
received from the CBC and the content of the CBSP message can not be
interpreted by the BSC.
The BSC informs the CBC by sending the ERROR INDICATION message (see figure
7.10.2.1), containing at least the _Cause_ IE, identifying the reason for the
interpretation problem in the BSC.
Examples of possible cause values for protocol error indications are:
\- \"Parameter-value-invalid\"
\- \"Unrecognised-message\"
The ERROR INDICATION message shall only be sent in case the detected error can
not be reported by an appropriate failure message.
# 8 Elements for CBSP Communication
## 8.1 Message Functional Definitions and Contents
### 8.1.1 General
Subclause 8.1 defines the coding and format of the CBSP messages in tabular
format.
A CBSP message consists of _Message Type_ IE, _Length Indicator_ IE and
possibly a set of information elements.
For each CBSP message there is, in subclause 8.1.3, a table listing the
information elements in their order of appearance in the transmitted CBSP
message.
There is no general rule for the order of information elements. The same
information elements may appear in various orders depending on the CBSP
message.
A CBS message is uniquely identified by the four elements _Message Identifier_
IE, _Serial Number_ IE, _Channel Indicator_ IE and the \"Cell Identifier\"
field included in the _Cell List_ IE. This means that even when two CBS
messages have the same semantic content (for example the same weather
forecast) but in different languages or coding schemes, they are considered as
different and must therefore be identified by a different quartet.
An emergency message is uniquely identified by the three elements _Message
Identifier_ IE, _Serial Number_ IE and the \"Cell Identifier\" field included
in the _Cell List_ IE.
Table 8.1.1.1 summarizes the CBSP messages.
Table 8.1.1.1: CBSP messages
* * *
Message name Reference WRITE-REPLACE 8.1.3.1 WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE 8.1.3.2
WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE 8.1.3.3 KILL 8.1.3.4 KILL COMPLETE 8.1.3.5 KILL FAILURE
8.1.3.6 LOAD QUERY 8.1.3.7 LOAD QUERY COMPLETE 8.1.3.8 LOAD QUERY FAILURE
8.1.3.9 MESSAGE STATUS QUERY 8.1.3.10 MESSAGE STATUS QUERY COMPLETE 8.1.3.11
MESSAGE STATUS QUERY FAILURE 8.1.3.12 SET-DRX 8.1.3.13 SET DRX COMPLETE
8.1.3.14 SET-DRX FAILURE 8.1.3.15 RESET 8.1.3.16 RESET COMPLETE 8.1.3.17 RESET
FAILURE 8.1.3.18 KEEP-ALIVE 8.1.3.18a KEEP-ALIVE COMPLETE 8.1.3.18b RESTART
8.1.3.19 FAILURE 8.1.3.20 ERROR INDICATION 8.1.3.21
* * *
### 8.1.2 Presence
All Information Elements in the message descriptions below are marked
mandatory, optional or conditional according to table 8.1.2.1.
Table 8.1.2.1: Meaning of abbreviations used in CBSP messages
* * *
Abbreviation Meaning M IE\'s marked as Mandatory (M) will always be included
in the message. O IE\'s marked as Optional (O) may or may not be included in
the message. C IE\'s marked as Conditional (C) will be included in a message
only if the condition is fulfilled. Otherwise the IE is not included.
* * *
### 8.1.3 Message Contents
#### 8.1.3.1 WRITE-REPLACE
The WRITE-REPLACE message is sent from the CBC to the BSC in order to
broadcast a new CBS message or to replace an ongoing CBS message broadcast.
This message may also be sent in order to broadcast a new emergency message or
to replace an ongoing emergency message broadcast.
Direction: CBC  BSC
Table 8.1.3.1.1: WRITE-REPLACE message content
+------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Identifier | 8.2.16 | M | 3 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | New Serial Number | 8.2.5 | M | 3 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Old Serial Number | 8.2.4 | O | 3 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | M | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | O (note 1) | 2 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Category | 8.2.7 | C (note 2) | 2 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Repetition Period | 8.2.8 | C (note 2) | 3 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Number of Broadcasts | 8.2.9 | C (note 2) | 3 | | Requested | | | | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Number of Pages | 8.2.21 | C (note 2) | 2 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Data Coding Scheme | 8.2.14 | C (note 2) | 2 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 1) | 8.2.3 | C (note 2) | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 2) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 3) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 4) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 5) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 6) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 7) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 8) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 9) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 10) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 11) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 12) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 13) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 14) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Message Content (Page 15) | 8.2.3 | O | 84 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Emergency Indicator | 8.2.17 | O (note 1) | 2 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Warning Type | 8.2.18 | C (note 3) | 3 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Warning Security Information | 8.2.19 | C (note 3, 4) | 51 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | Warning Period | 8.2.25 | C (note 3) | 2 | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: Only one of these | | | | | two optional IEs shall be | | | | | present in the message. | | | | | _Channel Indicator_ IE is | | | | | included if and only if the | | | | | message contains a CBS | | | | | message. _Emergency | | | | | Indicator_ IE is included if | | | | | and only if the message | | | | | contains an emergency | | | | | message. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This IE is included | | | | | if and only if the _Channel | | | | | Indicator_ IE is present in | | | | | the message. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: This IE is included | | | | | if and only if the | | | | | _Emergency Indicator_ IE is | | | | | present in the message and | | | | | the _Emergency Indicator_ IE | | | | | indicates ETWS information. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: This IE does not | | | | | serve any purpose. It is | | | | | only included due to | | | | | requirements in earlier | | | | | versions of 3GPP TS 23.041 | | | | | [1]. | | | | +------------------------------+-----------+---------------+--------+
If only the _New Serial Number_ IE, and not the _Old Serial Number_ IE, is
included in the WRITE-REPLACE message, the BSC shall interpret the message as
a write request operation.
If both _New Serial Number_ IE and _Old Serial Number_ IE are included in the
WRITE-REPLACE message, the BSC shall interpret the message as a replace
request operation.
#### 8.1.3.2 WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE
The WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC to indicate
a successful Write-Replace procedure.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.2.1: WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE message content
+-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Message Identifier | 8.2.16 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | New Serial Number | 8.2.5 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Old Serial Number | 8.2.4 | O (note 1) | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Number of Broadcasts | 8.2.10 | O (note 2) | 4+m+3 | | Completed List | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+(m+3)n | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | O | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | O (note 1) | 2 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 1: This IE is only | | | | | included in the message if it | | | | | was received in the | | | | | WRITE-REPLACE message. | | | | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 2: This IE is only | | | | | included in the message if | | | | | the message is sent as a | | | | | response to a replace request | | | | | operation of a CBS message. | | | | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+
If the WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE message is returned to the CBC as a response to
a write request operation of a CBS message or an emergency message, the Cell
Identifier for each cell is included in the _Cell List_ IE.
If the WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE message is returned to the CBC as a response to
a replace request operation of a CBS message, the _Number of Broadcasts
Completed List_ IE may contain for each cell the number of broadcasts of the
replaced CBS message. In this case the _Old Serial Number_ IE refers to the
message for which the number of broadcasts completed information is supplied.
If the WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE message is returned to the CBC as a response to
a replace request operation of an emergency message, the Cell Identifier for
each cell is included in the _Cell List_ IE. In this case the _Old Serial
Number_ IE is referring to the cell(s) included in the _Cell List_ IE.
#### 8.1.3.3 WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE
The WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC to indicate
that the Write-Replace procedure failed in at least one cell.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.3.1: WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message content
+-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Message Identifier | 8.2.16 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | New Serial Number | 8.2.5 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Old Serial Number | 8.2.4 | O (note 2) | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Failure List | 8.2.11 | M | 4+m+1 | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | p+m+1 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Number of Broadcasts | 8.2.10 | O (note 1) | 4+m+3 | | Completed List | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+(m+3)n | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | O | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | O (note 2) | 2 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 1: This IE is only | | | | | included in the message if | | | | | the requested kill operation | | | | | in the WRITE-REPLACE message | | | | | is successful in at least one | | | | | cell. | | | | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 2: This IE is only | | | | | included in the message if it | | | | | was received in the | | | | | WRITE-REPLACE message. | | | | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+
If the WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message is returned to the CBC as a response to a
write request operation:
\- The _Failure List_ IE contains a list of cells for which the requested
write operation failed. For each cell a Cause value is included, indicating
the reason to the failure.
\- The _Cell List_ IE, if present, contains the cells for which the requested
write operation succeeded.
If the WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message is returned to the CBC as a response to a
replace request operation:
\- The _Failure List_ IE contains a list of cells for which the requested kill
operation failed and/or cells for which the requested kill operation succeeded
but for which the subsequent write operation failed. For each cell a Cause
value is included, indicating the reason to the failure.
\- The _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE, if present, contains the
cells for which the kill operation of the replaced CBS message succeeded. In
this case the _Old Serial Number_ IE refers to the message for which the
number of broadcasts completed information is supplied.
\- The _Cell List_ IE, if present, contains the cells for which the kill
operation of the replaced emergency message succeeded. In this case the _Old
Serial Number_ IE refers to the cell(s) included in the _Cell List_ IE.
#### 8.1.3.4 KILL
The KILL message is sent from the CBC to the BSC in order to stop broadcasting
of a specific CBS message or emergency message. Any reference to the CBS
message or emergency message shall be removed in the BSC.
Direction: CBC  BSC
Table 8.1.3.4.1: KILL message content
+---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Message Identifier | 8.2.16 | M | 3 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Old Serial Number | 8.2.4 | M | 3 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | M | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | O (note 1) | 2 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: This IE is only | | | | | included if the message refers | | | | | to a CBS message. | | | | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+
#### 8.1.3.5 KILL COMPLETE
The KILL COMPLETE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC indicating a
successful Kill procedure.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.5.1: KILL COMPLETE message content
+-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Message Identifier | 8.2.16 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Old Serial Number | 8.2.4 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Number of Broadcasts | 8.2.10 | O | 4+m+3 | | Completed List | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+(m+3)n | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | O | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | O (note 1) | 2 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 1: This IE is only | | | | | included in the message if it | | | | | was received in the KILL | | | | | message. | | | | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+
The _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE, if present, contains for each
cell the total number of broadcasts of the killed CBS message.
The _Cell List_ IE, if present, contains the cells in which the emergency
message is successfully terminated.
#### 8.1.3.6 KILL FAILURE
The KILL FAILURE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC to indicate that the
Kill procedure failed in at least one cell.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.6.1: KILL FAILURE message content
+-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Message Identifier | 8.2.16 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Old Serial Number | 8.2.4 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Failure List | 8.2.11 | M | 4+m+1 | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | p+m+1 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Number of Broadcasts | 8.2.10 | O (note 1) | 4+m+3 | | Completed List | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+(m+3)n | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | O (note 1) | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | O (note 2) | 2 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 1: This IE is only | | | | | included in the message if | | | | | the requested kill operation | | | | | is successful in at least one | | | | | cell. | | | | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 2: This IE is only | | | | | included in the message if it | | | | | was received in the KILL | | | | | message. | | | | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+
The _Failure List_ IE contains a list of cells for which the requested kill
operation failed. For each cell a Cause value is included, indicating the
reason to the failure.
The _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE, if present, contains a list of
cells for which the kill operation of the CBS message succeeded.
The _Cell List_ IE, if present, contains the cells in which the emergency
message is successfully terminated.
#### 8.1.3.7 LOAD QUERY
The LOAD QUERY message is sent from the CBC to the BSC in order to obtain
current load status of the CBCH radio resources of indicated cell(s).
Direction: CBC  BSC
Table 8.1.3.7.1: LOAD QUERY message content
+---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | M | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | M | 2 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+
#### 8.1.3.8 LOAD QUERY COMPLETE
The LOAD QUERY COMPLETE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC to indicate a
successful Load Query procedure.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.8.1: LOAD QUERY COMPLETE message content
+-----------------------------+-----------+------+----------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +-----------------------------+-----------+------+----------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +-----------------------------+-----------+------+----------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +-----------------------------+-----------+------+----------+ | Radio Resource Loading List | 8.2.12 | M | 4+m+2 | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+(m+2)n | +-----------------------------+-----------+------+----------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | M | 2 | +-----------------------------+-----------+------+----------+
#### 8.1.3.9 LOAD QUERY FAILURE
The LOAD QUERY FAILURE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC indicating that
the Load Query procedure failed in at least one cell.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.9.1: LOAD QUERY FAILURE message content
+-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Failure List | 8.2.11 | M | 4+m+1 | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | p+m+1 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | M | 2 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Radio Resource Loading List | 8.2.12 | O (note 1) | 4+m+2 | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+(m+2)n | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 1: This IE is only | | | | | included in the message if | | | | | the Load Query procedure is | | | | | successful in at least one | | | | | cell. | | | | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+
The _Failure List_ IE contains a list of cells for which the current load
status of the CBCH radio resources can not be obtained. For each cell a Cause
value is included, indicating the reason to the failure.
#### 8.1.3.10 MESSAGE STATUS QUERY
The MESSAGE STATUS QUERY message is sent from the CBC to the BSC in order to
obtain current status of a specific CBS message.
Direction: CBC  BSC
Table 8.1.3.10.1: MESSAGE STATUS QUERY message content
+---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Message Identifier | 8.2.16 | M | 3 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Old Serial Number | 8.2.4 | M | 3 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | M | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | M | 2 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+
#### 8.1.3.11 MESSAGE STATUS QUERY COMPLETE
The MESSAGE STATUS QUERY COMPLETE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC to
indicate a successful Message Status Query procedure.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.11.1: MESSAGE STATUS QUERY COMPLETE message content
+-------------------------------------+-----------+------+----------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +-------------------------------------+-----------+------+----------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +-------------------------------------+-----------+------+----------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------------+-----------+------+----------+ | Message Identifier | 8.2.16 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------------+-----------+------+----------+ | Old Serial Number | 8.2.4 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------------+-----------+------+----------+ | Number of Broadcasts Completed List | 8.2.10 | M | 4+m+3 | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+(m+3)n | +-------------------------------------+-----------+------+----------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | M | 2 | +-------------------------------------+-----------+------+----------+
#### 8.1.3.12 MESSAGE STATUS QUERY FAILURE
The MESSAGE STATUS QUERY FAILURE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC
indicating that the Message Status Query procedure failed in at least one
cell.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.12.1: MESSAGE STATUS QUERY FAILURE message content
+-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Message Identifier | 8.2.16 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Old Serial Number | 8.2.4 | M | 3 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Failure List | 8.2.11 | M | 4+m+1 | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | p+m+1 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | M | 2 | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | Number of Broadcasts | 8.2.10 | O (note 1) | 4+m+3 | | Completed List | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+(m+3)n | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 1: This IE is only | | | | | included in the message if | | | | | the Message Status Query | | | | | procedure is successful in at | | | | | least one cell. | | | | +-------------------------------+-----------+------------+----------+
The _Failure List_ IE contains a list of cells for which the broadcast status
can not be obtained. For each cell a Cause value is included, indicating the
reason to the failure.
#### 8.1.3.13 SET-DRX
The SET-DRX message is sent from the CBC to set SMSCB DRX specific parameters
in the BSC.
Direction: CBC  BSC
Table 8.1.3.13.1: SET-DRX message content
+---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | M | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | M | 2 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Schedule Period | 8.2.22 | O (note 1) | 2 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Number of Reserved Slots | 8.2.23 | O (note 1) | 2 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: At least one of the two | | | | | IEs _Schedule Period_ IE or | | | | | _Reserved Slots_ IE must be | | | | | included in the message. | | | | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+
#### 8.1.3.14 SET-DRX COMPLETE
The SET-DRX COMPLETE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC indicating a
successful Set DRX procedure.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.14.1: SET-DRX COMPLETE message content
+---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | M | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | M | 2 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+
The _Cell List_ IE contains a list of cells for which the SMSCB DRX parameters
are successfully changed.
#### 8.1.3.15 SET-DRX FAILURE
The SET-DRX FAILURE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC indicating that
the Set DRX procedure failed in at least one cell.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.15.1: SET-DRX FAILURE message content
+---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Failure List | 8.2.11 | M | 4+m+1 | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | p+m+1 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Channel Indicator | 8.2.20 | M | 2 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | O (note 1) | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: This IE is only | | | | | included in the message if the | | | | | Set DRX procedure is successful | | | | | in at least one cell. | | | | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+
The _Failure List_ IE contains a list of cells for which the SMSCB DRX
parameters can not be changed. For each cell a Cause value is included,
indicating the reason to the failure.
#### 8.1.3.16 RESET
The RESET message is sent from the CBC to the BSC in order to stop
broadcasting of all messages (CBS and/or emergency messages) in one or more
cells. All CBS messages and/or emergency messages related to the indicated
cell(s) shall be deleted.
Direction: CBC  BSC
Table 8.1.3.16.1: RESET message content
+---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | M | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+
#### 8.1.3.17 RESET COMPLETE
The RESET COMPLETE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC to indicate a
successful Reset procedure.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.17.1: RESET COMPLETE message content
+---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | M | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +---------------------+-----------+------+--------+
The _Cell List_ IE contains a list of cells for which the Reset procedure is
successfully performed.
#### 8.1.3.18 RESET FAILURE
The RESET FAILURE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC indicating that the
Reset procedure failed in at least one cell.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.18.1: RESET FAILURE message content
+---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Failure List | 8.2.11 | M | 4+m+1 | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | p+m+1 | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | O (note 1) | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: This IE is only | | | | | included in the message if the | | | | | Reset procedure succeeded for | | | | | at least one cell. | | | | +---------------------------------+-----------+------------+--------+
The _Failure List_ IE contains a list of cells for which the Reset procedure
failed. For each cell a Cause value is included, indicating the reason to the
failure.
The _Cell List_ IE, if present, contains a list of cells for which the Reset
procedure is successfully performed.
#### 8.1.3.18a KEEP-ALIVE
The KEEP-ALIVE message is sent from the CBC to the BSC in order to verify the
CBSP communication path between the CBC and the BSC.
Direction: CBC  BSC
Table 8.1.3.18a.1: KEEP-ALIVE message content
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE TYPE LENGTH Message Type 8.2.2 M 1 Length
Indicator 8.2.26 M 3 Keep Alive Repetition Period 8.2.27 M 2
* * *
#### 8.1.3.18b KEEP-ALIVE COMPLETE
The KEEP-ALIVE COMPLETE message is sent from the BSC to the CBC in response to
the KEEP-ALIVE message.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.18b.1: KEEP-ALIVE COMPLETE message content
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE TYPE LENGTH Message Type 8.2.2 M 1 Length
Indicator 8.2.26 M 3
* * *
#### 8.1.3.19 RESTART
The RESTART message is sent to inform the CBC of the CBS message operational
state or the emergency message operational state for cells included in the
_Cell List_ IE.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.19.1: RESTART message content
+------------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +------------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +------------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +------------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Cell List | 8.2.6 | M | 4+m | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4+mn | +------------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Broadcast Message Type | 8.2.24 | M | 2 | +------------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Recovery Indication | 8.2.15 | M | 2 | +------------------------+-----------+------+--------+
The _Recovery Indication_ IE indicates whether CBS message or emergency
message related data is lost for the indicated cell(s). Note that the
_Recovery Indication_ IE does not indicate if the parameters set by the Set
DRX procedure are available or not.
The _Broadcast Message Type_ IE indicates the type of broadcast message the
RESTART message is referring to.
#### 8.1.3.20 FAILURE
The FAILURE message is sent from the BSC to indicate a cell broadcast related
problem in one or more of its cells. Cells included in the _Failure List_ IE
are not in CBS message operational state or in emergency message operational
state.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.20.1: FAILURE message content
+------------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | INFORMATION ELEMENT | REFERENCE | TYPE | LENGTH | +------------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Message Type | 8.2.2 | M | 1 | +------------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Length Indicator | 8.2.26 | M | 3 | +------------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Failure List | 8.2.11 | M | 4+m+1 | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | p+m+1 | +------------------------+-----------+------+--------+ | Broadcast Message Type | 8.2.24 | M | 2 | +------------------------+-----------+------+--------+
The _Broadcast Message Type_ IE indicates the type of broadcast message the
FAILURE message is referring to.
#### 8.1.3.21 ERROR INDICATION
The ERROR INDICATION message is sent from the BSC to the CBC in response to
any CBC request which can not be interpreted in the BSC.
Direction: BSC  CBC
Table 8.1.3.21.1: ERROR INDICATION message content
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE TYPE LENGTH Message Type 8.2.2 M 1 Length
Indicator 8.2.26 M 3 Cause 8.2.13 M 2 Message Identifier 8.2.16 O 3 New Serial
Number 8.2.5 O 3 Old Serial Number 8.2.4 O 3 Channel Indicator 8.2.20 O (note
1) 2 NOTE 1: This IE is only included in the message if it was received in the
request message from the CBC.
* * *
## 8.2 Information Element Definitions
### 8.2.1 General
Subclause 8.2 presents the CBSP IE definitions in tabular format.
The following conventions are assumed for the sequence of transmission of bits
and bytes:
\- Each bit position is marked as 1 to 8. Bit 1 is the least significant bit
and is transmitted first;
\- In an element octets are identified by numbers, octet 1 is transmitted
first, then octet 2, etc.
When a field extends over more than one octet, the order of bit values
progressively decreases as the octet number increases. The least significant
bit of the field is represented by the lowest numbered bit of the highest
numbered octet of the field.
For variable length elements a length indicator in binary format is included,
indicating the number of octets following in the element.
All fields within Information Elements are mandatory unless otherwise
specified. The Information Element Identifier shall always be included.
All spare bits are set to \"0\".
Table 8.2.1.1: Information elements used and their coding
* * *
Element Identifier Coding Element name Reference 0000 0001 Message Content
8.2.3 0000 0010 Old Serial Number 8.2.4 0000 0011 New Serial Number 8.2.5 0000
0100 Cell List 8.2.6 0000 0101 Category 8.2.7 0000 0110 Repetition Period
8.2.8 0000 0111 Number of Broadcasts Requested 8.2.9 0000 1000 Number of
Broadcasts Completed List 8.2.10 0000 1001 Failure List 8.2.11 0000 1010 Radio
Resource Loading List 8.2.12 0000 1011 Cause 8.2.13 0000 1100 Data Coding
Scheme 8.2.14 0000 1101 Recovery Indication 8.2.15 0000 1110 Message
Identifier 8.2.16 0000 1111 Emergency Indicator 8.2.17 0001 0000 Warning Type
8.2.18 0001 0001 Warning Security Information 8.2.19 0001 0010 Channel
Indicator 8.2.20 0001 0011 Number of Pages 8.2.21 0001 0100 Schedule Period
8.2.22 0001 0101 Number of Reserved Slots 8.2.23 0001 0110 Broadcast Message
Type 8.2.24 0001 0111 Warning Period 8.2.25 0001 1000 Keep Alive Repetition
Period 8.2.27
* * *
### 8.2.2 Message Type
_Message Type_ IE uniquely identifies the message being sent. It is a single
octet element, mandatory in all messages.
All unassigned codes are reserved for future use.
Table 8.2.2.1: Message types for CBSP messages
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Message name 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Reserved 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 WRITE-
REPLACE 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 WRITE-REPLACE
FAILURE 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 KILL 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 KILL COMPLETE 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0
KILL FAILURE 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 LOAD QUERY 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 LOAD QUERY COMPLETE 0
0 0 0 1 0 0 1 LOAD QUERY FAILURE 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 MESSAGE STATUS QUERY 0 0 0 0
1 0 1 1 MESSAGE STATUS QUERY COMPLETE 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 MESSAGE STATUS QUERY
FAILURE 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 SET-DRX 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 SET DRX COMPLETE 0 0 0 0 1 1 1
1 SET-DRX FAILURE 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 RESET 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 RESET COMPLETE 0 0 0 1
0 0 1 0 RESET FAILURE 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 RESTART 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 FAILURE 0 0 0 1
0 1 0 1 ERROR INDICATION 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 KEEP-ALIVE 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 KEEP-ALIVE
COMPLETE
* * *
### 8.2.3 Message Content
_Message Content_ IE contains the user information of the CBS message. The
user information of the _Message Content_ IE will be broadcasted over the
radio interface (see 3GPP TS 44.012 [3]) together with the Serial Number,
Message Identifier and Data Coding Scheme.
The _Message Content_ IE is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
User Information Length octet 2  
Message Content octet 3 to 84
* * *
Figure 8.2.3.1:  _Message Content_ information element
The \"User Information Length\" field is coded as the binary value of number
of octets of the "Message Content" field containing user information. When the
user information is less than 82 octets, the remaining octets of the "Message
Content" field must be filled with padding bits (see 3GPP TS 23.038 [4]).
In the case where the user information is encoded using the GSM 7 bit default
alphabet and the last character terminates at an octet boundary, the \"User
Information Length\" field indicates the number of octets of user information.
In the case where the last character does not terminate at an octet boundary,
this field indicates the number of octets up to the octet boundary immediately
following the last GSM 7 bit default alphabet character of user information.
The \"User Information Length\" field is coded as follows:
0000 0000 reserved
0000 0001 one octet of user information
: : : :
0101 0010 82 octets of user information
All other values are reserved.
In the case where the user information is GSM 7 bit default alphabet encoded,
the appropriate padding characters and bit-fill are added to the end of the
user information to complete the Message Content (see 3GPP TS 23.038 [4]).
In the case where the user information is 8 bit encoded, the appropriate
padding octets are added to the end of the user information to complete the
Message Content (see 3GPP TS 23.038 [4]).
### 8.2.4 Old Serial Number
_Old Serial Number_ IE is a fixed length element which together with the
_Message Identifier_ IE, _Cell Identifier_ IE and the _Channel Indicator_ IE
enables identification of an existing CBS message. _Old Serial Number_ IE
together with the _Message Identifier_ IE and the _Cell Identifier_ IE enables
identification of an existing emergency message.
The coding is as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Serial Number octet 2  
Serial Number cont. octet 3
* * *
Figure 8.2.4.1:  _Old serial Number_ information element
Octets 2-3 are coded as the 'Serial-Number' defined in 3GPP TS 23.041 [1].
### 8.2.5 New Serial Number
_New Serial Number_ IE is a fixed length element which together with the
_Message Identifier_ IE, _Cell Identifier_ IE and _Channel Indicator_ IE
enables identification of a new CBS message. _New Serial Number_ IE together
with the _Message Identifier_ IE and the _Cell Identifier_ IE enables
identification of a new emergency message.
The _New Serial Number_ IE is altered every time the CBS message, or the
emergency message, with a given Message Identifier is changed.
The coding is as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Serial Number octet 2  
Serial Number cont. octet 3
* * *
Figure 8.2.5.1:  _New Serial Number_ information element
Octets 2-3 are coded as the 'Serial-Number' defined in 3GPP TS 23.041 [1].
### 8.2.6 Cell List
The _Cell List_ IE identifies a sequence of one or more cells to which the CBS
message or emergency message apply. The _Cell List_ IE must include at least
one cell.
This element is of variable length containing the following fields:
+-----------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | +-----------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Element identifier | octet 1 | | | | | | | | +-----------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Length | octet 2 | | | | | | | | +-----------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Length cont. | octet 3 | | | | | | | | +-----------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Spare | Cell identification | octet 4 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | discriminator | | | | | | | | +-----------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Cell identification 1 | octet 5 to 4+m | | | | | | | | +-----------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | | | | | | | | | +-----------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Cell identification n | .. to 4+mn | | | | | | | | +-----------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 8.2.6.1:  _Cell List_ information element
The Length depends on the Cell identification discriminator (bits 1 to 4 of
octet 4) as well as the number of cells to be identified.
The coding of the Cell identification discriminator is a binary number
indicating if the whole or a part of Cell Global identification, CGI,
according to 3GPP TS 23.003 [2] is used for cell identification of the cells
in the list. The Cell identification discriminator is coded as follows:
0000 The whole Cell Global Identification, CGI, is used to identify the cells.
0001 Location Area Code, LAC, and Cell Identity, CI, is used to identify the
cells.
0010 Cell Identity, CI, is used to identify the cells.
0100 Location Area Identification, LAI, is used to identify all cells within a
Location Area.
0101 Location Area Code, LAC, is used to identify all cells within a location
area.
0110 All cells in the BSC are identified.
All other values are reserved.
The coding of the Cell Identifications 1 to n (octets 5 to 4+nm) depends on
the Cell identification discriminator (bits 1 to 4 of octet 4). Below the
coding of the i-th Cell Identification is shown for each Cell identification
discriminator (with \"i\" in the range 1 to n):
NOTE: No coding is specified for Cell identification discriminator value
\"0110\" as no additional information is required.
**Coding of the i-th Cell Identification for Cell ident** ification
discriminator = 0000
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
MCC dig 2 MCC dig 1 octet x+1  
MNC dig 3 MCC dig 3 octet x+2  
MNC dig 2 MNC dig 1 octet x+3  
LAC octet x+4  
LAC cont. octet x+5  
CI value octet x+6  
CI value cont. octet x+7
* * *
Figure 8.2.6.2: Coding of the i-th Cell Identification for Cell identification
discriminator = 0000
Where x = 4 + 7(i-1).
The octets (x+1)-(x+5) are coded as shown in 3GPP TS 24.008 [5], Table
\'Location Area Identification information element\'.
The octets (x+6)-(x+7) are coded as shown in 3GPP TS 24.008 [5], Table \'Cell
Identity information element\'.
_MNC dig 3_ digit shall be set to \'1111\' if 2-digit MNC is used.
Coding of i-th Cell Identification for Cell identification discriminator =
0001
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
LAC octet x+1  
LAC cont. octet x+2  
CI value octet x+3  
CI value cont. octet x+4
* * *
Figure 8.2.6.3: Coding of the i-th Cell Identification for Cell identification
discriminator = 0001
Where x = 4 + 4(i-1)
The octets (x+1)-(x+2) are coded as shown in 3GPP TS 24.008 [5], Table
\'Location Area Identification information element\'.
The octets (x+3)-(x+4) are coded as shown in 3GPP TS 24.008 [5], Table \'Cell
Identity information element\'.
Coding of i-th Cell Identification for Cell identification discriminator =
0010
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
CI value octet x+1  
CI value cont. octet x+2
* * *
Figure 8.2.6.4: Coding of the i-th Cell Identification for Cell identification
discriminator = 0010
Where x = 4 + 2(i-1)
The octets (x+1)-(x+2) are coded as shown in 3GPP TS 24.008 [5], Table \'Cell
Identity information element\'.
Coding of i-th Cell Identification for Cell identification discriminator =
0100
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
MCC dig 2 MCC dig 1 octet x+1  
MNC dig 3 MCC dig 3 octet x+2  
MNC dig 2 MNC dig 1 octet x+3  
LAC octet x+4  
LAC cont. octet x+5
* * *
Figure 8.2.6.5: Coding of the i-th Cell Identification for Cell identification
discriminator = 0100
Where x = 4 + 5(i-1)
The octets (x+1)-(x+5) are coded as shown in 3GPP TS 24.008 [5], Table
\'Location Area Identification information element\'.
_MNC dig 3_ digit shall be set to \'1111\' if 2-digit MNC is used.
**Coding of i-th Cell Identification for Cell identification discriminator =**
0101
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
LAC octet x+1  
LAC cont. octet x+2
* * *
Figure 8.2.6.6: Coding of the i-th Cell Identification for Cell identification
discriminator = 0101
Where x = 4 + 2(i-1)
The octets (x+1)-(x+2) are coded as shown in 3GPP TS 24.008 [5], Table
\'Location Area Identification information element\'.
### 8.2.7 Category
_Category_ IE indicates the priority of the CBS message.
It is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Category octet 2
* * *
Figure 8.2.7.1:  _Category_ information element
The Category field is coded as follows:
0000 0000 High Priority; The CBS message shall be broadcasted if message slots
according to the associated repetition period are available on the CBCH
following the scheduling of already accepted high and/or normal priority CBS
messages. The first broadcast of the CBS message shall be done at the earliest
opportunity and the subsequent broadcasts according to the associated
repetition period.
0000 0001 Background; The CBS message shall be broadcasted if message slots
according to the associated repetition period are available on the CBCH
following the scheduling of high and/or normal priority CBS messages and/or
already accepted background messages.
0000 0010 Normal; The CBS message shall be broadcasted if message slots
according to the associated repetition period are available on the CBCH
following the scheduling of already accepted high and/or normal priority CBS
messages.
All other values are reserved.
### 8.2.8 Repetition Period
_Repetition Period_ IE indicates the periodicity of which the CBS message is
to be broadcasted. The minimum period in which a CBS message consisting of one
page may be broadcasted over the air interface is a period of 1.883 s.
The _Repetition Period_ IE is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Repetition Period octet 2  
Spare Repetition Period cont. octet 3
* * *
Figure 8.2.8.1:  _Repetition Period_ information element
The value of the \"Repetition Period\" field has the range 1 to 4 095 where
each unit represent the value of one minimum period, i.e. 1.883 s.
The \"Repetition Period\" field is coded as follows:
0000 0000 0000 reserved
0000 0000 0001 1.883 second
: : : :
1111 1111 1111 7 710.885 seconds
In the event of a conflict where the BSC has more than one CBS message to send
at the same time, the BSC shall decide the order of such CBS messages as an
implementation matter.
### 8.2.9 Number of Broadcasts Requested
_Number of Broadcasts Requested_ IE indicates the number of times a CBS
message is to be broadcasted.
It is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Number of Broadcasts Requested octet 2  
Number of Broadcasts Requested cont. octet 3
* * *
Figure 8.2.9.1:  _Number of Broadcasts Requested_ information element
The coding of the \"Number of Broadcasts Requested\" field is the binary value
of octet 2 and 3. It may take any value from 0 up to 65 535.
If the \"Number of Broadcasts Requested\" field is set to value \"0\" then the
CBS message shall be broadcasted indefinitely until CBC request otherwise.
### 8.2.10 Number of Broadcasts Completed List
_Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE indicates the number of times a CBS
message has been sent to each cell specified in the _Cell List_ IE. The
_Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE must contain at least one cell.
This element is of variable length containing the following fields:
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Element | octet 1 | | | | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Length | octet 2 | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Length cont. | octet 3 | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Spare | Cell | octet 4 | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | dentification | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | discriminator | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Cell | octet 5 to | | | | | | | | | i | 4+m | | | | | | | | | dentification | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Number of | octet 4+m+1 | | | | | | | | | Broadcasts | | | | | | | | | | Completed 1 | | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Number of | octet 4+m+2 | | | | | | | | | Broadcasts | | | | | | | | | | Completed | | | | | | | | | | cont. 1 | | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Spare | Number of | octet 4+m+3 | | | | | | | | | Broadcasts | | | | | | | | | | Info 1 | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Cell | .. to 4+(m+ | | | | | | | | | i | 3)n-3 | | | | | | | | | dentification | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Number of | .. to 4+(m+ | | | | | | | | | Broadcasts | 3)n-2 | | | | | | | | | Completed n | | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Number of | .. to 4+(m+ | | | | | | | | | Broadcasts | 3)n-1 | | | | | | | | | Completed | | | | | | | | | | cont. n | | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Spare | Number of | .. to 4+(m+ | | | | | | | | | Broadcasts | 3)n | | | | | | | | | Info n | | | | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 8.2.10.1:  _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ information element
The Length (octet 2 and 3) depends on the Cell identification discriminator
(bits 1 to 4 of octet 4) as well as the number of cells to be identified.
The coding of the Cell identification discriminator is a binary number
indicating if the whole or a part of Cell Global identification, CGI,
according to 3GPP TS 23.003 [2] is used for cell identification of the cells
in the list. The Cell identification discriminator is coded as follows:
0000 The whole Cell Global Identification, CGI, is used to identify the cells.
0001 Location Area Code, LAC, and Cell Identity, CI, is used to identify the
cells.
0010 Cell Identity, CI, is used to identify the cells.
All other values are reserved.
The coding of the Cell Identifications 1 to n (octets 5 to 4+nm+ n3-3) depends
on the Cell identification discriminator (bits 1 to 4 of octet 4). The coding
of the i-th Cell Identification for each Cell identification discriminator
(with \"i\" in the range 1 to n) is defined in subclause 8.2.6.
The Number of Broadcasts Completed field contains the number of times a CBS
message (i.e. all pages of a CBS message) has been broadcasted in the specific
cell. The value range of the field is 0 to 65 535.
The Number of Broadcasts Info field may contain some additional information to
the broadcasted CBS message. The Number of Broadcasts Info field is coded as
follows:
0000 No additional information: The number of completed broadcasts indicated
in the Number of Broadcasts Completed field is valid.
0001 Overflow: The counter for the number of completed broadcasts in the
specific cell has overflowed. The actual number of completed broadcasts is
greater than the value indicated in the Number of Broadcasts Completed field.
0010 Unknown: Indicates that there is no information regarding the number of
completed broadcasts in the BSC for the CBS message. The value indicated in
the Number of Broadcasts Completed field is undefined in this case.
All other values are reserved.
### 8.2.11 Failure List
_Failure List_ IE identifies the list of cells for which the BSC could not
complete the request. The _Failure List_ IE must contain at least one cell.
This element is of variable length containing the following fields:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Length octet 2  
Length cont. octet 3  
Cell identification Element 1 octet 4 to 4+m+1
Cell identification Element n octet p to p+m+1
* * *
Figure 8.2.11.1:  _Failure List_ information element
Where p is the first octet in the last instance (n) of the Cell identification
Element.
The Length field (octets 2 and 3) is coded as the binary value of the number
of octets in the _Failure List_ IE directly following the Length field
element. The length of the _Failure List_ IE depends on the length of each
Cell identification Element as well as the number of Cell identification
Elements to be included in the list.
The coding of the Cell identification Element field is as follows:
+---------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | +---------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Spare | Cell identification | octet z | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | discriminator | | | | | | | | +---------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Cell identification | octet z+1 to z+m | | | | | | | | +---------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Cause | octet z+m+1 | | | | | | | | +---------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 8.2.11.2: Cell identification Element field
Depending on the Cell identification discriminator value, m may take any of
the values 1, 2, 4, 5 or 7 in the different instances of the Cell
identification Element fields.
The coding of the Cell identification discriminator is a binary number
indicating if the whole or a part of Cell Global identification, CGI,
according to 3GPP TS 23.003 [2] is used for cell identification of each cell
in the list. The Cell identification discriminator is coded as follows:
0000 The whole Cell Global Identification, CGI, is used to identify the cell.
0001 Location Area Code, LAC, and Cell Identity, CI, is used to identify the
cell.
0010 Cell Identity, CI, is used to identify the cell.
0100 Location Area Identification, LAI, is used to identify all cells within a
Location Area.
0101 Location Area Code, LAC, is used to identify all cells within a Location
Area.
0110 All cells in the BSC are identified.
All other values are reserved.
The coding of the Cell Identifications 1 to n (octets z+1 to z+m) depends on
the Cell identification discriminator 1 to n (bits 1 to 4 of octet z). The
coding of the i-th Cell Identification for each Cell identification
discriminator (with \"i\" in the range 1 to n) is defined in subclause 8.2.6.
NOTE: For Cell identification discriminator value \"0110\", the Cell
identification field consist of one octet with the value set to \"0000 0000\".
The \"Cause\" field is coded as defined in subclause 8.2.13.
### 8.2.12 Radio Resource Loading List
_Radio Resource Loading List_ IE contains a list of the predicted short term
load of the CBCH in each cell. The _Radio Resource Loading List_ IE must
contain at least one cell.
This element is of variable length containing the following fields:
+-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | +-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Element identifier | octet 1 | | | | | | | | +-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Length | octet 2 | | | | | | | | +-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Length cont. | octet 3 | | | | | | | | +-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Spare | Cell identification | octet 4 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | discriminator | | | | | | | | +-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Cell identification 1 | octet 5 to 4+m | | | | | | | | +-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Radio Resource Load 1 1 | octet 4+m+1 | | | | | | | | +-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Radio Resource Load 2 1 | octet 4+m+2 | | | | | | | | +-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | | | | | | | | | +-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Cell identification n | .. to 4+(m+2)n | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -2 | | | | | | | | +-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Radio Resource Load 1 n | .. to 4+(m+2)n-1 | | | | | | | | +-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Radio Resource Load 2 n | .. to 4+(m+2)n | | | | | | | | +-------------------------+---------------------+---------+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 8.2.12.1:  _Radio Resource Loading List_ information element
The Length depends on the Cell identification discriminator (bits 1 to 4 of
octet 4) as well as the number of cells to be identified.
The coding of the Cell identification discriminator is a binary number
indicating if the whole or a part of Cell Global identification, CGI,
according to 3GPP TS 23.003 [2] is used for cell identification of the cells
in the list. The Cell identification discriminator is coded as follows:
0000 The whole Cell Global Identification, CGI, is used to identify the cells.
0001 Location Area Code, LAC, and Cell Identity, CI, is used to identify the
cells.
0010 Cell Identity, CI, is used to identify the cells.
All other values are reserved.
The coding of the Cell Identifications 1 to n (octets 5 to 4+nm+n-1) depends
on the Cell identification discriminator (bits 1 to 4 of octet 4). The coding
of the i-th Cell Identification for each Cell identification discriminator
(with \"i\" in the range 1 to n) is defined in subclause 8.2.6.
The Radio Resource Load 1 field reflects the number of used CBCH message slots
in relation to the number of available CBCH message slots expressed as a
percentage. Number of used CBCH message slots is defined as message slots
reserved for schedule messages, message slots used for high and normal
priority CBS messages according to their requested repetition period and slots
reserved for "free message slot reading advised".
The Radio Resource Load 2 field reflects the number of CBCH message slots used
for background CBS messages according to their requested repetition period in
relation to the number of available CBCH message slots expressed as a
percentage.\ If the broadcast periodicity of a background CBS message is
reduced due to the reception of a high or normal priority CBS message
broadcast request for the same cell, the requested repetition period for the
background CBS message shall be taken into account. In this case the total sum
of the CBCH radio resource load as indicated in Radio Resource Load 1 and
Radio Resource Load 2 fields will exceed 100 %.
Radio Resource Load 1 and Radio Resource Load 2 fields are coded as a binary
number representing a percentage load of the CBCH.
0000 0000 no CBCH load in the cell
0000 0001 1 % CBCH load in the cell
: : : :
0110 0100 100 % CBCH load in the cell
All other values are reserved.
### 8.2.13 Cause
_Cause_ IE indicates the reason for a particular error event in the BSC.
The _Cause_ IE is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Cause Value octet 2
* * *
Figure 8.2.13.1:  _Cause_ information element
The \"Cause Value\" field is coded as follows:
0000 0000 Parameter-not-recognised: Sent when the recipient (CBC or BSC) is
unable to act upon the message received due to an unrecognised parameter. A
message should not be rejected only because a parameter is not recognised as
this would prevent extensions to the service.
0000 0001 Parameter-value-invalid: Sent when a failure occurred due to the
value of a parameter being invalid, e.g. out of range, or when the
combinations of two or more parameter values are invalid.
0000 0010 Message-reference-not-identified: Sent when the BSC does not
recognise the Message Reference of a CBS message or an emergency message.
0000 0011 Cell-identity-not-valid: Sent when the BSC does not recognise a cell
identity.
0000 0100 Unrecognised-message: Sent when the BSC does not recognise the CBSP
message at all.
0000 0101 Missing-mandatory-element: Sent when a mandatory element is missing
in the CBSP message.
0000 0110 BSC-capacity-exceeded: Sent when a WRITE-REPLACE message fails due
to the BSC cannot meet the requested repetition period or when the Set-DRX
parameters cannot be applied because of cell loading.
0000 0111 Cell-memory-exceeded: Sent when the local cell memory has been
exceeded.
0000 1000 BSC-memory-exceeded: Sent when the BSC is unable to store a CBS
message or an emergency message as the BSC memory has been exceeded.
0000 1001 Cell-broadcast-not-supported: Sent when the CBCH related radio
resource is not configured for a cell.
0000 1010 Cell-broadcast-not-operational: Sent when the CBCH related radio
resource is not available due to maintenance activities or error conditions in
the BSC.
0000 1011 Incompatible-DRX-parameter: Sent when the DRX parameter(s) cannot be
applied.
0000 1100 Extended-channel-not-supported: Sent when a WRITE-REPLACE message
fails because the extended channel is not configured in the cell.
0000 1101 Message-reference-already-used: Sent when the BSC is unable to act
upon the WRITE-REPLACE message since the same Message Reference was received
in a previous WRITE-REPLACE message.
0000 1110 Unspecified-error: Sent when none of the specified Cause Values
apply.
0000 1111 LAI-or-LAC-not-valid: Sent when the BSC does not recognise a
Location Area Identification or a Location Area Code.
All other values are reserved.
### 8.2.14 Data Coding Scheme
_Data Coding Scheme_ IE identifies the alphabet or coding employed for the
message characters and message handling in the mobile station. The _Data
Coding Scheme_ IE is a fixed length element sent transparently from the CBC to
the mobile station.
It is coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Data Coding Scheme octet 2
* * *
Figure 8.2.14.1:  _Data Coding Scheme_ information element
The \"Data Coding Scheme\" field is coded as the \'CBS Data Coding Scheme\'
defined in 3GPP TS 23.038 [4].
### 8.2.15 Recovery Indication
_Recovery Indication_ IE indicates if the CBS message or emergency message
related data is lost or still available in the BSC.
It is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Spare Recovery Indication octet 2
* * *
Figure 8.2.15.1:  _Recovery Indication_ information element
The \"Recovery Indication\" field is coded as follows:
0000 CBS/emergency message data available
0001 CBS/emergency message data lost
All other values are reserved.
### 8.2.16 Message Identifier
_Message Identifier_ IE is a fixed length element identifying the source and
type of the CBS message or emergency message. Together with New/Old Serial
Number, Cell Identifier and Channel Indicator the _Message Identifier_ IE
enables identification of a CBS message. Together with New/Old Serial Number
and Cell Identifier the _Message Identifier_ IE enables identification of an
emergency message.
The coding is as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Message Identifier octet 2  
Message Identifier cont. octet 3
* * *
Figure 8.2.16.1:  _Message Identifier_ information element
Octets 2-3 are coded as the 'Message-Identifier' defined in 3GPP TS 23.041
[1].
### 8.2.17 Emergency Indicator
_Emergency Indicator_ IE indicates that the WRITE-REPLACE message contains an
emergency message (e.g. an ETWS Primary Notification message) to be further
transferred to the mobile station.
The _Emergency Indicator_ IE is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Spare Emergency Indicator octet 2
* * *
Figure 8.2.17.1:  _Emergency Indicator_ information element
The \"Emergency Indicator\" field is coded as follows:
0000 reserved
0001 ETWS information available
All other values are reserved.
### 8.2.18 Warning Type
_Warning Type_ IE is sent transparently from the CBC to the mobile station
containing ETWS related warning information.
The _Warning Type_ IE is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Warning Type octet 2  
Warning Type cont. octet 3
* * *
Figure 8.2.18.1:  _Warning Type_ information element
Octets 2-3 are coded as the 'Warning-Type' defined in 3GPP TS 23.041 [1].
### 8.2.19 Warning Security Information
NOTE: The _Warning Security Information_ IE does not serve any purpose. It is
only included due to requirements in earlier versions of 3GPP TS 23.041 [1].
_Warning Security Information_ IE is sent transparently from the CBC to the
mobile station. It is only included when the ETWS related warning information
is sent with security.
The _Warning Security Information_ IE is a fixed length element coded as
follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Warning Security Information octet 2 to 51
* * *
Figure 8.2.19.1:  _Warning Security Information_ information element
The \"Warning Security Information\" field is coded as the \'Warning-Security-
Information' defined in 3GPP TS 23.041 [1].
### 8.2.20 Channel Indicator
_Channel Indicator_ IE indicates the type of cell broadcast channel (CBCH) to
be used for broadcasting of the CBS message. The CBCH can be of type basic or
extended (see 3GPP TS 45.002 [11]).
The _Channel Indicator_ IE is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Spare Channel Indicator octet 2
* * *
Figure 8.2.20.1:  _Channel Indicator_ information element
The Channel Indicator field is coded as follows:
0000 basic channel
0001 extended channel (support of extended channel is optional in the BSC/MS)
All other values are reserved.
### 8.2.21 Number of Pages
_Number of Pages_ IE indicates the total number of pages in the CBS message,
i.e. the number of _Message Content_ IEs included in the WRITE-REPLACE
message.
The _Number of Pages_ IE is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Spare Number of Pages octet 2
* * *
Figure 8.2.21.1:  _Number of Pages_ information element
The \"Number of Pages\" field is coded as the binary value of the total number
of pages in the CBS message. It is coded as follows:
0000 reserved
0001 one page
: : : :
1111 fifteen pages
### 8.2.22 Schedule Period
_Schedule Period_ IE indicates the SMSCB DRX schedule period length.
The _Schedule Period_ IE is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Schedule Period octet 2
* * *
Figure 8.2.22.1:  _Schedule Period_ information element
The \"Schedule Period\" field is coded as the binary value of number of slots
in the Schedule message (see 3GPP TS 44.012 [3]).
0000 0000 no schedule period
0000 0001 1 slot
: : : :
0010 1000 40 slots
All other values are reserved.
NOTE: The maximum value of the schedule period length is limited to 40 since
the schedule message cannot be built entirely if more than 40 CBS messages
have to be described in the period (see 3GPP TS 44.012 [3]).
The \"Schedule Period\" field must be given a higher value than the _Reserved
Slots_ IE.
If the \"Schedule Period\" field is set to value \"0\", the SMSCB DRX mode of
operation shall not be used.
### 8.2.23 Number of Reserved Slots
_Number of Reserved Slots_ IE indicates the number of reserved slots in the
Schedule message (see 3GPP TS 44.012 [3]).
The _Number of Reserved Slots_ IE is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Number of Reserved Slots octet 2
* * *
Figure 8.2.23.1:  _Number of Reserved Slots_ information element
The \"Number of Reserved Slots\" field is coded as the binary value of number
of \"free slots reading advised\" in the Schedule message (see 3GPP TS 44.012
[3]). The reserved slots in a SMSCB DRX schedule period can be used for
broadcasting of incoming high priority CBS messages.
0000 0000 no reserved slots
0000 0001 1 reserved slot
: : : :
0010 1000 40 reserved slots
All other values are reserved.
The \"Number of Reserved Slots\" field must be given a lower value than the
_Schedule Period_ IE.
### 8.2.24 Broadcast Message Type
_Broadcast Message Type_ IE indicates if the information included in the CBSP
message is referring to CBS message broadcasting or emergency message
broadcasting.
The _Broadcast Message Type_ IE is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Spare Broadcast Message Type octet 2
* * *
Figure 8.2.24.1:  _Broadcast Message Type_ information element
The Broadcast Message Type field is coded as follows:
0000 CBS message broadcasting
0001 emergency message broadcasting
All other values are reserved.
### 8.2.25 Warning Period
_Warning Period_ IE indicates the length of the period during which the
emergency message is to be broadcasted in the BSC.
The _Warning Period_ IE is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Warning Period octet 2
* * *
Figure 8.2.25.1:  _Warning Period_ information element
The Warning Period field is coded as follows:
0000 0000 unlimited
0000 0001 1 second
: : : : in 1 second step
0000 1010 10 seconds
: : : : in 2 second step
0001 0100 30 seconds
: : : : in 5 second step
0010 0110 2 minutes
: : : : in 10 second step
0101 0110 10 minutes
: : : : in 30 second step
1011 1010 60 minutes
All other values are reserved.
If the Warning Period field is set to value \"0\", the emergency message is
broadcasted until the CBC requests otherwise[]{#__RefHeading___Toc476871338
.anchor}
### 8.2.26 Length Indicator
_Length Indicator_ IE indicates the number of octets in the set of information
elements included in the CBSP message.
The _Length Indicator_ IE is a fixed length element coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Length Indicator octet 1  
Length Indicator cont. octet 2  
Length Indicator cont. octet 3
* * *
Figure 8.2.26.1:  _Length Indicator_ information element
The Length Indicator field is coded as the binary value of the number of
octets in the set of information elements included in the CBSP message,
excluding the 1 octet of the _Message Type_ IE and the 3 octets of the _Length
Indicator_ IE itself.
If the CBSP message does not contain a set of information elements (e.g. KEEP-
ALIVE COMPLETE message) then the binary value of the Length Indicator field is
coded as zero.
### 8.2.27 Keep Alive Repetition Period
_Keep Alive Repetition Period_ IE indicates the periodicity of the KEEP-ALIVE
message sent from the CBC,
The _Keep Alive Repetition Period_ IE is a fixed length element coded as
follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Keep Alive Repetition Period octet 2
* * *
Figure 8.2.27.1:  _Keep Alive Repetition Period_ information element
The Keep Alive Repetition Period field is coded as follows:
0000 0000 reserved
0000 0001 1 second
: : : : in 1 second step
0000 1010 10 seconds
: : : : in 2 second step
0001 0100 30 seconds
: : : : in 5 second step
0010 0110 2 minutes
All other values are reserved.
# 9 List of system parameters
## 9.1 Timers in the CBC
The description of timers below should be considered as a brief summary. The
precise details are found in clause 7, which should be considered as the
definitive description.
**T1:** This timer is started when the KEEP-ALIVE message is sent from the CBC
to the BSC. It is stopped at the reception of the KEEP-ALIVE COMPLETE message
in the CBC.
At expiry, the Keep Alive procedure is considered as failed.
The value of the timer is network dependent.
#