# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 48.5xx - 48.6xx series of 3GPP
Technical Specifications and deals with the definition of the Base Station
Controller (BSC) to Base Transceiver Station (BTS) interface defined inside
the Base Station System (BSS) for the GSM system. These Technical
Specifications define the basic interface with some identified options
requiring further elaboration. The BSC-BTS interface is mandatory within GSM
only if the BSC and the BTS are not colocated.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 43.050: \"Transmission planning aspects of the speech service in
the GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) system\".
[3] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"Mobile Switching Centre - Base Station System (MSC-BSS)
interface; Layer 3 specification\".
[4] Void.
[5] 3GPP TS 48.052: \"Base Station Controller ‑ Base Transceiver Station (BSC
‑ BTS) interface; Interface principles\".
[6] 3GPP TS 48.054: \"Base Station Controller - Base Transceiver Station (BSC
- BTS) interface Layer 1 structure of physical circuits\".
[7] 3GPP TS 48.056: \"Base Station Controller ‑ Base Transceiver Station (BSC
‑ BTS) interface; Layer 2 specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 48.058: \"Base Station Controller ‑ Base Transceiver Station (BSC
‑ BTS) interface; Layer 3 specification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 48.060: \"Inband control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors
for full rate traffic channels\".
[10] 3GPP TS 48.061: \"Inband control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors
for half rate traffic channels\".
[11] Void.
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] Void.
[15] Void.
[16] Void.
[17] Void.
[18] Void.
[19] Void.
[20] Void.
[21] Void.
[22] Void.
[23] Void.
[24] 3GPP TS 12.21: \"Network Management (NM) procedures and messages on the
A-bis interface\".
[25] Void.
[26] ITU-T Recommendation Q.920: \"ISDN user-network interface data link layer
- General aspects\".
[27] ITU-T Recommendation Q.921: \"ISDN user-network interface - Data link
layer specification\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 apply.
# 4 Interface capabilities
The BSC-BTS interface shall be capable of supporting all the services offered
to the GSM users and subscribers. In addition it shall also allow control of
the radio equipment and radio frequency allocation in the BTS.
# 5 Interface specification objectives
The BSC to BTS interface specifications should allow the following:
(I) Connection of various manufacturers BTS/TRX to the same BSC, according to
the location of the transcoder.
(II) The use of several manufacturers BSC to the same type of BTS/TRX,
according to the location of the transcoder.
(III) The use of the same BTS/TRX in any PLMN, according to the location of
the transcoder.
(IV) The use of the same BSC in any PLMN.
(V) Separate evolution of BSC and BTS/TRX technology.
(VI) Separate evolution of O & M facilities.
(VII) Sub-multiplexing of speech channels on a 64 kbit circuit.
(VIII) Evolution towards lower speech coding rates.
(IX) Location of transcoders either in BSC or in BTS.
(X) Support of all services defined in the 02 series of 3GPP TS Technical
Specifications.
(XI) A stepwise expansion of capacity in a BTS.
(XII) Different physical solution of the various equipment in the BTS.
(XIII) Support of a single TRX forming a BTS.
(XIV) Support of a set of TRX\'S forming a BTS.
(XV) Support of a BTS as one entity.
# 6 Interface characteristics
The interface is defined to be at the terrestrial link of a remote BTS
connected to the BSC.
The BSC to BTS interface is specified by a set of characteristics, including:
a) physical and electrical parameters;
b) channel structures;
c) signalling transfer procedures;
d) configuration and control procedures;
e) operation and maintenance information support.
The definition of the BSC to BTS/TRX interface follows a layered approach
similar to the ISDN. Layer 3 is for the most part based on Technical
Specification 3GPP TS 48.008 with additional procedures for control of radio
resources. Layer 2 is based on the LAPD protocol. Layer 1 is either digital
(at a rate 2 048 kbit/s with a frame structure of 32 x 64 kbit/s time slots or
at a rate of 64 kbit/s) or analogue with the data being passed by the use of
modems (this latter case is a national option).
In the case that the transcoder is positioned outside the BTS, the overall one
way propagation delay between the Point of Interconnection to PSTN/ISDN and
the MS is limited to 1,5 ms (approximately 300 km). With the transcoder in the
BTS, the limit is 6,5 ms (approximately 1 300 km). These limits may be subject
to increase resulting from savings made in the overall network. See also
Technical Specification 3GPP TS 43.050.
# 7 Other technical specifications on the BSC-BTS interface
The full structure of the Technical Specifications specifying the BSC to BTS
interface are as follows:
## 7.1 3GPP TS 48.052 BSC-BTS Interface Principles
3GPP TS 48.052 gives the principle basis for the rest of the specifications
specifying the interface between the base station controller and the base
transceiver station. It gives the functional split between these two entities.
## 7.2 3GPP TS 48.054 BSC-BTS Layer 1 Specification
3GPP TS 48.054 defines the structure of the physical layer at the BSC - BTS
interface. The physical interface is either chosen as 2 048 kbit/s or as 64
kbit/s, both according to standard ITU-T recommendations.
Depending on location of transcoders, speech is standard A-law or it is 16
kbit/s remote control protocol multiplexed or rate adapted to 64 kbit/s in the
same way as data.
## 7.3 3GPP TS 48.056 BSC-BTS Layer 2 Specification
At layer 2 the signalling information is passed by a standard LAPD protocol
mechanism in accordance with the ITU-T Recommendations Q.920 and Q.921.
## 7.4 3GPP TS 48.058 BSC-BTS Layer 3 Specification
3GPP TS 48.058 specifies the layer 3 procedures used on the BSC-BTS interface
for control of the GSM services. The functional split between BSC and BTS is
defined in Technical Specification 3GPP TS 48.052.
## 7.5 3GPP TS 12.21 BSC-BTS Operation/Maintenance Signalling
3GPP TS 12.21 defines the transport mechanism for O&M messages over the Abis
interface. O&M procedures and messages are defined in 3GPP TS 12 series.
## 7.6 3GPP TS 48.060 Inband Control of Remote Transcoders and Rate Adaptors
The transcoder is a part of the BSS and may optionally be located outside the
BTS (e.g. at MSC-site or at BSC-site) in order to make it possible to
multiplex speech and data channels on the links within the BSS and on the BSC-
BTS link.
3GPP TS 48.060 describes the protocol which carries the full rate speech and
data frames between the transcoder and the radio link codec across a 16
kbit/sec interface. Both full rate speech and full rate data services are
covered. It also defines the signals needed for remote controlling the timing
of the transcoder in accordance to the transmission time at the radio link. It
also addresses the signals for voice activity and comfort noise. It interfaces
the 06- series to the 05‑series.
## 7.7 3GPP TS 48.061 Inband Control of Remote Transcoders and Rate Adaptors
for Half Rate Traffic Channels
3GPP TS 48.061 describes the protocol which carries the half rate speech and
data frames between the transcoder and the radio link codec across a 16 kbit/s
or an 8 kbit/s interface. Both half rate speech and half rate data services
are covered. It also defines the signals needed for remote controlling the
timing of the transcoder in accordance to the transmission time at the radio
link. It also addresses the signals for voice activity and comfort noise.
#