# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the general structure of layer 3 and traffic
management procedures and messages used on the A-bis interface to support
signalling procedures as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 and 3GPP TS 44.018. Support
for Location Services (LCS) related signalling, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.071,
is also included. 3GPP TS 23.071 identifies new A-bis signalling to support
BTS-embedded Type B LMUs as well as standalone, Type B LMUs. The standalone
Type B LMU supports the layer 1 and 2 signalling for the A-bis as well as the
Location Service message defined in the present document.
The use and general aspects of the Base Station Controller (BSC) to Base
Station Transceiver (BTS) interface (the A-bis interface) are given in 3GPP TS
48.051.
Network management procedures and messages for the A-bis interface are defined
in 3GPP TS 08.59.
The functional split between BSC and BTS is defined in 3GPP TS 48.052. The
procedures and messages required to support this split are defined in detail
in the present document.
## 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 43.020: \"Security related network functions\".
[2a] 3GPP TS 23.071: \"Location Services; Functional description -- Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 44.004: \"Layer 1 General requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 44.005: \"Data Link (DL) layer General aspects\".
[5] 3GPP TS 44.006: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
interface Data Link (DL) layer specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols; Stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 44.012: \"Short Message Service Cell Broadcast (SMSCB) support on
the mobile radio interface\".
[7a] 3GPP TS 44.071: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 Location Services (LCS)
specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[9] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".
[10] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[11] 3GPP TS 45.009: \"Link Adaptation\".
[12] 3GPP TS 45.010: \"Radio subsystem synchronization\".
[13] 3GPP TS 48.006: \"Signaling transport specification mechanism for the
Base Station System -- Mobile-services Switching Centre (BSS - MSC)
interface\".
[14] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"Mobile-services Switching Centre -- Base Station System
(MSC-BSS) interface; Layer 3 specification\".
[15] 3GPP TS 48.051: \"Base Station Controller ‑ Base Transceiver Station (BSC
‑ BTS) interface; General aspects\".
[16] 3GPP TS 48.052: \"Base Station Controller ‑ Base Transceiver Station (BSC
‑ BTS) interface; Interface principles\".
[17] 3GPP TS 48.056: \"Base Station Controller ‑ Base Transceiver Station (BSC
‑ BTS) interface; Layer 2 specification\".
[18] 3GPP TS 26.103: \"Speech Codec List for GSM and UMTS\".
[19] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Radio Resource Control Protocol\".
## 1.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations defined in 3GPP TR
21.905 apply.
# 2 Protocol model
A model for L3 can be found in figure 2.1.
L2 addressing is made to TRX (or BCF) using the TEI of LAPD. Different L2
links are used for traffic management messages (RSL, Radio Signalling Link),
network management messages (OML, Operation & Maintenance Link) and L2
management messages (L2ML, Layer 2 Management Link).
For traffic management, two types of signalling messages have been defined:
**Transparent Messages:** Messages which are forwarded by BTS without
interpretation or changes.
**Non-Transparent Messages:** Messages which are sent only between BSC and BTS
and which BTS is acting upon or which are the results of BTS actions.
In addition, the messages have been grouped into four main groups: Radio Link
Layer Management, Dedicated Channel Management, Common Channel Management and
TRX Management messages.
Discrimination between these types and groups is based on the Message
Discriminator which is sent as the first octet in all messages. Transparent
and non-transparent messages are discriminated by a transparency flag (T-bit)
in the Message Discriminator. Transparent messages are merely forwarded to L2
on the radio interface.
In order to address the relevant radio channel, a Channel Number element is
included to support the distribution of messages to relevant physical channels
on the TRX. A Link Identifier element supports the distribution on logical
links/channels on the radio interface (compare the DLCI element of the A
interface, 3GPP TS 48.006).
All messages in this GTS are to be transmitted on the A-bis interface using
the I format of LAPD, except for MEASUREMENT RESULT which is sent in UI
format.
Figure 2.1/48.058: L3 model
# 3 Radio Link Layer Management Procedures
This sub-clause describes procedures related to the management of a link layer
connection on the radio path.
## 3.1 Link establishment indication
This procedure is used by BTS to indicate to BSC that a layer 2 link on the
radio path has been established in multi-frame mode at the initiative of an
MS. BSC can use this indication to set up an SCCP connection to MSC.
Upon reception of a SABM frame on a link on an active channel, the BTS sends
an ESTablish INDication message to BSC. The message contains the contents of
the information field of the SABM frame if present.
The procedure is used in all establishment cases, for all channels and all
SAPIs.
## 3.2 Link establishment request
This procedure is used by BSC to request the establishment of a link layer
connection in multi-frame mode on the radio path.
The procedure is started by BSC sending an ESTablish REQuest message to BTS.
BTS then establishes the link by sending an SABM frame. Upon reception of the
acknowledgement (UA-frame) from MS, BTS sends an ESTablish CONFirm message to
BSC.
In case of a failure, BTS sends a RELease INDication and an ERRor INDication
message to BSC (cf. 3GPP TS 44.006).
{width="3.6875in" height="1.1770833333333333in"}
## 3.3 Link release indication
This procedure is used by BTS to indicate to BSC that a link layer connection
on the radio path has been released at the initiative of an MS.
When receiving a DISC frame on a link layer connection in multi-frame mode,
BTS sends a RELease INDication message to BSC. (If the link layer is in idle
mode, BTS will send a DM frame to MS but does not notify BSC.)
Collision cases are treated as specified in 3GPP TS 44.006.
{width="3.6666666666666665in" height="0.8229166666666666in"}
## 3.4 Link release request
This procedure is used by BSC to request the release of a link layer
connection on the radio path.
The procedure is started by BSC sending a RELease REQuest message to BTS. BTS
then sends a DISC frame to MS. When it has received the acknowledgement (UA or
DM frame), BTS sends a RELease CONFirm message to BSC.
Collision cases are treated as specified in 3GPP TS 44.006.
If BTS has repeated the DISC frame N200 times, BTS sends a RELease INDication
and an ERRor INDication message to BSC (cf. 3GPP TS 44.006).
{width="3.65625in" height="1.2083333333333333in"}
## 3.5 Transmission of a transparent L3-Message in acknowledged mode
This procedure is used by BSC to request the sending of a L3 message to MS in
acknowledged mode.
BSC sends a DATA REQuest message to BTS. The message contains the complete L3
message to be sent in acknowledged mode.
{width="3.6979166666666665in" height="1.0625in"}
## 3.6 Reception of a transparent L3-Message in acknowledged mode
This procedure is used by BTS to indicate the reception of a L3 message in
acknowledged mode.
BTS sends a DATA INDication message to BSC. The message contains the received
L3 message.
{width="3.65625in" height="0.9583333333333334in"}
## 3.7 Transmission of a transparent L3-Message in unacknowledged mode
This procedure is used by BSC to request the sending of a L3 message to MS in
unacknowledged mode.
BSC sends a UNIT DATA REQuest message to BTS. The message contains the L3
message to be sent to MS in unacknowledged mode.
{width="3.6875in" height="0.7291666666666666in"}
## 3.8 Reception of a transparent L3-Message in unacknowledged mode
This procedure is used by BTS to indicate the reception of a L3 message in
unacknowledged mode.
BTS sends a UNIT DATA INDication message to BSC. The message contains the
received L3 message.
{width="3.6875in" height="0.7708333333333334in"}
## 3.9 Link error indication
This procedure is used by BTS to indicate an abnormal case such as the
following.
\- a protocol error as specified in 3GPP TS 44.006;
\- a link layer failure, i.e. the repetition of an I-frame N200 times without
an acknowledgement;
\- the repetition of an SABM or DISC frame N200 times without an
acknowledgement;
\- the reception of an SABM frame in multi-frame established state.
When such an event has occurred, BTS notifies BSC by sending an ERROR
INDication message containing the relevant cause information.
A BTS that supports enhanced power control (EPC) shall activate a channel in
EPC mode if so ordered by the BSC in the CHANNEL ACTIVATION message. Further,
it shall use enhanced power control procedures as defined in 3GPP TS 45.008
for MS (uplink) power control and/or BS (downlink) power control if so ordered
by the BSC in the CHANNEL ACTIVATION message (or the BS POWER CONTROL or MS
POWER CONTROL messages).
{width="3.71875in" height="0.7604166666666666in"}
# Dedicated channel management procedures
## 4.1 Channel activation
This procedure is used to activate a channel at the BTS for an MS which later
will be commanded to this channel by an IMMediate ASSIGN, an ASSIGN CoMmanD,
an ADDitional ASSIGNment; a NOTIFICATION, a CHANNEL RELEASE (with a Channel
description) a HANDOver CoMmanD or a CONFiguration CHange CoMmanD message.
In the handover case, the procedure is used between the target BSC and the
target BTS to activate a channel for a subsequent handover from the old BTS.
### 4.1.1 Signalling Procedure
BSC determines what channel shall be used and starts up that channel at BTS by
sending a CHANnel ACTIVation message to the relevant TRX. This message
contains the reason for the activation (immediate assignment, assignment,
asynchronous/synchronous handover, additional assignment, activation of a
secondary channel in a multislot configuration), the identification of the
channel to be used (channel no) and a complete description of the channel
(full/half rate, speech/data, coding/rate adaption, hopping sequence,
encryption key etc.).
If the Encryption Information field is present, the activation is done with
ciphering active. If the Encryption Information element is not present,
activation is done without ciphering.
After activating the channel as requested, TRX responds with the CHANnel
ACTIVation ACKnowledge message. This message contains the current frame number
at BTS. The frame number is used by BSC to determine the Starting Time
parameter to be included in the following assignment message to MS. (A
suitable number has to be added to current frame number to take all possible
signalling delays into account).
{width="5.145833333333333in" height="1.75in"}
If the TRX for some reason cannot activate the resource as requested by the
CHANnel Activation message, the TRX shall return a CHANnel ACTIVation Negative
ACKnowledge message with the most appropriate cause value.
Possible cause values may be:
\- O&M intervention (e.g. channel blocked);
\- resource not available (e.g. speech coder, encryption device);
\- equipment failure;
\- channel already activated;
\- etc.
{width="2.0520833333333335in" height="0.9895833333333334in"}
In the handover case, the procedure is initiated by the target BSC when this
receives the HANDOver REQuest message from MSC (or autonomously by BSC for BSC
internal handover). The BSC sends a CHANnel ACTIVation message to the relevant
TRX. The message contains the Handover Reference value which can be used by
the BTS to check the Handover Access from MS. After activation of the channel
TRX responds with a CHANnel ACTIVation ACKnowledge message containing the
current frame number at BTS.
The BSC can then determine the Starting Time parameter to be included in the
HANDOver REQuest ACKnowledge message to MSC (and the HANDOver CoMmanD message
to MS).
{width="3.40625in" height="2.1041666666666665in"}
### 4.1.2 Activation for Intra-Cell Channel Change
This activation precedes the Immediate Assignment, Assignment or Additional
assignment procedures. The Timing Advance element must be included in the
CHANNEL ACTIVATION message.
BTS activates the channel and starts transmission and reception on the main
channel in the indicated mode. Ciphering is started if so indicated in the
encryption information.
The reception and transmission on SACCH is also started immediately.
If the BS and/or MS power elements and/or the Physical Context element are
present, the reception and transmission processes and the L1-header of SACCH
are initialized accordingly.
### 4.1.3 Activation for Asynchronous Handover
BTS starts transmission immediately on the main channel in the indicated mode
and with encryption if so indicated. If the MS Power element is present the
BTS may start transmission also on the SACCH.
When receiving a correct access burst with the correct handover reference, BTS
starts the normal reception process on the main channel in the indicated mode
and starts receiving (and sending if not started earlier) on SACCH.
Deciphering is started if so indicated. The handover detection procedure
towards BSC is also started.
### 4.1.4 Activation for Synchronous Handover
BTS starts transmission immediately on the main channel in the indicated mode
and with encryption if so indicated. If the MS Power and Timing Advance
element are present, BTS shall start transmission also on SACCH with the
timing advance and MS power control parameters indicated. If only the MS power
element is present the BTS may start transmission also on the SACCH.
When receiving a correct access burst with the correct handover reference, BTS
starts the normal reception process on the main channel in the indicated mode,
with deciphering applied if so indicated, and starts receiving (and sending if
not started earlier) on SACCH. The handover detection procedure towards BSC is
also started. Alternatively, the reception of a correctly decoded frame from
the MS on the main channel, in the indicated mode and deciphering applied if
so indicated, allows the start of sending on SACCH (if not already started)
and starts the handover detection procedure towards the BSC.
NOTE: The activation for synchronous handover can be used for pseudo
synchronized handover.
### 4.1.5 Activation for Secondary Channels in Multislot Configuration
BTS activates the channel and starts transmission and reception on the traffic
and SACCH channels in the indicated mode. Ciphering is applied if so indicated
in the encryption information.
If the BS and/or MS power elements and/or the Physical Context element are
present, the reception if applicable and transmission processes and the
L1-header of SACCH are initialized accordingly.
### 4.1.6 Channel reactivation
This procedure is used by BSC to request a reactivation of an active channel.
During the reactivation, information flows, e.g., user information such as
speech or data, that are common for the two phases of operation, are not
interrupted.
BSC initiates the procedure by sending a CHANNEL ACTivation message to BTS
where the activation type indicates \"reactivation\", the BTS shall reactivate
the channel with the new parameters. After having successfully reactivate the
channel with the parameters supplied the BTS responds with a CHANNEL
ACTivation ACKnowledge message to BSC.
{width="3.6770833333333335in" height="1.0833333333333333in"}
If the TRX for some reason cannot reactivate the channel as requested in the
CHANNEL ACTIVATION message, the TRX shall return a CHANNEL ACTivation Negative
ACKnowledge message with the most appropriate cause value.
{width="3.6770833333333335in" height="1.09375in"}
## 4.2 Channel MODE MODIFY
This procedure is used by BSC to request a change of the channel mode and/or a
change between uni‑directional and bi-directional channel types of an active
channel. In addition, for secondary channels in a multislot configuration, the
procedure can be used by BSC to request a change in the encryption information
of an active channel.
BSC initiates the procedure by sending a MODE MODIFY message to BTS. The
message contains the new mode to be used. After having changed to the new
mode, BTS responds with a MODE MODIFY ACKnowledge message to BSC.
{width="3.6770833333333335in" height="1.1041666666666667in"}
If the TRX for some reason cannot modify the channel as requested in the MODE
MODIFY message, the TRX shall return a MODE MODIFY Negative ACKnowledge
message with the most appropriate cause value.
{width="3.6979166666666665in" height="1.1041666666666667in"}
## 4.3 Handover detection
This procedure is used between the target BTS and BSC when a handed over MS
accesses the new BTS.
The procedure is initiated by BTS upon detection of an MS on a channel
activated for handover as described in sub-clause 4.1.3 for the asynchronous
handover and in sub-clause 4.1.4 for synchronous handover.
In case of an asynchronous handover, BTS builds the PHYsical INFOrmation
message as specified in 3GPP TS 44.018, sends the message to MS in
unacknowledged mode on the main signalling link and starts timer T3105. A
HANDOver DETection message is sent to BSC. This message contains the measured
delay of the access burst. If the timer expires before the reception of a
correctly decoded frame from MS, BTS repeats the PHYSical INFOrmation message
to MS as specified in 3GPP TS 44.018. If the PHYsical INFOrmation message has
been repeated Ny1 times without a correctly decoded frame being received from
MS, the BTS shall send a CONNECTION FAILURE message to BSC with the cause
value \"handover access failure\".
In case of a synchronous handover, BTS only sends a HANDOver DETection message
to BSC (no PHYsical INFOrmation message sent to MS). If the handover detection
is based on the detection of an handover access burst with the correct
handover reference, see sub-clause 4.1.4, the measured delay of the access
burst is included in the HANDOver DETection message.
{width="3.71875in" height="0.8854166666666666in"}
## 4.4 Start of encryption
This procedure is used to start encryption according to the procedure defined
in 3GPP TS 44.018.
The procedure is initiated by BSC upon reception of the CIPHER MODE COMMAND
message from MSC (see 3GPP TS 48.008).
BSC sends the ENCRyption CoMmanD message to the relevant TRX and channel. In
case of a Multislot configuration the message is sent only to the TCH used as
a main channel (defined in 3GPP TS 45.002). The message contains all
information required to select and load the user data and encryption device
with the appropriate key and also the complete Ciphering Mode Command message
to be sent to MS.
After receipt of this message, TRX sends the CIPHering MODe CoMmanD message to
MS in unciphered form and starts deciphering as described in 3GPP TS 44.018
and 3GPP TS 43.020. The start of deciphering and the sending of the Ciphering
Mode Command message to MS must be done simultaneously.
When receiving the CIPHering MODe CoMmanD, MS starts both deciphering and
enciphering and sends the CIPHering MODe COMplete message.
TRX starts enciphering upon reception of any correct layer 2 frame which is
received after start of deciphering.
{width="3.6770833333333335in" height="1.6979166666666667in"}
If the TRX for some reason can not perform the enciphering as requested in the
ENCRYPTION COMMAND, the TRX shall return an ERROR REPORT message, e.g., with
the cause \"Encryption algorithm not implemented\".
{width="3.6979166666666665in" height="0.9895833333333334in"}
## 4.5 Measurement reporting
These procedures are used to report to BSC all parameters and measurement
results required by BSC for handover requirement determination. One procedure
is also used to report to the BSC extended measurements made by Mobile
Stations.
MS measures downlink received signal level and quality from the serving cell
and received signal level from surrounding cells as defined in 3GPP TS 45.005
and 3GPP TS 45.008. The measurement results are reported in Measurement Report
messages sent in every SACCH block (every 480 ms) or, in case SACCH is used
also for other signalling, in at least every second SACCH block (every 960
ms).
In addition, the MS which implements ECSD options shall use fast inband
procedure for downlink quality reporting if the use of such procedure has been
ordered by the BSC.
In addition, an MS on a channel in enhanced power control (EPC) mode shall
measure the quality on the downlink and send EPC Downlink Quality Reports in
each EPCCH block (every 120 ms) as defined in 3GPP TS 45.008, if so ordered by
the BSC (see 3GPP TS 44.018).
The TRX measures the received signal level and the quality on the uplink of
the current channel. The averaging period is one SACCH block period (same as
the basic period for MS).
In addition, a TRX that supports EPC shall measure the quality on the uplink
for each channel in EPC mode. The averaging period is one EPC reporting period
(see 3GPP TS 45.008).
These measurements made by MS and TRX form the basic raw data for the handover
algorithms in BSC/MSC. The support of forwarding this raw data over the A-bis
interface is mandatory for both BTS and BSC. The procedure to be used for this
basic measurement reporting is defined in sub-clause 4.5.1.
In addition, the BTS and BSC may optionally support some pre-processing in BTS
of these basic measurements. The additional and optional procedures required
to support this pre-processing are defined in sub-clause 4.5.2.
Extended measurements made by MS shall be forwarded to the BSC, using the same
procedure as for 'normal' measurements. This case is described in sub-clause
4.5.3.
### 4.5.1 Basic measurement reporting
This procedure is used by BTS to report the results of the basic radio
measurements made by MS and TRX according to 3GPP TS 45.008 and 3GPP TS
45.005. The support of this procedure is mandatory in all BTS:s and all BSC:s.
It is the default procedure to use unless otherwise indicated (see sub-clause
4.5.2.1).
TRX reports all these measurements in MEASurement RESult messages to BSC. The
sending of the MEASurement RESult messages is synchronized with the reception
of SACCH blocks from MS.
If an uplink SACCH block does not contain a MEASurement REPort or an EXTended
MEASurement REPort (see sub-clause 4.5.3) from MS (e.g. when it sends a short
message), only the uplink measurement results are included with an indication
that the MS measurements are missing.
{width="3.71875in" height="3.2395833333333335in"}
### 4.5.2 Measurement pre-processing
These additional and optional procedures are included to support some pre-
processing in BTS of radio measurement data. When used, they may replace the
basic procedure defined in sub-clause 4.5.1. However, it shall be possible to
change back to the basic procedure.
Pre-processing in BTS must not affect the procedures on the A interface (e.g.
the Handover Candidate Enquiry procedure).
#### 4.5.2.1 Pre-processing configuration
This procedure is used by BSC to modify the pre-processing parameters
according to reported communication conditions (e.g. degradation of the
communication).
In order to change the parameters, BSC sends a PREPROCESS CONFIGURE message to
BTS.
A parameter setting in the PREPROCESS CONFIGURE message indicates if the basic
procedure defined in sub-clause 4.5.1 or pre-processing is to be used.
{width="2.03125in" height="0.6145833333333334in"}
#### 4.5.2.2 Pre-processed measurement reporting
This procedure is used by BTS to report the results of measurement pre‑
processing.
To report the results, BTS sends a PREPROCESSED MEASUREMENT RESULT message to
BSC.
The conditions to send the message are set in the PREPROCESS CONFIGURE
message.
{width="3.6979166666666665in" height="3.6145833333333335in"}
### 4.5.3 Extended measurement reporting
This procedure is used by BTS to report the results of the extended
measurements made by MS according to 3GPP TS 45.008.
If an uplink SACCH block contains an EXTended MEASurement REPort from MS, it
shall be forwarded to the BSC using the same procedure as when reporting
regular measurement reports from an MS. Though, no measurement pre-processing
is possible.
{width="3.7083333333333335in" height="3.2395833333333335in"}
## 4.6 Deactivate SACCH
This procedure is used by BSC to deactivate the SACCH at BTS according to the
Channel Release procedure defined in 3GPP TS 44.018.
When sending the Channel Release message to MS, BSC also sends the DEACTIVATE
SACCH message to BTS to deactivate the SACCH (see 3GPP TS 44.018, Channel
Release procedure).
{width="3.71875in" height="0.875in"}
## 4.7 Radio channel release
This procedure is used by BSC to release a radio channel which is no longer
needed.
When an activated radio channel is no longer needed, BSC sends an RF CHANnel
RELease message to the relevant TRX and channel. After having released the
addressed resources, the BTS sends a RF CHANnel RELease ACKnowledge to BSC.
{width="3.71875in" height="1.0in"}
## 4.8 MS power control
This procedure is used by BSC to set the MS power level or the parameters
required by TRX for the control of MS power.
The initial parameters are set by BSC in the CHANNEL ACTIVATION message (see
Channel Activation procedure). If these parameters are to be changed for an
active channel, BSC sends a MS POWER CONTROL message to TRX.
The support of the power control and the enhanced power control performed by
BTS is optional.
If power control is supported by BTS and it is to be used, this is indicated
by optional parameters in the MS POWER CONTROL message (or the CHANNEL
ACTIVATION message). Based on the measurements performed on the uplink, TRX
then attempts to keep the power control parameters within the limits set by
the MS POWER CONTROL message (or by the CHANNEL ACTIVATION message) by
changing the MS Power Level field of the L1 header sent to MS in each SACCH
block. MS confirms the power in the uplink L1 header.
When the BTS supports MS power control the BSC can modify the MS power
parameters during the connection (e.g. because of a classmark change) by
sending a MS POWER CONTROL message containing the new parameters.
The MS POWER CONTROL and the CHANNEL ACTIVATION message must also contain a
maximum power permitted for the MS.
In addition, the BTS which implements ECSD option shall use fast inband
procedure for fast power control if the use of such procedure has been ordered
by the BSC.
A BTS that supports enhanced power control (EPC) shall use EPC procedures for
MS (uplink) power control (see 3GPP TS 45.008) if so ordered by the BSC in the
MS POWER CONTROL message (or CHANNEL ACTIVATION message). Based on the
measurements performed on the uplink, TRX then attempts to keep the power
control parameters within the limits set by the MS POWER CONTROL message (or
by the CHANNEL ACTIVATION message) by sending EPC Uplink Power Control
Commands to the MS in each EPCCH block. MS confirms the power in the uplink L1
header on the SACCH.
{width="3.4479166666666665in" height="1.25in"}
## 4.9 Transmission power control
This is an optional procedure which is used between BSC and BTS to set the TRX
transmission power level or the parameters required by TRX for the control of
TRX transmission power.
The initial parameters are set by BSC in the CHANNEL ACTIVATION message (see
Channel Activation procedure). If these parameters are to be changed for an
active channel, BSC sends a BS POWER CONTROL message to TRX.
The support of the power control, the fast power control and the enhanced
power control performed by BTS are optional.
If power control is supported by BTS and it is to be used, this is indicated
by optional parameters in the BS POWER CONTROL message (or the CHANNEL
ACTIVATION message). Based on the Measurement Report messages sent by MS, the
TRX will then attempt to keep the power control parameters within the limits
set in the BS POWER CONTROL message (or by the CHANNEL ACTIVATION message) by
changing the transmitted power on that channel.
If fast power control mechanism is supported by BTS and is to be used, this is
indicated by optional paramters in the BS POWER CONTROL message (or by the
CHANNEL ACTIVATION message). Based on the Fast Measurement Report messages
sent by MS, the TRX will then attempt to keep the power control parameters
within the limits set in the BS POWER CONTROL message (or by the CHANNEL
ACTIVATION message) by changing the transmitted power on that channel.
A BTS that supports enhanced power control (EPC) shall use EPC procedures for
BS (downlink) power control (see 3GPP TS 45.008) if so ordered by the BSC in
the BS POWER CONTROL message (or CHANNEL ACTIVATION message). Based on the EPC
Downlink Quality Reports sent by the MS, the TRX shall then attempt to keep
the power control parameters within the limits set in the BS POWER CONTROL
message (or by the CHANNEL ACTIVATION message) by changing the transmitted
power on that channel.
NOTE: The EPC mode field is only valid in the channel activation message.
The maximum power of the TRX is determined from network planning criteria.
However, BSC may indicate a lower maximum power in the BS POWER CONTROL
message (or the CHANNEL ACTIVATION message).
{width="2.0625in" height="0.78125in"}
## 4.10 Connection failure
This procedure is used by BTS to indicate to BSC that an active connection has
been broken (e.g. due to a radio link failure as defined in 3GPP TS 45.008).
When BTS detects that a connection has been broken, BTS sends a CONNection
FAILure INDication message to BSC with the most proper cause value. Further
actions are defined in 3GPP TS 44.018.
Some possible cause values are:
\- radio link failure (as defined in 3GPP TS 45.008);
\- hardware failure (e.g. transcoder failure);
\- etc.
{width="2.0625in" height="0.7291666666666666in"}
## 4.11 Physical context request
This is an optional procedure which allows the BSC to obtain information on
the \"physical context\" of a radio channel just prior to a channel change.
This information may be forwarded to the new TRX (possibly in another
collocated cell).
The procedure is initiated by BSC sending a PHYsical CONTEXT REQuest message
to TRX. TRX responds with a PHYsical CONTEXT CONFirm message which contains
information on the \"physical context\" of the channel.
{width="2.03125in" height="1.0in"}
## 4.12 SACCH information modify
This procedure is used by the BSC to modify the SACCH filling information
(System Information) sent on an individual SACCH channel. For this purpose,
the BSC sends a SACCH INFO MODIFY message to the BTS. The SACCH filling
information as given in the SACCH INFO MODIFY message shall be used on the
indicated channel until the channel is released or the information is changed
by another SACCH INFO MODIFY message.
{width="2.03125in" height="0.75in"}
## 4.13 Talker detection
The procedure is used by the BTS during the period the channel is activated
for a voice group call. Upon detection of an MS on a channel activated for
group call as specified in sub-clause 4.1, the BTS builds the VGCS UPLINK
GRANT message as specified in 3GPP TS 44.018, sends the message to the MS in
unacknowledged mode on the main signalling link and starts timer T3115. A
TALKER DETection message is sent to the BSC. This message contains the
measured delay of the access burst. If the timer expires before the reception
of a correctly decoded frame from the MS, the BTS repeats the VGCS UPLINK
GRANT message to the MS as specified in 3GPP TS 44.018. If the VGCS UPLINK
GRANT message has been repeated Ny2 times without a correctly decoded frame
being received from the MS, the BTS shall send a CONNECTION FAILURE INDICATION
message to the BSC with cause value \"talker access failure\".
{width="3.96875in" height="0.875in"}
## 4.14 Listener detection
The procedure is used by the BTS during the period the channel is activated
for a voice group call. Upon detection of an uplink access having the value
reserved for replying to an uplink access request as specified in sub-clause
4.1. The BTS builds the LISTENER DETection message and sends the message to
the BSC. This message contains the measured delay of the access burst.
{width="3.9375in" height="0.8645833333333334in"}
## 4.15 Remote Codec Configuration
This procedure is used by the BTS to report to the BSC the codec information
received from the remote BSS prior to a MultiRate Codec TFO establishment or
within TFO. This information can be used by the BSC to solve potential codec
type and codec mode mismatches.
{width="2.0729166666666665in" height="0.7708333333333334in"}
## 4.16 Round Trip Delay Report
This procedure is used by the BTS to report to the BSC the BTS to Transcoder
or BTS to Remote BTS round trip transmission delay. This information can be
used by the BSC to set the correct timing for a pre-handover warning and to
optimise the AMR Configuration and/or Adaptation algorithm.
{width="2.03125in" height="0.78125in"}
## 4.17 Pre-handover Warning
This procedure is used by the BSC to notify the serving BTS that a handover is
going to be performed and allow the serving BTS to take the necessary steps in
preparation of the handover (adaptation freezing for MultiRate Codec, TFO
discontinuation,....). The Pre-handover Warning may disable (withdraw the
"general authorisation" of ) the RATSCCH mechanism between BTS and MS for a
while or permanently to ensure consistent configurations in BSC, BTSs and MS
during and after handover. The BSC shall provide to the BTS the codec
configuration parameters after Handover.
In case the announced handover has failed, the BSC sends the Pre-handover
Notification again to the serving BTS, this time with the codec configuration
parameters as before the handover attempt in order to re-establish the BTS
operation (adaptation enable for MultiRate Codec, TFO enable, RATSCCH
authorisation, ...).
{width="2.03125in" height="0.7291666666666666in"}
## 4.18 MultiRate Codec Configuration Change
This procedure is used by the BSC to authorise the BTS to change the MultiRate
Codec Configuration to solve a codec mismatch prior to TFO establishment or
within TFO. The BTS shall use the RATSCCH inband signalling with the MS as
defined by Rec 3GPP TS 45.009.
Once the MultiRate Codec Configuration has been changed, the BTS shall send a
MultiRate CODEC MOD ACK to the BSC to acknowledge the execution of the codec
change. The MultiRate CODEC MOD ACK contains the final MultiRate Codec
configuration.
{width="4.875in" height="1.3854166666666667in"}
If for any reason, the BTS is not able to complete the MultiRate Codec
Configuration change, it should send a MultiRate CODEC MOD Negative ACK with
the most appropriate cause.
{width="4.895833333333333in" height="1.3854166666666667in"}
Possible causes are:
\- tbd
This procedure is also used by the BTS to indicate to the BSC the optimal
codec configuration for TFO, in the case where the TC or the BTS runs the TFO
algorithm, and the BSC is responsible for changing the codec configuration.
The BSC does not acknowledge this message.
## 4.19 MultiRate Codec Configuration Change Performed
This procedure is used by the BTS to report to the BSC that a MultiRate Codec
Modification was performed using the RATSCCH in-band signalling capability.
The BTS shall report the MultiRate codec configuration after the completion of
the procedure.
{width="2.5625in" height="0.78125in"}
## 4.20 TFO Report
This procedure is used by the BTS to report to the BSC that TFO (based on AMR)
is established, or is not in operation anymore.
{width="2.5625in" height="0.7604166666666666in"}
## 4.21 TFO Modification Request
This procedure is used by the BSC to change the TFO configuration while
operating with AMR: enabling or disabling TFO.
This procedure shall be used only during an established call. At call setup,
Channel Activation procedure shall be used. During an in-call modification
from data to speech, Mode Modify procedure shall be used.
{width="2.5833333333333335in" height="0.7291666666666666in"}
# 5 Common channel management procedures
## 5.1 Channel request by MS
The procedure is initiated by TRX upon detection of a random access from an MS
(CHANnel REQuest message from MS). TRX then sends a CHANnel ReQuireD message
to BSC containing the Request Reference parameter (random number selected by
MS plus some low order bits of the TDMA frame number for the access) and the
measured delay of the Access Burst.
{width="3.6666666666666665in" height="0.875in"}
## 5.2 Paging
This procedure is used to request the paging of one mobile station on a given
paging subchannel.
The paging of an MS is initiated by BSC sending a PAGing CoMmanD message to
BTS. The message contains the MS identity (TMSI or IMSI), the paging
population number of the MS, optionally an indication for the MS about which
combination of channels will be needed for the subsequent transaction related
to the paging and optionally an indication of the eMLPP priority of the call.
The PAGing REQuest messages to be sent on the radio path are built and sent by
BTS.
The use by BTS of the \"extended paging\" facilities and the general downlink
scheduling of the downlink CCCH is operator dependant and is not specified in
this GTS. This process may also be influenced by O&M procedures.
{width="4.5in" height="1.34375in"}
## 5.3 Delete indication
This procedure is used by BTS to indicate that due to overload on the downlink
CCCH, an IMMEDIATE ASSIGN COMMAND has been deleted.
For that purpose BTS sends a DELETE INDication message to BSC.
{width="2.1041666666666665in" height="0.7083333333333334in"}
## 5.4 CCCH load indication
This procedure is used by a BTS to inform the BSC of the load on a particular
CCCH timeslot.
The CCCH LOAD INDication message is sent regularly from BTS to BSC if the load
exceeds some value set by O&M. The sending rate is also set by O&M.
{width="3.15625in" height="1.40625in"}
## 5.5 Broadcast information modify
This procedure is used by BSC to indicate to BTS the new information to be
broadcast on BCCH.
For that purpose, BSC sends a BCCH INFOrmation message to BTS.
{width="3.71875in" height="0.7083333333333334in"}
## 5.6 Short Message Cell Broadcast
Short Message Service Cell Broadcast messages are sent to BTS as SMS BROADCAST
REQUEST or SMS BROADCAST COMMAND messages.
With the SMS BROADCAST REQUEST mode of operation, the BSC handles the queuing,
repetition and transmission of the messages taking the capacity of the CBCHs
(basic and extended channel (see 3GPP TS 45.002)) into account. The BSC is
also responsible for the segmentation of the SMS Cell Broadcast messages on
the Radio interface:
{width="3.71875in" height="0.7395833333333334in"}
With the SMS BROADCAST COMMAND mode of operation, the BSC can request the
broadcast of a complete Cell Broadcast message. The BSC handles the queuing,
repetition and transmission of the messages taking the capacity of the CBCHs
(basic and extended channel [see 3GPP TS 45.002]) into account. The BSC is
responsible for the segmentation of the SMS Cell Broadcast messages on the
Radio interface:
{width="3.71875in" height="1.6354166666666667in"}
With the SMS BROADCAST COMMAND mode of operation, the BSC can also set the BTS
broadcast default mode. The BTS is then responsible for transmission of a
default message when no other message is to be broadcast.
{width="3.9479166666666665in" height="2.0in"}
Even though BSC handles the transmission of messages taking the capacity of
CBCH into account, BTS can indicate to BSC if an overflow or underflow
situation is about to happen in the CBCH. With the CBCH LOAD INDICATION mode
of operation, the BTS can request immediate broadcast of m (=amount indicated
in the CBCH Load Information element) scheduled SMSCB messages in the
underflow situation. BSC shall transmit m scheduled messages and after that
continue the broadcast of messages according to its own timetable. If BTS
requests more messages than BSC is possessing, then BSC shall transmit only
the amount it is possessing. CBCH LOAD INDICATION mode of operation could only
be applied when DRX mode is used (see 3GPP TS 44.012).
{width="4.427083333333333in" height="4.8125in"}
With the CBCH LOAD INDICATION mode of operation, the BTS can also request
immediate stop of broadcast for a period of m (=amount indicated in the CBCH
Load Information element) message slots in the overflow situation. BSC shall
stop the broadcast for a period of m message slots and after that continue the
broadcast of messages according to its own timetable.
{width="4.4375in" height="5.010416666666667in"}
## 5.7 IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT
This procedure is used by BSC to request the transmission of an immediate
assign message on downlink CCCH. To initiate the immediate assign, the BSC
sends an IMMEDIATE ASSIGN COMMAND message. The message contains the complete
immediate assign message as defined in 3GPP TS 44.018 (IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT or
IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT EXTENDED or IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT REJECT) with the \"Page
Mode\" element set to the value \"no change\". Upon receipt of the message,
the BTS may transmit the immediate assignment message as received or combine
several to construct the IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT EXTENDED or IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT
REJECT. The BTS may also update the \"Page Mode\" element before transmission.
The IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT EXTENDED message is either sent by the BSC in the
IMMEDIATE ASSIGN COMMAND, or built by the BTS from up to two IMMEDIATE ASSIGN
COMMAND messages.
The IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT REJECT message is either sent by the BTS as received
in the IMMEDIATE ASSIGN COMMAND message or built by the BTS from the contents
of two or more IMMEDIATE ASSIGN COMMAND messages. For the latter case the BTS
may consider request references with identical contents within the same
message as duplicates and all but one may be suppressed.
{width="3.6770833333333335in" height="0.84375in"}
## 5.8 Notification
This procedure is used to request that notification be performed by the BTS.
The BSC indicates the exact action required by the BTS in the command
indicator.
The NOTIFication messages to be sent on the radio path are built and sent by
BTS.
The BSC manages the NCH DRX information whilst the BTS manages the scheduling
of the messages on the NCH.
{width="4.645833333333333in" height="1.3125in"}
If the BTS for some reason can not perform the notification commanded by the
BSC, then the BTS shall return an ERROR REPORT message with the relevant cause
value.
{width="3.7708333333333335in" height="0.9895833333333334in"}
# 6 TRX management procedures
## 6.1 Radio resource indication
This procedure is used to inform BSC on the interference levels on idle
channels of a TRX.
In the RF RESource INDication message, TRX reports the interference level for
each of the channels which have been idle (not active) for the whole
measurement period. See also 3GPP TS 48.008 and 3GPP TS 45.008.
The RF RESource INDication message is sent regularly with a rate set by O&M.
{width="2.8229166666666665in" height="1.7083333333333333in"}
## 6.2 SACCH filling information modify
This procedure is used by BSC to indicate to BTS the new information to be
used as filling information on SACCHs.
For that propose BSC sends a SACCH FILLing message to BTS.
{width="2.8229166666666665in" height="0.7604166666666666in"}
## 6.3 Flow control
This procedure is defined to give some degree of flow control. It can be used
for TRX processor overload, downlink CCCH overload and ACCH overload.
The algorithm used in BSC to control the traffic flow is as follows:
Upon receipt of the first OVERLOAD message, BSC reduces the traffic by one
step and starts timers T1 and T2. During T1 all OVERLOAD messages are ignored
in order not to reduce the traffic too rapidly. Reception of an OVERLOAD
message after T1 but still during T2 will decrease the traffic by one more
step and timers T1 and T2 are restarted. This step by step reduction of
traffic is continued until maximum reduction is obtained.
If T2 expires (i.e. no OVERLOAD message was received during T2), the traffic
will be increased by one step and T2 restarted. This step by step increase of
traffic will be continued until full load has been resumed.
The number of steps and the method of reducing the load is considered to be
implementation dependent. For example, the amount of random accesses and
thereby access grants can be reduced by use of the RACH Control parameters
(e.g. Access Control Class or Cell Barred) or the Cell Selection parameters
(e.g. CELL-RESELECT-HYSTERESIS or RXLEV‑ ACCESS-MIN) in the system information
messages of 3GPP TS 44.018.
{width="4.5in" height="2.9791666666666665in"}
## 6.4 Error reporting
This procedure is used by BTS to report detected errors as described in clause
7 below if they cannot be reported by any other procedure.
When TRX detects the reception of an erroneous message, it sends an ERROR
REPORT message to BSC with the most appropriate cause value. In order to
identify the erroneous message, the Message Type, the Channel Number, the Link
Identifier and/or the complete erroneous message can be included.
{width="2.03125in" height="0.7395833333333334in"}
# 6a Location services procedures
These procedures are related to Location Services (LCS).
## 6a.1 LLP message transport
This procedure is used to convey LLP messages between the BTS-or Standalone
Type B LMU and the BSC, as defined in the Location Services (LCS) Stage 2
document 3GPP TS 23.071.
The sending entity (BSC, Standalone Type B LMU or BTS) sends a Location
Information message containing an embedded LLP message to the receiving entity
(BSC, Standalone Type B LMU or BTS).
{width="3.78125in" height="1.3333333333333333in"}
# 7 Error handling
## 7.1 General
The procedures specified above apply to those messages which pass the checks
described below.
The behaviour of BSC in erroneous cases is implementation dependent.
The behaviour of BTS in erroneous cases is to ignore the message and to send a
report to BSC. The report can be sent in either of the following messages:
\- CHANNEL ACTIVATION NACK in connection with channel activations;
\- MODE MODIFY NACK in connection with a channel mode change;
\- ERROR REPORT in other cases.
For procedures controlled by the BSC, and in particular procedures where the
BSC sends a request for resources at the BTS and waits for an acknowledge, the
implementation in the BSC must provide means for avoiding deadlock situations
at the BTS as e.g. hanging resources.
## 7.2 Message discriminator error
A message with a non-specified message discriminator is erroneous.
## 7.3 Message type error
A message with a non-specified message type is considered correct, but is
ignored by BTS.
## 7.4 Message sequence error
A message with an existing message type which is not possible according to the
specification and to the state of the BTS is erroneous.
## 7.5 General information element errors
This category includes:
\- Information element out of sequence;
\- Abnormally duplicated element;
\- Missing element.
A message with such an error is erroneous.
## 7.6 Mandatory information element errors
This includes:
a) Non-existing element type.
b) Information length error.
c) Content which does not comply with the specification (value reserved for
future use is considered as case d)).
d) Value indicated as reserved for future use.
e) Bits reserved for future use not set to 0.
f) Content complying with specification but incompatible with the state.
g) Content complying with the specification but inconsistent.
All cases except e) are considered erroneous.
In case e), BTS simply ignores the reserved (RFU) bits.
## 7.7 Optional information element errors
The same categories of errors as in previous sub-clause apply.
In cases other than b), e), f) and g), BTS ignores the element and processes
the rest of the message.
Cases b), f) and g) are considered erroneous.
In case e), BTS ignores the reserved (RFU) bits.
## 7.8 Conditional information element errors
The same categories of errors as in sub-clause 7.6 apply.
If the conditions for presence of the element are met, the same erroneous
cases as in sub-clause 7.6 apply.
If the conditions for presence of the element are not met, the same erroneous
cases as in sub-clause 7.7 apply.
# 8 Message formats and contents
## 8.0 General
This sub-clause defines the format and contents of the messages sent over the
A-bis interface. Similar coding principles as in 3GPP TS 24.008 and 3GPP TS
48.008 are used.
For each message, the contained Information Elements are listed. For each
Information Element, the following information is given:
\- Name of Information Element;
\- Reference sub-clause for the coding of the Information Element;
\- Presence condition for the Information Element;
M Mandatory, must always be present;
**receiver:** if not present, consider message erroneous;
C Conditional, presence depending on e.g.
a) value of other element;
b) presence of optional element;
**receiver:** if not present when condition met, consider
> message erroneous, else accept message;
O Optional, **receiver:** present or not, accept message;
\- Format of Information Element:
T Type only, fixed length, only Element Identifier;
V Value only, fixed length, no Element Identifier included;
TV Type and Value, fixed length, Element Identifier included;
TLV Type, Length and Value, variable length, Element Identifier and Length
Indicator included;
\- Total length of Information Element; for variable length, lower and upper
limits.
NOTE: Maximum message length is determined by the N201 parameter of 3GPP TS
48.056.
In a message, the message discriminator is transmitted first. The purpose is
to distinguish between transparent messages (T-bit set to 1) and non-
transparent messages (T-bit set to 0) and also between messages related to
Radio Link Layer Management, Dedicated Channel Management, Common Channel
Management and TRX Management. The octets are sent in the order shown in the
description of the messages and information elements.
## 8.1 Transparent messages
Transparent messages are used at the A-bis interface to convey layer 3
messages for the radio interface as defined in 3GPP TS 44.018 and for which
BTS has to take or has taken no specific action. The T‑ bit of the Message
Discriminator is set to 1.
In the uplink direction (messages from MS), all messages received in I‑ frames
and all messages received in UI-frames except for the MEASurement REPort
message are considered as transparent. They are forwarded to BSC as DATA
INDication and UNIT DATA INDication messages respectively.
In the downlink direction (messages to MS) all messages as defined in 3GPP TS
44.018 are transparent except for the following messages, which are replaced
by BSC-BTS specific messages over the A‑ bis interface and where BTS will send
the corresponding L3 message over the radio interface after the necessary
actions have been taken:
* * *
Message to MS Replaced on A-bis interface by CIPHering MODe CoMmanD ENCRyption
CoMmanD PAGing REQuest PAGing CoMmanD NOTIFication NOTIFication CoMmanD SYSTEM
INFOrmation BCCH INFOrmation and SACCH FILLing EXTENDED MEASUREMENT ORDER
SACCH FILLing Immediate assign (3 types) IMMEDIATE ASSIGN COMMAND
* * *
Transparent messages are sent by BSC as DATA REQuest or UNIT DATA REQuest
messages.
## 8.2 Non-transparent messages (BSC-BTS specific messages)
These messages are used over the A-bis interface for messages on which BTS has
to take some action (BSC to BTS direction) and for messages which are the
result from actions taken by BTS (BTS to BSC direction). The T-bit of the
Message Discriminator is set to 0.
## 8.3 Radio link layer management messages
These messages are related to Radio Link Layer Management procedures. They all
have the following general format:
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Link Identifier 9.3.2
M TV 2 (Information elements depending on message type)
* * *
The messages concerned are the following:
* * *
Message name Reference sub-clause DATA REQuest 8.3.1 DATA INDication 8.3.2
ERROR INDication 8.3.3 ESTablish REQuest 8.3.4 ESTablish CONFirm 8.3.5
ESTablish INDication 8.3.6 RELease REQuest 8.3.7 RELease CONFirm 8.3.8 RELease
INDication 8.3.9 UNIT DATA REQuest 8.3.10 UNIT DATA INDication 8.3.11
* * *
### 8.3.1 DATA REQUEST
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to request the sending of a message in
acknowledged mode on a radio link layer connection.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Link Identifier 9.3.2
M TV 2 L3 Information 9.3.11 M TLV >=3
* * *
### 8.3.2 DATA INDICATION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate the reception of a message in
acknowledged mode on a radio link layer connection.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Link Identifier 9.3.2
M TV 2 L3 Information 9.3.11 M TLV >=3
* * *
### 8.3.3 ERROR INDICATION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate an abnormal case for a radio
link layer connection.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Link Identifier 9.3.2
M TV 2 RLM Cause 9.3.22 M TLV 2‑4
* * *
### 8.3.4 ESTABLISH REQUEST
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to request the establishment of a multi-
frame mode (acknowledged mode) link layer connection on the radio path.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Link Identifier 9.3.2
M TV 2
* * *
### 8.3.5 ESTABLISH CONFIRM
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to confirm the establishment of a radio
link layer connection in multi-frame (acknowledged) mode.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Link Identifier 9.3.2
M TV 2
* * *
### 8.3.6 ESTABLISH INDICATION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate the establishment of a radio
link layer connection in multi-frame mode, initiated by an MS.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Link Identifier 9.3.2
M TV 2 L3 Information 9.3.11 O (note 1) TLV 3-23 NOTE 1: The L3 Information
field is present only if the SABM frame contained a non-empty information
field
* * *
NOTE: The \"establish mode\" parameter appearing in 3GPP TS 44.006 is used
only on the MS side.
### 8.3.7 RELEASE REQUEST
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to request the release of multi‑ frame
mode of a radio link layer connection.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Link Identifier 9.3.2
M TV 2 Release Mode 9.3.20 M TV 2
* * *
### 8.3.8 RELEASE CONFIRM
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to confirm the release of multi‑ frame
mode of a radio link layer connection.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Link Identifier 9.3.2
M TV 2
* * *
### 8.3.9 RELEASE INDICATION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate the release of a radio link
layer connection (initiated by MS).
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Link Identifier 9.3.2
M TV 2
* * *
### 8.3.10 UNIT DATA REQUEST
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to request the sending of a message in
unacknowledged mode on a radio link layer connection.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Link Identifier 9.3.2
M TV 2 L3 Information 9.3.11 M TLV 3-25
* * *
### 8.3.11 UNIT DATA INDICATION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate the reception of a message in
unacknowledged mode on a radio link layer connection.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Link Identifier 9.3.2
M TV 2 L3 Information 9.3.11 M TLV 3-23
* * *
## 8.4 DEDICATED CHANNEL MANAGEMENT MESSAGES
These messages are related to Dedicated Channel Management procedures. They
all have the following general format:
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 (Information elements
depending on message type)
* * *
The messages concerned are the following:
* * *
Message name Reference sub-clause CHANnel ACTIVation 8.4.1 CHANnel ACTIVation
ACKnowledge 8.4.2 CHANnel ACTIVation Negative ACK 8.4.3 CONNection FAILure
INDication 8.4.4 DEACTIVATE SACCH 8.4.5 ENCRyption CoMmanD 8.4.6 HANDOver
DETection 8.4.7 TALKER DETection 8.4.21 LISTENER DETection 8.4.22 MEASurement
RESult 8.4.8 MODE MODIFY REQuest 8.4.9 MODE MODIFY ACKnowledge 8.4.10 MODE
MODIFY Negative ACKnowledge 8.4.11 PHYsical CONTEXT REQuest 8.4.12 PHYsical
CONTEXT CONFirm 8.4.13 RF CHANnel RELease 8.4.14 MS POWER CONTROL 8.4.15 BS
POWER CONTROL 8.4.16 PREPROCecc CONFIGure 8.4.17 PREPROCessed MEASurement
RESult 8.4.18 RF CHANnel RELease ACKnowledge 8.4.19 SACCH INFO MODIFY 8.4.20
REMOTE CODEC CONFiguration REPort 8.4.23 Round Trip Delay REPort 8.4.24 PRE-
HANDOver NOTIFication 8.4.25 MultiRate CODEC MODification REQuest 8.4.26
MultiRate CODEC MOD ACKnowledge 8.4.27 MultiRate CODEC MOD Negative ACK 8.4.28
MultiRate CODEC MOD PERformed 8.4.29 TFO REPort 8.4.30 TFO MODification
REQuest 8.4.31
* * *
### 8.4.1 CHANNEL ACTIVATION
This message is sent from BSC to BTS in order to activate a radio channel. The
attributes of the channel are defined in the message.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Activation Type 9.3.3
M TV 2 Channel Mode 9.3.6 M TLV 8‑9 Channel Identification 9.3.5 O 7) TLV 8
Encryption information 9.3.7 O 1) TLV >=3 Handover Reference 9.3.9 C 2) TV 2
BS Power 9.3.4 O 3) TV 2 MS Power 9.3.13 O 3) TV 2 Timing Advance 9.3.24 C 3)
4) TV 2 BS Power Parameters 9.3.32 O 5) TLV >=2 MS Power Parameters 9.3.31 O
5) TLV >=2 Physical Context 9.3.16 O 6) TLV >=2 SACCH Information 9.3.29 O 8)
TLV >=3 UIC 9.3.50 O 9) TLV 3 Main channel reference 9.3.51 O 10) TV 2
MultiRate configuration 9.3.52 O 11) TLV >=4 MultiRate Control 9.3.53 O 12) TV
2 Supported Codec Types 9.3.54 O 12) TLV >=5 TFO transparent container 9.3.59
O 12) TLV >=3
* * *
1) The Encryption Information element is only included if ciphering is to be
applied.
2) The Handover Reference element is only included if activation type is
handover.
3) If BS Power, MS Power and/or Timing Advance elements are present, they are
to be used to set the initial transmission power and the initial L1-header.
4) The Timing Advance element must be included if activation type is intra
cell channel change.
5) The BS and MS Power Parameters elements are included to indicate that BS
and/or MS power control is to be performed by BTS. The maximum power to be
used is indicated in the BS and MS Power elements respectively.
6) Optional element for additional physical channel information.
7) Included if compatibility with phase1 is required.
8) Optional element for setting the SACCH filling information individually for
this channel. If this element is present, the SACCH filling information as
given by this element shall be used for this channel (replacing any SACCH
filling information as given by the SACCH FILLING message(s)) until the
channel is released or the information is changed by a SACCH INFO MODIFY
message. (If this element is not present, the SACCH filling as given by the
SACCH FILLING message(s) shall be used.)
9) The UIC element may be included for voice group calls. It is used in the
same way as the BSIC for decoding the random access bursts when decoding
uplink access bursts. If not included, the BSIC shall be used for decoding
uplink access bursts.
10) Optional element for multislot operation, it may be used in case of power
control in the BTS.
11) Included if the Channel Mode indicates that a multi-rate speech codec is
used.
12) Optionally included if the Channel Mode indicates that a multi-rate speech
codec is used and TFO control is required or to give to the BTS the
possibility to change autonomously the multi-rate codec configuration.
### 8.4.2 CHANNEL ACTIVATION ACKNOWLEDGE
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to acknowledge that the requested channel
activation has been completed correctly.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Frame number 9.3.8 M
TV 3
* * *
The Frame Number element is used by BSC to calculate the Starting Time
parameter when required.
### 8.4.3 CHANNEL ACTIVATION NEGATIVE ACKNOWLEDGE
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate that the channel activation
could not be performed as requested.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Cause 9.3.26 M TLV
>=3
* * *
If the Channel Activation message was received with an erroneous Channel
number information element, the Channel Activation Negative Acknowledge
message is returned with the Channel Number information element equal to the
received (and erroneous) Channel number and the Cause value \"Mandatory
Information Element Error\" with Diagnostics equal to the Channel number
element identifier value.
### 8.4.4 CONNECTION FAILURE INDICATION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate that an active connection has
been broken for some reason.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Cause 9.3.26 M TLV
>=3
* * *
### 8.4.5 DEACTIVATE SACCH
This message is sent from BSC to BTS in order to deactivate the SACCH of an
active channel.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2
* * *
### 8.4.6 ENCRYPTION COMMAND
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to start ciphering mode operation.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Encryption
information 9.3.7 M TLV >=3 Link Identifier 9.3.2 M TV 2 L3 Info (CIPH MOD
CMD) 9.3.11 M TLV 6
* * *
The L3 Info element contains the complete Ciphering Mode Command message as
defined in 3GPP TS 44.018.
### 8.4.7 HANDOVER DETECTION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC when BTS correctly receives information
from an MS on the handover activated channel.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Access Delay 9.3.17 O
1) TV 2
* * *
1) The Access Delay element is included if the sending of the handover
detection message was triggered by the reception of a handover access burst
with the correct handover reference.
### 8.4.8 MEASUREMENT RESULT
This message from BTS to BSC is used to report to BSC the results of radio
channel measurements made by BTS (uplink) and to convey the measurement
reports from MS received on SACCH and in the L1 headers.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Measurement result
number 9.3.27 M TV 2 Uplink Measurements 9.3.25 M TLV >=5 BS Power 9.3.4 M TV
2 L1 Information 9.3.10 O 1) TV 3 L3 Info (MEAS REP, EXT MEAS REP or ENH MEAS
REP) 9.3.11 O 1) TLV 21 MS Timing Offset 9.3.37 O 2) TV 2
* * *
1) The L1 Information element contains the last received L1-header (MS Power
and Timing Advance) from MS and the L3 Information element contains the
complete MEASurement REPort message EXTended MEASurement REPort message or
ENHanced MEASurement REPort message received from MS. They are included only
if received since last (EXTended/ENHanced) MEASurement RESult message.
2) MS Timing Offset can be optionally included to increase the accuracy of
possible distance measurements.
### 8.4.9 MODE MODIFY
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to request a change of channel mode of an
active channel.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Channel Mode 9.3.6 M
TLV 8‑9 Encryption information 9.3.7 O 1) TLV >=3 Main channel reference
9.3.45 O 2) TV 2 MultiRate configuration 9.3.52 O 3) TLV >=3 Multirate Control
9.3.53 O 4) TV 2 Supported Codec Types 9.3.54 O 4) TLV >=5 TFO transparent
container 9.3.59 O 4) TLV >=3
* * *
1) The Encryption Information element is only included if ciphering is to be
applied.
2) Optional element for multislot operation, it may be used in case of power
control in the BTS.
3) Included if the Channel Mode indicates that a multi-rate speech codec is
used.
4) Optionally included if the Channel Mode indicates that a multi-rate speech
codec is used and TFO control is required or to give to the BTS the
possibility to change autonomously the multi-rate codec configuration.
### 8.4.10 MODE MODIFY ACKNOWLEDGE
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to confirm the change of channel mode of
an active channel.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2
* * *
### 8.4.11 MODE MODIFY NEGATIVE ACKNOWLEDGE
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate that the channel mode
modification could not be performed as requested.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Cause 9.3.26 M TLV
>=3
* * *
### 8.4.12 PHYSICAL CONTEXT REQUEST
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to request the \"physical context\" of an
active channel.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2
* * *
### 8.4.13 PHYSICAL CONTEXT CONFIRM
This message is sent from BTS to BSC as a response to a PHYsical CONTEXT
REQuest message. The message contains the \"physical context\" information.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 BS Power 9.3.4 M TV 2
MS Power 9.3.13 M TV 2 Timing Advance 9.3.24 M TV 2 Physical Context 9.3.16 O
1) TLV >=2
* * *
1) Optional element for additional physical channel information.
### 8.4.14 RF CHANNEL RELEASE
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to inform that a radio channel is no
longer needed.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2
* * *
### 8.4.15 MS POWER CONTROL
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to change the MS power level or the
parameters used by TRX to control the MS power.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 MS Power 9.3.13 M TV
2 MS Power Parameters 9.3.31 O 1) TLV >=2
* * *
1) If the MS Power Parameters element is present it indicates that the MS
power control is to be performed by TRX. The MS Power element then indicates
the maximum MS power to be used.
### 8.4.16 BS POWER CONTROL
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to change the TRX transmission power
level or the parameters used by TRX to control its transmission power.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 BS Power 9.3.4 M TV 2
BS Power Parameters 9.3.32 O 1) TLV >=2
* * *
1) If the BS Power Parameters element is present it indicates that the TRX
transmission power control is to be performed by TRX. The BS Power element
then indicates the maximum transmission power to be used.
### 8.4.17 PREPROCESS CONFIGURE
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to modify the pre-processing parameters
used by BTS.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Preproc. Parameters
9.3.33 M TLV >=3
* * *
### 8.4.18 PREPROCESSED MEASUREMENT RESULT
This message is used by BTS to report the results of radio parameter pre-
processing.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Preproc. Measurements
9.3.34 M TLV >=2
* * *
### 8.4.19 RF CHANNEL RELEASE ACKNOWLEDGE
This message is sent from BTS to BSC as an acknowledge to a RF CHANnel RELease
message.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2
* * *
### 8.4.20 SACCH INFO MODIFY
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to modify the SACCH filling information
sent on an individual SACCH channel. This new SACCH filling information shall
be sent on the indicated channel until the channel is released or the
information is changed by another SACCH INFO MODIFY message.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 System Info Type
9.3.30 M TV 2 L3 Info 9.3.11 O 1) TLV 22 Starting Time 9.3.23 O 2) TV 3
* * *
1) If the L3 Info information element is not included, this indicates that
transmission of the indicated message shall be stopped, i.e. message shall no
longer be sent on this channel.
2) The Starting Time element is optionally used to indicate when transmission
of the new information is to start and when transmission is to stop.
The System Info Type element indicates the type of SYSTEM INFORMATION/EXTENDED
MEASUREMENT ORDER message which follows in the L3 Info field.
The L3 Information element contains the relevant SYSTEM INFORMATION/EXTENDED
MEASUREMENT ORDER message as defined in 3GPP TS 44.018.
### 8.4.21 TALKER DETECTION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC when BTS correctly receives on a channel
activated for VGCS an access from an MS indicating that it requires the uplink
of the channel.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Access Delay 9.3.17 O
1) TV 2
* * *
1) The Access Delay element is included if the sending of the uplink access
message was triggered by the reception of an uplink access burst with the
correct values.
### 8.4.22 LISTENER DETECTION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC when BTS correctly receives on a channel
activated for VGCS or VBS an access from an MS indicating its presence on the
channel.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Access Delay 9.3.17 O
1) TV 2
* * *
1) The Access Delay element is included if the sending of the uplink access
message was triggered by the reception of an uplink access burst with the
correct value.
### 8.4.23 REMOTE CODEC CONFIGURATION REPORT
This message is sent by the BTS to the BSC to report the codec information
received from a remote BTS prior to TFO establishment or in TFO.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Codec Configuration
9.3.55 M TLV >=3 Supported Codec Types 9.3.54 M TLV >=5 TFO transparent
container 9.3.59 O 4) TLV >=3
* * *
### 8.4.24 ROUND TRIP DELAY REPORT
This message is sent by the BSC to the BTS to report the computed round trip
transmission delay between the BTS and the transcoder or between the BTS and
the remote BTS when TFO is established.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Round Trip Delay
9.3.56 M TV 2
* * *
### 8.4.25 PRE-HANDOVER NOTIFICATION
This message is sent by the BSC to the serving BTS to notify the BTS that an
handover is going to be performed.\ It is also sent by the BSC to the serving
BTS if the announced handover has failed.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 MultiRateControl
9.3.53 M TV 2 Codec Configuration 9.3.55 M TLV >=3 TFO transparent container
9.3.59 O 4) TLV >=3
* * *
### 8.4.26 MULTIRATE CODEC MODIFICATION REQUEST
This message is sent by the BSC to the BTS to request and authorise the BTS to
change the Multi-Rate codec configuration using inband signalling message
exchange.
It is also sent by the BTS to the BSC, in the case where the TC or the BTS
runs the TFO algorithm, and the BSC is responsible for changing the codec
configuration. In this case, it is not acknowledged by the BSC.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 MultiRate
Configuration 9.3.52 O 1) TLV >=4
* * *
> 1) Not included if the BTS can solve the codec mismatch for TFO establisment
### 8.4.27 MULTIRATE CODEC MODIFICATION ACKNOWLEDGE
This message is sent by the BTS to the BSC to acknowledge the performed change
of the MultiRate Codec configuration, when it was requested by the BSC with
the MultiRate CODEC MODification REQuest message
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 MultiRate
Configuration 9.3.52 O 1) TLV >=4
* * *
### 8.4.28 MULTIRATE CODEC MODIFICATION NEGATIVE ACKNOWLEDGE
This message is sent by the BTS to the BSC to report a failure to change the
MultiRate Codec Configuration.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Cause 9.3.26 M TLV
>=3
* * *
### 8.4.29 MULTIRATE CODEC MODIFICATION PERFORMED
This message is sent by the BTS to the BSC to inform the BSC of a performed
change of the MultiRate Codec Configuration in case the BTS is generally
authorised to perform this change and has initiated this on its own.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 MultiRate
Configuration 9.3.52 M TLV >=4
* * *
### 8.4.30 TFO REPORT
This message is sent by the BTS to the BSC to inform the BSC that Tandem Free
Operation with AMR is established, or is not established anymore.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 TFO Status 9.3.57 M
TV 1
* * *
### 8.4.31 TFO MODIFICATION REQUEST
This message is sent by the BSC to the BTS to change the configuration of TFO
while operating with AMR.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 MultiRateControl
9.3.53 M TV 2 Supported Codec Type 9.3.54 O 1) TLV >=5 TFO transparent
container 9.3.59 O 4) TLV >=3
* * *
1) Optionally included if TFO is enabled within I.E. MultiRateControl
## 8.5 COMMON CHANNEL MANAGEMENT MESSAGES
These messages are related to Common Channel Management procedures. They all
have the following general format:
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 (Information elements
depending on message type)
* * *
The messages concerned are the following:
* * *
Message name Reference sub-clause BCCH INFOrmation 8.5.1 CCCH LOAD INDication
8.5.2 CHANnel ReQuireD 8.5.3 DELETE INDication 8.5.4 PAGING CoMmanD 8.5.5
NOTification CoMmanD 8.5.10 IMMEDIATE ASSIGN COMMAND 8.5.6 SMS BroadCast
REQuest 8.5.7 SMS Broadcast Command 8.5.8 CBCH LOAD INDICATION 8.5.9
* * *
### 8.5.1 BCCH INFORMATION
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to indicate new information to be
broadcast on BCCH.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 System Info Type
9.3.30 M TV 2 Full BCCH Info (SYS INFO) 9.3.39 O 1) TLV 25 Starting Time
9.3.23 O 2) TV 3
* * *
1) If the Full BCCH information element is not included this indicates that
transmission of the indicated SYSTEM INFORMATION message shall be stopped.
2) The Starting Time element is optionally used to indicate when transmission
of the new information is to start or when transmission is to stop.
The System Info Type element indicates the type of SYSTEM INFORMATION message
which follows in the Full BCCH Information element.
The Full BCCH Information element contains the relevant SYSTEM INFORMATION
message as defined in 3GPP TS 44.018.
### 8.5.2 CCCH LOAD INDICATION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to report the current load on the
indicated CCCH timeslot (random access, RACH, and paging, PCH).
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number (note) 9.3.1 M TV 2 RACH Load
9.3.18 C 1) TLV >=8 Paging Load 9.3.15 C 2) TV 3
* * *
NOTE: The BTS may set the \"Channel Number\" information element in this
message to either the \"uplink CCCH\" or the \"downlink CCCH\" on that
timeslot number.
1) The RACH load information element is included only if the Channel number
information indicates \"uplink CCCH\".
2) The Paging load information element is included only if the Channel number
information indicates \"downlink CCCH\".
### 8.5.3 CHANNEL REQUIRED
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate the reception of a CHANnel
REQuest message (special access burst message) from an MS.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Request Reference
9.3.19 M TV 4 Access Delay 9.3.17 M TV 2 Physical Context 9.3.16 O 1) TLV >=2
* * *
1) Optional element for additional physical channel information.
The Request Reference element contains the random access reference value sent
by MS in the CHANnel REQuest message and some low order bits of the absolute
frame number for the reception of the access burst.
### 8.5.4 DELETE INDICATION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate the deletion of an access
grant message (IMMediate ASSIGN) due to overload of downlink CCCH.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Full Imm. Assign Info
9.3.35 M TLV 25
* * *
### 8.5.5 PAGING COMMAND
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to request the paging of an MS.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Paging Group 9.3.14 M
TV 2 MS Identity 9.3.12 M TLV 2‑10 Channel Needed 9.3.40 O 1) TV 2 eMLPP
Priority 9.3.49 O 2) TV 2 DRX INfo 9.3.60 O TV 3
* * *
1) If the Channel Needed element is not present, the default value is assumed
to be 00 (any channel).
2) If the eMLPP Priority is not present then the BTS does not include the
eMLPP priority in the radio interface message.
The Paging Group element is used by BTS to calculate the correct DRX paging
block to be used for the transmission of the PAGing REQuest message as defined
in 3GPP TS 45.002.
When the eDRX Info element is included it is used instead of the Paging Group
element to calculate the DRX paging block to be used for the transmission of
the PAGing REQuest message over the radio interface (see 3GPP TS 45.002 [8]).
### 8.5.6 IMMEDIATE ASSIGN COMMAND
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to request the transmission of an
immediate assignment message.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Full Imm. Assign Info
9.3.35 M TLV 25
* * *
The Full Imm. Assign Info element contains the relevant immediate assignment
message as defined in 3GPP TS 44.018 (IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT or IMMEDIATE
ASSIGNMENT EXTENDED or IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT REJECT) with the \"Page Mode\"
element set to the value \"no change\".
### 8.5.7 SMS BROADCAST REQUEST
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to request the sending of a Short Message
Service Cell Broadcast message.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 SMSCB Information
9.3.36 M TV 24 SMSCB Channel Indicator 9.3.44 O 1) TV 2
* * *
The SMSCB Information element contains the complete information to be
broadcast on the CBCH as defined in 3GPP TS 44.012 (including the Layer 2
header to be used on the radio path).
1) The SMSCB Channel Indicator IE indicates the CBCH which shall be used for
broadcasting the data. If this information element is not present the basic
CBCH (see 3GPP TS 45.002) shall be used.
### 8.5.8 SMS BROADCAST COMMAND
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to command Short Message Service Cell
Broadcast.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 CB Command type
9.3.41 M TV 2 SMSCB message 9.3.42 M TLV 2‑90 SMSCB Channel Indicator 9.3.44 O
1) TV 2
* * *
The CB Command type IE contains the command to be performed, allowing the BSC
to:
\- request immediate broadcast i.e. transmission in the next CBCH opportunity;
\- set the BTS broadcast default mode.
The SMSCB message IE contains the actual message to be broadcast on the CBCH
i.e. a maximum of 88 octets of data. The BTS is responsible for performing the
segmentation, building the block types and padding if necessary, see 3GPP TS
44.012 for the message format on the radio path.
1) The SMSCB Channel Indicator IE indicates the CBCH which shall be used for
broadcasting the data.\ If this information element is not present the basic
CBCH [see 3GPP TS 45.002] shall be used.
### 8.5.9 CBCH LOAD INDICATION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate a CBCH underflow/overflow
situation in the BTS and to request the BSC to accelerate or pause the cell
broadcast for a period indicated by BTS.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 CBCH Load Information
9.3.43 M TV 2 SMSCB Channel Indicator 9.3.44 O 1) TV 2
* * *
The CBCH Load Information element indicates the load situation in CBCH
(underflow/overflow) and information about the requested
acceleration/suspension period of cell broadcast.
1) The SMSCB Channel Indicator IE indicates the CBCH which shall be used for
broadcasting the data. If this information element is not present the basic
CBCH [see 3GPP TS 45.002] shall be used.
### 8.5.10 NOTIFICATION COMMAND
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to request a change of notification for
voice group call.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Channel number 9.3.1 M TV 2 Command indicator
9.3.48 M 1) TLV 3‑4 Group call reference 9.3.45 O TLV 7 Channel Description
9.3.46 O TLV 3-n NCH DRX information 9.3.47 O TLV 3
* * *
1) This information element indicates the type of command that is to be
performed by the BTS with respect to information contained in the rest of the
message.
## 8.6 TRX MANAGEMENT MESSAGES
These messages are related to TRX Management procedures. They all have the
following general format (no channel number included):
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 (Information elements depending on message type)
* * *
The messages concerned are the following:
> **[Message name Reference sub-clause]{.underline}**
>
> RF RESource INDication 8.6.1
>
> SACCH FILLing 8.6.2
>
> OVERLOAD 8.6.3
>
> ERROR REPORT 8.6.4
### 8.6.1 RF RESOURCE INDICATION
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate the interference level on
idle channels of a TRX.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Resource Information 9.3.21 M TLV >=2
* * *
### 8.6.2 SACCH FILLING
This message is sent from BSC to BTS to indicate the new broadcast information
to be used as filling information on downlink SACCH.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 System Info Type 9.3.30 M TV 2 L3 Info (SYS INFO)
9.3.11 O 1) TLV 22 Starting Time 9.3.23 O 2) TV 3
* * *
1) If the L3 Info information element is not included this indicates that
transmission of the indicated SYSTEM INFORMATION message shall be stopped.
2) The Starting Time element is optionally used to indicate when transmission
of the new information is to start and when transmission is to stop.
The System Info Type element indicates the type of SYSTEM INFORMATION message
which follows in the L3 Info field.
The L3 Information element contains the relevant SYSTEM INFORMATION message as
defined in 3GPP TS 44.018.
### 8.6.3 OVERLOAD
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to indicate an overload situation.
Possible cause values include:
\- CCCH overload;
\- ACCH overload;
\- processor overload.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Cause 9.3.26 M TLV >=3
* * *
### 8.6.4 ERROR REPORT
This message is sent from BTS to BSC to report a detected error which cannot
be reported in any other message.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 Cause 9.3.26 M TLV >=3 Message Identifier 9.3.28
O 1) TV 2 Channel Number 9.3.1 O 2) TV 2 Link identifier 9.3.2 O 3) TV 2
Erroneous Message 9.3.38 O 4) TLV >=3
* * *
1) Used to indicate which type of message was considered erroneous.
2) Used to indicate for which radio channel the error is reported.
3) Used to indicate for which radio L2 link the error is reported.
4) This element may be used to carry the complete erroneous message as it was
received from the BSC.
## 8.7 LOCATION SERVICES MESSAGES
These messages are related to Location Services (LCS).
### 8.7.1 LOCATION INFORMATION
This message is sent by the BSC, the BTS or Sandalone Type B LMU via Abis
interface to convey an embedded LCS LLP message.
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message discriminator 9.1
M V 1 Message type 9.2 M V 1 LLP APDU 9.3.58 M LV 2-N
* * *
# 9 Information element codings
This sub-clause contains the codings of the signalling elements used. The
following conventions are assumed for the sequence of transmission of bits and
bytes:
* * *
\- Each bit position is numbered as 1 to 8. 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
* * *
\- The least significant bit is bit 1 and is transmitted first, followed by
bits 2, 3, 4 etc.
\- In an element, octets are identified by number. Octet 1 is transmitted
first, then octet 2 etc.
\- When a field extends over more than one octet, the order of bit values
progressively decreases as the octet number increases. The least significant
bit of the field is represented by the lowest numbered bit of the highest
numbered octet of the field.
\- For variable length elements, a length indicator is included. This
indicates the number of octets following in the element.
\- All spare or reserved bits are set to 0.
## 9.1 Message discriminator
A 1 octet field is used in all messages to discriminate between Transparent
and Non-Transparent messages and also between Radio Link Layer Management,
Dedicated Channel Management, Common Channel Management, TRX Management and
Location Services messages.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 G7 G6 G5 G4 G3 G2 G1 T
* * *
The T-bit is set to 1 to indicate that the message is to be/was considered
transparent by BTS. All other messages shall have the T-bit set to 0.
The G-bits are used to group the messages as follows:
* * *
G7 G6 G5 G4 G3 G2 G1 Message Group 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 reserved 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Radio
Link Layer Management messages 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 Dedicated Channel Management
messages 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 Common Channel Management messages 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 TRX
Management messages 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 Location Services messages
* * *
All other values are reserved for future use.
## 9.2 MESSAGE TYPE
The Message Type uniquely identifies the function of the message being sent.
It is a single octet and coded in the following way:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
EM Message type
* * *
Bit 8 is the extension bit and is reserved for future use. The following
message types are used (all other values are reserved):
> **8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Message Reference**
>
> **0 0 0 0 - - - - Radio Link Layer Management messages:**
>
> 0 0 0 1 - DATA REQuest 8.3.1
>
> 0 0 1 0 - DATA INDication 8.3.2
>
> 0 0 1 1 - ERROR INDication 8.3.3
>
> 0 1 0 0 - ESTablish REQuest 8.3.4
>
> 0 1 0 1 - ESTablish CONFirm 8.3.5
>
> 0 1 1 0 - ESTablish INDication 8.3.6
>
> 0 1 1 1 - RELease REQuest 8.3.7
>
> 1 0 0 0 - RELease CONFirm 8.3.8
>
> 1 0 0 1 - RELease INDication 8.3.9
>
> 1 0 1 0 - UNIT DATA REQuest 8.3.10
>
> 1 0 1 1 - UNIT DATA INDication 8.3.11
>
> **0 0 0 1 - - - - Common Channel Management/TRX Management messages:**
>
> 0 0 0 1 - BCCH INFOrmation 8.5.1
>
> 0 0 1 0 - CCCH LOAD INDication 8.5.2
>
> 0 0 1 1 - CHANnel ReQuireD 8.5.3
>
> 0 1 0 0 - DELETE INDication 8.5.4
>
> 0 1 0 1 - PAGING CoMmanD 8.5.5
>
> 0 1 1 0 - IMMEDIATE ASSIGN COMMAND 8.5.6
>
> 0 1 1 1 - SMS BroadCast REQuest 8.5.7
>
> 1 0 0 1 - RF RESource INDication 8.6.1
>
> 1 0 1 0 - SACCH FILLing 8.6.2
>
> 1 0 1 1 - OVERLOAD 8.6.3
>
> 1 1 0 0 - ERROR REPORT 8.6.4
>
> 1 1 0 1 - SMS BroadCast CoMmanD 8.5.8
>
> 1 1 1 0 - CBCH LOAD INDication 8.5.9
>
> 1 1 1 1 - NOTification CoMmanD 8.5.10
>
> **0 0 1 - - - - - Dedicated Channel Management messages:**
>
> 0 0 0 0 1 - CHANnel ACTIVation 8.4.1
>
> 0 0 0 1 0 - CHANnel ACTIVation ACKnowledge 8.4.2
>
> 0 0 0 1 1 - CHANnel ACTIVation Negative ACK 8.4.3
>
> 0 0 1 0 0 - CONNection FAILure 8.4.4
>
> 0 0 1 0 1 - DEACTIVATE SACCH 8.4.5
>
> 0 0 1 1 0 - ENCRyption CoMmanD 8.4.6
>
> 0 0 1 1 1 - HANDOver DETection 8.4.7
>
> 0 1 0 0 0 - MEASurement RESult 8.4.8
>
> 0 1 0 0 1 - MODE MODIFY REQuest 8.4.9
>
> 0 1 0 1 0 - MODE MODIFY ACKnowledge 8.4.10
>
> 0 1 0 1 1 - MODE MODIFY Negative ACKnowledge 8.4.11
>
> 0 1 1 0 0 - PHYsical CONTEXT REQuest 8.4.12
>
> 0 1 1 0 1 - PHYsical CONTEXT CONFirm 8.4.13
>
> 0 1 1 1 0 - RF CHANnel RELease 8.4.14
>
> 0 1 1 1 1 - MS POWER CONTROL 8.4.15
>
> 1 0 0 0 0 - BS POWER CONTROL 8.4.16
>
> 1 0 0 0 1 - PREPROCess CONFIGure 8.4.17
>
> 1 0 0 1 0 - PREPROCessed MEASurement RESult 8.4.18
>
> 1 0 0 1 1 - RF CHANnel RELease ACKnowledge 8.4.19
>
> 1 0 1 0 0 - SACCH INFO MODIFY 8.4.20
>
> 1 0 1 0 1 - TALKER DETection 8.4.21
>
> 1 0 1 1 0 - LISTENER DETection 8.4.22
>
> 1 0 1 1 1 - REMOTE CODEC CONFiguration REPort 8.4.23
>
> 1 1 0 0 0 - Round Trip Delay REPort 8.4.24
>
> 1 1 0 0 1 - PRE-HANDOver NOTIFication 8.4.25
>
> 1 1 0 1 0 - MultiRate CODEC MODification REQest 8.4.26
>
> 1 1 0 1 1 - MultiRate CODEC MOD ACKnowledge 8.4.27
>
> 1 1 1 0 0 - MultiRate CODEC MOD Negative ACKnowledge 8.4.28
>
> 1 1 1 0 1 - MultiRate CODEC MOD PERformed 8.4.29
>
> 1 1 1 1 0 - TFO REPort 8.4.30
>
> 1 1 1 1 1 - TFO MODification REQuest 8.4.31
>
> **0 1 - - - - - - Location Services messages:**
>
> 0 0 0 0 0 1 - Location Information 8.7.1
## 9.3 Other information elements
The information elements used and the coding of their Element Identifier
fields are:
**Element**
**Identifier bits**
> **8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Element name Reference**
>
> 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Channel Number 9.3.1
>
> 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Link Identifier 9.3.2
>
> 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Activation Type 9.3.3
>
> 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 BS Power 9.3.4
>
> 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 Channel Identification 9.3.5
>
> 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 Channel Mode 9.3.6
>
> 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 Encryption Information 9.3.7
>
> 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 Frame Number 9.3.8
>
> 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 Handover Reference 9.3.9
>
> 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 L1 Information 9.3.10
>
> 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 L3 Information 9.3.11
>
> 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 MS Identity 9.3.12
>
> 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 MS Power 9.3.13
>
> 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 Paging Group 9.3.14
>
> 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 Paging Load 9.3.15
>
> 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 Physical Context 9.3.16
>
> 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 Access Delay 9.3.17
>
> 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 RACH Load 9.3.18
>
> 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 Request Reference 9.3.19
>
> 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 Release Mode 9.3.20
>
> 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 Resource Information 9.3.21
>
> 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 RLM Cause 9.3.22
>
> 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 Starting Time 9.3.23
>
> 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 Timing Advance 9.3.24
>
> 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 Uplink Measurements 9.3.25
>
> 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 Cause 9.3.26
>
> 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 Measurement result number 9.3.27
>
> 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 Message Identifier 9.3.28
>
> 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 reserved
>
> 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 System Info Type 9.3.30
>
> 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 MS Power Parameters 9.3.31
>
> 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 BS Power Parameters 9.3.32
>
> 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 Pre-processing Parameters 9.3.33
>
> 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 Pre-processed Measurements 9.3.34
>
> 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 reserved
>
> 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 SMSCB Information 9.3.36
>
> 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 MS Timing Offset 9.3.37
>
> 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 Erroneous Message 9.3.38
>
> 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 Full BCCH Information 9.3.39
>
> 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 Channel Needed 9.3.40
>
> 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 CB Command type 9.3.41
>
> 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 SMSCB message 9.3.42
>
> 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 Full Immediate Assign Info 9.3.35
>
> 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 SACCH Information 9.3.29
>
> 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 CBCH Load Information 9.3.43
**Element**
**Identifier bits**
> **8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Element name Reference**
>
> 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 SMSCB Channel Indicator 9.3.44
>
> 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 Group call reference 9.3.45
>
> 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 Channel description 9.3.46
>
> 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 NCH DRX information 9.3.47
>
> 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 Command indicator 9.3.48
>
> 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 eMLPP Priority 9.3.49
>
> 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 UIC 9.3.50
>
> 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 Main channel reference 9.3.51
>
> 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 MultiRate configuration 9.3.52
>
> 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 MultiRate Control 9.3.53
>
> 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 Supported Codec Types 9.3.54
>
> 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 Codec Configuration 9.3.55
>
> 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 Round Trip Delay 9.3.56
>
> 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 TFO Status 9.3.57
>
> 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 LLP APDU 9.3.58
>
> 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 TFO transparent container 9.3.59
>
> 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 Paging Group Extension 9.3.60
>
> 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1
>
> to Reserved for future use
>
> 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 1
>
> 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0
>
> to Not used
>
> 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
### 9.3.1 Channel Number
In the direction BSC to BTS the Channel Number parameter is used to indicate
on which physical channel/subchannel the message is to be sent. In the
direction BTS to BSC the Channel Number indicates on which physical
channel/subchannel the message was received. It is coded in two octets as
follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
C5 C4 C3 C2 C1 TN 2
* * *
The C-bits describe the channel as follows:
* * *
C5 C4 C3 C2 C1  
0 0 0 0 1 Bm + ACCH\'s 0 0 0 1 T Lm + ACCH\'s 0 0 1 T T SDCCH/4 + ACCH 0 1 T T
T SDCCH/8 + ACCH 1 0 0 0 0 BCCH 1 0 0 0 1 Uplink CCCH (RACH) 1 0 0 1 0
Downlink CCCH (PCH + AGCH)
* * *
The T-bits indicate, coded in binary, the sub-channel number as specified in
3GPP TS 45.002.
TN is time slot number, binary represented as in 3GPP TS 45.002.
### 9.3.2 Link Identifier
This element identifies the signalling channel and SAPI of the radio data
link.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
C2 C1 NA priority SAPI 2
* * *
The NA bit (bit 6 in octet 2) is set to 1 to indicate thet the Link Identifier
is not applicable for this message. In all other cases it is set to 0.
The C-bits indicate the channel type as follows:
* * *
C2 C1  
0 0 main signalling channel (FACCH or SDCCH) 0 1 SACCH
* * *
All other values are reserved for future use.
The SAPI field contains the SAPI value as defined in 3GPP TS 44.005.
The priority field contains the message priority for SAPI 0, as defined in
3GPP TS 44.006, as follows:
0 0 normal priority
0 1 high priority
1 0 low priority
All other values for SAPI 0 and all values for other SAPIs are reserved for
future use.
### 9.3.3 Activation Type
This element is used to indicate the type of activation requested in the
CHANnel ACTIVation message. It is coded in two octets as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
R Reserved A3 A2 A1 2
* * *
The R bit indicates if the procedure is an initial activation or a
reactivation.
* * *
R  
0 Initial activation 1 Reactivation
* * *
The A-bits indicate the type of activation, which defines the access procedure
and the operation of the data link layer, as follows:
[A3 A2 A1]{.underline}
0 0 - Activation related to intra-cell channel change
0 - related to immediate assignment procedure
1 - related to normal assignment procedure
0 1 - Activation related to inter-cell channel change (handover)
0 - related to asynchronous handover procedure
1 - related to synchronous handover procedure
1 0 - Activation related to secondary channels
0 - related to additional assignment procedure
1 - related to multislot configuration
All other values reserved for future use.
NOTE: For the main TCH channel in a Multislot configuration activation types
for intra-cell and inter-cell channel change are used.
### 9.3.4 BS Power
This information element indicates the TRX transmission power level and the
use of fast power control and enhanced power control on a particular channel.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Reserved EPC mode FPC_EPC Power Level 2
* * *
The EPC mode field (octet 2) indicates whether the activated channel shall be
in enhanced power control (EPC) mode. It is only valid for channels on which
EPC may be used. It is coded as follows:
Value
0 Channel not in EPC mode
1 Channel in EPC mode
NOTE: The EPC mode field is only valid in the CHANNEL ACTIVATION message.
The FPC_EPC (Fast Power Control/Enhanced Power Control) field (octet 2) has
different interpretation depending on the channel mode of the channel and
whether the channel is in EPC mode.
If the channel mode is such that FPC may be used, the FPC_EPC field indicates
whether Fast Measurement Reporting and Power Control mechanism is used. It is
coded as follows:
Value
0 Fast Power Control not in use
1 Fast Power Control in use
If the channel is in EPC mode, the FPC_EPC field indicates whether EPC
procedures are used for BS (downlink) power control. It is coded as follows:
Value
0 EPC not in use for BS power control
1 EPC in use for BS power control
If the channel mode is such that FPC may not be used and the channel is not in
EPC mode, the BTS shall ignore the value of the FPC_EPC field and the BSC
shall set its value to 0.
The Power Level field (octet 2) indicates the number of 2 dB steps by which
the power shall be reduced from its nominal value, Pn, set by the network
operator to adjust the coverage. Thus the Power Level values correspond to the
following powers (relative to Pn):
* * *
Value Power level 0 0 0 0 0 Pn 0 0 0 0 1 Pn - 2 dB 0 0 0 1 0 Pn - 4 dB .  
.  
0 1 1 1 0 Pn - 28 dB 0 1 1 1 1 Pn - 30 dB All other values are reserved for
future use.
* * *
See also 3GPP TS 45.005 and 3GPP TS 45.008.
### 9.3.5 Channel Identification
This information element describes some aspects of a channel together with its
SACCH.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
3GPP TS 44.018 \"Channel Description\" *  
3GPP TS 44.018 \"Mobile Allocation\" *
* * *
A * denotes that the whole of the 3GPP TS 44.018 element including the element
identifier and length should be included. The 3GPP TS 24.008 \"Mobile
Allocation\" shall for compatibility reasons be included but empty, i.e. the
length shall be zero.
### 9.3.6 Channel Mode
This element gives information on the mode of coding/decoding and
transcoding/rate adaption of a channel.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Reserved for future use DTXd DTXu 3  
Speech or data indicator 4  
Channel rate and type 5  
Speech coding algor./data rate + transp ind 6
* * *
The DTX bits of octet 3 indicate whether DTX is applied:
1 DTX is applied
0 DTX is not applied.
DTXd indicates use of DTX in the downlink direction (BTS to MS) and DTXu
indicates use of DTX in the uplink direction (MS to BTS).
The \"Speech or data indicator\" field (octet 4) is coded as follows:
0000 0001 Speech
0000 0010 Data
0000 0011 Signalling
All other values are reserved.
The \"Channel rate and type\" field (octet 5) is coded as follows:
* * *
0000 0001 SDCCH 0000 1000 Full rate TCH channel Bm 0000 1001 Half rate TCH
channel Lm 0000 1010 Full rate TCH channel bi-directional Bm, Multislot
configuration 0001 1010 Full rate TCH channel uni-directional downlink Bm,
Multislot configuration 0001 1000 Full rate TCH channel Bm Group call channel
0001 1001 Half rate TCH channel Lm Group call channel 0010 1000 Full rate TCH
channel Bm Broadcast call channel 0010 1001 Half rate TCH channel Lm Broadcast
call channel All other values are reserved.
* * *
The \"speech coding algorithm/data rate + transparency indicator\" field
(octet 6) is coded as follows:
If octet 4 indicates speech, then octet 6 is coded as follows:
* * *
0000 0001 GSM speech coding algorithm version 1 0001 0001 GSM speech coding
algorithm version 2 0010 0001 GSM speech coding algorithm version 3 0011 0001
GSM speech coding algorithm version 4 0000 1001 GSM speech coding algorithm
version 5 0000 1101 GSM speech coding algorithm version 6 All other values are
reserved.
* * *
If octet 4 indicates signalling then octet 6 is coded as follows:
0000 0000 No resources required
All other values are reserved.
NOTE: the GSM speech coding algorithm versions are also referred as follows
(see 3GPP TS 26.103 [18]):
\- GSM speech coding algorithm version 1: GSM FR or GSM HR
\- GSM speech coding algorithm version 2: GSM EFR (half rate not defined in
this version of the protocol)
\- GSM speech coding algorithm version 3: FR AMR or HR AMR
\- GSM speech coding algorithm version 4: OFR AMR-WB or OHR AMR-WB
\- GSM speech coding algorithm version 5: FR AMR-WB
\- GSM speech coding algorithm version 6: OHR AMR
If octet 4 indicates data, then octet 6 is coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
ext T/NT Rate octet 6
* * *
Bit 8: Reserved for extension
Bit 7: 0 Transparent service
1 Non-transparent service.
For the non-transparent service, bits 6 to 1 indicate the radio interface data
rate:
[65 4321]{.underline}
10 0001 asymmetric 43.5 kbit/s (downlink) + 14.5 kbit/s (uplink)
10 0010 asymmetric 29.0 kbit/s (downlink) + 14.5 kbit/s (uplink)
10 0011 asymmetric 43.5 kbit/s (downlink) + 29.0 kbit/s (uplink)
10 1001 asymmetric 14.5 kbit/s (downlink) + 43.5 kbit/s (uplink)
10 1010 asymmetric 14.5 kbit/s (downlink) + 29.0 kbit/s (uplink)
10 1011 asymmetric 29.0 kbit/s (downlink) + 43.5 kbit/s (uplink)
11 0100 43.5 kbit/s
11 0001 28.8 kbit/s
01 1000 14.5 kbit/s
01 0000 12 kbit/s
01 0001 6 kbit/s
all other values are reserved.
For the transparent service, bits 6‑1 indicate the data rate:
[65 4321]{.underline}
11 1000 32 kbit/s
11 1001 29 kbit/s
01 1000 14.4 kbit/s
01 0000 9.6 kbit/s
01 0001 4.8 kbit/s
01 0010 2.4 kbit/s
01 0011 1.2 kbit/s
01 0100 600 bit/s
01 0101 1 200/75 bit/s (1 200 network-to-MS, 75 MS-to-network)
All other values are reserved.
### 9.3.7 Encryption information
This element is a variable length element. It contains necessary information
to control encryption devices.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Algorithm identifier 3  
Key 4
                         n
* * *
The Algorithm Identifier field (octet 3) indicates the relevant ciphering
algorithm. It is coded as:
* * *
0000 0000 Reserved 0000 0001 No encryption shall be used. 0000 0010 GSM
encryption algorithm version 1 (A5/1) 0000 0011 GSM A5/2 0000 0100 GSM A5/3
0000 0101 GSM A5/4 0000 0110 GSM A5/5 0000 0111 GSM A5/6 0000 1000 GSM A5/7
All other values are reserved
* * *
The Key field (octets 4-n) indicates the ciphering key. It shall be an
integral number of octets and the length is given as the value of the Length
field minus 1.
### 9.3.8 Frame Number
This element contains the absolute frame number (FN) modulo 42432. It is used
to carry the current timing in BTS to BSC for calculation of the Starting Time
parameter required in some messages.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
T1\' T3 (high) 2  
T3 (low) T2 3
* * *
Octets 2‑3 are coded as defined for octets 2‑3 of the Starting Time
information element of 3GPP TS 44.018.
### 9.3.9 Handover reference
The information is coded in two octets and contains the hand-over reference
value.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Hand─over reference 2
* * *
The Handover Reference octet contains the handover reference value as defined
in 3GPP TS 44.018.
### 9.3.10 L1 Information
This element carries the information used in the L1 header of SACCH blocks.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Actual MS power level FPC SRR Reserved 2  
Actual Timing Advance 3
* * *
Octets 2‑3 contain the L1 header information of SACCH blocks. The information
fields and codings are as defined in 3GPP TS 44.004.
### 9.3.11 L3 Information (message name)
This element contains a link layer service data unit (L3 message). It is used
to forward a complete L3 message as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 or 3GPP TS
44.018 between BTS and BSC.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Indicator 3  
Link Layer Service Data Unit 4  
(i.e. a layer 3 message  
as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 or 3GPP TS 44.018) n
* * *
The Length Indicator field (octets 2‑3) indicates in binary the remaining
length of the element (octets 4-n). The most significant bit is bit 8 of octet
2 and the least significant bit is bit 1 of octet 3.
Octets 4-n contain the complete L3 message as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 or in
3GPP TS 44.018. In the message format sub-clause, the 3GPP TS 24.008 or 3GPP
TS 44.018 message name to be included is indicated within brackets.
### 9.3.12 MS Identity
This element carries the identity of an MS (TMSI or IMSI). It is a variable
length element.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
3  
MS Identity  
N
* * *
The MS Identity field (octets 3-N) is coded as specified for the Mobile
Identity information element of 3GPP TS 24.008, octets 3-N.
### 9.3.13 MS Power
This element carries the power level of MS and indicates the use of fast power
control and enhanced power control.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Reserved FPC_EPC Power Level 2
* * *
The FPC_EPC (Fast Power Control/Enhanced Power Control) field (octet 2) has
different interpretation depending on the channel mode of the channel and
whether the channel is in EPC mode.
If the channel mode is such that FPC may be used, the FPC_EPC field indicates
whether Fast Measurement Reporting and Power Control mechanism is used. It is
coded as follows:
Value
0 Fast Power Control not in use
1 Fast Power Control in use
If the channel is in EPC mode, the FPC_EPC field indicates whether EPC
procedures are used for MS (uplink) power control. It is coded as follows:
Value
0 EPC not in use for MS power control
1 EPC in use for MS power control
If the channel mode is such that FPC may not be used and the channel is not in
EPC mode, the BTS shall ignore the value of the FPC_EPC field and the BSC
shall set its value to 0.
The coding and meaning of the Power Level field is as defined in 3GPP TS
45.005 and 3GPP TS 45.008. See also 3GPP TS 44.004.
### 9.3.14 Paging Group
This element carries the paging population of an MS to be paged.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Paging Group 2
* * *
The Paging Group field (octet 2) contains the binary representation of the
paging group as defined in 3GPP TS 45.002.
### 9.3.15 Paging Load
This element carries data about the load of a paging channel (PCH).
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
2  
Paging Buffer Space 3
* * *
The Paging Buffer Space field (octets 2‑3) indicates the remaining space for
Paging Commands associated with this CCCH timeslot, given as the number of
additional Paging Commands that it is possible to store. The number is binary
coded with the most significant bit in bit 8 of octet 2 and the least
significant bit in bit 1 of octet 3.
### 9.3.16 Physical Context
This element contains supplementary information on the transmission/reception
process. It is a variable length element.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Physical 3  
Context  
Information N
* * *
The Physical Context Information field is not specified. This information
should not be analysed by BSC, but merely forwarded from one TRX/channel to
another.
### 9.3.17 Access Delay
This element contains the delay of the access burst as measured by BTS at
random access or at handover access.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Access Delay 2
* * *
The Access Delay field contains the delay of the access burst as measured by
BTS. The delay is expressed as defined for the Timing Advance TA in 3GPP TS
45.010 but with the range extended to 8 bits, i.e. the six least significant
bits of the field correspond to the Timing Advance except for GSM 400 where
all the 8 bits are used.
### 9.3.18 RACH Load
This element is used to carry information on the load of the RACH (Random
Access Channel) associated with this CCCH timeslot. It is of variable length.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
3  
RACH Slot Count 4  
5  
RACH Busy Count 6  
7  
RACH Access Count 8  
9  
Supplementary  
Information N
* * *
The RACH Slot Count field (octets 3‑4) indicates the total number of available
access slots over which the measurement (counting) was performed. The value is
binary coded with the most significant bit in bit 8 of the first octet and the
least significant bit in bit 1 of the second octet.
The RACH Busy Count field (octets 5‑6) indicates the number of RACH burst
periods during which the received signal level has exceeded a given threshold.
This will give a measure of the number of \"busy\" random access slots. The
value is binary coded with the most significant bit in bit 8 of the first
octet and the least significant bit in bit 1 of the second octet.
The RACH Access Count field (octets 7‑8) indicates the number of received
access bursts during the same measurement period. The value is binary coded
with the most significant bit in bit 8 of the first octet and the least
significant bit in bit 1 of the second octet.
The busy count signal level threshold and the measurement period are
parameters set by O&M.
The Supplementary Information field may carry additional operator dependent
information.
### 9.3.19 Request Reference
This element carries the Request Reference parameters used for contention
resolution on RACH.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
RA 2  
T1\' T3 (high) 3  
T3 (low) T2 4
* * *
Octets 2‑4 are coded as the corresponding fields of the Request Reference
element of 3GPP TS 44.018. (Octet 2, RA, is the Random Access Information
field set by MS in the CHANnel REQuest message. Octets 3‑4 contain the
absolute frame number modulo 42432 for the frame number when the access burst
was received, see Starting Time information element of 3GPP TS 44.018).
### 9.3.20 Release Mode
This element is used to distinguish between normal release and local end
release of the radio data link connection.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Reserved for future use M 2
* * *
The M bit is coded as follows:
0 normal release
1 local end release
### 9.3.21 Resource Information
This element is used to indicate the interference level for each of the idle
channels of a TRX.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Channel Number (1) 3  
Interference level (1) 4
Channel Number (N) N-1  
Interference level (N) N
* * *
The Length field indicates in binary the remaining length of the element
(octets 3-N).
Octets 3-N forms a list of Channel Numbers and Interference levels measured on
the corresponding channel.
The Channel Number octet is coded as octet 2 of the Channel Number information
element, sub-clause 9.3.1.
The Interference Level octet is coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Interf Band Reserved for future use
* * *
The Interf Band field (bits 6‑8) indicates in binary the interference level
expressed as one of five possible interference level bands as defined by O&M.
The interference level is averaged over a period of Intave (parameter set by
O&M, see 3GPP TS 45.008) immediately before the transmission of the RF
RESource INDication message. See also 3GPP TS 48.008 and 3GPP TS 45.008.
### 9.3.22 RLM Cause
This element is used to indicate the precise protocol error or the reason for
a release on the radio link layer.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
E Cause Value 3
* * *
The Cause Value is a one octet field if the extension bit is set to 0. If the
extension bit is set to 1, the Cause Value is a two octet field.
The Cause Value field is coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 reserved 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 timer T200 expired (N200+1) times 0 0
0 0 0 0 1 0 re-establishment request 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 unsolicited UA response 0
0 0 0 0 1 0 0 unsolicited DM response 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 unsolicated DM response,
multiple frame established state 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 unsolicited supervisory
response 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 sequence error 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 U-frame with incorrect
parameters 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 S-frame with incorrect parameters 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0
I-frame with incorrect use of M bit 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 I-frame with incorrect
length 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 frame not implemented 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 SABM command,
multiple frame established state 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 SABM frame with information
not allowed in this state All other values are reserved for future use.
* * *
### 9.3.23 Starting Time
This element provides the starting time expressed as FN modulo 42432 (FN is
absolute frame number).
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
T1\' T3 (high) 2  
T3 (low) T2 3
* * *
Octets 2‑3 are coded as defined for octets 2‑3 of the Starting Time
information element of 3GPP TS 44.018.
### 9.3.24 Timing Advance
This element contains the timing advance to be used by MS in subsequent
communications. It is calculated by BTS at the reception of a CHANnel REQuest
message (random access burst) or a handover access burst.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Timing Advance 2
* * *
The Timing Advance field contains the timing advance TA as specified in 3GPP
TS 45.010.
Bits 7‑8 of octet 2 are used in GSM 400 for support of extended cell range.
For all other bands bit 7-8 are spare according to 3GPP TS 44.018.
### 9.3.25 Uplink Measurements
This element is used to report the results of the TRX measurements on the
uplink radio path of an activated basic radio channel. It is of variable
length.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
rfu DTXd RXLEV─FULL─up 3  
Reserved RXLEV─SUB─up 4  
Reserved RXQUAL─FULL─up RXQUAL─SUB─up 5  
Supplementary 6  
Measurement  
Information N
* * *
rfu = Reserved for Future Use.
The Length field indicates in binary the remaining length of the element
(octets 3-N).
Octets 3‑5 contain results from measurements made by TRX on the uplink.
The Supplementary Measurement Information field (octets 6-N) may carry
additional operator dependent information.
The DTXd field (octet 3) indicates whether DTX was employed by TRX on the
downlink transmission during the measurement period.
The RXLEV-FULL-up and RXLEV-SUB-up fields (octets 3‑4) report the average
uplink signal level as measured by TRX over the measurement period on all
slots and on a subset of the slots respectively (see 3GPP TS 45.008). Each
field is coded as defined in 3GPP TS 45.008.
The RXQUAL-FULL-up and RXQUAL-SUB-up fields (octet 5) report the average
uplink quality as measured by TRX over the measurement period on all slots and
on a subset of the slots respectively (see 3GPP TS 45.008). Each field is
coded as defined in 3GPP TS 45.008.
### 9.3.26 Cause
The cause element is used to indicate the reason for a particular event to
have occurred and is coded as shown below.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
E Cause Value 3  
Cause Extension 3a  
4  
Diagnostic(s) if any  
N
* * *
The Length field indicates in binary the remaining length of the element
(octets 3-N).
The Cause Value is a single octet field (octet 3) if the extension bit E (bit
8) is set to 0. If it is set to 1 then the cause value is a 2 octet field
(octets 3 and 3a).
The Cause Value is divided into two fields: a class (bits 5 to 7 of octet 3)
and a value within the class (bits 1 to 4 of octet 3).
If the value of the first octet of the cause field is 1XXX 0000 then the
second octet is reserved for national applications (XXX will still indicate
the class).
Diagnostic information is not available for every cause, see the table below.
When available, it is coded in the same way as the corresponding information
element in clause 9. Inclusion of diagnostics is optional.
**Classes:**
Class (000): Normal event
Class (001): Normal event
Class (010): Resource unavailable
Class (011): Service or option not available
Class (100): Service or option not implemented
Class (101): Invalid message (e.g. parameter out of range)
Class (110): Protocol error
Class (111): Interworking
**CAUSE VALUES:**
* * *
Class Value Cause Diagnostics **0 0 0** **\- - - -** **Normal Event**  
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 radio interface failure Channel Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 radio link
failure Channel Number 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 handover access failure Channel Number 0
0 0 0 0 1 1 talker access failure Channel Number 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 reserved for
international use  
0 0 0 0 1 0 1 reserved for international use  
0 0 0 0 1 1 0 reserved for international use  
0 0 0 0 1 1 1 O&M intervention  
0 0 0 1 0 0 0 reserved for international use  
0 0 0 1 : : :  
0 0 0 1 1 1 0  
0 0 0 1 1 1 1 normal event, unspecified  
**0 0 1** **\- - - -** **Normal Event**  
0 0 1 0 0 0 0 reserved for international use  
0 0 1 0 : : :  
0 0 1 0 1 1 1  
0 0 1 1 0 0 0 reserved for national use  
0 0 1 1 : : :  
0 0 1 1 1 1 1  
**0 1 0** **\- - - -** **Resource unavailable**  
0 1 0 0 0 0 0 equipment failure  
0 1 0 0 0 0 1 radio resource not available Channel Number 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
terrestrial channel failure Channel Number 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 CCCH overload Channel
Number 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 ACCH overload Channel Number 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 processor
overload  
0 1 0 0 1 1 0 reserved for international use  
0 1 0 0 1 1 1 BTS not equipped  
0 1 0 1 0 0 0 remote transcoder failure Channel Number 0 1 0 1 0 0 1
notification overflow Channel Number 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 reserved for international
use  
0 1 0 1 0 1 1 reserved for international use  
0 1 0 1 1 0 0 reserved for national use  
0 1 0 1 1 0 1 reserved for national use  
0 1 0 1 1 1 0 reserved for national use  
0 1 0 1 1 1 1 resource not available, unspecified  
**0 1 1** **\- - - -** **Service or Option Not Available**  
0 1 1 0 0 0 0 requested transcoding/rate adaption not available Channel Number
0 1 1 0 0 0 1 reserved for international use  
0 1 1 : : : :  
0 1 1 1 1 1 0  
0 1 1 1 1 1 1 service or option not available, unspecified  
**1 0 0** **\- - - -** **Service or Option Not Implemented**  
1 0 0 0 0 0 0 encryption algorithm not implemented Channel Number 1 0 0 0 0 0
1 reserved for international use  
1 0 0 0 : : :  
1 0 0 0 1 1 1  
1 0 0 1 0 0 0 reserved for national use  
1 0 0 1 : : :  
1 0 0 1 1 1 0  
1 0 0 1 1 1 1 service or option not implemented, unspecified  
**1 0 1** **\- - - -** **Invalid Message**  
1 0 1 0 0 0 0 radio channel already activated/allocated Channel Number 1 0 1 0
0 0 1 reserved for international use  
1 0 1 0 : : :  
1 0 1 0 1 1 1  
1 0 1 1 0 0 0 reserved for national use  
1 0 1 1 : : :  
1 0 1 1 1 1 0  
1 0 1 1 1 1 1 invalid message, unspecified  
**1 1 0** **\- - - -** **Protocol Error**  
1 1 0 0 0 0 0 message discriminator error Message Discrim 1 1 0 0 0 0 1
message type error Message Type 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 message sequence error Message
Type 1 1 0 0 0 1 1 general information element error  
1 1 0 0 1 0 0 mandatory information element error Element Identif 1 1 0 0 1 0
1 optional information element error Element Identif 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 information
element non-existent Element Identif 1 1 0 0 1 1 1 information element length
error Element Identif 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 invalid information element contents
Inform. Element 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 reserved for international use  
1 1 0 1 0 1 0 reserved for international use  
1 1 0 1 0 1 1 reserved for international use  
1 1 0 1 1 0 0 reserved for national use  
1 1 0 1 1 0 1 reserved for national use  
1 1 0 1 1 1 0 reserved for national use  
1 1 0 1 1 1 1 protocol error, unspecified  
**1 1 1** **\- - - -** **Interworking**  
1 1 1 0 0 0 0 reserved for international use  
1 1 1 0 : : :  
1 1 1 0 1 1 1  
1 1 1 1 0 0 0 reserved for national use  
1 1 1 1 : : :  
1 1 1 1 1 1 0  
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 interworking, unspecified
* * *
### 9.3.27 Measurement result number
This element is used by BTS to number, (on a channel), the measurement result
messages sent to BSC. It is set to 0 at activation time of the channel. The
numbering is modulo 256.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Measurement result number 2
* * *
### 9.3.28 Message Identifier
This element is used to indicate a message type within a message.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Message Type 2
* * *
Octet 2 is coded as the Message Type information element, sub-clause 9.2.
### 9.3.29 SACCH Information
This element is used to carry the SACCH filling information (System
Information messages, EXTENDED MEASUREMENT ORDER message or MEASUREMENT
INFORMATION message) that is to be used on a specific channel. The MEASUREMENT
INFORMATION message is periodically sent on SACCH.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Number of messages 3  
Type of 1st message 4  
Length of 1st message 5  
1st message j  
Type of n\'th message l  
Length of n\'th message l+1  
N  
n\'th message
* * *
The Length field (octet 2) indicates in binary the total remaining length of
the element (octets 3 - N).
The Number of SI messages field (octet 3) indicates in binary the number of
messages contained in the element.
The coding of each of these messages consists of a type field (Type of n'th
msg), a length field (Length of n'th message) and a message field (n'th
message).
The \"Type of n'th msg\" field indicates the type of SYSTEM INFORMATION, or an
EXTENDED MEASUREMENT ORDER message or a MEASUREMENT INFORMATION message that
follows in the \"n'th message\" field. It is coded as follows:
* * *
Value Message 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 SYSTEM INFORMATION 5 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 SYSTEM
INFORMATION 6 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 SYSTEM INFORMATION 5bis 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 SYSTEM
INFORMATION 5ter 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 EXTENDED MEASUREMENT ORDER 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0
MEASUREMENT INFORMATION
* * *
All other values are reserved.
The \"Length of n'th SI message\" field indicates in binary the length of the
\"n'th message\" field that follows.
The \"n'th message\" field contains a complete SACCH message as defended in
3GPP TS 44.018.
### 9.3.30 System Info Type
This element is used to indicate the type of SYSTEM INFORMATION message or an
EXTENDED MEASUREMENT ORDER message or a MEASUREMENT INFORMATION message as
defined in 3GPP TS 44.018.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Sys Info Type 2
* * *
The Sys Info Field (octet 2) indicates the type of message. It is coded as
follows:
* * *
Value Message 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 SYSTEM INFORMATION 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 SYSTEM
INFORMATION 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 SYSTEM INFORMATION 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 SYSTEM
INFORMATION 3 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 SYSTEM INFORMATION 4 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 SYSTEM
INFORMATION 5 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 SYSTEM INFORMATION 6 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 SYSTEM
INFORMATION 7 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 SYSTEM INFORMATION 16 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 SYSTEM
INFORMATION 17 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 SYSTEM INFORMATION 2bis 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 SYSTEM
INFORMATION 2ter 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 SYSTEM INFORMATION 5bis 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0
SYSTEM INFORMATION 5ter 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 SYSTEM INFORMATION 10 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 1
EXTENDED MEASUREMENT ORDER 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 MEASUREMENT INFORMATION 0 0 1 0 1 0
0 0 SYSTEM INFORMATION 13 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 SYSTEM INFORMATION 2quater 0 0 1 0 1
0 1 0 SYSTEM INFORMATION 9 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 SYSTEM INFORMATION 18 0 0 1 0 1 1 0
0 SYSTEM INFORMATION 19 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 SYSTEM INFORMATION 20 All other values
are reserved.
* * *
### 9.3.31 MS Power Parameters
This element carries the parameters required by TRX for MS power control.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
MS Power Control 3  
Parameters  
N
* * *
The MS Power Control Parameters field contains the parameters and limits
required when MS power control is to be performed by BTS. The coding is
operator dependant. Examples of possible parameters and algorithms can be
found in 3GPP TS 45.008 (RXLEV, RX-QUAL-FULL, RX-QUAL-SUB, DISTANCE (Timing
Advance) etc.).
### 9.3.32 BS Power Parameters
This element carries the parameters required by TRX for control of its own
transmission power.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
BS Power Control 3  
Parameters  
N
* * *
The BS Power Control Parameters field contains the parameters and limits
required when TRX transmission power control is to be performed by BTS. The
coding is operator dependant. Examples of possible parameters and algorithms
can be found in 3GPP TS 45.008 (RXLEV, RX-QUAL-FULL, RX-QUAL-SUB, DISTANCE
(Timing Advance) etc.).
### 9.3.33 Pre-processing Parameters
This element contains the parameters required by BTS for the pre‑processing of
radio measurement data.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
reserved for future use P 3  
Pre-processing 4  
Parameters  
N
* * *
The P bit (bit 1 of octet 3) indicates whether pre-processing is to be used
and it is coded as follows:
0 use the basic measurement reporting procedure (report raw data);
1 use the pre-processed measurement reporting procedure.
If pre-processing is to be used, the Pre-processing Parameters field (octets
4-N) contains the parameters required by BTS. The coding of this field is
operator dependant.
### 9.3.34 Pre-processed Measurements
This element is used by BTS to report the results of the pre-processing of
radio measurement data.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Pre-processed 3  
Measurements  
N
* * *
The Pre-processed Measurements field (octets 3-N) contains the results of the
pre-processing in BTS. The coding of this field is operator dependant.
### 9.3.35 Full Immediate Assign Info
This element is used to convey a full L3 immediate assign message (3 types).
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length Indicator 2  
Full Immediate 3  
Assign Info  
25
* * *
The Length Indicator field (octet 2) indicates in binary the remaining length
of the element (octets 3‑25).
The Full Immediate Assign Info field (octets 3‑25) contains a complete
immediate assign message (IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT or IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT
EXTENDED or IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT REJECT) as defined in 3GPP TS 44.018.
### 9.3.36 SMSCB Information
This element is used to convey a complete frame to be broadcast on the CBCH
including the Layer 2 header for the radio path.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
SMSCB frame 2
                       24
* * *
### 9.3.37 MS Timing Offset
The information is coded in two octets and contains the MS Timing Offset as
measured by the BTS.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Timing Offset 2
* * *
The meaning of the MS Timing Offset is as defined in 3GPP TS 45.010. The value
of MS Timing Offset is the binary value of the 8-bit Timing Offset field
(octet 2) - 63. The range of MS Timing Offset is therefore ‑63 to 192.
### 9.3.38 Erroneous Message
This information element is used to carry a complete A-bis interface message
which was considered erroneous at reception.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Received Message 3
                       N
* * *
The Received Message field contains a complete A-bis interface L3 message as
defined in clause 8 of this GTS, including Message Discriminator and Message
Type.
### 9.3.39 Full BCCH Information (message name)
This information element contains a complete L3 message as specified in 3GPP
TS 24.008.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length Indicator 2  
Layer 3 message 3  
as 4  
defined  
in 3GPP TS 44.018 25
* * *
The Length Indicator field (octet 2) indicates in binary the remaining length
of the element (octets 3‑25). The most significant bit is bit 8 of octet 2 and
the least significant bit is bit 1 of octet 2.
Octets 3‑25 contain the complete L3 message as defined in 3GPP TS 44.018. In
the message format sub-clause, the 3GPP TS 44.018 message name to be included
is indicated within brackets.
### 9.3.40 Channel Needed
This information element is used to indicate to the mobile station which
channel will be needed for the transaction linked to the paging procedure.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Reserved for future use Channel 2
* * *
The Channel Field (bits 1‑2 of octet 2) indicates the further combination of
channel which will be needed. It is coded as follows:
* * *
Value Channel Needed. 0 0 Any Channel. 0 1 SDCCH. 1 0 TCH/F (Full rate). 1 1
TCH/F or TCH/H (Dual rate).
* * *
### 9.3.41 CB Command type
This element is used to indicate the type of broadcast requested.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Command Default Broadcast 0 Spare Last Block 2
* * *
The Command Field (bits 5 to 8) indicates the command to be performed. It is
coded as follows:
* * *
Value Command 0 0 0 0 Normal message Broadcast. 1 0 0 0 Schedule message
Broadcast. 1 1 1 0 Default message Broadcast. 1 1 1 1 Null message Broadcast.
All other values are reserved.
* * *
When the Command Field is different from the value 1110 (Default message
Broadcast), the BTS uses the SMSCB message IE together with the Command Field
and the Last Block Field to build the blocks sent on the Radio interface, as
defined by 3GPP TS 44.012. In that case bit 4 is ignored.
When the Command Field takes the value 1110 (Default message Broadcast), the
BTS uses the SMSCB message IE together with the Default Broadcast Field and
the Last Block Field to build the blocks sent on the Radio interface, as
defined by 3GPP TS 44.012.
The Default Broadcast Field (bit 4) is coded as follows:
* * *
Value Default message to be broadcast 0 Normal message. 1 Null message.
* * *
The BTS uses the Last Block Field to signal to the MS the last block
containing useful information as defined by 3GPP TS 44.012. This Field (bits 1
and 2) is coded as follows:
* * *
Value Last Block containing useful information 00 Block 4 01 Block 1 10 Block
2 11 Block 3
* * *
### 9.3.42 SMSCB Message
This element is used to convey the message to be broadcast on the CBCH.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
SMSCB Message 3
                       N
* * *
### 9.3.43 CBCH Load Information
This information element is used to indicate to the BSC the load situation of
CBCH in the BTS.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Element identifier 1
CBCH\ Spare Message Slot Count 2  
Load\  
Type
* * *
The CBCH Load Type field (bit 8 of octet 2) indicates either an underflow or
an overflow situation of the CBCH in the BTS. It is coded as follows:
* * *
Value CBCH Load Type 0 Underflow 1 Overflow
* * *
The Message Slot Count field (bits 1‑4 of octet 2) indicates either the amount
of SMSCB messages that are needed immediately by BTS or the amount of delay in
message slots that is needed immediately by BTS depending on the value of the
CBCH Load Type field. It is coded as follows:
* * *
**CBCH Load Type** **Message Slot Count** 0 indicates the amount of SMSCB
messages (1 to 15) that are needed immediately by BTS. 1 indicates the amount
of delay in message slots (1 to 15) that is needed immediately by BTS.
* * *
### 9.3.44 SMSCB Channel Indicator
This element is used to indicate the CB channel [see 3GPP TS 45.002] to be
used for broadcasting the data.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Spare Channel Ind 2
* * *
This element is used to indicate the CB channel to be used for broadcasting
the data. The Channel Ind field is coded as follows:
* * *
Value Channel Ind 0 0 0 0 Basic CBCH 0 0 0 1 Extended CBCH (supporting the
extended CBCH by the network or MSs is optional) all other values are
reserved.
* * *
### 9.3.45 Group call reference
It is coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Descriptive group or broadcast call reference 3 to 7
* * *
The octets 3 to 7 are coded in the same way as the octets 2 to 6 in the
Descriptive group or broadcast call reference information element as defined
in 3GPP TS 24.008.
### 9.3.46 Channel description
This is a variable length element used to pass a radio interface information
element from BSC to BTS.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Group Channel Description 3 to n
* * *
Octet j (j = 3, 4, ..., n) is the unchanged octet j‑2 of a radio interface
Group Channel description information element as defined in 3GPP TS 44.018,
n‑2 is equal to the length of the radio interface Group channel description
information element.
### 9.3.47 NCH DRX information
This is a variable length element used to pass a radio interface information
element from BSC to BTS.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
NCH DRX information 3
* * *
Octet 3 bits 1 and 2 are bits 1 and 2 of the radio interface NLN as defined in
3GPP TS 44.018.
Octet 3 bits 3, 4 and 5 are bits 1, 2 and 3 of the radio interface eMLPP
priority as defined in 3GPP TS 44.018.
Octet 3 bit 6 is the NLN status parameter as defined in 3GPP TS 44.018.
Octet 3 bits 7 and 8 are spare and set to zero.
### 9.3.48 Command indicator
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
E Command Value 3  
Command Extension 3a
* * *
The Command Value is a single octet field (octet 3) if the extension bit E
(bit 8) is set to 0. If it is set to 1 then the Command value is a 2 octet
field (octets 3 and 3a).
COMMAND VALUES:
* * *
Value Command 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Start 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Stop 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 reserved
for international use 0 : : : : : :  
1 0 0 0 0 0 0
1 0 0 0 0 0 1 reserved for national use 1 : : : : : :  
1 1 1 1 1 1 1
* * *
### 9.3.49 eMLPP Priority
This Information Element contains the eMLPP priority of the call.
It is coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
spare call priority 2
* * *
The call priority field (bit 3 to 1 of octet 2) is coded in the same way as
the call priority field (bit 3 to 1 of octet 5) in the Descriptive group or
broadcast call reference information element as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008.
### 9.3.50 UIC
It is coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
UIC information 3
* * *
Octet 3 bits 1 to 6 contain the radio interface octet 2 bits 3 to 8 of the UIC
information element as defined in 3GPP TS 44.018.
Octet 3 bits 7 and 8 are spare and set to zero.
### 9.3.51 Main channel reference
This element contains the main channel reference of a multislot connection.
It is coded in two octets as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Reserved for future use TN 2
* * *
TN is time slot number, binary represented as in 3GPP TS 45.002.
### 9.3.52 MultiRate configuration
This element gives the description of the multirate speech codec configuration
to be applied.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Rest of element coded as in 3GPP TS 44.018 not including 3GPP TS 44.018
element identifier or 3GPP TS 44.018 octet length value 3-n
* * *
### 9.3.53 MultiRate Control
This element indicates whether TFO is enabled or not and whether the BSC
authorises the BTS to perform autonomously multi-rate codec changes and
whether an handover is to be expected.
It is coded in two octets as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Spare OD PRE RAE TFO 3
* * *
The TFO field (bit 1 of octet 3) indicates if TFO is enabled or not. It is
coded as follows:
* * *
Value TFO 0 Tandem Free Operation is enabled 1 Tandem Free Operation is
disabled
* * *
The RAE field (bits 2-3, octet 3) defines whether the RATSCCH mechanism is
enabled or not. It is coded as follows:
* * *
Value RAE 0 0 RATSCCH mechanism is generally enabled, the BTS may change the
AMR configuration within the given SCS and MACS constraints and within the
given radio and Abis channel. 0 1 RATSCCH mechanism will potentially be
enabled for one exchange. The BSC will use a MultiRate CODEC MOD REQ message
for that purpose 1 0 reserved 1 1 RATSCCH mechanism is generally disabled
* * *
The PRE field (bit 4 of octet 3) indicates if an handover is to be expected
soon or not. It is coded as follows:
* * *
Value PRE 0 Handover is not expected, respectively has failed 1 Handover is
expected soon
* * *
The OD field (bit 5 of octet 3) indicates if the BSC expects distant
parameters or TFO Decision algorithm result from the BTS.
* * *
Value PRE 0 The BTS shall report distant parameters 1 The BTS shall report TFO
Decision algorithm result (optimised parameters).
* * *
### 9.3.54 Supported Codec Types
This element indicates the codec types supported by the BSS or remote BSS.
It is coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Sys-ID 3  
ext Codec List 4-n
* * *
The Sys-ID field (octet 3) identifies the system that sends or has sent the
configuration. It should be set to 0000 0000 for GSM.
The Codec List field (octet 4) lists the codec types that are supported by the
BSS and Transcoder, and are therefore potential candidates for TFO
establishment. It is coded as follows:
* * *
Bit 1: Set to 1 if the GSM FR Speech Codec is supported. Bit 2: Set to 1 if
the GSM HR Speech Codec is supported. Bit 3: Set to 1 if the GSM EFR Speech
Codec is supported. Bit 4: Set to 1 if the GSM FR AMR Speech Codec is
supported. Bit 5: Set to 1 if the GSM HR AMR Speech Codec is supported Bit 6:
Set to 1 if the UMTS AMR Speech Codec is supported. Bit 7: Set to 1 if the
UMTS AMR 2 Speech Codec is supported Bit 8: Extension bit. Set to 1 if at
least one codec of Codec List extension 1 is supported, otherwise set to 0.
* * *
The Codec List extension 1 field (octet 5) lists additional codec types that
are supported by the BSS and Transcoder, and are therefore potential
candidates for TFO establishment. When no codec from this list is supported,
then this field shall not be sent, and the extension bit of octet 4 shall be
set to 0.
* * *
Bit 1: Set to 1 if the FR AMR WB Speech Codec is supported. Bit 2: Set to 1 if
the UMTS AMR WB Speech Codec is supported. Bit 3: Set to 1 if the 8PSK HR AMR
Speech Codec is supported. Bit 4: Set to 1 if the 8PSK FR AMR WB Speech Codec
is supported. Bit 5: Set to 1 if the 8PSK HR AMR WB Speech Codec is supported.
Bit 6-7: Reserved, set to 0. Bit 8: Reserved for extension, set to 0.
* * *
If bit 4 of the Codec List field (octet 4) indicates that FR AMR is supported
or if bit 5 of the Codec List field (octet 4) indicates that HR AMR is
supported and bit 8 is set to 0, or if bit 6 of the Codec List field (octet 4)
indicates that UMTS AMR is supported, or if bit 7 of the Codec List field
(octet 4) indicates that UMTS AMR 2 is supported, or if bit 1, 3, 4 or 5 of
the Codec List extension 1 field (octet 5) indicates that AMR WB is supported,
the following two octets (after the Codec List field and its extensions)
should be coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Spare TFO_VER MACS n+1  
SCS n+2
* * *
The MACS field indicates the [M]{.underline}aximum number of [A]{.underline}MR
[C]{.underline}odec Mode[S]{.underline} the BSS can support in the Active
Codec Set. It should be coded as follows:
* * *
0 0: A maximum of four codec modes can be supported in the Active Codec Set
0.1: A maximum of one codec mode can be supported in the Active Codec Set 1.0:
A maximum of two codec modes can be supported in the Active Codec Set 1.1: A
maximum of three codec modes can be supported in the Active Codec Set
* * *
The TFO_VER field indicates the TFO_VERSION.
0 0: Version 0 of TFO
All other values reserved for future use.
The SCS field indicates the [S]{.underline}et of AMR [C]{.underline}odec modes
[S]{.underline}upported by the BSS. It should be coded as follows for AMR FR
and AMR HR:
* * *
Bit 8: Set to 1 if the AMR 12.2 Codec Mode is supported. Bit 7: Set to 1 if
the AMR 10.2 Codec Mode is supported. Bit 6: Set to 1 if the AMR 7.95 Codec
Mode is supported. Bit 5: Set to 1 if the AMR 7.40 Codec Mode is supported.
Bit 4: Set to 1 if the AMR 6.70 Codec Mode is supported. Bit 3: Set to 1 if
the AMR 5.90 Codec Mode is supported. Bit 2: Set to 1 if the AMR 5.15 Codec
Mode is supported. Bit 1: Set to 1 if the AMR 4.75 Codec Mode is supported.
* * *
If AMR WB is concerned, the SCS field (octets 7) is coded as follows:
* * *
Bit 6-8 Spare. Set to 0 Bit 5: Set to 1 if the WB-AMR 23.85 Codec Mode is
supported. Bit 4: Set to 1 if the WB-AMR 15.85 Codec Mode is supported. Bit 3
Set to 1 if the WB-AMR 12.65 Codec Mode is supported. Bit 2 Set to 1 if the
WB-AMR 8.85 Codec Mode is supported. Bit 1 Set to 1 if the WB-AMR 6.60 Codec
Mode is supported.
* * *
### 9.3.55 Codec Configuration
This element indicates the active codec in the BSS or the remote BSS
It is coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
Active Codec Type 3
* * *
The Active Codec Type field (bits 1-8, octet 3) indicates the type of codec in
use. It is coded as follows:
* * *
0 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 0: Full Rate Codec in use 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 1: Half Rate Codec
in use 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 1 0: Enhanced Full Rate Codec in use 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 1 1:
FR Adaptive Multi Rate Codec in use 0 0 0 0 . 0 1 0 0: HR Adaptive Multi Rate
Codec in use 0 0 0 0 . 0 1 0 1: UMTS Adaptive Multi Rate Codec in use 0 0 0 0
. 0 1 1 0: UMTS Adaptive Multi Rate 2 Codec in use 0 0 0 0 . 1 0 0 1: Full
Rate Adaptive Multi-Rate WideBand Codec in use 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 UMTS Adaptive
Multi-Rate WideBand Codec in use 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 8PSK Half Rate Adaptive
Multi-Rate Codec in use 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 8PSK Full Rate Adaptive Multi-Rate
WideBand Codec in use 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 8PSK Half Rate Adaptive Multi-Rate
WideBand Codec in use All other values are reserved for future use
* * *
If the Active Codec Type field (octet 3) indicates that AMR (FR or HR) is the
active codec type, then the following two octets (octets 4-5) shall provide
the configuration in use. They shall be coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Spare ICM 4  
Active Codec Set 5
* * *
The ICM field (bits 1-2, octet 4) defines the [I]{.underline}nitial
[C]{.underline}odec [M]{.underline}ode. It is coded as defined in the 3GPP TS
45.009.
The Active Codec Set (octet 5) defines the set of AMR codec modes used in the
active set. It is coded as defined for the Set of AMR codec modes in the
Multi-Rate configuration IE in the 3GPP TS 44.018.
If the Active Codec Type field (octet 3) indicates that AMR WB is the active
codec type, then the following three octets (octets 4-6) shall provide the
configuration in use. They shall be coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Spare ICM 4  
Active Codec Set 5  
Active Codec Set 6
* * *
The ICM field (bits 1-2, octet 4) defines the [I]{.underline}nitial
[C]{.underline}odec [M]{.underline}ode. It is coded as defined in the 3GPP TS
45.009.
The Active Codec Set (octets 5-6) defines the set of AMR codec modes used in
the active set. It is coded as defined for the Set of AMR codec modes in the
Multi-Rate configuration IE in the 3GPP TS 44.018.
### 9.3.56 Round Trip Delay
This element indicates the value of the calculated round trip delay between
the BTS and the transcoder, or between the BTS and the remote BTS, if TFO is
established.
It is coded in 2 octets as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
RTD Delay IND 2
* * *
The RTD field is the binary representation of the value of the round trip
delay in 20 ms increments.
The Delay IND field indicates if the delay corresponds to a BTS to transcoder
delay or to a BTS to remote BTS delay. It is coded as follows:
* * *
Value Delay IND 0 The RTD field contains the BTS-Transcoder round trip delay 1
The RTD field contains the BTS-Remote BTS round trip delay
* * *
### 9.3.57 TFO Status
This element indicates if TFO is established. It is coded in 2 octets as
follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Spare TFO 2
* * *
The TFO field shall be coded as follows:
* * *
Value TFO 0 TFO is not established 1 TFO is established
* * *
### 9.3.58 LLP APDU
[This is a variable length element that conveys an embedded message or message
segment associated with the higher level protocol LLP, as defined in 3GPP TS
44.071. This element can be sent from the BSC to the BTS or to the Standalone
Type B LMU, and vice versa.]{.underline}
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
The rest of the information element contains the embedded message that
contains a Facility Information Element as defined in 3GPP TS 44.071 excluding
the Facility IEI and length of Facility IEI octets defined in 3GPP TS 44.071.
3-n
* * *
### 9.3.59 TFO transparent container
[This is a variable length element that conveys a message associated with TFO
protocol, as defined in 3GPP TS 28.062. This element can be sent from the BSC
to the BTS or from the BTS to the BSC. The BTS shall retrieve the information
it is able to understand, and forward transparently the complete information
to the BSC or to the TRAU.]{.underline}
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Length 2  
The rest of the information element contains the embedded message that
contains the TFO configuration. 3-n
* * *
### 9.3.60 DRX Info
This element is used to indicate when the corresponding PAGING COMMAND message
is to be sent, as specified by the eDRX cycle and CCCH Block Number on a
Multiframe Number.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier 1  
Multiframe Number (high) T 2  
Multiframe Number (low) 3  
eDRX Cycle CCCH Block 4
* * *
Multiframe Number:
This field identifies the multiframe number within the applicable eDRX cycle
in which the PAGing REQuest message is to be sent. Values between 0-13311 are
allowed
T:
This field is used to determine whether the PAGing REQuest message is to be
sent using the CCCH (T=0) or the EC-CCCH (T=1)
CCCH Block:
This field identifies the CCCH block number within the indicated multiframe in
which the PAGing REQuest message is to be sent. Values between 0-15 are
allowed. If T = 0 the value is between 0-8
eDRX Cycle:
This field is used to determine the number of multiframes within an eDRX cycle
as defined in 3GPP TS 45.002 [8]. Values between 0-15 are allowed.
#