# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
# Introduction
The most used authentication method in the Internet today is HTML FORM based
authentication. It is used with web browsers where a login page is downloaded
over HTTPS and which contains an HTML FORM with at least \'username\' and
\'password\' fields. Sometime, this takes place over plain HTTP, which poses a
security risk. The current mechanism how GBA could be used from web browser is
to use GBA with HTTP Digest as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 33.222 [3].
In current implementations, once a web browser has started to use HTTP Digest
with a particular web server, it continues to use it until the browser
instance is terminated. This is common behavior in web browsers today. This
means that there is no way of doing a logout as the browser keeps on sending
the HTTP Authorization headers back to the web server.
Another drawback is that using HTTP Digest in parallel to HTML FORM based
authentication is not straight forward as the authentication happens in
different layers of protocols. Also, the usage of HTTP Digest and HTML FORM
based Authentication from the same browser is investigated.
In order to simplify the usage of GBA in web browsers this document describes
how to enable access to GBA in HTML layer, namely using Javascript. The usage
of Javascript together with GBA raises also some security concerns with regard
to protection of GBA credentials, hence the best common practices for this
kind of interworking are outlined in this document.
NOTE: Security in a Javascript scenario is implementation-dependent.
# 1 Scope
This work in this Technical Report has the following scope:
> \- Study the potential threats for different GBA credentials use scenarios
> via a web browser. These new use scenarios (e.g. using HTML forms, using
> Javascript, using widgets) are not covered by current specifications.
>
> The scope of this Technical Report will cover the following:
>
> \- Study, identify and specify any protection mechanism that maybe
> additionally required for the GBA credentials
>
> \- Study, identify and potentially specify usage control for GBA credentials
>
> \- Study, identify and potentially specify access control mechanism for GBA
> module
>
> \- Study, identify and potentially specify the usage of web based GBA as an
> extension on the current protocol mechanisms used on Ua reference point
> (e.g. new Ua protocol identifier)
>
> \- Identify and outline how GBA can be used with HTML Forms and Javascript
> securely (e.g. describing GBA -- web specific common practices and examples)
This Technical Report will collect the potential specification improvements,
which are then at a later stage of work transferred to the appropriate
Technical Specifications. The potential improvements for access control to GBA
credentials and potential Ua protocol impacts will then be documented in TS
33.220 [2]. The threat analysis, common security implementation practices and
examples may build a new chapter 5 in TS 33.222 [3].
**Relation to GBA variants defined in other documents** : Web based GBA aims
at defining web enhancements for the use of HTML forms with GBA. It is a new
variant for the Ua interface and does not affect the Ub interface, as opposed
to the GBA variants defined in TS 33.220. Web based GBA is orthogonal to these
other GBA variants and can be used with any of them.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.222: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access to
network application functions using Hypertext Transfer Protocol over Transport
Layer Security (HTTPS)\".
[4] IETF RFC 5705 (2010): \"Keying Material Exporters for Transport Layer
Security (TLS)\".
[5] W3C Candidate Recommendation (Dec 8, 2011): \"Web Storage\", work in
progress, http://www.w3.org/TR/webstorage/
[6] W3C Working Draft (Oct 20, 2011): \"File API\", work in progress,
http://www.w3.org/TR/FileAPI/
> [7] IETF RFC 5929 (2010): \"Channel Bindings for TLS\".
>
> [8] W3C Working Draft (Apr 20, 2012): \"HTML5 -- A vocabulary and associated
> APIs for HTML and XHTML\", work in progress, http://dev.w3.org/html5/spec/
[9] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G security; Access security for IP-based services\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**HTML FORM:** A HTML form is a section of a HTML document containing normal
content, markup, special element called controls (checkboxes, radio buttons,
text fields, password fields, etc.) and labels on those controls. End users
generally \"complete\" a form on a web page by modifying its controls
(entering text, selecting radio buttons, etc.), before submitting the form to
an agent for processing (e.g., to a web server).
**HTML5:** HTML5 is a W3C specification [8] that defines the fifth major
revision of the Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), the standard language for
describing the contents and appearance of Web pages.
**JavaScript:** JavaScript is a prototype-based scripting language that was
formalized in the ECMAScript language standard. JavaScript is primarily used
in the form of client-side JavaScript, implemented as part of a Web browser in
order to provide enhanced user interfaces and dynamic websites.
**Same origin policy:** Some origin policy is a security mechanism in a client
browser that permits webpage scripts to access their associated website's data
and methods but restricts its access to scripts and data stored by other
websites.
**GBA web session:** A GBA web session is the duration where the NAF can
identify that the messages relate to the same individual GBA enabled terminal
and a particular browser instance running in that terminal and consist out of
a sequence of related HTTP request/response transactions together with some
associated server-side state. The lifetime of the session is the lifetime of
the Ks_js_NAF which is equal or shorter than the Ks_NAF lifetime and it is
also equal or shorter than the lifetime of the TLS session, which was used to
derive the Ks_js_NAF.
NOTE: The NAF and the UE may have to recalculate the key, when the TLS session
is re-established.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1] and TS 33.220 [2].
API Application Programming Interface
BSF Bootstrapping Server Function
B-TID Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier
CA Certification Authority
DNS Domain Name System
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
HTML HyperText Markup Language
HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol
HTTPS HTTP Over TLS
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
ME Mobile Equipment
NAF Network Application Function
NAF_ID NAF identifier
TLS Transport Layer Security
UE User Equipment
URL Uniform Resource Locator
# 4 Objectives for the Architecture using GBA from a UE web browser
## 4.1 Introduction
The most used authentication method in the Internet today is HTML FORM based
authentication. It is commonly used with web browser where a login page is
downloaded over HTTPS and which contains an HTML FORM with at least
\'username\' and \'password\' fields.
The current mechanism how GBA could be used from web browser is to use GBA
with HTTP Digest as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 33.222 [3]. In this
case, the GBA enabled web server can detect whether the web browser is able to
perform GBA with HTTP Digest by examining the \"User-Agent\" header. If
\"3gpp-gba\" product token is present in this header, then the web server
(NAF) is able to perform GBA with HTTP Digest with the web browser (UE).
However, HTTP Digest has one general drawback. In current implementations,
once web browser has started to use HTTP Digest with a particular web server,
it continues to use it until the browser instance is terminated. This is
common behavior in web browsers today.
This means that there is no way of doing a logout as browser keeps on sending
the HTTP Digest headers back to the web server. Another drawback is that using
HTTP Digest in parallel to HTML FORM based authentication is not straight
forward as the authentication happens in different layers of protocols and
with different input windows (as web browsers typically implement a dialog
window to handle the query HTTP Digest authentication credentials from the end
user compared to HTML FORM having query for the credentials implemented as
part of the web page itself).
In order to simplify the usage of GBA in web browser this TR outlines the
access to GBA in HTML layer, namely using Javascript.
## 4.2 Objectives
The document has the following objectives for the usage of GBA in web
browsers:
\- There will be cryptographic separation between different applications using
GBA (e.g. MBMS, Presence, browser banking application, browser e-mail
application, etc). For non-browser based applications, this is already in use
in generic GBA architecture with the usage of NAF specific keys
Ks_(ext/int)_NAF with the usage of NAF_Ids and protocol identifiers.
\- The authentication token for the use of GBA in web browsers will be
protected from man-in-the-middle attacks.
\- The GBA based authentication token will be bound to the existing GBA web
session between the browser and the web server in such a way that the
authentication tokens cannot be reused in another session or reused by another
entity.
\- The access to NAF specific keys and authentication tokens by JavaScript
will be restricted in such a way that a web page executing a Javascript in a
web browser will have access to the NAF specific authentication tokens that it
is authorized to have access to. For instance, same origin policy could be
used so that a Javascript will have access to only that NAF specific
authentication tokens that belongs to same origin (e.g. a web page loaded from
http://www.3gpp.org/ will have access to only the NAF specific authentication
tokens of www.3gpp.org and not be able to request keys or authentication
tokens for another origin).
# 5 Usage Scenarios and accompanying Threats for using GBA from a UE web
browser
## 5.1 Usage Scenarios
### 5.1.1 Usage scenario 1
End user wants to use some service provider's services (e.g., an operator),
and the service provider wants to use GBA to authenticate the user.
1) End user opens web browser application in the ME, and instructs it to go
the service provider's web page. The web page redirects the web browser to a
login page if end user has not yet authenticated.
2) Service provider's login page has logic to discover whether Javascript
access to GBA is enabled in the browser or not (can be done with Javascript).
If GBA is not supported, the web page reverts to other means of
authentication, e.g., legacy username/password. If GBA is supported, proceed
to step 3.
3) The web page has code implemented in Javascript that obtains a NAF specific
token and the B-TID from the GBA function in the UE. In simplest case, the
browser uses these variables as username and password in an HTML FORM, and
instructs the web browser to send this information back to the web server.
4) The web server extracts the NAF specific key and the B-TID, and uses B-TID
to fetch the NAF specific key from the BSF over Zn interface. The NAF
generates then the NAF specific authentication token and compares it with the
received NAF specific token from the BSF with the one received from the UE. If
they are equal, end user is authenticated, and the requested service is
provided to the ME and the end user.
> NOTE: The direct usage of the NAF specific keys Ks_(ext)_NAF introduces an
> even greater risk. Therefore the usage of a NAF specific authentication
> token is considered below in 5.2.
## 5.2 Threats
The usage scenarios described in clause 5.1 are susceptible to three serious
threats:
> Threat 1: ME downloads a web page from an attacker that has Javascript which
> requests all NAF specific keys that is interested in.
>
> Threat 2: ME uses a public access point that is controlled by attacker,
> i.e., classic man-in-the-middle attack. When the ME requests the login page
> from the service provider, the attacker sends back a rogue login web page as
> it controls the DNS. This rogue login page has Javascript that is able to
> extract any NAF specific authentication token of the service provider, and
> send it back to the attacker.
>
> Threat 3: It is possible for any third party on the internet connection to
> eavesdrop on the B-TID and theNAF specific authentication token, and
> impersonate the user as long as the B-TID has not expired.
>
> Threat 4: If an attacker gets hold of the authentication token Ks_js_NAF,
> then he can utilize it to attack the communication between web browser and
> the NAF.
>
> Threat 5: ME downloads a web page from an attacker that has JavaScript which
> repeatedly triggers GBA re-bootstrapping to be performed. This causes SQN
> numbers in the USIM to be consumed which shortens the lifetime of the USIM
> (i.e. a type of denial-of-service attack). A secondary effect is that the
> malicious web page can coordinate a distributed DoS attack against the
> BSF/HSS.
# 6 Control of GBA Credentials and GBA Module in the UE
## 6.1 General
The threats identified in clause 5 are counterd using a set of control
mechanisms as defined in this clasue. Using only a subset of the control
mechanism leaves some threats open. Therefore all control mechanisms need to
be applied to mitigate the outlined threats.
## 6.2 Control Mechanism 1-- Same Origin Authentication Tokens
To mitigate threat 1 in clause 5.2, the web browser should limit a web page to
access only to those NAF specific authentication tokens that belong to origin
web server. This way Javascript has access only to one NAF's authentication
tokens, which is the NAF identified by the origin of the web page. All web
browsers currently implement a single-origin policy where the Javascript is
able to send HTTP requests only to the server from where the original web page
came from.
## 6.3 Control Mechanism 2 -- Server Authenticated TLS
To mitigate threat 2 and threat 3, HTTPS, i.e., server authenticated TLS,
should be used with integrity and confidentiality protection. This way
attacking DNS does not help the attacker as the origin of the web page is
authenticated using TLS, and the web page content, and B-TID and Ks_js_NAF are
confidentially protected against eavesdropping and the Ks_(ext)_NAF are not
used directly here.
## 6.4 Control Mechanism 3 - Channel Binding
The usage of server authenticated TLS as described in clause 6.3, is not
sufficient on its own if one were to consider the threat of a compromised TLS
server certificate a likely event.. Given that in commonly used browsers there
are 100+ root certificates from certification authorities (CAs) who have
different levels of security protection when issuing and managing
certificates, it can in principle be questioned, how secure TLS with server
authentication really is. If one CA is compromised the attacker can use a
compromised certificate to lure the user into believing that the attacker's
server is the genuine NAF the user wants to communicate with. The attacker can
exploit this to realize the following two threats:
\- Threat A: If the javascript would use the Ks_NAF directly and an attacker
obtains the Ks_NAF from the user, then it could use this Ks_NAF to impersonate
the user towards the genuine NAF, obtain the services and let the user foot
the bill.
> \- Threat B: The attacker makes the user reveal information valuable for the
> attacker that the user would want to reveal only to the genuine NAF.
Even though TLS with server certificates can generally be trusted, the TLS
channel should for the GBA browser case be bound to the authentication token
derivation process of GBA. This shall however not be taken as a general clue
that TLS with server side certificate authentication is insecure. As the key
derivation of Ks_(ext)_NAF is already defined with a fixed set of input
parameters, and backward compatibility by not changing this key derivation
should be ensured, a new Javascript specific authentication token (Ks_js_NAF)
should be derived from Ks_(ext)_NAF using a channel binding mechanism. This
channel binding mechanism shall be based on either RFC 5705 (Keying Material
Exporters for TLS) [4] or RFC 5929 (Channel Bindings for TLS) [7].
This mechanism does not help against threat B. The mitigation of threat B is
further discussed in clause 8.1.4.
## 6.5 Control Mechanism 4 -- Key Usage
In Threat 4 in clause 5.2, the attacker may get hold of the Ks_js_NAF by one
of the following means:
  * One of the endpoints can be considered as compromised and the Ks_js_NAF is compromised i.e. NAF or web browser are compromised.
  * Ks_(ext)_NAF and authentication token derivation parameters are compromised.
The compromise of an endpoint might be made more difficult by usage of
additional hardware functionalities, but those would require that all
communication for usage of such keys would be routed over the secure hardware.
This would still leave the challenge, how to ensure that no fake traffic is
routed over the secure hardware. The handle used to authorize the usage of the
Ks_js_NAF authentication token inside the secure module need to be secured to
avoid unauthorized usage, but that would require a trustworthy browser, which
then negates the effect of using a handle for authentication tokens. The usage
of the Ks_js_NAF should be done in the TLS tunnel that was used to create the
token. This makes usage in another TLS tunnel impossible, as long as the end
points check that the TLS tunnel used to receive the information is the same
as was used to derive the token.
If the compromised token has been derived, by usage of the compromised
Ks_(ext)_NAF key and corresponding parameters, then usage of additional secure
hardware would not gain any significant security improvement for the usage
from the token of the originating terminal, since the source of the Ks_js_NAF
token is compromised.
# 7 Potential Extension of Protocol Mechanism used on Ua Reference Point
## 7.1 Key derivation
In order to ensure the key separation in the HTML FORM based authentication in
Ua reference point, a Ua security protocol identifier for the NAF_ID needs to
be specified.
**[FQDN]{.underline}**
When the web browser in the ME downloads a web page using HTTPS, the web
browser verifies that the FQDN in the URL matches the FQDN used in the TLS
certificate used by the server (NAF). It is common practice for web browsers
to perform this check today. Any web browser that does not perform this check
is not secure enough to be used for security sensitive applications with or
withouth GBA, and therefore should not be considered for the purpose of this
report.
Once the web browser has verified that the FQDN in the URL matches the FQDN in
the server (NAF) certificate, the browser makes this verified FQDN available
to the GBA API.
The GBA API uses the verified FQDN to derive the authentication token
Ks_js_NAF.
> NOTE1: Security associated with the use of the FQDN in Javascript in the
> manner described above is dependent upon the implementation of the web
> browser, which is out-of-scope for 3GPP.
**[Ua security protocol identifier]{.underline}**
Since HTML FORM is tunneled through TLS, one possibility is to use the Ua
security protocol identifier for Ua security protocols that are based on TLS
(HTTP Digest with HTTPS and Pre-shared key TLS) that is already specified in
Annex H of 3GPP TS 33.220 [2]: (0x01,0x00,0x01,yy,zz), where yy and zz are the
protection mechanism CipherSuite as specified in relevant TLS specifications
by IETF. However, the HTML FORM based authentication within TLS is
significantly different from this Ua security protocol identifier where the
NAF specific key is used as a password in the (TLS tunneled) HTTP Digest case
compared to HTML FORM case where the NAF specific key is transferred in plain
text inside the TLS tunnel. Therefore it is recommended to specify a new Ua
security protocol identifier for Ua protocols that transfer the NAF specific
key in plain text inside a TLS tunnel, e.g., (0x01,0x00,0x02,yy,zz), where the
third octet (0x02) would distinguish this case from other protocols tunneled
inside TLS. The last two octets (yy,zz) would specify the TLS ciphersuite
used.
NOTE2: Whenever a new Ua protocol is specified where the client authentication
is performed inside a server authenticated TLS tunnel, and the client
authentication is based on a protocol (inside a TLS tunnel) not covered by the
existing Ua security protocol identifiers, then a new identifier should be
specified. In general, this kind of Ua security protocol identifier could be
in the form where the used TLS ciphersuite is indicated the same way as above
(last two octets of the identifier), and the used client authentication
protocol by (subset) of the remaining octets (second and/or third octet).
## 7.2 Channel binding
  1. Background
To mitigate the threat introduced in clause 6.4, a second level of key
derivation is introduced. When Javascript code that is downloaded from the web
server via the server authenticated TLS tunnel requests for a GBA based key,
the request is first handled by the web browser and more specifically the GBA
API module in the web browser. The GBA API module will request the
Ks_(ext)_NAF key from the GBA Function in the ME using the Javascript specific
NAF_ID as specified in clause 7.1. After receiving the Ks_(ext)_NAF key from
the GBA Function, the GBA API will derive a Javascript specific authentication
token Ks_js_NAF that is bound to the server authenticated TLS tunnel.
The channel binding can be performed using either RFC 5705 or RFC 5929 [7], as
is described below. It is possible for the JavaScript code to select which
option to use when it requests the Ks_js_NAF token from the GBA API. An
example sequence flow is in clause 8.3.1.
  1. Option 1: Channel binding using RFC 5705
After receiving the Ks_(ext)_NAF key from the GBA Function the GBA API obtains
the TLS_MK_Extr, which is extracted from the TLS master key using the exporter
function as specified in RFC 5705 [4]. The label for the exporter function
shall be \"EXPORTER_3GPP_GBA_WEB\". The Ks_js_NAF shall be derived from
Ks_(ext)_NAF as follows:
Ks_js_NAF = KDF ( Ks_(ext)_NAF, TLS_MK_Extr )
Editor\'s note: The label \"EXPORTER_3GPP_GBA_WEB\" for the exporter function
needs to be registered with IANA.
An example sequence flow is in clause 8.3.1.
  1. Option 2: Channel binding using RFC 5929
After receiving the Ks_(ext)_NAF key from the GBA Function, the GBA API
obtains either the tls-server-endpoint or tls-unique binding type as specified
in RFC 5929 [7]. The Ks_js_NAF token shall be derived from Ks_(ext)_NAF as
follows:
> Ks_js_NAF = KDF ( Ks_(ext)_NAF, tls-server-endpoint or tls-unique value)
The tls-server-endpoint binding type (the fingerprint of the server's
certificate) has the advantage that it may be used with existing web servers
and server-side proxies without modifications to the web servers or proxies.
At the same time it also provides protection in the case where one of the
browser root CAs gets compromised. However, if the derived key gets stolen
through code injection (e.g., cross-site-scripting or inclusion of malicious
third-party-code) then the tls-server-endpoint binding type is not sufficient.
To prevent reuse of the authentication token even in this scenario, one has to
use the tls-unique binding type (the client's Finished message in the TLS
handshake) which binds the credential to the particular TLS connection. The
downside of this binding type, however, is the lack of support in web servers
and server-side proxies.
An example sequence flow is in clause 8.3.1.
# 8 Common Practices and Examples
## 8.1 Security Considerations
### 8.1.1 General Scripting Security Considerations
JavaScript has been designed as an open scripting language, and it has its own
security model. This model has not been designed to protect the server
administrator or the data that is passed between the browser and the external
application server. The scripting language security model is designed to
protect the user from malicious servers, and as result, capabilities of
Javascript have been restricted. For example, currently deployed Javascript
implementations cannot read or write files on users\' computers, or interact
between different web pages that are open at the same time in the browser. W3C
has been extending Javascript APIs to include new functionality, including
File API [6] enabling reading and writing files, and HTML5 Web Messaging
enabling communication between the web pages in the browser.
### 8.1.2 GBA key control
When the Javascript specific authentication token (Ks_js_NAF) is requested by
a web page, its creation is controlled by the web browser as specified in
clause 7. The Ks_js_NAf is bound to the web server, to the javascript context,
and to the type of TLS tunnel used by using NAF_ID as described in clause 7.1.
The Ks_js_NAF should not be used outside of the designed web page context.
### 8.1.3 User grants
When Javascript in a web page is trying to access the Javascript specific
authentication token via the Javascript GBA API, the browser executing the
Javascript may prompt the end user with a permission dialog asking the end
user to grant access to the token. The end user can then decide whether to
allow access or deny it, and also additionally have the browser remember the
decision. This mimics the functionality of the browsers today that support
geolocation Javascript API. There Javascript notifies the end user, that the
current page is requesting location information. The end user has then the
possibility to either grant access or deny it. Additionally, the end user may
have the browser remember that decision, so that the next time the same page
is requesting access to the location information, the answer from the previous
query from the end users is used without disturbing the end user.
### 8.1.4 Root CAs in Browser
Clause 6.3 describes the threats related to a compromised CA where either the
CA certificate itself or the certificate of some root CA above the compromised
CA is present in browsers\' root CA list. With the threat B it is possible to
issue certificates containing any DNS name, and therefore pretend to be any
server. If the attacker can spoof https://www.facebook.com or
https://accounts.google.com for instance, he can easily trick users into
entering their username and password to attacker\'s webpages by just mimicking
the look-n-feel of the attacked webpages. Additionally, with the introduction
of HTML5 there are additional things to consider as HTML5 introduces new
features like WebStorage API [5], where a web site can use \"localStorage\"
function to store name-value pairs to the browser, which can be later accessed
only by those web pages that have been downloaded from same server identified
by protocol/site/port tuple. With this threat, the attacker can fully read
from and write to the localStorage of the attacked site.
There is no way to mitigate this threat if a compromised CA is listed in
browsers\' root CA list except strongly recommend that the browser vendors
should carefully consider which CAs they include to their browser offering as
trust roots by default, and that the browser implementation should show proper
warnings to the end user, if the user (or some service on behalf of the user)
tries to add a new CA as trust root. In addition, root CA stores managed
online by some external instance, e.g., browser vendors updating root CA
stores of their browsers online, should also be kept up-to-date.
## 8.2 Javascript GBA API description
### 8.2.1 GBA API Description
Below is an example how Javascript based GBA API could be specified:
[NoInterfaceObject]
interface DocumentGBA {
readonly attribute GBA gba;
};
Document implements DocumentGBA;
[NoInterfaceObject]
interface GBA {
void getGBAToken(in GBACallback successCallback,
in optional GBAErrorCallback errorCallback,
in optional GBAOptions options);
};
[Callback=FunctionOnly, NoInterfaceObject]
interface GBACallback {
void handleEvent(in GBATokenInfo keyinfo);
};
[Callback=FunctionOnly, NoInterfaceObject]
interface GBAErrorCallback {
void handleEvent(in GBAError error);
};
[Callback, NoInterfaceObject]
interface GBAOptions {
attribute boolean forceBootstrap; // force bootstrapping; default false
attribute DOMString bindingType; // TLS channel binding; the options are
// "tls-key-extractor" for option 1, OR\ // "tls-server-endpoint" (default),
and\ // "tls-unique" for option 2
};
// The NAF_ID is determined by the web browser. The FQDN is taken from the
origin URL
// of the web page that has the javascript. The Ua security protocol
identifier is
// (0x01,0x00,0x02,yy,zz) where the yy,zz is CipherSuite in the used TLS
tunnel (HTTPS).
// If TLS tunnel was not used, (0xFF, 0xFF, 0xFF, 0xFF, 0xFF) is used as Ua
security
// protocol identifier. The latter case is not specified in 3GPP and it should
only be
// used for testing purposes.
interface GBATokenInfo {
readonly attribute DOMString key; // base64 encoded GBA key: Ks_(ext)_NAF
readonly attribute DOMString btid; // B-TID
readonly attribute long bootstrapTime; // Bootstrap time; millisecs since
1.1.1970
readonly attribute long expiryTime; // Token expiry: millisecs since 1.1.1970
readonly attribute DOMString fqdn; // used FQDN
readonly attribute DOMString uaSecProtId; // base64 encoded Ua security prot.
id;
};
interface GBAError {
readonly attribute unsigned short code; // error code (to be specified)
readonly attribute DOMString message; // textual description of the error
};
## 8.2.2 Example API usage
Below is an example how to use javascript based GBA API:
// Basic example of requesting GBA token
document.gba.getGBAToken(gbaSuccess,gbaError);
function gbaSuccess(keyinfo) {
// gba token was successfully created, and for example use
// tokeninfo.btid as username and tokeninfo.token as password
}
function gbaError(error) {
// an error occured during gba token creation
}
## 8.3 Example sequence flows
### 8.3.1 Example sequence flow with channel binding
In this example message flow with channel binding the following architecture
is assumed:
  * **GBA Function:** The GBA Function handles establishment of GBA-specific keys. In particular, the establishment of the key Ks can use any of the methods defined by TS 33.220 [2] (e.g., based on AKA or GBA_Digest). The GBA Function is not part of the web browser.
> NOTE: In the case of GBA_Digest, the GBA Function treats SIP Digest
> credentials as specified in Annex N of TS 33.203 [9].
  * **Web Browser:** The web browser is either native or downloaded and contains some functions which support usage of GBA. In particular we have in the architecture:
    * **GBA_API:** Part of the browser that communicates with the GBA Function and receives GBA authentication token material requests from the Javascript code.
    * **Javascript:** Downloaded Javascript code.
    * **Engine:** Sets up communication with the NAF.
Figure 8.3-1. Example Architecture
Below is an example sequence flow diagram of GBA usage in Web context, i.e.,
within Javascript.
Figure 8.3-2. Example sequence flow.
The web browser is considered to be a trusted application in the sense that
the user trusts it to handle security related functions properly, i.e.,
setting TLS sessions with servers, sandboxing the Javascript code that is
downloaded from the web servers, and not leaking sensitive information like a
password to third parties. In the sequence flow diagram, the web browser is
divided into three functional blocks:
\- engine module handles the basic functionalities for the web browser like
setting up TLS with web servers, downloading web resources from network, and
providing the user interface with the end user.
\- GBA API module offers the API towards any Javascript executing in the web
browser. As Javascript should not be explicitly trusted, the web browser and
the GBA API should not reveal any sensitive information to the Javascript, nor
should they accept any sensitive information from the Javascript more than
necessary.
\- Javascript module executes the downloaded Javascript. Any Javascript
executing in web browser should be considered not trusted and should not be
granted access to sensitive resources or the access to those resources should
be controlled.
The communication between web browser and web server in the depicted sequence
flow diagram is executed inside a server authenticated TLS tunnel. Also, the
web browser is in the process of downloading a html page where one of the
linked Javascript resources is \"gba.js\".
1\. The web browser and the web server establish a server authenticated TLS
session.
2\. The web browser engine makes a HTTP GET request to the server to download
gba.js resource from the server.
3\. The web server sends the gba.js file that contains the Javascript GBA API
call on the browser. The gba.js can also contain additional logical elements
that make use of the Javascript specific authentication token Ks_js_NAF.
Example on how a GBA API call could look like:
document.gba.getGBAToken(successCallback,
errorCallback);
4\. As a HTTP response to the HTTP request made in step 2, the web server
returns the gba.js to the web browser.
5\. The engine in the web browser starts to execute the Javascript in gba.js
in Javascript sandbox.
6\. The Javascript comes to a point where a call to GBA API is made.
7\. Browser\'s Javascript GBA API locates the relevant information about the
Javascript, i.e., in what html page it is executing, from what url was the
html page downloaded from, and which TLS ciphersuite is used in the TLS
tunnel. The FQDN of the NAF can be extracted from the url of the web page, and
the Ua security protocol identifier can be derived from the used TLS
ciphersuite. FQDN of the NAF and the Ua security protocol identifier form the
NAF_ID.
8\. Browser\'s Javascript GBA API makes a call to ME\'s GBA Function with the
NAF_ID derived in step 7.
9\. The GBA Function bootstraps with the BSF if there is no valid GBA master
key Ks. From the Ks, Ks_(ext)_NAF NAF specific key is derived using the
NAF_ID.
10\. The GBA Function returns the Ks_(ext)_NAF key to browser\'s Javascript
GBA API with the bootstrapping transaction identifier (B-TID).
11\. Upon receiving the Ks_(ext)_NAF key, browser\'s javascript GBA API will
derive the Javascript specific authentication token Ks_js_NAF that is bound to
the server authenticated TLS session. The two options are as follows:\ \ If
the value of the bindingType in GBAOptions is \"tls-key-extractor \" (i.e. RFC
5705 is used with the label \"EXPORTER_3GPP_GBA_WEB\") then Ks_js_NAF is
derived as:
Ks_js_NAF = KDF (Ks_(ext)_NAF, TLS_MK_Extr )
> If instead the value of bindingType is \"tls-server-endpoint\" or \"tls-
> unique\" (i.e. RFC 5929 [7] is used), then Ks_js_NAF is derived as:
Ks_js_NAF = KDF (Ks_(ext)_NAF, tls-server-endpoint or tls-unique value)
> The tls-server-endpoint, tls-unique value and TLS_MK_Extr are all related to
> the TLS connection that established the TLS session in step 1.
Editor's note: If there are several key-derivation variants then indication of
the variant is ffs.
12\. Browser\'s Javascript GBA API returns Javascript specific Ks_js_NAF
authentication token, B-TID and authentication token lifetime to the executing
javascript.
13\. The Javascript continues to execute and it uses the Ks_js_NAF
authentication token the way the web server has instructed (via Javascript).
Example on how Javascript can extract parameters from result object in
Javascript (continued from step 2).
function successCallback(result) {
var token = result.token;
var btid = result.btid;
var lifetime = result.expiryTime;
}
14\. After executing the client side logic, the Javascript makes a
XMLHttpRequest (ajax call, HTTP request) to the web server. This request
contains at least Ks_js_NAF or hash of it, and B-TID.
15\. The web server fetches the Ks_(ext)_NAF key from the BSF, and it then
derives the Ks_js_NAF the same way it was done in step 11. The web server will
then compare the received Ks_js_NAF with the locally derived one and validate
that the TLS session is the same as was used for the request that established
the TLS session in step 1.
16\. If the received Ks_js_NAF is valid, the web server will continue to
process the request made in step 14 and return the result to the web browser
(to the Javascript).
#