# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document describes name identification supplementary services
(stage 2) within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives the stage 2 description of the Name Identification
Supplementary Services.
The group of Name Identification Supplementary Services contains the following
Supplementary Service:
**CNAP -** Calling name presentation (clause 4).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on Supplementary Services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical Realization of Supplementary Services \-
General Aspects\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.016: \"Subscriber Data Management - Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line Identification Supplementary Services - Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Definition of name identity:**
The name identity is made up of the following information unit:
\- The name of the mobile subscriber for the purpose of calling name
presentation - up to 80 characters of information associated with a specific
calling party.
The calling name identity is the name identity of the calling party.
**Definition of Presentation Indicator:**
In addition to or instead of the name identity, the network may give a
Presentation Indicator to the called mobile subscriber of the CNAP service.
The following information may be given:
\- Presentation Indicator (PI) showing:
a) presentation restricted, or
b) name unavailable.
**Calling Name Information:**
The calling name information of the calling party includes either the calling
name identity or an indication of privacy or unavailability.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
In addition to the following abbreviations used in the present document,
abbreviations are listed in 3GPP TR 21. 905 [1].
CNAP Calling Name Presentation.
# 4 Calling Name Presentation (CNAP)
## 4.1 Handling of calling name presentation
### 4.1.1 Originating MSC Activities
The originating MSC may include calling name information in the Setup.
### 4.1.2 Terminating VMSC Activities
The calling name identity shall be provided by the terminating VMSC to the MS.
See Figure 3a/3b for details.
The procedures of the name database query are outside the scope of the present
document.
The MSC shall determine the presentation indicator to be sent to the CNAP
subscriber's MS by combining the presentation indicator in the calling line
information (if available), the presentation indicator in the calling name
information (if available) and the presentation indicator in the response from
the name database (if applicable). The calling name shall be restricted if
either the line or name indicator shows the information is to be restricted
(and override category is not applicable). The precise handling depends on the
structure of the name database and is therefore outside the scope of the
present document. An example is shown in annex A.
If a name database query is not possible, e.g. calling line identity is
unavailable, name database is not responding, or the name database response
timer expires, then the MSC shall send a presentation indicator of name
unavailable to the CNAP subscriber's MS.
A character translation may be required by the terminating MSC since the name
characters stored in the name database are not using the GSM default alphabet
(name characters passed to the CNAP subscriber's MS use the GSM default
alphabet). Display of calling name identity to the subscriber is outside the
scope of the present document.
### 4.1.3 Interrogation
**Status check**
The mobile subscriber can request the status of the supplementary service and
be informed if the service is provided to him/her. This procedure is
illustrated in figure 1.
Figure 1: Interrogation of Calling Name Presentation
## 4.2 Functions and information flows
The following Mobile Additional Functions (MAF) have been identified for the
PLMN:
MAF049
Determination of the calling name presentation subscription.
The ability of a PLMN component to determine whether the supplementary service
is provisioned for the mobile subscriber. See figure 3a.
Location: VLR.
MAF050
Determination of the calling party name for offering to the called party.
The ability of a PLMN component to determine and to forward the calling name
identity and related indications to the called party. See figure 3b.
Location: destination MSC.
The information flow is shown in figure 4.
Figure 2: MAF049 Determination of the calling name presentation subscription\
(VLR)
Figure 3a: MAF050(CNAP) Determination of the information for offering to the
called party (Sheet 1)
Figure 3b: MAF050(CNAP) Determination of the information for offering to the
called party (Sheet 2)
Figure 4: Information Flow For Calling Name Presentation: Mobile Station Or
Fixed Terminal To Mobile Station
NOTE: OR1: CNAP provisioned Y: yes\ N: no\ OR2: Calling Name Info a: allowed\
Presentation Indicator Value b: restricted\ c: unavailable\ OR3: Override
category Y: yes\ N: no\ info: information\ req: request\ ack: acknowledge\ PI:
presentation indicator
## 4.3 Information stored in the HLR
CNAP may have the following logical states (refer to 3GPP TS 23.011 for an
explanation of the notation):
* * *
**Provision State** **Registration State** **Activation State** **HLR Induced
State** (Not Provisioned, Not Applicable, Not Active, Not Induced)
(Provisioned, Not Applicable, Active and Operative, Not Induced)
* * *
The HLR shall store the logical state of CNAP (which shall be one of the valid
state listed above) on a per subscriber basis.
The HLR shall also store the subscription option \"override category\" on a
per subscriber basis. The subscription options are: \"Yes\" or \"No\".
## 4.4 State Transition Model
The following figure shows the successful cases of transition between the
applicable logical states of CNAP. The state changes are caused by actions of
the service provider.
Note that error cases are not shown in the diagram as they normally do not
cause change. Additionally, some successful requests may not cause a state
change. Hence they are not shown in the diagram.
Figure 5: State Transition model for CNAP
## 4.5 Transfer of information from HLR to VLR
If the provisioning state for CNAP is \"provisioned\" then, when the
subscriber registers on a VLR, the HLR shall send the VLR subscriber
information about the logical state of CNAP. Please refer to GSM 03.16 for
details related to the handling of supplementary service information between
the HLR and VLR.
If the logical state of CNAP or the override category is changed while a
subscriber is registered on a VLR, then the HLR shall inform the VLR of the
logical state of CNAP. If the override category is changed and the
provisioning state of CNAP is \"Provisioned\", then the HLR shall inform the
VLR about the new override category when the VLR is in the HPLMN country. The
HLR may inform the VLR about the new override category when the VLR is outside
the HPLMN country.
## 4.6 Information stored in the VLR
For CNAP, the VLR shall store the service state information and override
category received from the HLR. If not received from the HLR (in case of
roaming outside the HPLMN country), the override category shall be set to the
default value \"no\".
## 4.7 Handover
Handover will have no impact on the control procedures and the operation of
the service.
###### ### Annex A (normative for PCS1900): Calling Name Information Setting
to the MS
A name database query is performed using the calling party's line identity as
specified in ANSI T1.641 \"Calling Name Identification Presentation\".
The calling name information, which contains the resulting presentation
indicator, as shown in Table 1 is sent to the CNAP subscriber's MS.
Table 1: Determination of Calling Name Information sent to CNAP subscriber's
MS
* * *
**Presentation Indicator in Calling Name Information** **Presentation
Indicator in Name Database** **Calling Name Information sent to the CNAP
subscriber's MS** Presentation Presentation Allowed  
Allowed Presentation Restricted Calling Name Blocking Toggle Identity No
Indication  
Presentation Restricted No Database Query performed Presentation Restricted^1^
Blocking Presentation Allowed Presentation Restricted^1^ Toggle Presentation
Restricted Calling Name Identity Blocking Toggle Unavailable ^2^ No Indication
Unavailable ^2^ No Presentation Allowed Calling Name Identity Indication
Presentation Restricted Presentation Restricted^1^ (or No Calling Name
Blocking Toggle Unavailable ^2^ Information present) No Indication Unavailable
^2^
* * *
NOTE1: If the override category is set to yes, the MSC shall send the calling
name identity and a presentation indicator of presentation restricted to the
CNAP subscriber's MS.
NOTE 2: These combinations are unexpected: an indication of name unavailable
is given.
#