# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the services provided by the Access Stratum to
the rest of the system. The adopted architecture is given by TS 23.101 [2].
The present document describes the main functions visible at the boundary
between the Access Stratum and the rest of the system, it describes in general
terms the information flows, both control and user data, over this boundary
and relevant for the Access Stratum.
The present document is the basis of the detailed specifications of the
protocols which rule the information flows, both control and user data,
between the Access Stratum and the parts of UMTS outside the Access Stratum,
and of the detailed specifications of the UTRAN. These detailed specifications
are to be found in other Technical Specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS):
Service aspects; Service principles\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.101: \"Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS):
General UMTS Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.105: \"Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS):
Network Principles\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation X.210 (November 1993): \"Information Technology -
Open Systems Interconnection - Basic Reference Model: Conventions for the
Definition of OSI Services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.107: \"QoS Concept and Architecture\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 23.101 [2] and the following apply.
**Access Stratum** : defined in TS 23.101 [2].
**Access Network** : defined in TS 23.101 [2].
**Edge-Node** : core network node which is connected to the URAN at a
particular instance.
**URAN** : defined in [TBD].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AN Access Network
AS Access Stratum
CC Call Control
DC Dedicated Control SAP
CN Core Network
FFS For Further Study
GC General Control (SAP)
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
HPLMN Home Public Land Mobile Network
IF Infrastructure
ME Mobile Equipment
MM Mobility Management
MS Mobile Station
NAS Non Access Stratum
Nt Notification (SAP)
PDN Packet Data Network
PTM Point to Multipoint
RAN Radio Access Network
SAP Service Access Point
SAPI Service Access Point Identifier [???]
SIM Subscriber Identity Module
SMS Short Message Service
SS Supplementary Services
TBD To Be Defined
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
URAN UMTS Radio Access Network
USIM UMTS Subscriber Identity Module
USSD Unstructured Supplementary Service Data
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
VBS Voice Broadcast Service
VGCS Voice Group Call Service
VPLMN Visited Public Land Mobile Network
# 4 Basic Assumptions
## 4.1 Boundaries of the Access Stratum
The Access Stratum (AS) is defined in TS 23.101 [2]. It consists of a
functional grouping which includes all the layers embedded in the URAN; and
part of the layers in the User Equipment (UE) and the infrastructure (IF);
i.e. the edge-node. Its boundary is the frontier between the layers which are
independent of the access technique and the ones which are dependent on it.
This frontier is located in the UE (mobile boundary) and in an edge-node
(fixed boundary). There is a direct or \"transparent\" dialogue (i.e. not
interpreted by the AS) between the UE and the edge-node for the Non-Access
Stratum layers.
## 4.2 Main design guidelines
1) The Access Stratum contains all access specific functionality, e.g. all
mode specific functionality in case of the UTRAN.
2) Reconfiguration of the AN, or changes in the AN domain functionality shall
have minimal impact on Core Network functions, and vice-versa.
3) A given Access Network (e.g., the UTRAN) may provide access to different
type of Core Networks via the I~u~ reference point.
4) The services, access signalling, mobility and subscriber management
specific to each Core Network are completely outside the Access Stratum, and
are transferred transparently by the Access Stratum.
5) The Access Stratum provides flexible radio access bearers characterised by
parameters describing the type of information and QoS transported over the
radio interface (i.e. not the actual radio resources). Some radio access
bearers may be asymmetric, i.e., have different parameters on uplink and
downlink.
6) There are radio access bearers for both connection oriented packet-switched
services, connectionless (store-and-forward) services, and circuit-switched
traffic.
7) Parameters for connection-oriented radio access bearers may change during
connection (bandwidth on demand, quality management).
8) Whether a terminal can be registered and have connections to several Core
Networks simultaneously (i.e., over different instances of Iu) is FFS.
9) The Access Stratum can provide several parallel and independent radio
access bearers to one user equipment each with its own characteristics.
10) Multimedia is handled outside the Access Stratum by multiplexing several
streams onto one radio access bearer or by requesting several parallel radio
access bearers. In the latter case, the possibly needed synchronisation is
handled outside the Access Stratum.
11) Connection of a user equipment to several URAN at a time has to be
studied.
12) Handover and if applied macrodiversity within one Access Network is
handled within the Access Stratum.
13) Handover between two Access Networks (e.g., two UTRANs, or between UTRAN
and GSM BSS) may use support from the Core Network.
14) The Access Stratum should hide all access -specific parameters, e.g.,
location data provided to the Core Networks should be independent from the
actual configuration of the Access Network.
15) The user equipment can be connected to different AN/CN points via a single
Access Network. The Access Stratum should be able to provide a flexible
routing to the appropriate AN/CN point.
# 5 Functions location inside/outside Access Stratum
Following table shows the functional split between Access Stratum and the rest
of the system.
Table 1: Functions inside/outside the Access Stratum
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | LOCATION | Outside the Access | Inside the Access | | | Stratum | Stratum | | \ | | | | | | | | FUNCTION | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Call set up/release | yes | no | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | (Connection) Bearer | CN bearer [tbd] | Radio Access Bearer | | Set-Up Release | | [tbd] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Supplementary | yes | no | | Services | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Location management | yes (IWF/CN related) | yes (Radio related) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attach/ Detach | yes | FFS, Contr expected | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Resource Management | yes (for NAS | yes (for AS resource | | | resource) | incl. radio) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover | yes* | yes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Macrodiversity | yes* | yes | | [ffs] | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Encryption | yes | yes** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Authentication | yes | no | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | compression (non | yes | yes | | source dependent) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | source dependent | yes | no | | coding | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | radio channel coding | no | yes (could be many) | | (could be many) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE location | may be supported | yes | | identification | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Charging | yes | no | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE *: Optionally | | | | execution. In some | | | | CNs, it may not be | | | | present but not full | | | | service will be | | | | supported (e.g. | | | | limited to RLL type | | | | of service). | | | | | | | | NOTE **: | | | | Contributions | | | | expected to clarify | | | | the role between | | | | encryption and | | | | subscriber data. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 5.1 Call Control
This Functionality is placed in the NAS, since it manipulates the call state
machine. An example is termination of Q.931 message and sending of ISUP.
Not part of AS. NAS specific signalling messages, e.g. Q.931, Q.2931 and ISUP.
## 5.2 (Connection) Bearer Control
It is distinguished between the bearers used in the NAS and the common bearer
used in the AS (radio access bearer).
Basic principles for radio access bearers are:
1) Radio access bearers provide information transport between the non‑access
stratum parts of the infrastructure side (i.e. the edge node) and the user
equipment side. Radio access bearers shall support real time as well as non
real time user traffic.
2) Radio access bearers must be flexible enough to support different traffic
types, activity levels, throughput rates, transfer delays and bit error rates.
Attributes allowing efficient use of radio resources are crucial.
3) Efficient mapping from the traffic attributes used by non-UMTS
applications, given by dominating external network technologies, to the
attributes of the radio access bearer layer of the access stratum is
essential. Complexity in mapping procedures should be avoided.
4) Definitions of traffic attributes and traffic management for radio access
bearers shall be consistent with the predominant networking technology on the
market (e.g. N-ISDN and IP networks for UMTS phase 1). As networking
technologies emerge, adapted radio access bearer attributes and types shall
gradually be added.
5) Radio access bearer definitions must allow for straightforward and
efficient traffic management and resource handling of the radio resources in
the access stratum.
This procedure is part of the NAS. Example are 13.0 kbit/s (for GSM speech)
and 2B+D (for ISDN BRI).
The protocols required in AS to provide a radio access bearer should be able
to describe both packet switch and circuit switch types of connections.
## 5.3 Supplementary Services (CLIP, CF etc.)
Supplementary services are part of the NAS, since they manipulate the Call
state machine.
Supplementary services are not part of AS since they manipulate the call state
machine.
## 5.4 Location Management
\"Location Updating Management\" and \"Paging\" is an existing example of
Location Management.
Location Management may be supported in the NAS.
Radio related Location Management may be part of the AS.
## 5.5 Attach/ Detach
If the Attach/ Detach procedures are supported in the NAS they use CN specific
identifiers to mark the attached/detached subscriber. As an example in GSM,
the attach/detach procedure is performed on the IMSI flag, and therefore it is
a NAS functionality.
Attach/Detach may be performed in the AS using the URAN unique identifiers.
This is FFS.
## 5.6 Resource management
This function allocates resources for a given information stream, as to allow
to convey it with a given QoS. This information stream may support either
signalling data (CC, MM, ...) or user data.
Both circuit switched and packet access are supported, offering both
connection oriented and connectionless services.
The AS resource management is transparent for the NAS and vice versa.
## 5.7 Handover
### 5.7.1 Handover - outside Access Stratum
Handover may be a NAS functionality, but it can not be expected that all CNs
will support handover therefore the IWF may take care of any required handover
functionality. The AN may leave certain parameters, e.g. the address to a new
IWF/CN‑AN connection point, to which the IWF/CN may switch if it has the
capabilities.
### 5.7.2 Handover - inside Access Stratum
Handover is performed in the AS, to hide all radio specific details from the
NAS.
### 5.7.3 Handover scenarios supported by the Iu interface
The following sections describe which functions will be supported by the Iu
interface. Some functions have no impact on the Iu interface and therefore
will be supported de-facto, nevertheless they are explicitly mentioned for
completeness of the scenarios.
#### 5.7.3.1 Classification A
Classification A describes the way the handover is prepared:
HO A1: the network has informed the target cell before the MS changes cell;
HO A2: the network has not informed the target cell before the MS changes
cell;
HO A3: the mobile has informed the target cell before it leaves the source
cell.
HO A1 is typical of the existing handover in GSM.
HO A2 reflects the call re-establishment in GSM, mobile directed handovers in
general, or even GPRS to some extent (although the GPRS vocabulary is
different).
HO A1, HO A2 and HO A3 shall be supported by the service primitives of the Iu
interface.
#### 5.7.3.2 Classification B
Classification B describes the way the decision to initiate a handover is
taken:
HO B1: decision is taken by the terminal;
HO B2: decision is taken by the network.
When the network takes the decision, it can be either in the RAN (HO B2a), or
in the CN (probably based on information provided by the RAN and/or the MS)
(HO B2b).
In order to keep the radio independence from the CN, it would be desirable
that the decision be taken only in the RAN. This means that a communication
mechanism is needed between URANs, that interface being logically different
from the Iu interface.
HO B1 and HO B2 shall be supported by the service primitives of the Iu
interface.
NOTE 1: FFS: For HO B2 cases, handover initiation/decisions shall be taken by
the source URAN.
NOTE 2: FFS: There is a URAN to URAN signalling mechanism transparent to the
CN. A standardised protocol will be implemented across that interface to allow
handover decisions by the URAN in HO B2 cases.
#### 5.7.3.3 Classification C
Classification C concerns the kind of handover performed:
1) intra-cell handover;
2) intra-URAN handover;
3) inter-URAN handover (without change of CN access point);
4) intra-CN handover with same URAN type;
5) intra-CN handover with different URAN type;
6) inter-CN handover with same URAN type and same CN type;
7) inter-CN handover with different URAN type and same CN type;
8) inter-CN handover with same URAN type and different CN type;
9) inter-CN handover with different URAN type and different CN type;
10) inter-CN handover without change of URAN.
The type of URAN type should be relatively transparent to the Iu interface.
Regarding handovers across multiple CN, it is proposed that this is supported
(and this is already possible with GSM).
C1 to C7 scenarios shall be supported by the service primitives of the Iu
interface.
NOTE: FFS: scenarios C8 to C10 shall be supported by the service primitives of
the Iu interface.
#### 5.7.3.4 Classification D
Regarding how a handover is performed, there is the possibility to either have
the notion of anchor point, or not to have it. Example is circuit switched
GSM, using anchor points, and GPRS, not using that notion.
Furthermore, the notion of anchor point may be handled differently for the
signalling plane and the transmission plane.
The notion of anchor point shall be supported by the service primitives of the
Iu interface.
NOTE 1: FFS: the notion of transmission plane anchor point is supported by the
service primitives of the Iu interface.
NOTE 2: FFS: the notion of signalling plane anchor point is supported by the
service primitives of the Iu interface.
NOTE 3: FFS: the anchor points for the signalling plane and transmission plane
need not necessarily be the same or even exist simultaneously. The flexibility
should be left in UMTS by the Iu service principles.
## 5.8 Macrodiversity
(if needed, dependent of the choice of multiple access technology)
Not all IWF/CNs will support macrodiversity.
Macrodiversity may be supported in the AS, dependent on the choice of multiple
access technology.
## 5.9 Encryption
The NAS may support encryption to protect the transmitted data.
The AS needs to support encryption to prevent from eavesdropping at the radio
interface.
## 5.10 Authentication of Subscriber
Subscriber data is stored in the NAS and therefore authentication should be
considered a NAS functionality.
NAS data is not stored in the URAN, and subscriber authentication can
therefore not be a URAN functionality.
## 5.11 (Non source dependent coding) Compression
NAS may support compression.
The AS should support compression to optimise usage of radio resources.
## 5.12 Source (e.g. voice or video) Coding
Source coding is different dependent on IWF/CN and is therefore a NAS
functionality.
## 5.13 Radio Channel Coding
Radio Channel coding is needed due to the radio interface and could therefore
be considered a radio functionality. Radio Channel coding is not a NAS
functionality.
Radio Channel coding is supported by URAN.
## 5.14 UE Location Identification
The UE location identification may be supported by the UE and/or the access
network side of the AS; i.e., URAN; e.g., as defined in the GSM LCS (Location
Services) specifications or by some other means. The UE location
identification is provided to identify the likely location of specific UEs.
This is meant to be used for charging, location-based services, lawful
interception, emergency calls, etc., as well as the positioning services.
When location identification is supported by URAN, the following apply:
URAN obtains \'Area ID\' and/or geographic co-ordinates with uncertainty
parameters for identification of the likely location of UE, to be sent to the
NAS entity side of the CN (i.e., edge node) \'Area ID\' represents either a
radio access cell/sector or a geographic area. \'Area ID\' is coded in the
same format as Cell Global Identification (CGI), for compatibility to GSM.
Location information is categorised to two levels of accuracy. The Basic Level
of information is what URAN obtains without extra signalling with the UE. The
advanced level is obtained through extra signalling for positioning. Both
levels can be used for both, Positioning services and other applications.
Location information is always at least obtained from URAN by the appropriate
edge node(s) at the activation of a Call/PDP Context. Mechanism to make it
possible to obtain the location information at the release of a Call/PDP
Context should be specified. Location information sent to the edge node at
other occasions is on the basis of asynchronous requests from the edge node to
URAN. An edge node can request URAN to send the location information with the
two types of requests, Type 1 (Direct request) where URAN sends location
information only once at the request and Type 2 (Event request) where URAN
sends location information at each specified event (e.g. Cell Update)
requested by the edge node.
## 5.15 Charging
The functions related to charging are not part of the AS. These functions are
mainly:
\- charging information generation;
\- charging processing.
# 6 Access Stratum services
The modelling of the services follow the basic principles as set by ITU‑T
Recommendation X.210 [4]. In this recommendation the following figure is given
as an example for peer‑to‑peer connection‑mode services.
Figure 1: Example of a peer‑to‑peer connection‑mode service [4]
For connectionless‑mode services the basic primitives are \"request\" and
\"indication\".
## 6.1 Service Access Points (SAPs)
The SAPs offered by the Access Stratum (AS) to the rest of the system (Non
Access Stratum: NAS) are reflected in the following figure.
Figure 2: Service Access Points (SAPs) offered by the Access Stratum (AS)
For the time being, the SAPs offered be the AS are symmetric, i.e. the same
SAPs are offered on the infrastructure side (CN-AS) and on the user equipment
side (UE-AS). These SAPs are:
GC: General Control (see 6.1.1 for a general presentation and 6.2.2.1 for a
detailed information).
Nt: Notification (see 6.1.2 for a general presentation and 6.2.2.2 for a
detailed information).
DC: Dedicated Control (see 6.1.3 for a general presentation and 6.2.2.3 for a
detailed information).
NOTE: Broadcast and Multicast services can not be described using the services
and functions defined so far in the present document. The nature of Broadcast
and Multicast services, like Cell Broadcast Service (CBS), is very different
from other specified services. The following model characteristics are missing
to fulfil the CBS requirements, namely:
1\. CBS uses two segments with different QoS requirements to deliver CB
messages to the UE:
1a. From Cell Broadcast Centre (CBC) to RNC, a SAP is required where for
instance, 1 second turnaround time, interactive class, with a reliable
transport is required.
1b. From RNC to UE, a SAP is required where for instance, a maximum delay of
10 seconds and a background class is required.
2\. Because of (item 1), the service primitives used by each of the segments
may also be different; i.e., the related SAPs to those primitives may differ
in the two segments and a combination of GC, Nt, and DC SAPs requires study.
3\. CBS traffic is asymmetric in nature. The communication flow is only in one
direction from the CBC to the UE. There is no uplink channel needed and the UE
can not initiate a communication or request specific information.
At least two changes are envisaged and thus detailed contributions are
expected:
i. Introduce a new SAP type.
ii. Mapping example between the two communication segments.
Figure 2 shows also, as an example, some details of the AS architecture. The
details are out of the scope of this document and are further specified in the
25-series.
This model does not exclude, nor imply, which protocol is specified between
the UE-AS entity and the CN-AS entity. These protocols are \'transparent\' for
the AN, but participate in the service provided by the AS.
### 6.1.1 General Control SAPs
These SAPs are used to enable the Core Network to provide information and to
give commands that do not relate to specific users or specific [sessions]
(group calls, conference). There is typically one General Control SAP per
AN/CN connection point. On the UE side, a possible model is to consider that
there is a single General Control SAP in an MS.
### 6.1.2 Notification SAPs
These SAPs are used to broadcast data to identified Users. The typical use is
for initiating paging in the AN. There is typically one Notification SAP per
AN/CN connection point. On the UE side, a possible model is to consider that
there is a single Notification SAP (a Paging SAP) in an MS.
### 6.1.3 Dedicated Control SAPs
These SAPs are used to establish, release connections with specific User
Equipment, and to exchange information related to these connections. A
connection is a relationship between temporary contexts respectively in the AN
and in the CN. The context in the AN is initiated at the establishment of the
connection, and erased when the connection is released. Several types of
connections are identified, such as point connection (single user) and group
connections.
There are typically a great number of Dedicated Control SAPs per AN/CN
connection point. SAPs are identified by a SAPI at the AS boundary. During the
lifetime of a connection, the connection can be identified unambiguously by
the SAPI of the associated SAP, and the SAPI is used as a reference in the
exchanges at the AS boundary on the infrastructure side.
A SAPI is used as a connection identifier allocated unambiguously to each
connection during its lifetime, and used in the exchanges at the AS boundary
on the infrastructure side.
On the UE side, a possible modelling is to consider that there is a single
dedicated control SAP in an MS.
NOTE 1: On the UE side, an open issue is whether simultaneous services from
distinct ANs can be provided to an MS. Settling this issue may lead to a
different model, for instance with the possibility to have several Dedicated
Control SAPs, one per AN with which an active context exists. Another issue,
visible when analysing Point-to-Multipoint services in GSM, is the SAP
modelling for those PTM services.
NOTE 2: The model is limited in this version to the cases where all the
activity between a User Equipment and the infrastructure pertains to the same
subscriber. Extension to cases with several subscriber sharing a User
Equipment requires further study.
## 6.2 Operations
### 6.2.1 General
The operations are described both for the AS boundary on the Infrastructure
side and on the User Equipment side. The description of the operations on the
Infrastructure side is given with sufficient details to develop on this basis
a concrete control protocol at the AN/CN inter-connection. The description of
the operations on the User Equipment side may be used [to be discussed] for
developing a concrete API, allowing an open modular design of the User
Equipment software.
The operations are described in three sections, one for operations that
involve both the IF side and the UE side, one for operations local to the IF
and finally one for operations local to the UE side. In each sections,
operations are sorted per SAP category.
Request and confirm primitives are always toward the Access Stratum.
Indication and response primitives are always from the Access Stratum.
### 6.2.2 Common operations
#### 6.2.2.1 General Control SAP
##### 6.2.2.1.1 Information broadcast
This operation consists in the broadcast from IF toward User Equipment of some
information in some geographical area. This information is to be used by the
User Equipment for instance to choose among access points or to be taken into
account during initial access. The information can also be destinated to an
application.
NOTE: This concerns only information to be broadcasted on behalf of Non Access
Strata. Other information may be broadcasted for the internal use of the
Access Stratum.
##### 6.2.2.1.1.1 Information broadcast request, IF side {#information-
broadcast-request-if-side .H6}
The parameters are:
* * *
Category enumerated (access point selection, initial access, application)
Geographical area geographical area Information to broadcast bit string
* * *
The size of the information to broadcast is not bound by this description, but
may be constrained by the access system.
The geographical area is used by the AN to determine which access points are
concerned. The rules are not specified in the external specification of the
AS, but must exist and must be consistent with other translations between
geographical descriptions and access points (e.g., in the connection
establishment).
The category is used by the AN to determine priority and more generally the
parameters governing information repetition over time.
NOTE: The category field could be enhanced, e.g., to allow a more precise
control of priorities and repetitions.
##### 6.2.2.1.1.2 Information Broadcast Indication, UE Side {#information-
broadcast-indication-ue-side .H6}
The parameters are:
* * *
Access point reference local Broadcast information bit string
* * *
The access point reference identifies the point on the access boundary (e.g.,
the cell) where the information was received.
NOTE: The access point reference is a local reference, to be used in other
primitives at the AS/NAS boundary in the same UE.
#### 6.2.2.2 Notification SAPs
Notification operations consists of sending information to a dedicated
user/terminal, or a group of users/terminals over a defined geographic area.
Typically the request is forwarded to the user/terminal on a broadcast
resource. If the AN knows of an existing signalling relation to the
user/terminal, the information might be sent through the existing relation,
according to Access Stratum specifications.
##### 6.2.2.2.1 Paging Request, IF side
The parameters are the following:
* * *
User/Terminal Identity pageable identity Geographical area where to broadcast
geographical area Paging resource parameters paging resource parameters
Information to send bit string
* * *
The user/terminal identity is provided to determine if a signalling relation
with the user/terminal exists. The geographical area indicates the area in
which the Core Network knows the User/Terminal(s) to be.
The size of the information to send is not bound by this description, but may
be constrained by the access system.
The paging resource parameters are used to determine which paging resource to
be used when several are available. The organisation of paging resources is
known in advance by the User Equipment, and are used by the User Equipment to
choose the paging resources to listen to. The exact use of the paging resource
parameters is specified as part of Access Stratum specifications.
NOTE: This function is typically used for paging, i.e., to trigger an access
from the User/Terminal. However, this is not relevant to the Access Stratum,
and other uses can be envisaged without impacting the Access Stratum. The
action required from the MS, if any, is indicated, implicitly or explicitly,
in the information to send, the content of which being part of the Non Access
Strata specifications and not of the Access Stratum specifications.
##### 6.2.2.2.2 Notification Broadcast Request, IF side
The parameters are the following:
* * *
Geographical area where to broadcast geographical area Notification resource
parameters paging resource parameters Information to broadcast bit string
* * *
The size of the information to broadcast is not bound by this description, but
may be constrained by the access system.
The paging resource parameters are used to determine which paging resource to
be used when several are available. The organisation of paging resources is
known in advance by the User Equipment, and are used by the User Equipment to
choose the paging resources to listen to. The exact use of the paging resource
parameters is specified as part of Access Stratum specifications.
NOTE: This operation is used typically to inform all MSs of some starting or
on-going activities, such as group calls.
##### 6.2.2.2.3 Notification Indication, UE side
Parameters
* * *
Access point reference local Broadcast information bit string
* * *
NOTE: This primitive applies both for a paging sent on broadcast resources and
for the reception of an information broadcast to many users.
#### 6.2.2.3 Dedicated Control SAPs
Dedicated Control operations are done within the scope of a connection,
embodied by corresponding SAPs on the UE and IF sides. This scope is
determined by local references (respectively on the UE side and on the IF
side). All operations contain such a local reference, and, at a given AN/CN
interconnection point, all operations with the same local reference from the
establishment event to the release event pertain to the same connection. The
correspondence between Dedicated Control SAPs on the UE and IF side is
dynamic, and established through the connection establishment operations.
The local connection references have only a local scope, and their values do
not necessarily have any predictable relationship with the corresponding
reference local to the other side, or with a reference used over some
interface to multiplex the messages pertaining to the connection with messages
pertaining to other connections.
##### 6.2.2.3.1 UE Side Initiated Connection Establishment
This operation consists in the establishment of a new connection at the
initiative of NAS on the User Equipment side.
##### 6.2.2.3.1.1 UE Side Initiated Connection Establishment Request, UE side
{#ue-side-initiated-connection-establishment-request-ue-side .H6}
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Routing parameters routing parameters Initial
message bit string
* * *
The routing parameters are to be used by the AS on the Infrastructure side to
choose the AN/CN connection point through which the connection is to be
established.
The initial message is to be forwarded to the non-access strata. The size of
the initial message should not be constrained by the access system.
##### 6.2.2.3.1.2 UE Side Initiated Connection Establishment Indication, IF
side {#ue-side-initiated-connection-establishment-indication-if-side .H6}
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Initial message bit string Localisation data
localisation data
* * *
The localisation data indicate the knowledge the AN has of the localisation of
the initiating User Equipment. It includes typically a geographical area and
some accuracy indication.
##### 6.2.2.3.1.3 UE Side Initiated Connection Establishment Confirm, IF Side
{#ue-side-initiated-connection-establishment-confirm-if-side .H6}
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Status enumerated (terminated by NAS, going
on) Initial answer bit string
* * *
The NAS can choose not to pursue the connection (status = terminated by NAS).
Reasons can be that the information provided by the User Equipment did not
require more than a single message answer (e.g., store-and-forward service),
or some exception conditions prevented the CN to pursue the connection.
The initial answer is to be provided to the requesting part in the non-access
strata.
##### 6.2.2.3.1.4 UE Side Initiated Connection Establishment Response, UE side
{#ue-side-initiated-connection-establishment-response-ue-side .H6}
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Status enumerated (terminated by NAS,
terminated by AS, going on) Initial answer bit string
* * *
The initial answer is not provided in the case the status is \'terminated by
AS\'. The status \'going on\' and \'terminated by NAS\' indicates that the
initial message was delivered to the NAS; on the other hand, the status
\'terminated by AS\' can happen whether or not the initial message was
delivered to the NAS.
##### 6.2.2.3.2 Connection Release
This operation is the termination of a connection, at the request of non-
access strata on the Infrastructure side. The use of this operation may lead
to the non-completion of other previously started operations in the same
connection (e.g., transparent data transfer).
##### 6.2.2.3.2.1 IF Initiated Connection Release Request, IF Side {#if-
initiated-connection-release-request-if-side .H6}
Parameter
* * *
Local connection reference local
* * *
##### 6.2.2.3.2.2 IF Initiated Connection Release Indication UE side {#if-
initiated-connection-release-indication-ue-side .H6}
Parameter
* * *
Local connection reference local
* * *
##### 6.2.2.3.3 Information Transfer
These operations allow the transfer of messages between Non-Access Strata
elements on each side of the access interface.
The service is essentially that of a transport layer, with multiplexing, and
possibly guarantee of order and correct transmission (transmission
difficulties lead to connection loss), including the effect of user movements.
The operation caters only for transmission from AS boundary to access
boundary. Upper layers of protocol are typically added for addressing and
routing beyond this boundary.
Several independent streams can exist simultaneously on the same connection,
as distinguished by a routing and transaction identifiers. Message order is
guaranteed, if applicable, on a stream basis. Routing identifiers are
typically used to indicate originator and destination (e.g., USIM to Home, ME
to Serving, and also distinctions such as GSM between MM and CC for
instance...). Transaction identifiers are used to distinguish streams with the
same originator and destination. Messages can be sent within a transaction or
not. Transactions are explicitly set up and released, either in-band (i.e.,
together with information transfer) or out-band. Transaction identifiers have
only a local significance.
NOTE 1: There is a difficulty behind the message order. In some cases it may
be important to keep message order in a combination of streams, e.g., within a
route, or even involving two routes. The model presented so far is too simple
to cope with such cases.
A quality of service indication is present in sending requests. This covers
such aspects as message order, effect on other on-going traffic (e.g., speech
pre-emption), delay. A finite number of quality of service classes will be
identified, and the one to apply to a message indicated.
With each transaction is associated a default quality of service, established
at transaction establishment or by a subsequent modification request.
A transmission mode indication is present in reception indications. This gives
information from the Access Stratum on the aspects of the transmission related
to service quality of service (e.g., speech has been pre-empted).
NOTE 2: This covers circuit data transport, including cases where each message
is very small (down to 1 bit or other information quantum). Obviously, in such
cases these primitives are a model not to be followed in implementations.
##### 6.2.2.3.3.1 Data Transfer Request, IF Side {#data-transfer-request-if-
side .H6}
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Route route Transaction identification local
Transaction management enumerated (single, first, subsequent, last) Quality of
Service indication QoS Message bit string
* * *
The transaction management field indicates if the message is independent from
transactions (single), is the first of the transaction and hence initialises
the transaction (first), is the last of the transaction and hence releases the
transaction (last), or is in the middle of a transaction.
The primitive can be used with an empty message for transaction management
alone (value \'single\' is then meaningless).
##### 6.2.2.3.3.2 Data Transfer Indication, UE Side {#data-transfer-
indication-ue-side .H6}
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Route route Transaction identification local
Transaction management enumerated (single, first, subsequent, last)
Transmission mode indication transmission mode Message bit string
* * *
##### 6.2.2.3.3.3 Data Transfer Request, UE Side {#data-transfer-request-ue-
side .H6}
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Route route Transaction identification local
Transaction management enumerated (single, first, subsequent, last) Quality of
Service indication QoS Message bit string
* * *
##### 6.2.2.3.3.4 Data Transfer Indication, IF Side {#data-transfer-
indication-if-side .H6}
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Route route Transaction identification local
Transaction management enumerated (single, first, subsequent, last)
Transmission mode indication transmission mode Message bit string
* * *
##### 6.2.2.3.4 IF Side Initiated Radio Access Bearer Establishment
These operations allow the transfer of control messages for radio access
bearer establishment between non-access strata elements on each side of the
access interface. The operations pertain to the connection identified by the
local connection reference parameter. The operations allow the IF side to
initialise a radio access bearer. The operation also implies a request to the
AS to allocate transmission resources to the radio access bearer.
A radio access bearer identification uniquely identifies the radio access
bearer. It is used in all primitives that pertain to the radio access bearer.
It also serves as the binding to a NAS call.
The Iu bearer identification identifies the Iu connection.
A quality of service request specifies the bearer characteristics that apply
to the radio access bearer.
###### 6.2.2.3.4.1 IF Side Initiated Radio Access Bearer Establishment
Request, IF Side
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Radio access bearer identification bit string
Iu bearer identification bit string Quality of Service request QoS
* * *
###### 6.2.2.3.4.2 IF Side Initiated Radio Access Bearer Establishment
Indication, UE Side
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Radio access bearer identification bit string
Iu bearer identification bit string
* * *
###### 6.2.2.3.4.3 IF Side Initiated Radio Access Bearer Establishment
Response, UE Side
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Radio access bearer identification bit string
Status enumerated (terminated by NAS, going on)
* * *
###### 6.2.2.3.4.4 IF Side Initiated Radio Access Bearer Establishment
Confirm, IF Side
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Radio access bearer identification bit string
Status enumerated (terminated by NAS, terminated by AS, going on)
* * *
##### 6.2.2.3.5 IF Side Initiated Radio Access Bearer Release
These operations allow the transfer of radio access bearer release messages
between non-access strata elements on each side of the access interface. The
operations pertain to the connection identified by the local connection
reference parameter. The operations allow IF side to release a radio access
bearer.
NOTE: A radio access bearer release procedure is normally initiated by the IF
side. Abnormal cases such as termination by the AS are FFS.
###### 6.2.2.3.5.1 IF Side Initiated Radio Access Bearer Release Request, IF
Side
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Radio access bearer identification bit string
* * *
###### 6.2.2.3.5.2 IF Side Initiated Radio Access Bearer Release Indication,
UE Side
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Radio access bearer identification bit string
* * *
### 6.2.3 IF side only operations
#### 6.2.3.1 Dedicated control SAPs
##### 6.2.3.1.1 Position update indication
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Position position
* * *
##### 6.2.3.1.2 Connection loss indication
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local
* * *
##### 6.2.3.1.3 Streamlining required indication
This operation is used by the AS to indicate that the connection runs the risk
to be aborted unless a streamlining is done.
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Proposed list of alternative AN/CN points
AN/CN point list
* * *
##### 6.2.3.1.4 Branch establishment request
This operation establishes a new branch supporting dedicated mode transport
for a given UE.
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local Transaction list transaction list
* * *
The transaction list describes the transactions for which the establishment
prior the first transmission of data is required.
##### 6.2.3.1.5 Branch establishment confirm
This indicates that the branch is successfully established up to the UE and
can then be used for transmission. As a result, the NAS may decide to remove
the old branch.
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local
* * *
##### 6.2.3.1.6 UE location information request
This operation is sent from the NAS entity inside the CN (i.e. edge node) to
the access network side of AS (i.e. URAN) to request the location information
of a specific UE.
Parameters:
* * *
Local connection reference local Level of accuracy basic level or advanced
level Type of request direct request or event request Event conditions to send
information
* * *
The level of accuracy describes the granularity required on the UE location
information, either basic or advanced. The type of request describes whether
the request is to get the current UE location or to get the location when some
conditions specified by event are satisfied.
##### 6.2.3.1.7 UE location information confirm
This operation is sent in response to the UE location information request
operation.
Parameters:
* * *
Local connection reference local Area ID UE location information in terms of
CGI format Geographic coordinates UE location information in terms of
coordinates Event conditions met
* * *
The Area ID is to be formatted in accordance with the CGI (Cell Global
Identity). The geographic co-ordinates represents the physical co-ordinates on
the earth and uncertainty parameters.
[To be completed]
### 6.2.4 UE side only operations
#### 6.2.4.1 Dedicated control SAPs
##### 6.2.4.1.1 Connection loss indication
Parameters
* * *
Local connection reference local
* * *
[To be completed]
## 6.3 Parameters structure
### 6.3.1 Local
The structure is not relevant in the scope of this document, and can be
decided on an implementation basis.
### 6.3.2 Bit string
A finite ordered sequence of bit values.
### 6.3.3 Enumerated
The parameter can take one value out of a list explicitly given.
### 6.3.4 Geographical description
TBI
### 6.3.5 QoS
This section describes the radio access bearer (RAB) by referencing a list of
attributes related to the QoS. The radio access bearers are divided into two
categories:
\- Restricted radio access bearers;
\- Unrestricted radio access bearers.
An unrestricted radio access bearer is meant for data requiring bit sequence
integrity (;e.g., N-ISDN data transport), whereas a restricted radio access
bearer contains a description of the nature of the information (;e.g., encoded
voice). For a restricted radio access bearer, the characteristics are
implicitly given.
The characterisation of a radio access bearer is made by using a set of
attributes. A radio access bearer attribute is a specific characteristic that
distinguishes it from other radio access bearer services. Refer to TS 23.107
[5] for a list of these QoS attributes. Particular values are also indicated
in that specification for different services.
In order to describe the desired radio access bearer service, QoS attributes
are defined at the SAP. Note that it is not necessary, nor meaningful to
support all possible combinations of parameter settings.
NOTE: In case of an unrestricted radio access bearer, for every SDU provided
at the SAP, bit sequence integrity should be maintained.
### 6.3.6 Route
TBI
### 6.3.7 Transaction identifier
Local.
### 6.3.8 Transaction list
A list of transactions, each described by a transaction identifier (local) and
by QoS parameters.
### 6.3.9 Transmission mode
TBI
### 6.3.10 AN/CN Point List
TBI
### 6.3.11 Localisation
TBI
#