# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the stage 2 description for the 3GPP system
provided enablers to support group communication services using EUTRAN access.
The corresponding stage 1 requirements are defined in TS 22.468 [2].
The group communication system is represented by an Application Server (GCS
AS) using the 3GPP system provided enablers for transferring its application
signalling and for delivering application data, e.g. media data, to a group of
UEs either (i) over MBMS Bearer Services using the Broadcast Mode of MBMS (TS
23.246 [3]); or (ii) over EPS Bearers; or (iii) over both MBMS and EPS bearer
services.
The specification covers both roaming and non-roaming scenarios and also
includes support for service continuity, i.e. support for continuous reception
of application data when a UE changes between reception of application data
via EPS and MBMS Bearer Services.
Application level interactions between the UE and the GCS Application Server
are out of scope of this specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
> [2] 3GPP TS 22.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE
> (GCSE_LTE)\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
> Architecture and functional description\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.214: \"Policy and charging control over Rx reference point\".
> [5] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
> Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 26.346: \" Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
> Protocols and codecs\".
>
> [8] 3GPP TS 33.246: \"3G Security; Security of Multimedia
> Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description;
Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.303: \"Proximity-based services (ProSe); Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**MBMS Delivery:** A mechanism by which application data and signaling are
delivered using MBMS bearer service over EUTRAN as defined in TS 23.246 [3].
**Unicast Delivery:** A mechanism by which application data and signaling are
delivered using EPS bearer service over EUTRAN as defined in TS 23.401 [5].
**ProSe UE-to-Network Relay:** see TS 23.303 [11].
**Remote UE:** see TS 23.303 [11].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AS Application Server
ARP Allocation and Retention Priority
BM-SC Broadcast Multicast - Service Centre
DL Down Link
DRX Discontinuous Reception
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name
GCS Group Communication Service
GCS AS Group Communication Service Application Server
GCSE_LTE Group Communication System Enabler for LTE
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network
MCH Multicast Channel
MCCH Multicast Control Channel
MTCH Multicast Traffic Channel
PCC Policy and Charging Control
PCEF Policy and Charging Enforcement Function
ProSe Proximity-based Services
QCI QoS Class Identifier
TMGI Temporary Mobile Group Identity
UDP User Datagram Protocol
vPCRF visited Policy and Charging Rules Function
# 4 Architecture Model and Concepts
## 4.1 General Concept
This specification describes how a GCS Application Server (GCS AS) may use the
enablers offered by the 3GPP system for providing a Group Communication
Service (GCS). These enablers are denoted as Group Communication System
Enablers (GCSE).
The GCS AS uses EPS bearer services and may use in addition MBMS bearer
services for transferring application signalling and data between the GCS AS
and the UEs. In uplink direction, the UE uses an EPS bearer service to
exchange application signalling with the GCS AS or when it wants to send data
to the GCS AS. In downlink direction the GCS AS may transfer application
signalling and data via the UE individual EPS bearer services and/or via MBMS
bearer service. The GCS UEs register with their GCS AS using application
signalling for participating in one or multiple GCS groups.
NOTE 1: GCS application signalling (e.g. for group admission and floor
control) and GCS group management aspects (such as group creation, deletion,
modification, group membership control, etc) are out of scope of this
specification.
When an MBMS bearer service is used, its broadcast service area may be pre-
configured for use by the GCS AS. Alternatively, the GCS AS may dynamically
decide to use an MBMS bearer service when it determines that the number of UE
for a GCS group is sufficiently large within an area (e.g. within a cell or a
collection of cells).
When MBMS bearer service is used, GCS AS may transfer data from different GCS
groups over a single MBMS broadcast bearer. The application signalling and
data transferred via MBMS bearer(s) are transparent to BM-SC and the MBMS
bearer service. The GCS AS provides the UEs via GCS application signalling
with all configuration information that the UE needs to receive application
data via MBMS bearer services and to handle that data appropriately.
When a GCS UE moves between areas where its MBMS broadcast bearers are
available or not, the UE informs the GCS AS via application signalling that it
changes from MBMS broadcast bearer reception to non-reception, or vice versa,
the GCS AS activates or deactivates the downlink application signalling and
data transfer via the UE individual EPS bearer(s) as appropriate. To
accomplish service continuity, a UE may temporarily receive the same GCS
application signalling and data in parallel via EPS bearer(s) and MBMS
service(s). The GCS UE application discards any received application
signalling or data duplicates.
The following diagram shows an example of a scenario where a combination of
Unicast and MBMS Delivery is used for a particular media, belonging to a
single group, by the GCS AS on the DL to different UEs. Here, UE-1 and UE-2
receive DL traffic over unicast whereas UEs 3-6 receive DL traffic over MBMS.
NOTE 2: Even though UE-2, UE-3 and UE-4 are connected to the same eNB (eNB-2),
the UEs may be using different delivery modes. For example, UE-2 is using
unicast since it may be in an area where the MBMS signal strength is weak.
Figure 4.1-1: Media traffic with unicast and MBMS on DL
NOTE 3: During service continuity procedures a UE may simultaneously receive
traffic from both unicast and MBMS.
## 4.2 Architectural Reference Model
### 4.2.1 General
This model assumes that the GCS AS is not associated with any PLMN (regardless
of the subscription of the UEs that use it). The GCS AS is merely perceived as
a third party application server by each serving PLMN. In addition:
> \- When the group communication service is provided using Unicast Delivery,
> there are no additional requirements in order to provide GCS in roaming
> other than enabling normal EPS roaming and the ability of the GCS AS to
> access QoS control capabilities via Rx interface in the HPLMN (for the non-
> roaming case and the roaming Home routed case). For the Local breakout
> scenario, QoS control may be established via hPCRF and the S9 interface
> towards the vPCRF directly to the vPCRF as specified in TS 23.203 [6]. The
> GCS AS shall provide information to enable session binding as defined in
> clause 6.1.1.2 of TS 23.203 [6].
>
> \- When MBMS Delivery to particular regions of the serving PLMN is required,
> the GCS AS needs to have access to an MB2 interface offered by the serving
> PLMN.
Since the GCS AS is a third party application server, the GCS AS can access
the required network resources to deliver the group communication service,
whether the serving PLMN is the Home PLMN or a different VPLMN, based on
operator agreement.
The PLMN selection process is according to the existing 3GPP procedures. When
a PLMN is selected, the UE should, in order to enable group communication
services, register or re-register with the GCS AS and report to it the PLMN ID
of the current serving network as well as its HPLMN ID. The GCS AS may then,
based on this information, determine if it has an MB2 connection agreement for
the serving PLMN, and if so report to the UE the MBMS related service data
required to use the service via MBMS Delivery in that PLMN.
Both the Home and serving PLMN ID(s) are needed to identify the contact point
for the Rx interface, in addition to existing parameters as defined in TS
23.203 [6] in order to accurately identify the UE and the session. The GCS AS
finds the entry point at the HPLMN using the home PLMN ID, the GCS AS finds
the entry point at the VPLMN using the serving PLMN ID. Within the PLMN, the
information listed in TS 23.203 [6] is used to find the PCRF.
If no MB2 connection agreement with the GCS AS is available in the serving
PLMN, then the GCS AS may deliver the group communication data using Unicast
Delivery.
NOTE: In the architecture figures shown in clauses 4.2.2, 4.2.3 and 4.2.4,
\"GCS AS\" is being shown as one entity for simplicity. It may be comprised of
different functional entities to handle user and control plane. A BM-SC may be
connected to multiple GCS AS, and a UE may be served simultaneously by
multiple GCS AS (via separate GC1 connections).
The GCS AS provides the Service Information to the PCRF and the BM-SC. The
Service Information is mapped by the PCRF and the BM-SC to the QoS parameters
under the consideration of the respective EPS network.
### 4.2.2 Non-roaming architecture
Figure 4.2.2-1 shows a high level view of the architecture for the non-roaming
scenario.
Figure 4.2.2-1: Non-roaming architecture model for GCSE_LTE
### 4.2.3 Roaming architecture
Figure 4.2.3-1 shows a high level view of the architecture applicable for the
Home routed roaming model for Unicast Delivery. For MBMS Delivery, BM-SC in
the V-PLMN has a direct MB2 connection with the GCS AS.
Figure 4.2.3-1: Home routed roaming model
Figure 4.2.3-2 shows a high level view of the architecture applicable for the
Local Breakout roaming model for Unicast Delivery. For MBMS Delivery, BM-SC in
the V-PLMN has a direct MB2 connection with the GCS AS.
Figure 4.2.3-2: Local Break Out model
The GCS AS is configured with mapping information which contains an IP address
range and the corresponding PLMN which is responsible for this IP address
range {(IPx..IPy) -> PLMN ID}.
In roaming scenarios, the GCS AS receives the UE IP address, the HPLMN ID and
the VPLMN ID via GC1 signalling from the UE. If the configured PLMN entry
corresponding to the UE\'s IP address matches the HPLMN ID sent by the UE, the
GCS AS selects a PCRF from the UE\'s HPLMN (hPCRF) using the procedures
defined in TS 23.203 [6]. Otherwise, the GCS AS may select a PCRF from either
the HPLMN or the VPLMN using the procedures defined in TS 23.203 [6]. The GCS
AS makes this selection based on agreements with HPLMN/VPLMN operators.
### 4.2.4 Architecture model using a ProSe UE-to-Network Relay for Public
Safety
A Group Communication Service (GCS) is supported to the Remote UE using the
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay through the PC5 reference point specified in TS
23.303 [11]. In Figure 4.2.4-1, the architecture includes this scenario. This
architecture is only applied when using a Group Communication Service
Application Server (GCS AS) for public safety.
Figure 4.2.4-1: Architecture model using a ProSe UE-to-Network Relay for
Public Safety
## 4.3 Reference points
### 4.3.1 General
The reference points used to support group communications are listed in the
following clauses.
### 4.3.2 List of Reference Points
#### 4.3.2.1 GC1 reference point
The GC1 reference point exists between the GCS AS and the application client
on the UE, and is not specified in this release of this specification.
However, this specification includes high level descriptions of interactions
on the GC1 reference point, which are necessary in order to convey certain
information (e.g. PLMN ID) and perform certain functions (e.g. register or re-
register with serving PLMN ID) in order for the EPS and MBMS bearer services
to be delivered accurately. Some of these aspects are specified in clauses
4.2.1, 4.4.1, 4.4.2, 4.5.1, 4.5.2, 5.3.2 and 5.3.3 of this specification.
#### 4.3.2.2 MB2 reference point
The MB2 reference point exists between the GCS AS and the BM-SC.
The MB2 reference point provides the ability for the application to:
\- Request the allocation/deallocation of a set of TMGIs,
\- Request to activate, deactivate, and modify an MBMS bearer.
The MB2 reference point provides the ability for the BM-SC to:
\- Notify the application of the status of an MBMS bearer.
NOTE: The ability to indicate failure to deliver content is limited to current
functionality.
#### 4.3.2.3 SGmb/SGi-mb/M1/M3 reference points
The SGmb/SGi-mb/M1/M3 reference points are internal to the MBMS system and are
defined in TS 23.246 [3].
#### 4.3.2.4 Rx reference point
The Rx reference point is defined in TS 29.214 [4]. The GCS AS uses the Rx
interface to manage unicast resources.
## 4.4 High level functions
### 4.4.1 Unicast Delivery
The UE and GCS AS use the EPS bearers defined in TS 23.401 [5] for Unicast
Delivery. The EPS bearers are used for the following:
\- Exchanging GC1 signalling between UE and GCS AS.
\- Transport of data on the uplink from UE to the GCS AS.
\- Transport of data on the downlink from GCS AS to UE when MBMS Delivery is
not desirable or possible.
The GCS AS uses the Rx interface to specify and modify the priority level of
the EPS bearers used for the group communication session (see clause 5.4).
### 4.4.2 MBMS Delivery
The GCS AS uses the MBMS bearers defined in TS 23.246 [3] for MBMS Delivery.
The MBMS bearer is used to transport data on the downlink from the GCS AS to
the UE. The MBMS bearer(s) used for MBMS Delivery can be pre-established
before the group communication session is setup or can be dynamically
established after the group communication session is setup.
NOTE: Downlink data from the same or different group communication sessions
may be multiplexed on the same MBMS bearer as required by the GCS AS. The
multiplexing of such data is transparent to the BM-SC.
### 4.4.3 Service continuity
The UE uses the service continuity procedures defined in clause 5.3 for
switching between Unicast Delivery and MBMS Delivery.
## 4.5 Network Elements
### 4.5.1 GCS AS
The GCS AS shall support the following functionality:
\- Exchanging GC1 signalling (including GCS session and group management
aspects) with the UE.
\- Receiving uplink data from the UE over unicast
\- Delivery of data to all the UEs belonging to a group using Unicast Delivery
and/or MBMS Delivery.
\- Transport of application level session information via Rx interface towards
PCRF.
\- Support for service continuity procedures for a UE to switch between
Unicast Delivery and MBMS Delivery as specified in clause 5.3.
### 4.5.2 UE
The GCS capable UE shall support the following functionality:
\- Exchanging GC1 signalling (including GCS session and group management
aspects) with the GCS AS.
\- Provision of a UE specific IDLE MODE DRX cycle length to the core network
as specified in TS 23.401 [5] clause 5.13.
\- Receiving data from a GCS AS using either Unicast Delivery or MBMS
Delivery, or both simultaneously.
\- Sending data on the uplink to the GCS AS using unicast.
\- Support for service continuity procedures to switch between Unicast
Delivery and MBMS Delivery as specified in clause 5.3.
\- Simultaneous monitoring and reception of one or more MBMS bearer(s).
### 4.5.3 PCRF
The PCRF supports the functionality defined in TS 23.203 [6].
### 4.5.4 BM-SC
The BM-SC shall support the following functionality:
\- MBMS Broadcast Mode procedures defined in TS 23.246 [3].
\- MB2 procedures defined in clause 5.1 for activating, deactivating and
modifying an MBMS bearer.
# 5 Functional Description and Information Flow
## 5.1 MB2: Interface between GCS AS and BM-SC
### 5.1.1 General
MB2 offers access to the MBMS bearer service from a GCS AS. MB2 carries
control plane signalling (MB2-C) and user plane (MB2-U) between GCS AS and BM-
SC. MB2 has the following properties:
\- MB2 is used by the GCS AS to interact with the BM-SC for MBMS bearer
management.
\- The GCS AS may use the MBMS service from multiple BM-SCs, each with a
separate MB2 interface.
\- The BM-SC shall provide service to multiple GCS ASs via a separate MB2
interface.
\- Within one PLMN, an MBMS session is supported by exactly one BM-SC and
provided for only one GCS AS.
> \- The data transferred via MBMS bearer(s) by the GCS AS is transparent to
> the BM-SC. A GCS AS may transfer data from one or multiple GCS groups via a
> single MBMS bearer.
>
> \- MB2 is a standardized secured interface to an AS.
>
> \- The GCS AS needs to be configured with the IP addresses or a FQDN of the
> contact points of MB2-C. The MB2-C contact points need to be configured per
> PLMN ID.
>
> \- The user plane transport information (e.g. IP address/UDP port) for
> delivering group communication data flow from the GCS AS to the BM-SC over
> MB2-U shall be exchanged over MB2-C.
NOTE 1: The GCS AS is not associated to any specific PLMN from an ownership
standpoint.
NOTE 2: It is up to stage 3 to define the protocol stack and security
requirements for MB2-C/U, and any additional parameters that may be needed by
the MBMS procedure as defined in TS 23.246 [3].
### 5.1.2 MB2 Procedures
#### 5.1.2.1 General
The MB2 interface provides the ability for the application to use the
functionality of the MBMS system to deliver data to group members over MBMS.
The procedures supported include:
\- allocation of a set of TMGIs (TS 23.246 [3]) by the BM-SC at the request of
the GCS AS, (see clause 5.1.2.2.2),
\- deallocation of a set of TMGIs by the BM-SC at the request of the GCS AS,
(see clause 5.1.2.2.3),
\- activating an MBMS bearer, (see clause 5.1.2.3.2),
\- deactivating an active MBMS bearer, (see clause 5.1.2.3.3),
\- modifying characteristics of an active MBMS bearer, (see clause 5.1.2.4),
and
\- reporting of MBMS delivery status from the BM-SC to the GCS AS, (see clause
5.1.2.5).
The MB2 interface between the GCS AS and the BM-SC is established before any
MB2 messages are sent between these two entities, and carries all MB2 messages
between the two entities for all MBMS bearers used by the GCS AS. The
TMGI/FlowID (see TS 23.246 [3]) is the unique identifier used by the GCS AS
and BM-SC to refer to the MBMS bearer.
#### 5.1.2.2 TMGI Management
##### 5.1.2.2.1 General
TMGIs are managed between the GCS AS and the BM-SC using the following
explicit allocation and deallocation procedures upon request from the GCS AS.
TMGIs may also be allocated automatically by the BM-SC at bearer activation as
described in clause 5.1.2.3.2.
Each TMGI is allocated by the BM-SC for a given period of time determined by
the BM-SC. If the GCS AS wants to retain access to a TMGI for an extended
period of time the GCS AS needs to request extension of the allocation period.
The GCS AS may request an extension of the allocation period at any time prior
to expiry of the time period. The actions consequent upon expiry of a TMGI
allocation period are described in clause 5.1.2.2.4.
##### 5.1.2.2.2 TMGI Allocation Procedure
The TMGI Allocation procedure is used by the GCS AS to request a set of TMGIs.
This procedure may also be used to renew the expiration time for already
allocated TMGIs.
Figure 5.1.2.2.1-1 provides the procedure used between the GCS AS and the BM-
SC to allocate a set of TMGIs to the GCS AS.
Figure 5.1.2.2.1-1: TMGI Allocation Procedure
1\. When the GCS AS wishes to have the BM-SC allocate one or more TMGIs to it,
the GCS AS sends an Allocate TMGI Request message to the BM-SC, including the
number of requested TMGIs. The GCS AS may include a list of TMGIs that are
already allocated to the GCS AS, and for which the GCS AS wishes to obtain a
later expiration time. The number of TMGIs requested may be zero, if this
procedure is used only to renew the expiration time for already allocated
TMGIs.
2\. The BM-SC shall determine whether the GCS AS is authorized to receive the
TMGIs and allocates a set of TMGIs. The BM-SC determines an expiration time
for the TMGIs. If a list of TMGIs has been received in the Allocate TMGI
Request message, the BM-SC also determines whether the TMGIs are allocated to
the requesting GCS AS and if yes, whether the expiration time for those TMGIs
can be set to the new expiration time.
3\. The BM-SC shall send an Allocate TMGI Response message to the GCS AS
indicating the list of allocated TMGIs, and an expiration time for those
TMGIs.
##### 5.1.2.2.3 TMGI Deallocation Procedure
The TMGI Deallocation procedure is used by the GCS AS to immediately release a
set of TMGIs, irrespective of their expiration times.
Figure 5.1.2.2.2-1 provides the procedure used between the GCS AS and the BM-
SC to deallocate TMGIs.
Figure 5.1.2.2.2-1: TMGI Deallocation Procedure
1\. When the GCS AS decides that it no longer needs one or more TMGIs that are
allocated to it, the GCS AS shall send a Deallocate TMGI Request message to
the BM-SC with the list of TMGIs to be deallocated. Absence of the list of
TMGIs implies that all TMGIs currently allocated by the BM-SC to the GCS AS
are to be deallocated.
2\. The BM-SC shall determine that the GCS AS is authorized to deallocate the
indicated TMGIs, and shall then deallocate the TMGIs. If MBMS resources are in
use for any of the deallocated TMGIs, those resources are released using the
Session Stop procedure defined in TS 23.246 [3] and the BM-SC shall release
any corresponding MB2 resources.
3\. The BM-SC sends a Deallocate TMGI Response message to the GCS AS.
##### 5.1.2.2.4 TMGI allocation period expiry
When the allocation period for a TMGI expires the TMGI and its associated Flow
ID are no longer available for use by the GCS AS.
If, at the time of expiry, the TMGI is associated with a previously activated
MBMS bearer (clause 5.1.2.3.2) the BM-SC shall autonomously take whatever
actions are needed to stop broadcast of the MBMS bearer to the agreed MBMS
service area, and shall release the MBMS resources used for the MBMS bearer
using the Session Stop procedure defined in TS 23.246 [3]. The BM-SC shall
send an MBMS Delivery Status Indication message to the GCS AS and shall
release any corresponding MB2 resources.
At any time prior to expiry, the allocation period for a TMGI(s) may be
extended as described in clause 5.1.2.2.2. A GCS AS wanting to ensure that it
retains access to a TMGI should request extension of the allocation period at
an adequate time before expiry, e.g. halfway through the allocation period.
#### 5.1.2.3 Activating and Deactivating an MBMS bearer
##### 5.1.2.3.1 General
Activating and deactivating an MBMS bearer involves the
allocation/deallocation of MBMS resources, based on the MBMS bearer
configuration provided by the GCS AS, using the following explicit activation
and deactivation procedures upon request from the GCS AS.
MBMS bearer resources may also be deallocated autonomously by the BM-SC, upon
expiry of the allocation period of the TMGI associated with the MBMS bearer,
as described in clause 5.1.2.2.4.
##### 5.1.2.3.2 Activate MBMS Bearer Procedure
The Activate MBMS Bearer procedure is used by the GCS AS to cause allocation
of resources for an MBMS bearer.
Figure 5.1.2.3.2-1 provides the procedure used between the GCS AS and the BM-
SC to activate an MBMS bearer.
Figure 5.1.2.3.2-1: Activate MBMS Bearer Procedure
1\. When the GCS AS wishes to activate an MBMS bearer over MB2, the GCS AS
sends an Activate MBMS Bearer Request message to the BM-SC, including the TMGI
which represents the MBMS bearer to be started, QoS, MBMS broadcast area, and
start time. The TMGI is optional. The QoS shall be mapped into appropriate QoS
parameters of the MBMS bearer. The MBMS broadcast area parameter shall include
a list of MBMS Service Area Identities, or a list of cell IDs, or both.
NOTE 1: If the MBMS broadcast area parameter includes a list of MBMS Service
Area Identities, the list of MBMS Service Area Identities is determined from
information that may come from the UEs (e.g. list of cell IDs) or some other
knowledge of where to establish the service (e.g. configuration).
2\. If the TMGI was included, the BM-SC shall determine whether the GCS AS is
authorized to use the TMGI. The BM-SC shall reject the request if the TMGI is
not authorized. If the TMGI was not included in the request, the BM-SC shall
assign an unused value for the TMGI. The BM-SC allocates a FlowID value
corresponding to this TMGI and MBMS broadcast area. If the MBMS broadcast area
parameter includes a list of cell IDs, the BM-SC may map the cell IDs into
MBMS Service Area Identities subject to operator policy. The BM-SC shall then
include a list of MBMS Service Area Identities and, if available, the list of
cell IDs in the MBMS Session Start message. If another MBMS bearer with the
same TMGI is already activated, the BM-SC shall accept the request only if the
MBMS broadcast area in the new request is not partly or completely overlapping
with any existing MBMS bearer(s) using the same TMGI as according to TS 23.246
[3] and shall allocate a unique FlowID for the newly requested MBMS bearer.
The BM-SC shall allocate MBMS resources to support content delivery of the
MBMS bearer to the requested MBMS broadcast area using the Session Start
procedure defined in TS 23.246 [3].
3\. The BM-SC shall send an Activate MBMS Bearer Response message to the GCS
AS, including the TMGI, the allocated FlowID, service description, BM-SC IP
address and port number for the user-plane, and an expiration time. The
service description contains MBMS bearer related configuration information as
defined in TS 26.346 [7] (e.g. radio frequency and MBMS Service Area
Identities). If the BM-SC mapped the cell IDs into the MBMS Service Area
Identities in Step 2, then the service description shall contain the MBMS
Service Area Identities that the BM-SC included in the MBMS Session Start
message. The expiration time is included only if the BM-SC has allocated a
TMGI as a result of this procedure.
NOTE 2: The GCS AS can use the service description to provide information to
the UE to access the MBMS bearer.
NOTE 3: Since the MBMS bearer is not necessarily established in all cells
belonging to the MBMS SAIs in the Activate MBMS Bearer Response message, the
list of MBMS SAIs provided by the BM-SC to the GCS AS does not guarantee that
the MBMS bearer is available in all cells of the service area identified by
the MBMS SAIs.
##### 5.1.2.3.3 Deactivate MBMS Bearer Procedure
The Deactivate MBMS Bearer procedure is used by the GCS AS to cause
deallocation of resources for an MBMS bearer.
Figure 5.1.2.3.2-1: Deactivate MBMS Bearer Procedure
1\. The MBMS bearer is being broadcast over the MBMS system.
2\. When the GCS AS determines that the MBMS bearer is no longer needed, it
shall send a Deactivate MBMS Bearer Request message to the BM-SC, including
the TMGI and FlowID representing the MBMS bearer to be deactivated.
3\. The BM-SC shall determine whether the GCS AS is authorized to use the TMGI
and shall take whatever actions are needed to stop broadcast of the MBMS
bearer to the agreed MBMS service area, and to deallocate MBMS resources used
for the MBMS bearer using the Session Stop procedure defined in TS 23.246 [3].
4\. The BM-SC shall send a Deactivate MBMS Bearer Response message to the
application, including the TMGI, the FlowID, and a result.
#### 5.1.2.4 Modify MBMS Bearer Procedure
The Modify MBMS Bearer procedure is used by the GCS AS to cause modification
of the priority and preemption values for an MBMS bearer, the MBMS broadcast
area, or both.
Figure 5.1.2.4-1 provides a description of the procedure used between the GCS
AS and the BM-SC to modify an activated MBMS bearer.
Figure 5.1.2.4-1: Modify MBMS Bearer Procedure
1\. When the GCS AS determines that an activated MBMS bearer needs to be
modified, it shall send a Modify MBMS Bearer Request message to the BM-SC,
including the TMGI, FlowID, any new priority and preemption characteristics to
be used, and the MBMS broadcast area. The priority and preemption
characteristics and the MBMS broadcast area are optional parameters but one of
them needs to be included in the Modify MBMS Bearer request. The MBMS
broadcast area parameter shall include a list of MBMS Service Area Identities,
or a list of cell IDs, or both.
NOTE 1: If the MBMS broadcast area parameter includes a list of MBMS Service
Area Identities, the list of MBMS Service Area Identities is determined from
information that may come from the UEs (e.g. list of cell IDs) or some other
knowledge of where to establish the service (e.g. configuration).
2\. If the MBMS broadcast area is being modified, the BM-SC shall accept the
request only if the new MBMS broadcast area is not partly or completely
overlapping with the MBMS broadcast area of any other existing MBMS bearer(s)
with the same TMGI, in accordance with TS 23.246 [3]. The BM-SC shall modify
the characteristics of the MBMS bearer using the Session Update procedure
defined in TS 23.246 [3]. If the MBMS broadcast area parameter is present and
includes a list of cell IDs, the BM-SC may map the cell IDs into MBMS Service
Area Identities subject to operator policy. The BM-SC shall then include a
list of MBMS Service Area Identities and, if available, the list of cell IDs
in the MBMS Session Update message.
3\. The BM-SC shall send a Modify MBMS Bearer Response message to the GCS AS,
including the TMGI, FlowID, and the result. If the BM-SC mapped the cell IDs
into the MBMS Service Area Identities in Step 2, then the service description
shall contain the MBMS Service Area Identities that the BM-SC included in the
MBMS Session Update message.
NOTE 2: Since the MBMS bearer is not necessarily established in all cells
belonging to the MBMS SAIs in the Modify MBMS Bearer Response message, the
list of MBMS SAIs provided by the BM-SC to the GCS AS does not guarantee that
the MBMS bearer is available in all cells of the service area identified by
the MBMS SAIs.
#### 5.1.2.5 MBMS Delivery Status Indication Procedure
The MB2 interface allows the BM-SC to notify the GCS AS of conditions
affecting the delivery of services that use MBMS Delivery. The occurrence of
the indicated condition may have been detected at the BM-SC or may have been
reported to the BM-SC by other entities involved in the MBMS delivery.
The BM-SC sends the MBMS Delivery Status Indication message which includes an
identification of the condition whose occurrence triggered the sending of the
message and may include other information.
Figure 5.1.2.5-1 illustrates the MBMS Delivery Status Indication procedure.
Figure 5.1.2.5-1: MBMS Delivery Status Indication procedure
## 5.2 Specific Usage of EPS Bearers for GCS
Each UE participating in the Group Communication Service uses one or multiple
EPS bearers for exchanging application signaling and data with the GCS AS. The
EPS bearer services are specified in TS 23.401 [5] and TS 23.203 [6].
In order to enable GCS, a PDN connection needs to be established that can be
used for GC1 signaling exchange. When the PDN connection gets established the
PCC functionality determines a QCI and an ARP for the default bearer, which
may be used for GC1 signaling. Alternatively, during PDN connection
establishment a dedicated bearer may be established for GC1 signaling by
configuring PCC rules accordingly.
A GCS UE may join multiple GCS groups, which are served by one or more EPS
bearers. The GCS AS determines the service characteristics of a specific Group
Communication Service, e.g. media or flow description and priority, which is
used by the PCRF to determine the EPS bearer configuration appropriate for
GCS. The GCS AS updates the PCRF with service characteristics to initiate any
required update of the EPS bearer configuration, e.g. when the UE joins or
leaves a GCS group or when a GCS data exchange starts or stops.
Whenever the UE\'s bearer configuration needs to be updated, the GCS AS
provides the updated or new service characteristics to the PCRF. From service
characteristics PCRF determines the required bearer configuration, including
QCI and ARP, and requests the PCEF amendment of the UE\'s EPS bearers
accordingly. If the priority of the application Group Communication session
changes, the GCS AS provides an update of the service characteristics towards
the PCRF via the Rx interface. The PCRF translates the service characteristics
to PCC policies and forwards its policy decision to the PCEF. The PCEF
determines, based on policies provided by the PCRF, whether the PCEF modifies
already established bearers or whether the PCEF establishes dedicated
bearer(s) with the determined bearer characteristics.
The PCRF is not aware of the GCS group(s).
To obtain the responsiveness desired for GCS the GCS UE shall signal the Idle
Mode DRX value to the MME, using the procedures described in TS 23.401 [5].
The E-UTRAN derives from the QCI the configuration for delivering an
equivalent responsiveness in Connected Mode. When performing the S1 interface
paging procedure for a DownlinkData Notification for a bearer associated with
either QCI 65 or QCI 69 (e.g. Mission Critical Push To Talk), the Paging
Priority IE needs to be set to a value such that the E-UTRAN can correctly
prioritize the contents of its radio interface paging messages to enable low
latency for the first downlink packet on that bearer. To enable the MME to
send this Paging Priority IE on the S1 interface, the bearer(s) associated
with QCI 65 and QCI 69 should have appropriate ARP(s).
## 5.3 Service Continuity
### 5.3.1 General
This clause provides flows & procedures for switching from Unicast Delivery to
MBMS Delivery and vice-versa. In the flows, the need for service continuity is
determined and executed by the UE. In the make-before-break flows, the UE may
simultaneously receive the same DL data on both Unicast and MBMS bearers. In
such scenarios, it is up to the application to manage duplicate detection.
### 5.3.2 Switching from Unicast Delivery to MBMS Delivery
Figure 5.3.2-1 shows the procedures for service continuity when a UE which is
receiving DL data over unicast moves into MBMS coverage. During the switching
process, the UE simultaneously receives data from both unicast and MBMS, so
there is no service interruption.
Figure 5.3.2-1: Switching from Unicast Delivery to MBMS Delivery
1\. The UE has an on going group communication and the GCS AS informs the UE,
over GC1, of the availability of MBMS delivery and of the corresponding TMGI
of the MBMS bearer service.
2\. The UE is receiving downlink data by Unicast Delivery.
3\. The UE detects it has entered MBMS coverage and starts receiving MBMS
Scheduling Information over MCH and the data from the MBMS bearer
corresponding to the TMGI over MTCH.
4\. The UE receives DL data by MBMS Delivery.
5\. The UE simultaneously receives data by Unicast Delivery and MBMS Delivery.
6\. The UE notifies the GCS AS via GC1 that it is in MBMS coverage and
receiving the MBMS bearer service corresponding to the TMGI. The GCS AS stops
sending the data over by Unicast Delivery to this UE. The UE now receives the
content only by MBMS Delivery.
### 5.3.3 Switching from MBMS Delivery to Unicast Delivery
#### 5.3.3.1 General
This clause defines the following two procedures for service continuity for
switching from MBMS Delivery to Unicast Delivery:
\- MBMS Delivery to Unicast Delivery (make-before-break).
\- MBMS Delivery to Unicast Delivery (break-before-make).
#### 5.3.3.2 MBMS Delivery to Unicast Delivery (make-before-break)
Figure 5.3.3.2-1 shows the procedure for service continuity when a UE is about
to move out of MBMS coverage. In this procedure, the UE detects that is about
to move out of MBMS coverage and elects to receive data over unicast while
still within MBMS coverage. During the switching process, the UE
simultaneously receives data from both unicast and MBMS, so there is no
service interruption.
Figure 5.3.3.2-1: Switching from MBMS Delivery to Unicast Delivery (make-
before-break)
1\. The UE has an ongoing group communication.
2\. The UE is receiving downlink data by MBMS Delivery.
3\. The UE detects that it is about to move out from MBMS coverage, for the
corresponding MBMS bearer service, through implementation-specific methods.
For example, the UE can determine it is about to move out of MBMS coverage by
detecting poor MBSFN signal quality.
4\. The UE notifies the GCS AS that it may move out of MBMS coverage via GC1
and the GCS AS sets up a unicast flow.
5\. The GCS AS now sends the downlink data by Unicast Delivery to this UE.
6\. The UE simultaneously receives DL data by Unicast Delivery and by MBMS
Delivery.
7\. The UE ceases to receive the downlink data by MBMS Delivery but continues
receiving data by Unicast Delivery.
8\. The UE monitors the SIBs in order to detect the TMGI on MCCH and thus
determine it is back in MBMS coverage for the MBMS bearer service.
#### 5.3.3.3 MBMS Delivery to Unicast Delivery (break-before-make)
Figure 5.3.3.3-1 shows the procedure for service continuity when a UE has
moved out of MBMS coverage. Here the UE starts receiving DL data over unicast
after it has stopped receiving data over MBMS, so there may be some service
interruption.
This procedure is used by the UE to handle loss of MBMS Delivery due to MBMS
resource congestion in E-UTRAN resulting in pre-emption of the MBMS bearer
service as described in clause 5.4.
Figure 5.3.3.3-1: Switching from MBMS Delivery to Unicast Delivery (break-
before-make)
1\. The UE has an ongoing group communication.
2\. The UE is receiving downlink data by MBMS Delivery for an MBMS bearer
service is identified by a TMGI.
3\. The UE detects it is out of MBMS coverage for that TMGI and, therefore, is
unable to receive any data by MBMS Delivery for the corresponding MBMS bearer
service.
4\. The UE notifies the GCS AS via GC1 that it has moved out of MBMS coverage
for the MBMS bearer service corresponding to the TMGI and the GCS AS sets up a
unicast flow.
5\. The GCS AS sends the downlink data by Unicast Delivery.
6\. The UE monitors the SIBs in order to detect the TMGI on MCCH and thus
determine that it is back in MBMS coverage for the MBMS bearer service.
## 5.4 Priority and Pre-emption for Group Communication
A Group Communication Session that requires to be prioritized over other Group
Communication Sessions or non-Group Communication Sessions includes both the
priority level and the GCS identifier in a service authorization request to
the PCRF and to the BM-SC.
The priority level and the GCS identifier are defined at the application layer
for priority and pre-emption purposes. The GCS AS provides the priority level
and the GCS identifier to the PCRF and the BM-SC. It is mapped by the PCRF and
the BM-SC to the ARP priority level, pre-emption capability and pre-emption
vulnerability indication under the consideration of the respective EPS
network.
In the case of Unicast Delivery, the PCRF translates the service
characteristics to PCC policies and forwards its policy decision to the PCEF.
The PCEF determines, based on policies provided by the PCRF, whether the PCEF
modifies already established bearers or whether the PCEF establishes dedicated
bearer(s) with the determined bearer characteristics. If the priority of a
particular application Group Communication session changes, the GCS AS
provides an update of the service characteristics towards the PCRF via the Rx
interface. The PCRF updates the PCC policies and forwards them to the PCEF.
The PCEF modifies already established bearers or establishes dedicated
bearer(s) accordingly.
The PCRF shall, at the reception of service authorization from the GCS AS
including an indication that is a prioritized GC Session and priority level,
ensure that the ARP priority level of the default bearer is assigned a
prioritized value which is at least as high as the highest priority of all
Group Communication Sessions within the same IP-CAN session. The PCRF shall
also ensure that the ARP pre-emption capability and pre-emption vulnerability
indication of the default bearer satisfies the strongest requirements of all
Group Communication Sessions within the same IP-CAN session.
When the PCRF detects that all prioritized Group Communication Sessions within
the same IP-CAN session are released, the PCRF shall assign the ARP of the
default bearer as appropriate.
In the case of MBMS Delivery, if the priority of an MBMS bearer needs to be
changed, based upon a GCS AS decision to change the priority level, the GCS AS
performs either:
\- The Modify MBMS Bearer procedure in clause 5.1.2.4; or
\- A new Activate MBMS Bearer procedure and a Deactivate MBMS Bearer procedure
replacing the old MBMS bearer service with a new one.
In certain network conditions such as congestion, the bearer used for group
communication service may be pre-empted.
\- In the case of Unicast Delivery, the GCS AS is notified by the PCRF of
unicast bearer release.
\- In the case of MBMS Delivery, the related MBMS bearer may be \'suspended\'
by E-UTRAN and the UE becomes aware in either of the following ways:
\- packets are dropped at the eNB. In this case the UE can detect that MBMS
delivery is no longer available when the related TMGI is removed from MCCH.
\- The UE receives an explicit indication broadcast from the eNB in the MBMS
Scheduling Information (see TS 36.300 [9] and TS 36.321 [10]), where it is
informed that transmission for the MBMS bearer is going to be, or has been,
suspended.
The procedure used by the UE in these scenarios is depicted in figure 5.4-1.
Figure 5.4-1: Switching from MBMS Delivery to Unicast Delivery following
bearer suspension (and subsequent resumption of MBMS delivery)
1\. The UE has an ongoing group communication.
2\. The UE is receiving downlink data by MBMS Delivery.
3\. E-UTRAN (e.g. after detecting MBMS congestion) decides to suspend one or
more MBMS bearer(s) within MBSFN area(s) (based on e.g. the ARP and/or on the
counting results for the corresponding MBMS service(s)), and trigger the
migration of impacted UEs to receive DL data via unicast, by either:
a) explicitly informing those UEs that the MBMS bearer has been, or is going
to be, suspended by broadcasting an indication within MAC MBMS Scheduling
Information (and removing the TMGI from the MCCH), or
b) removing the TMGI of the MBMS bearer that has been suspended from the MCCH.
4\. The UE detects the suspension of the corresponding MBMS bearer service,
but continues to monitor for MBMS Delivery (i.e. because while it is
establishing unicast there may still be DL data sent on the MBMS bearer).
5\. Over GC1, the UE notifies the GCS AS of the MBMS service suspension.
6\. The GCS AS decides whether to set up the Unicast Delivery path for the
downlink data to this UE.
7\. The UE receives DL data by Unicast Delivery and continues to monitor MBMS
channels for resumption of the MBMS bearer.
NOTE: Between step 2 and step 11 data associated with the suspended MBMS
bearer continues to be delivered by the GCS AS on the corresponding multicast
transport infrastructure towards the E-UTRAN (e.g. because it is still
delivered via eMBMS in non congested MBSFN areas). This also allows a quicker
resumption of the MBMS service when congestion is over.
8\. At some point, the RAN determines that it can resume the MBMS bearer
within the MBSFN area(s), e.g. when the congestion is over. The decision which
of the suspended MBMS bearers to resume may be based on e.g. the ARP and/or on
the counting results for the corresponding MBMS service(s).
9\. The MCCH indicates that the TMGI is available.
10\. The UE detects the TMGI on the MCCH and prepares to receive it.
11\. The UE is again receiving downlink data by MBMS Delivery.
12\. The UE notifies the GCS AS that it is receiving the group content via
MBMS.
13\. GCS AS stops the delivery via unicast.
## 5.5 Charging
For MBMS Delivery, the architecture requirement for charging defined for MBMS
broadcast service for E-UTRAN in TS 23.246 [3] shall apply.
For Unicast Delivery, the architecture requirement for charging defined for
EPS bearer services in TS 23.401 [5] shall apply.
## 5.6 Security
Security requirements for supporting the MB2 reference point for GCS are
defined in TS 33.246 [8].
No additional security requirement is defined for supporting GCS with Unicast
Delivery.
###### ## Annex A (Informative): Utilisation of the Group Communication
Service
# A.1 General
This annex provides informative call flows for how a GCS AS can use the
Unicast Delivery and MBMS Delivery mechanisms defined in this specification to
deliver data to group(s) of users.
# A.2 Downlink Media path setup for MBMS Delivery
## A.2.1 General
This clause describes two procedures for establishing MBMS Delivery on the
downlink:
\- using pre-established MBMS bearers, or
\- using dynamic establishment of MBMS bearers
## A.2.2 Use of Pre-established MBMS bearers
In this scenario, the GCS AS pre-establishes MBMS bearer(s) in certain pre-
configured areas before the start of the group communication session. When a
UE originates a request for group communication for one of these areas, the
pre-established MBMS bearer(s) is used for the DL traffic.
Figure A.2.2-1: Use of Pre-established MBMS Bearers
1\. The GCS AS pre-establishes the MBMS bearers for the group communication
session according to the procedures defined in clause 5.1.2.3.1. The BM-SC
returns the MBMS service description associated with the MBMS bearer(s) to the
GCS AS.
2\. The UE establishes a group communication session with the GCS AS. The GCS
AS passes the service description associated with the MBMS bearer service to
the UE. The UE obtains the TMGI(s), identifying the MBMS bearer (s), from the
service description.
3\. The UE starts monitoring the MSI and MCCH of received MBSFN broadcast(s)
for the TMGI(s).
4\. Having detected a TMGI on MCCH the UE monitors the MSI and receives the DL
data on the MTCH corresponding to the TMGI.
## A.2.3 Use of Dynamic MBMS bearer establishment
In this scenario, the GCS AS uses a unicast bearer for communication with the
UE on the DL at the start of the group communication session. When the GCS AS
decides to use an MBMS bearer for the DL data, the GCS AS establishes one
using the procedures defined in clause 5.1.2.3.1. The GCS AS provides the
service description associated with MBMS bearer(s), obtained from the BM-SC,
to the UE. The UE starts using the MBMS bearer(s) to receive DL data and stops
using the unicast bearer for the DL data.
NOTE: The GCS AS logic for determining when to establish the new MBMS Delivery
bearer is implementation specific. For example, the GCS AS could decide to
establish the MBMS delivery based on the location of the UE\'s that are a part
of the group communication session.
Figure A.2.3-1: Use of Dynamic MBMS Bearer Establishment
1\. The UE establishes a group communication session with the GCS AS.
2\. The downlink data is sent by Unicast Delivery.
3\. The GCS AS establishes the MBMS bearer(s) for the group communication
session according to the procedures defined in clause 5.1.2.3.1. The BM-SC
returns the service description associated with the MBMS bearer(s) to the GCS
AS.
4\. The GCS AS provides the service description associated with the MBMS
bearer(s) to the UE. The UE obtains the TMGI(s) from the service description.
5\. The UE starts monitoring the MSI and MCCH of received MBSFN broadcast(s)
for the TMGI(s).
6\. Having detected a TMGI on MCCH the UE monitors the MSI and receives the DL
data on the MTCH corresponding to the TMGI.
7\. The UE notifies the GCS AS that it is receiving the data over MBMS for the
given TMGI. The GCS AS stops sending DL data over unicast to the UE.
#