# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the scope of the feasibility study.
The present document studies enhancements to the 3GPP system and UE procedures
that are meant to cover essential functionality to enable new TV services by a
3GPP network. The scope of the work has three main components:
\- A broadcast component where mechanisms to enable decoupling of content,
MBMS service and MBMS transport, allowing the system to: offer eMBMS transport
only, a shared eMBMS network between MNOs, broadcast only TV service to
devices with no MNO subscription, will be studied.
\- A unicast component, in which MNO subscription for TV service is required,
where mechanisms for broadcast/unicast fall-back support, consumption-based
switching between unicast/broadcast, and system enhancements for providing
guaranteed QoS across large geographical areas will be studied.
\- An MBMS user service exposure to 3rd party server, in which mechanisms in
order to enable delivery of TV content based on the information provided by
the 3rd party content/service providers, e.g. the expected broadcast area and
time will be studied.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non-specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles \".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.440: \"General aspects and principles for interfaces supporting
Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service (MBMS) within E-UTRAN\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and Codecs\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Protocols and codecs\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (3GP-
DASH)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 22.101 [2], and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Shared eMBMS network:** A network shared by multiple PLMNs that provides
eMBMS services. The Shared eMBMS network consists of the following shared
network elements: BM-SC, MBMS-GW, MCE, and MME. The shared eMBMS network may
also include shared eNBs.
**Receive Only Mode** : A UE configuration option that allows a UE to receive
only eMBMS broadcast service without the need to access and register with the
PLMN offering the eMBMS service. A UE configured to operate in Receive Only
Mode receives MBMS service only on the standardised TMGI value range. The UE
shall refrain from any Mobility Management or other signalling with the
network offering eMBMS. The UE uses the acquired system information to receive
eMBMS broadcast. Use of Receive Only Mode does not require USIM for the UE.
**Receive Only Mode with independent unicast** : A UE configuration option
that allows a UE to operate as Receive Only Mode (as defined above) for eMBMS
broadcast service, and independently follows regular NAS/RRC procedures for
unicast service with a PLMN. This mode of operation requires USIM and PLMN
subscription to receive unicast service. No additional subscription or
credentials are required to receive eMBMS broadcast service.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
FMSS Flexible Mobile Service Steering
# 4 Key Issues
## 4.1 Key Issue #1: Support of Free-to-Air (FTA) service over 3GPP
One main new business opportunity for 3GPP MNOs is to deliver Free-To-Air
(FTA) TV content in a region or country. Free-to-air (FTA) has traditionally
been described as television (and radio) services broadcast in clear
unencrypted form, allowing any person with the appropriate receiving equipment
to receive the signal and view or listen to the content without requiring a
subscription, other ongoing cost or one-off fee (e.g. Pay-per-view).
FTA also refers to channels and broadcasters providing content for which no
subscription is expected, even though they may be delivered to the
viewer/listener by another carrier for which a subscription is required, e.g.
when unicast is used. During the last years and in particular in IPTV and OTT
type of deployments, the FTA model has evolved in many cases to \"no
additional subscription needed\", for instance, the user has a Fixed Broadband
Subscription and can receive the FTA services as complement, i.e. without
additional subscription, Users may even get appropriate reception equipment
offered by the operator and without charges as add-on to already available
subscription. A typical realization is to zero-rate TV service related unicast
traffic.
The aspect is here that the operator has a business agreement with the TV
Channel provider in order to offer the TV service at a certain QoS to all
subscribers in the coverage. It is assumed that the QoS of MBMS bearer is GBR,
nevertheless the operator may adjust transmission parameters according to
radio conditions, load, and/or interference. The service quality may be TV
channel specific.
The content provider may pay a commission, similar to today\'s TV distribution
systems. The MNO is interested to optimize transmission resource demand based,
i.e. use MBMS only in areas and during times of high interest. The MNO carries
the TV service using unicast bearers in areas, where MBMS is not activated,
Free-to-Air has the following characteristics:
\- Charging: Free to air (FTA) implies the program can be received at no
associated cost. If unicast is used, The MNO may zero rate any unicast related
traffic.
\- Subscription aspects (This part is related to key issue #2):
\- For broadcast only service: The programs are receivable by all receivers,
with no MNO subscription required.
\- For broadcast+unicast service: The programs are receivable by all
subscribers of the MNO and roaming subscribers of other MNOs with roaming
agreement, with no additional subscription required.
Solutions for this key issue should study how the 3GPP system can fulfil these
characteristics where applicable.
## 4.2 Key Issue #2: Broadcast Only service for UEs with no MNO broadcast
subscription
For TV service, a 3GPP MNO may work in conjunction with one or more TV
broadcasters to deliver TV content to devices which do not necessarily need to
have MNO subscription. For example, eMBMS capable devices/receivers may be
added to TV sets to receive TV content delivered via eMBMS.
This key issue is limited to broadcast delivery only. The UE shall be able to
receive TV content via eMBMS without the need to authenticate with the
broadcasting 3GPP system.
In addition, a UE may have MNO subscription for unicast service with a PLMN 1,
but receive MNO broadcast only service from a second PLMN without the need for
MNO broadcast subscription to the second PLMN nor roaming agreement between
the two PLMNs.
A solution to this key issue shall provide the following:
\- How the UE is configured with information necessary to receive TV content
via eMBMS, e.g. eMBMS frequencies, service specific information.
\- Means for MNO to enable this service based on policy.
\- The UE procedures to receive TV content in this scenario.
## 4.3 Key Issue #3: Support of Shared eMBMS functions
One possibility to allow a 3GPP system to meet the high demands of HD TV
content delivery and reduce operating cost is that resources and eMBMS
functions are shared across multiple MNOs. There are multiple possible needs
that can lead to MNOs agreeing on such collaboration: (a) Multiple MNOs in a
same country/region sharing resources to meet the requirements of an incumbent
TV broadcaster to migrate to 3GPP based TV delivery. (b) Multiple MNOs owning
a same content to be provided to UEs subscribed to one MNO within the group of
MNOs, and sharing cost of content ownership. In this case MNOs act as both
content owner and content delivery entity.
A solution for this key issue should provide means for allowing shared eMBMS
network functions between MNOs in order to enable delivery of broadcast
content across the MNOs, including the case that one of the PLMNs is
configured only for broadcast service. Depending on the use case, the
broadcast content across the MNOs may be available only to UEs with cellular
subscription within the group of MNOs, or open to UEs with and without MNO
subscription.
## 4.4 Key Issue #4: Decoupling of content, MBMS service and MBMS transport
functions
Some TV broadcasters/ 3^rd^ party video content delivery entities may be
interested in managing the content and service aspects of video/TV delivery,
e.g., due to more easy migration from a previous TV transport mechanism to TV
delivery via 3GPP network. The 3rd party video provider delivers the content
as e.g. DVB-IPI compliant TV channel to the 3GPP system
The basic assumption is that the 3^rd^ party video content delivery entity
agrees a long relation with the 3GPP system for 24/7 type of broadcast of one
or more TV channels. The number of TV channels is assumed to be constant over
a long period of time (e.g. months or even years). It is assumed that the QoS
of MBMS bearer is GBR, nevertheless the operator may adjust transmission
parameters according to radio conditions, load, and/or interference. The
service quality may be TV channel specific.
Solutions to the key issue will satisfy two different scenarios:
\- The 3rd party video provider delivers the content as e.g. DVB-IPI compliant
TV channel to the 3GPP system and the 3GPP system transforms the content
stream into a 3GPP compliant stream to be consumed by 3GPP compliant TV
receivers. The 3GPP specifications clearly defines the mapping of every DVB-
IPI define information element for instance carriage and handling of program /
channel specific EPG information and other DVB defined events or messages.
\- The 3rd party video provider delivers the content as e.g. DVB-IPI compliant
stream and the 3GPP system carries the stream without modifying the UDP
payload or even RTP payload. The 3GPP system may change the IP level
parameters such as IP destination address and UDP port according to a delivery
agreement. The service access information (e.g. DVB-IPI defined SDP file) is
extended with 3GPP information such as TMGI or APN information.
4.5 Key Issue #5: Unicast Delivery of TV Services
TV channel providers want to reach all subscribers in a large geographical
area (typically a country) in a cost efficient way. Today they can sometimes
rely on Content delivery Networks and OTT applications to provide their
audio/video streams to users over unicast. The users have both an MNO
subscription and a form of subscription/association with the TV channel
provider. This is termed as _OTT TV_. TV channel providers can also have
Service Layer Agreements with MNOs such that the management of the content
distribution is under MNO\'s responsibility and can be achieved as unicast
and/or broadcast. This is termed as _Managed TV_.
From a UE point of view, the term \"shared MBMS\" is used where UEs support
MBMS broadcast reception independently from the MNO unicast subscription. For
instance, a UE with a subscription to MNO2 can receive the MBMS broadcast
transmission provided by MNO1 (also utilizing radio resources of MNO1).
One improvement/enhancement would be for the TV channel provider and /or
broadcast network operator to control the distribution of the content either
as unicast or broadcast. Assuming a shared MBMS network is operated by one MNO
(say MNO1) and other MNOs only operate unicast.
____________________
TV Channel \| --------> \| MNO1 \|\ UE1 (MNO1)
Broadcast Operator \| \| MNO1 \|-----BC-----> UE2 (MNO2)
\| --------> \| MNO2 \|\ UE3 (MNO2)
____________________
Figure 4.5-1: Broadcast and Unicast TV
In Figure 4.5-1, UE1 and UE3 are not in the broadcast coverage of MNO1 for the
TV service while UE2 is under broadcast coverage of MNO1. UE1 is subscribed to
MNO1 and receives TV via the unicast operated by MNO1. UE2 is subscribed to
MNO2 broadcast services and receives TV via shared MBMS broadcast operated by
MNO1. UE3 is subscribed to MNO2 and receives TV via unicast operated by MNO2.
**Scenario 1:** Shared MBMS for broadcast and OTT TV for unicast: Here, the TV
channel provider decides dynamically, when and where to use MBMS Broadcast for
service distribution. When the popularity is low, then the TV channel provider
terminates shared MBMS and uses OTT TV unicast for the service. The TV channel
provider provides the content stream for MBMS Broadcast activated TV channels
to MNO1 (see Figure 4.5-2).
____________________
TV Channel \| --ch1(bc)/ch2(uc)--> \| MNO1 \|\ UE1 (MNO1)
Broadcast Operator \| \| MNO1 \|--BC-ch1-------> UE2 (MNO2)
\| ---all(uc)---------> \| MNO2 \|\ UE3 (MNO2)
____________________
Figure 4.5-2: Scenario 1
Although dependent on a business arrangement, the provisioning between the TV
Operator/Broadcast operator and the MNO could be specified such as to avoid
multiple implementations for a single TV channel provider/ Broadcast network
operator across MNOs. The MNO can offer popularity/audience measurements along
with UE location information derived from HTTP based QoE or Consumption
reporting (see TS 26.346 [5]) such that the dynamic change between Unicast and
Broadcast can be performed.
**Scenario 2 for dedicated TV devices:** Shared MBMS for Broadcast and Managed
TV for unicast for dedicated TV devices: Here, new, dedicated TV devices are
deployed and a single MNO manages the offering. The TV channel/Broadcast
network operator has an SLA with MNO. The dedicated TV receiver includes a TV-
Service subscription associated with the MNO subscription, which allows tuning
to unicast and MBMS Broadcast. Dedicated TV Receive only devices can exist in
this scenario but cannot tune in to Unicast. The TV channel provider provides
a single content stream per TV channel and the MNO decides, based on
popularity, when to use MBMS broadcast and when to use unicast for a given
channel. The MNO may, for example, also use MBMS operation on demand (MooD) to
perform this optimization (see Figure 4.5-3).
____________________
TV Channel \|---ch1/ch2--->\| MNO1 \|\ TV only UE1 (MNO1)
Broadcast Operator \| \| MNO1 \|---BC-ch1-----> TV/Rx only UE2 (MNO1)
____________________
Figure 4.5-3: Scenario 2: dedicated TV UEs
**Scenario 3 for multi-purpose devices (e.g. SmartPhones and Tablets):**
Scenario 2 is focusing on dedicated TV devices, whether the device is tailored
to only render the TV service. Scenario 3 is focused on Multi-Purpose devices,
where the device can be used for TV Services but also for other 3GPP Services
(see Figure 4.5-4).
Common subscription info (i.e. no extra subscription info for TV service): The
MNO has an agreement with all involved MNOs so that all TV service
requirements with regards to quality, content availability, charging etc. are
fulfilled.
____________________
TV Channel \|---ch1/ch2--->\| MNO1 (APN TV)\|\ UE1 (MNO1)
Broadcast Operator 1\| \| MNO1 (APN TV)\|---BC-ch1--> UE2 (MNO2)
\| \| MNO1 (APN MBB)\|\ UE1 (MNO1)
____________________
Figure 4.5-4: Scenario 3: for Multipurpose UEs
This key issue will address:
\- possible mechanism to allow for unicast delivery of TV content and
standardized mechanism to allow for the various scenarios described above;
\- service continuity when UEs move from service areas of broadcast to
unicast.
## 4.6 Key Issue #6: Exposure of eMBMS service and transport capabilities to
3^rd^ party
For TV services, an MNO can expose the eMBMS user service and transport
capability (broadcast and/or unicast) to 3rd party content/service providers.
NOTE: It is currently possible to expose a limited set of broadcast
capabilities, directly or indirectly.
Based on the UE capability information, the TV content information and the
expected broadcast area/time, the 3^rd^ party providers also can decide which
mode can be used to deliver the TV content to the users (broadcast and/or
unicast). The 3^rd^ party content/service providers inform the MNO of the
preferred way of delivering the content.
A solution to this key issue shall provide the following:
\- Whether the MNO or the 3^rd^ party content/service providers decide the
delivery mode (broadcast and/or unicast).
\- Means for the MNO to expose the MBMS user service and transport
capabilities to 3^rd^ party content/service providers.
\- What information is necessary and how the MNO or the 3^rd^ party
content/service providers gets the necessary information to decide the
delivery mode, e.g. expected TV content to be received, expected time to
receive the TV content and UE capability for the TV service.
# 5 Void
# 6 Solutions
### 6.1 Solution 1: Shared eMBMS network
### 6.1.1 Description
This solution aims to cover Key issue #3 \"Support of Shared eMBMS
functions\".
The solution proposes a common eMBMS network shared among participating PLMNs,
denoted Shared eMBMS Network (SEN).
The SEN has the following properties:
\- The BM-SC and MBMS-GW are shared among participating PLMNs.
\- The SEN provides the entry point of the data stream.
\- The BM-SC can provide full service layer functionality or act only in
transparent mode for the case of eMBMS as transport only.
\- An MBMS service area may span across RAN nodes from different participating
PLMNs.
\- RAN nodes (eNBs/MCEs) dedicated to MBMS bearer service may be deployed, in
which case these nodes are part of the SEN. This deployment requires a shared
MME function limited to the requirements of TS 23.246 [3],
There are different options regarding the deployment of MBSFN synchronization
areas:
Option A: MBSFN synchronization spans across PLMNs.
Option B: MBSFN synchronization areas are per PLMN.
The following clause describe these options in more detail.
#### 6.1.1.1 SEN with MBSFN synchronization area spanning across different
PLMNs (Option A)
Figure 6.1.1.1-1: Network architecture for shared eMBMS Network with shared
MCE
NOTE 1: Reference point between Content Provider and 3GPP network is not in
scope of this solution and is to be covered in a separate solution.
In Figure 6.1.1.1-1 the Shared eMBMS network (SEN) is depicted in yellow,
leveraging current eMBMS network functionality: BM-SC, MBMS-GW, MCE and MME,
and corresponding interfaces between network elements.
In this scenario, the MBMS synchronization area spans across eNBs from
different PLMNs. This is achieved by deploying standalone shared MCE(s).
On the user plane path:
\- The MBMS-GW connects to E-UTRAN via the following reference points:
\- M1*: a reference point based on M1, between the SEN MBMS-GW and a
participating PLMNs eNBs. In that respect, it is considered an inter-PLMN
interface.
\- M1: as defined in TS 23.246 [3], if the E-UTRAN is also shared, i.e. if the
RAN and CN of the shared eMBMS network is self-contained.
\- All eNBs from all participating PLMNs broadcast the eMBMS content in a
shared spectrum (F3 in the example of Figure 6.1.1-1). This can be provided in
RAN via SCell or Standalone Pcell.
Editor\'s note: The RAN details on how eMBMS for TV is broadcasted. e.g. which
channel is used, and whether it can be provided via SCell or Pcell needs to be
corroborated with RAN WGs.
On the control plane path:
\- The MME is part of the shared eMBMS network (SEN) and needs to fulfil only
the functions needed for MBMS and defined in TS 23.246 [3].
\- The MCE also belongs to the SEN.
\- The reference point between the MCE and MME in the SEN is M3, as defined in
TS 36.300 [8].
\- If MBSFN is used across participating PLMNs, the sync protocol for MBSFN is
also common across the participating PLMNs and controlled by the same MCE, as
shown in Figure 6.1.1-1.
NOTE 2: This requires all eNBs contributing to the same MBSFN to belong to
same MBMS synchronization area for cells with the same carrier frequency F3.
\- The reference point between MCE and eNB is (applicable only in case of
standalone MCE configuration):
\- M2*: a reference point based on M2, between the SEN MCE and participating
PLMNs eNBs. In that respect, it is considered an inter-PLMN interface.
\- M2: as defined in TS 36.440 [4], if the eNB is also shared, if the RAN and
CN of the shared eMBMS network is self-contained.
NOTE 3: The role and definition of M2/M2* interface is under RAN
responsibility.
#### 6.1.1.2 SEN with MBSFN synchronization area within each PLMN (Option B).
There are two possible options for this type of deployment:
Option B1: Shared MME with inter-PLMN M3* reference point.
Option B2: Inter-PLMN Sm* reference point
Option B1 is depicted in Figure 6.1.1.2-1. The Shared eMBMS network (SEN) is
depicted in yellow, leveraging current eMBMS network functionality: BM-SC,
MBMS-GW and MME, and corresponding interfaces between network elements. In
this scenario, MBMS synchronization areas are contained within each PLMN, but
the MME connecting to MCEs from different PLMNs is shared.
Figure 6.1.1-2: Option B1 Network architecture for shared eMBMS Network with
common MME - Inter-PLMN M3*
Figure 6.1.1-3: Option B2 Network architecture for shared eMBMS Network with
inter-PLMN Sm*
NOTE: Reference point between Content Provider and 3GPP network is not in
scope of this solution and is to be covered in separate solution.
#### 6.1.1.3 UE aspects
For case (a) in Key issue #3, all authorized devices regardless of the serving
PLMN they use for unicast services can access the content provided from the
shared eMBMS network. The broadcast content can also be potentially accessed
by UEs with no subscription as long as they are configured to operate in
\"Receive Only Mode\" or \"Receive Only Mode with independent unicast\" (See
Solution #2 in clause 6.2). In that case there is no service protection
provided by BMSC.
For case (b) in Key issue #3, the content is limited to UEs with valid
subscription to a participating PLMN, service protection may be enabled.
Different scenarios can be supported from the perspective of the UE:
UE Scenario 1: The UE receives both unicast and broadcast service from same
PLMN.
UE Scenario 2: The UE receives broadcast eMBMS service only with no unicast
service, i.e., the UE has no valid MNO subscription.
UE Scenario 3: The UE receives unicast service from one serving PLMN\'s (e.g.
the MNO for which it has unicast subscription), and receive eMBMS service
through a different PLMN.
No MBMS reception report and file repair is required for any of these cases.
For UE Scenario 1, the UE follows the same procedures as currently defined in
TS 23.246 [3], i.e., the UE shall perform registration and be in EMM-
REGISTERED. Service announcement, MBMS session start/stop procedures are as in
TS 23.246 [3].
For UE Scenario 2, the UE acts in Receive Only mode as defined in Solution #2
in clause 6.2. The eNB indicates whether receive only mode is allowed via
system information broadcast.
For UE Scenario 3, the UE performs registration with the PLMN for which it has
unicast service (e.g. PLMN 1).
There are two possibilities:
Option 1: The UE acts as Receive Only Mode with independent unicast as defined
in Solution #2 in clause 6.2.
Option 2: The eNBs from PLMN1 provide shared eMBMS frequency, PLMN for eMBMS,
TMGI(s) in system information broadcast. The UE registers with PLMN 1, and
stays in EMM-REGISTERED. The UE then acquires from the eNB of PLMN 1 all
necessary information for eMBMS service provided from PLMN 2.
Editor\'s note: How the UE deals with time offset between PLMN 1 cell (camped
for unicast service) and PLMN 2 (for eMBMS broadcast service) is FFS.
### 6.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
In Network:
\- New inter-PLMN interfaces M1*, M2* (in case of shared MCE) , and M3* or
Inter-PLMN Sm* in case MBMS network is different than Core network entities.
NOTE: The external interface of the SEN BM-SC is to be covered in a separate
solution.
In UE:
\- New acquisition procedure required depending on UE scenario.
### 6.1.3 Solution Evaluation
Shared MBMS core network elements BM-SC, MBMS GW and MME allow for efficient
set up of MBMS user services that span across different PLMNs.
\- Provides a common interface for user plane data transfer via MBMS
bearer(s).
\- Enables for different MBMS deployment agreements across PLMNs, e.g.
different PLMNs provide MBMS broadcast in different areas, MBSFN across PLMNs,
or use of shared eNBs/MCEs in certain areas, in a transparent manner to
content provider.
Regarding Option A: use of MBSFN across PLMNs with common MCE (Figure 6.1.1-1)
using inter -PLMN M2* or Option B: use of inter-PLMN M3*or Inter-PLMN Sm* with
MBMS synchronization areas are contained within each PLMN:
\- Inter PLMN M3 interface (i.e. M3* - Figure 6.1.1.2-1) or inter PLMN Sm
interface (i.e. Sm* - Figure 6.1.1.2-2) Option B:
\- Feasible setup which does not require cross-PLMN radio resource alignment.
\- It does not allow for potential capacity improvement by spanning MBSFN
across eNBs from different PLMNs in same area.
\- Inter-PLMN Sm interface most likely has less cross PLMN interface
instances, especially for distributed MCE deployment.
\- Inter PLMN M2 interface (Figure 6.1.1-1) Option A:
\- Enables Inter PLMN MBSFN setup, which increases capacity in areas where
multiple participating PLMNs are deployed. This may be a means to meet the
high demands implicit in realizing content delivery up to UHD resolution over
eMBMS.
\- On the other hand, this creates extensive administration complexity & cost
to setup and also requires standalone MCE deployment. Further, both PLMNs must
use radio resources on the same radio carrier so that all eNBs contribute to
the same MBSFN.
\- For example, PLMN1 or PLMN2 may have some sub-frames which can not be used
by MBSFN operation due to the PLMN\'s other feature deployment, e.g.
coexistence with OTDOA. Then SEN MCE must be configured to only use the
subframes which are both allowed for PLMN1 and PLMN2 to perform the MBMS
Scheduling Information procedure. Any such kind of new MBSFN resource
allocation constraint change in PLMN1 or PLMN2 need to get SEN MCE updated.
Note, a broadcast area can be constructed with multiple MBSFNs. With the setup
in the Figure 6.1.1-2, 3 separate MBSFNs on F3 may be setup to cover the whole
broadcast areas, and this can be achieved with radio resource allocation
independent M3* interface between SEN MME and PLMN1 EUTRAN, PLMN2 EUTRAN and
SEN EUTRAN. Of course, this may create some coverage gaps at the border
between PLMN1,SEN or PLMN2,SEN MBSFNs.
\- If the carrier frequency F3 is dedicated to broadcast services common to
all PLMNs, then the configuration impact is not as great.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Broadcast Only service for UEs with no PLMN broadcast
subscription
### 6.2.1 Description
#### 6.2.1.1 System aspects and UE behaviour
This solution aims to cover Key issue #2 \"Broadcast Only service for UEs with
no PLMN broadcast subscription\".
It also covers aspects of Key issue #1 \" Support of Free-to-Air (FTA) service
over 3GPP\" related to FTA broadcast only service without MNO subscription.
For this solution any device that is equipped with eMBMS broadcast receiver
and is configured to operate in Receive Only Mode is able to receive the
broadcast content, with the following characteristics
\- No PLMN credentials/subscription are required.
\- Without PLMN credentials/subscription, the UE can only access broadcast
services without subscription. The content can be Free To Air (FTA) content as
defined in TS 22.101 [2] in which case it can be viewed without content
subscription.
\- For Broadcast Only Mode, there is no need for the UE to support uplink.
NOTE 1: It is possible though that there is content protection handled at
application layer, e.g. for subscribed content. In that case security is
provided at application layer, and keys, etc., are provisioned out of band.
This provisioning is out of scope of 3GPP.
The UE is preconfigured with all the necessary information for the UE to
acquire the system information and receive eMBMS service. This information
includes:
\- PLMN ID(s) that provide the eMBMS service.
\- TMGI(s).
\- USD(s).
\- RAN specific information.
NOTE 2: Which RAN specific information needs to be configured in the UE
requires feedback from RAN1/RAN2/RAN3.
Figure 6.2.1.1-1 shows the components of a UE in Receive Only Mode and in
Receive Only Mode with independent unicast.
{width="5.998611111111111in" height="3.873611111111111in"}
Figure 6.2.1.1-2: UE components in Receive Only Mode and Receive Only Mode
with independent unicast
The unicast component is active only in **Receive Only Mode with independent
unicast.** The unicast component follows regular NAS/RRC procedures for
E-UTRAN/EPC in order to receive unicast service.
Figure 6.2.1.1-2 shows a schematic of the UE\'s Broadcast component behaviour
for Receive Only Mode and Receive Only Mode with independent unicast:
{width="3.4340277777777777in" height="3.588888888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.1.1-2: UE behaviour
For the broadcast component UE is configured with eMBMS radio resources for TV
service with no PLMN subscription. It may also be configured with service
specific and content specific configuration. The UE operating in Receive Only
Mode scans the configured eMBMS radio resources and performs system
acquisition. The UE, based on standardised TMGI values, shall camp on a
network cell in an eMBMS Broadcast carrier. The UE shall refrain from any
Mobility Management or other signalling with the network offering eMBMS.
#### 6.2.1.2 RAN specific aspects (Informative)
There are two possibilities for eMBMS TV support at radio access network:
> **Option 1:** eMBMS as Supplemental Downlink (SDL) carrier:
\- The eMBMS SDL carrier does not support any system information.
\- The UE acquires the system information through primary carrier/cell.
\- The system information from the primary carrier can be acquired by the UEs
without associated PLMN subscriptions. There is no need to access and connect
to the primary carrier to receive the necessary information for eMBMS service
in the SDL carrier.
\- In this case, the UE is in addition configured with frequency bands for
primary carriers per PLMN.
> **Option 2:** System information broadcasted in eMBMS carrier:
\- The UE receives all system information in eMBMS carrier.
\- In this case, the UE is configured in addition with the eMBMS carrier
frequency bands per PLMN. Note that in case of shared eMBMS across multiple
PLMNs, the same eMBMS carrier frequency will be configured for the
participating PLMNs.
NOTE: Feedback from RAN WG1/RAN WG2/RAN WG3 is needed for support of these
options. In particular, how to prevent a legacy UE for camping in a cell that
offers only eMBMS service and no unicast service is to be solved in RAN WG1.
From system perspective, Option 2 is preferable, as the UE needs to only
acquire and receive in the eMBMS frequency band. This makes it simpler
particularly in the case of shared resources, as in Option 1 the UE could
potentially need to be configured with all possible primary carrier
frequencies from all PLMNs sharing eMBMS resources, as opposed to option 2,
where the eMBMS frequency bands are independent of the PLMN that is
broadcasting.
### 6.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
On UE:
\- Support of eMBMS Receive Only Mode.
\- General configuration for UE operating in Receive Only Mode and Receive
Only Mode with independent unicast.
\- Configuration of eMBMS radio resources for Receive Only Mode
\- System acquisition in eMBMS radio resources
\- Cell selection based on standardized TMGI values.
### 6.2.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution successfully fulfils the requirements for:
\- Key issue #2 (clause 4.2): Broadcast Only service for UEs with no MNO
broadcast subscription
\- The introduction of Receive Only Mode allows UEs with no MNO subscription
to find, camp on cells and receive TV service via eMBMS without need for any
signalling.
\- UEs can also receive independently unicast service.
\- A subset of Key issue #1 (clause 4.1): Support of Free-to-Air (FTA) service
over 3GPP - for broadcast only service:
\- Subscription aspects for broadcast only service: Receive Only mode supports
broadcast only service without MNO subscription.
\- Anonymity: Receive Only Mode allows UEs to receive broadcast only FTA
service without any uplink signalling, i.e. without any need for identifying
and/or authenticating with the network.
\- Charging aspects: a UE operating Receive Only Mode receives the TV service
anonymously at no associated cost.
## 6.3 Solution #3: New standard reference point between BM-SC and Content
Provider for TV service
### 6.3.1 Description
#### 6.3.1.1 General
This solution aims to cover Key issue #4: Decoupling of content, MBMS service
and MBMS transport functions.
It also covers Key issue #6: Exposure of eMBMS service and transport
capabilities to 3^rd^ party.
There are 2 MBMS Service Types considered for TV service:
**MBMS Service Type 1:** **Transport only mode**
\- The 3GPP network provides only transport of data/TV content in a
transparent manner.
\- The 3^rd^ party content provider\'s signalling and data transferred via
MBMS bearer(s) are transparent to BM-SC and the MBMS bearer service.
\- All other service aspects, e.g. decision of whether to send data over
broadcast or unicast, is not within 3GPP network, and assumed to be performed
by application server.
**MBMS Service Type 2:** **Full MBMS service mode**
\- 3GPP MBMS system provides full service layer capability.
\- BM-SC is aware of the content stream and is capable of transforming the
content stream into 3GPP compliant stream.
\- BM-SC can perform decision on whether to switch an MBMS user service
between broadcast or unicast service.
It is proposed to define a standard interface to apply to TV service, and
potentially other services in the future. Figure 6.3.1.1-1 shows the
architecture reference model, including TMB2 reference point between BM-SC and
Content Provider for TV service.
Figure 6.3.1.1-1: TMB2 interface between BM-SC and Content Provider for TV
service
TMB2: This is the reference point between the Content Provider and the BM-SC.
For MBMS Service Type 1 \"Transport only mode\", where the data transferred
via MBMS bearer(s) is transparent to BM-SC and the MBMS bearer service, the
decision for switching between MBMS delivery and unicast delivery may be made
at 3^rd^ party application server. How the 3^rd^ party application server
decides it, and whether the UE and 3rd party application server have any
communication to aid the decision, is out of scope of 3GPP for this release.
In addition, for MBMS Service Type 1 \"Transport only mode\", the 3^rd^ party
content provider may distribute additional content using the download delivery
function in the BM-SC.
For MBMS Service Type 2 \"Full MBMS service mode\", the BM-SC can provide full
functionality as defined in TS 23.246 [3], including the decision in BM-SC for
an MBMS user service to establish service delivery over an MBMS bearer or tear
down service delivery over an already established MBMS bearer to only leave
service delivery over unicast.
The following requirements on TMB2 for TV service can be considered (in case
dynamic configuration of these aspects are considered necessary):
\- Functionality already provided by existing MB2 reference point:
\- Content Provider request the activation/deactivation of MBMS bearer,
\- Content Provider request to activate, deactivate, and modify an MBMS
bearer.
\- BM-SC notification to the application of the status of an MBMS bearer.
\- New functionality:
\- Indication of MBMS Service Type 1 \"Transport only mode\" or MBMS Service
Type 2 \"Full MBMS service mode\" per MBMS bearer service or per MBMS User
Service .
\- Indication by content provider whether an MBMS bearer service (identified
by TMGI) is for broadcast only mode devices.
\- Indication by BM-SC whether receive only mode is enabled for the case of no
MNO subscription.
\- Mechanism for the MNO to exchange information (such as QoE information,
consumption information, user service registration information, and delivery
information) with the 3rd party content provider.
\- The content provider can request creation of broadcast/unicast sessions
with additional capabilities such as error recovery, reporting (QoE,
consumption, etc.), service announcement etc. The information to be exchanged
between content provider and BM-SC is described in clause 6.3.1.3.
\- The content provider can request modification of broadcast/unicast sessions
depending upon different metrics (e.g., load or number of users receiving the
service etc.)
\- The content provider can transmit user plane data to the BM-SC at the UDP
layer, thus delegating the responsibility to source the multicast data to the
BM-SC.
NOTE: Further information related to the TV service may be defined by SA WG4.
Some or all of these aspects can be statically configured and known to content
provider via service agreement, if dynamic negotiation of such aspects are
considered not needed.
#### 6.3.1.2 Procedures over TMB2
This clause covers the principles for the control plane procedures required
over TMB2.
NOTE 1: Details of user plane protocol stack and control plane control stack
are not covered in this Solution and are assumed to be captured in normative
work, potentially in joint effort with SA WG4.
The list of procedures defined in this clause may not be exhaustive. SA WG4
may define additional procedures/functionality. Details on the information
exchanged over TMB2 are described in clause 6.3.1.3.
Some of the information exchanged in the following procedures may be static
and pre-agreed via Service Level Agreement (SLA), in which case there is no
need to exchange that information in a dynamic manner.
**Content Provider Authorization Procedure**
This procedure is intended for authorization of the content provider before
the content provider is allowed to perform any of the TV service management
procedures described in this clause.
Figure 6.3.1.2-1
1\. The Content Provider AS sends a Content Provider Authorization Request
message to the BM-SC via TMB2 with necessary authorization credentials.
2\. The BM-SC authorizes the Content Provider AS using the supplied
authorization credentials and lets the content provider of the result.
Only after successful authorization, the content provider will be able to
perform any of the TV service management procedures described in this clause.
NOTE 2: The credentials to be passed in the content provider authorization
request is not in scope of SA WG2. It is up to SA WG3 to define these
credentials.
**MBMS Capability Exposure Procedure**
This procedure is intended for providing MBMS user service and transport
capabilities to the Content Provider before the activation of any MBMS bearer.
Figure 6.3.1.2-2
1\. The Content Provider AS sends an MBMS Capability Exposure Request message
to the BM-SC via TMB2 with an information element including the specific
requested information, as described in clause 6.3.1.3.
2\. The BM-SC replies to the Content Provider AS with MBMS Capability Exposure
Response message providing information based on the Content Provider AS
request.
**TV Service Allocation**
Figure 6.3.1.2-3
1\. The Content provider AS sends TV Service Allocation Request with the
number of TV services requested, and optionally additional information as
described in Clause 6.3.1.3
2\. The BM-SC determines whether the content provider is authorized for the TV
service(s), allocates a TMGI (if needed) and a time of expiration. The BM-SC
responds with a list of TV service identifiers. The BM-SC may provide to the
Content Provider AS the TMGI. The BM-SC may also provide additional
characteristics, as described in Clause 6.3.1.3.
**TV Service Resources Activation Procedure**
This procedure is used by the Content Provider AS to cause allocation of
resources for an MBMS bearer in case of broadcast only, or for the BM-SC to
initiate allocation for broadcast+unicast service.
Figure 6.3.1.2-4
1\. When the Content Provider AS wishes to activate TV service resources over
TMB2, the Content Provider AS sends an Activate TV Service Resources Request
message to the BM-SC, including the TV Service Identifier which represents the
TV service to be started, QoS, broadcast area, and start time. The QoS may
have separate components for broadcast and unicast if broadcast+unicast
service applies. The broadcast component of QoS shall be mapped into
appropriate QoS parameters of the MBMS bearer for broadcast (incl additional
overhead such as Forward Error Correction redundancy). Additional information
may be requested as described in clause 6.3.1.3.
NOTE 3: More unicast related information may need to be exchanged.
NOTE 4: More information may be required to be included by SA WG4.
2\. The BM-SC activates the TV service. For broadcast service, the BM-SC
allocates a Content ID. The BM-SC shall send an Activate MBMS Bearer Response
message to the Content provider AS.
**TV Service Modification Procedure**
This procedure is used by the Content Provider AS to request modification of
an existing TV service.
Figure 6.3.1.2-5
1\. When the Content Provider AS wishes to modify TV service resources over
TMB2, the Content Provider AS sends a TV Service Modification Request message
to the BM-SC, including the TV Service Identifier which represents the TV
service to be modified. The modification request can be used to modify any of
the parameters used during the TV service resource activation procedure.
2\. The BM-SC determines if the Content Provider AS is authorized for TV
service modification. Upon successful authorization, BM-SC modifies the TV
service corresponding to the given TV Service Identifier as requested by the
Content Provider AS.
NOTE 5: It is possible that SA WG4 limits the parameters of the session that
can be modified.
**TV Service Resource De-activation Procedure**
This procedure is used by the Content Provider AS to request deallocation of
resources allocated for a TV service.
Figure 6.3.1.2-6
1\. When the Content Provider AS wishes to de-activate TV service resources
over TMB2, the Content Provider AS sends a De-activate TV Service Resources
Request message to the BM-SC, including the TV Service Identifier which
represents the TV service whose resources have to be de-allocated.
2\. The BM-SC determines if the Content Provider AS is authorized for TV
service de-activation. Upon successful authorization, BM-SC de-activates the
TV service corresponding to the given TV Service Identifier and performs de-
allocation of all resources allocated for the given TV service.
**TV Service Content Addition Procedure**
This procedure is used by the Content Provider AS to request BM-SC for adding
new content for an already in progress TV service. This procedure is required
for the Content Provider AS if it wishes to add new content that was not
available when the TV service was initially provisioned.
Figure 6.3.1.2-7
1\. When the Content Provider AS wishes to add new content for an existing TV
service, the Content Provider AS sends a TV Service Content Addition Request
message, including the TV service identifier and content information (such as
content URL, formats etc.) to the BM-SC.
2\. The BM-SC determines if the Content Provider AS is authorized for adding
new content to the TV service. Upon successful authorization, BM-SC delivers
the new content to the users using the existing TV service session. BM-SC also
responds back to the Content Provider AS with a response indicating the status
of such content reception procedure.
**TV Service Reporting Procedure**
This procedure is used by the BM-SC to share any reports with the Content
Provider AS.
{width="4.052083333333333in" height="1.9201388888888888in"}
Figure 6.3.1.2-8
1\. When the BM-SC computes statistics (such as quality statistics etc.) for
the TV service, it shares the report with the Content Provider AS using the TV
Service Report Request which includes the TV Service Identifier.
2\. The Content Provider AS receives the report from the BM-SC and responds
back to the BM-SC with the status of the report reception procedure.
Using the TV Service Report Request message to the Content Provider AS, the
BM-SC can share reports such as QoE reports, consumption metrics reports,
service registration reports and other reports described in clause 6.3.1.3.
NOTE 6: For TV service reporting, if the BM-SC has to authorize itself to the
Content Provider AS, is FFS.
**TV Service Notification Procedure**
This procedure is used by the BM-SC to notify the Content Provider AS of any
events during the service realization.
Figure 6.3.1.2-9
1\. When the BM-SC need to exchange TV service related notifications, it uses
the TV Service Notification Request, including the TV Service Identifier, to
perform such notifications.
2\. The Content Provider AS receives the notifications regarding a TV service
from the BM-SC and responds back to the BM-SC with the status of the
notification reception procedure.
Using the TV Service Report Request message to the Content Provider AS, the
BM-SC can share notifications such as TMGI expiry and any bearer events
related to the TV services.
NOTE 7: For TV service notifications, if the BM-SC has to authorize itself to
the Content Provider AS, is FFS.
#### 6.3.1.3 Exposure of eMBMS service and transport capabilities to 3rd party
##### 6.3.1.3.1 General
The 3rd party content provider can benefit because of the information from the
MNO about eMBMS services and transport capabilities. The information from the
MNO to the 3rd party is based on the service usage and information about UE
capabilities. Based on the information from MNO, the 3rd party can request the
MNO about additional facilities for the service.
##### 6.3.1.3.2 Service Configuration
The 3rd party content provider can provide details about individual services
to the MNO. Such configuration of the services is based on business agreements
between the MNO and 3rd party. The MNO can collect all the information about a
service from the 3rd party and make delivery decisions. It is proposed that
for this solution, the 3rd party content provider does not decide on the
delivery mode i.e. if the service is to be delivered over broadcast or
unicast. However, the 3rd party content provider can request the delivery mode
(e.g., broadcast and/or unicast) for an underlying service, but it is up to
the MNO to accept or ignore the request. The MNO can start the delivery in a
default delivery mode, and then depending on the service usage, dynamically
change the delivery mode for the service.
The MNO can receive the details of all eMBMS services from the 3rd party
content provider. In addition, the MNO has detailed knowledge about the UE
capabilities and service quality and consumption metrics. Following is the
information that the MNO requires to decide on the delivery mode for a
service.
\- Provider ID: ID of the 3rd party content provider.
\- Service details: The details of the eMBMS service offered by the 3rd party
content provider. The MNO receives this information from the 3rd party content
provider or is statically configured based on service agreement. Service
details have all the detailed information about the service (e.g., service
identification, start and end times etc.).
NOTE 1: There may be other service related information that can be included in
the service details.
\- Transport mode indication. This indicates if the transport mode preferred
by the 3rd party provider is broadcast only, hybrid broadcast/unicast or
dynamic broadcast/unicast (MooD operation).
\- Receive only mode indication. This indicates if receive only mode is
requested by 3rd party.
\- MBMS Service Type. This indicates the MBMS service type preferred by the
3rd party (Transport only mode, Full MBMS service mode).
\- MBMS security feature allowed indicating whether MBMS security (e.g.,
integrity, confidentiality TS 33.346) applies or not (between BM-SC and UE).
\- Content transcoding capability indication. This indicates whether the 3PP
wants the content to be transcoded (e.g., from DVB-IPI format to 3GPP) or not.
\- Caching indication (yes, no). This indicates to the MNO whether the 3PP
allows the content to be cached in the MNO\'s network (e.g., for Video on
Demand service, Time shifting) or not.
\- Media layer information indicating the codec details of the TV content
(e.g., H.264/H.265 for video; AMR-WB, AMR-NB, EVS for audio).
\- Geographical information indicating where the 3PP wants the TV content to
be delivered.
\- Time information indicating when the 3PP wants the TV to be delivered.
\- Filters: The 3rd party content provider provides details about any filters
that need to be applied to end users (e.g., subscription, time etc.) that help
the MNO decide if a UE has to be included or excluded for a service.
\- Subscription/registration information: The MNO receives this information
from the UE when the UE expresses the interest to receive the service.
NOTE 2: The subscription/registration information for user service is defined
by SA WG4.
\- UE capabilities: The MNO has knowledge about the capability information of
the UEs
NOTE 3: The security protection request information from the 3rd party content
provider to the MNO is FFS.
NOTE 4: The information as described above from 3rd party to BM-SC is not
exhaustive. It is for SA WG4 to define the complete set of details from the
3rd party to BM-SC
When the MNO gathers the above information from the 3rd party content provider
and the UE, it decides on the delivery mode for the service.
##### 6.3.1.3.3 MNO (BM-SC) Behaviour
The BM-SC at the MNO computes quality and consumption statistics and uses this
information along with the UE capability information, service registration
information, and request from 3rd party content provider to decide on the
delivery mode for the service. The MNO continues to use this delivery mode for
the service until it gets new information about the service from 3rd party or
the UE. Upon receiving new information, the BM-SC repeats the decision making
process for the delivery mode of the service. This process continues until the
service is terminated.
Figure 6.3.1.3.3-1: BM-SC behaviour
##### 6.3.1.3.4 Feedback to 3rd Party Content Provider
The MNO can inform the 3rd party content provider about the eMBMS services\'
usage and transport capabilities. Following is the information that the MNO
can inform the 3rd party content provider:
\- Quality metrics information: The MNO periodically computes the quality
statistics of the service content. The MNO can exchange the quality
information with the 3rd party content provider so both the parties can strive
to provide quality content during service delivery.
\- Consumption metrics information: The MNO periodically computes the
consumption statistics for the service content. The MNO can exchange this
information with the 3rd party content provider.
\- Service registration information: The MNO can provide detail information
about service registration to the 3rd party content provider. This information
includes details such as number of users registered for the service, location,
and time etc.
\- Delivery information: The MNO can provide delivery information about the
service to the 3rd party content provider. Any changes to the delivery modes
during service delivery can be captured and shared with the 3rd party content
provider.
\- Group information: If the MNO is using group delivery method to deliver the
service content to the UEs, the MNO can share group and corresponding bearer
information with the 3rd party content provider.
When the 3rd party content provider receives such information from the MNO, it
can request for any additional facilities to the service.
NOTE: SA WG4 may define the exhaustive list of parameters that can be
requested for modification by the 3rd party content provider for a service
operating in a given MBMS service type.
##### 6.3.1.3.5 Means to expose user service and transport capabilities to 3rd
party content provider
The MB2 reference point does not provide sufficient capabilities for the MNO
to inform the 3rd party content provider about all the information described
above. For this solution we propose that the MNO inform the information above
using the TMB2 interface.
#### 6.3.1.4 Relation of TMB2 to MB2 Reference Point
The MB2 reference point between the GCS AS and BM-SC provides capabilities for
TMGI management (allocation/deallocation/modification), MBMS bearer control
(activation/deactivation/modification) and status notification procedures.
However, there are limitations to the MB2 reference point such as the
following:
\- MB2 only allows for setup of MBMS services using group delivery method.
Other different delivery methods such as download delivery and streaming
delivery are not supported.
\- The procedures defined for the MB2 reference point do not allow the GCS AS
to request creation of services with configuration parameters described in
clause 6.3.1.3.2.
\- The procedures de fined for the MB2 reference point do not allow the GCS AS
to receive feedback from BM-SC for parameters described in clause 6.3.1.3.4.
Due to these reasons TMB2 is different from MB2. However, some of the
functionality of MB2 reference point can be reused for TMB2 such as the
following:
\- 3rd party content provider can request allocation, de-allocation, and
modification of TMGI.
\- BM-SC can notify the 3rd party content provider of status of MBMS bearers.
\- BM-SC can notify the 3rd party content provider regarding the timer expiry
of a TMGI.
### 6.3.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
In BM-SC:
\- Standard reference point TMB2 for TV service.
\- Configuration of eMBMS user services by the 3rd party content provider.
\- Reception of requested delivery mode and end user filters for filtering UEs
during service delivery from the 3rd party content provider.
\- Taking into account UE capabilities and subscription/registration
information for a service from the 3rd party for deciding on the delivery
mode.
In 3rd party content providers:
\- Reception of service usage information from BM-SC.
\- Delivery of service details, preferred delivery mode, and end user filters
for service delivery.
### 6.3.3 Solution Evaluation
MBMS Service Type 1 and MBMS Service Type 2, defined at BM-SC, defining
standard TMB2 reference point between BM-SC and Content Provider, which
includes functionality provided by existing MB2 and new functionality related
to TV service, satisfy the two scenarios required in the definition of Key
Issue #4 in Clause 4.4, with minimal changes to current specifications for
interfaces internal to 3GPP network.
The solution successfully fulfills the requirements for Key Issue #6 (Clause
4.6): Exposure of eMBMS service and transport capabilities to 3rd party.
\- Whether the MNO or the 3rd party content/service providers decide the
delivery mode (broadcast and/or unicast).
\- Means for the MNO to expose the MBMS user service and transport
capabilities to 3rd party content/service providers.
\- What information is necessary and how the MNO or the 3rd party
content/service providers gets the necessary information to decide the
delivery mode, e.g. expected TV content to be received, expected time to
receive the TV content and UE capability for the TV service.
In scenarios in which the MNO needs to connect to a high number of 3rd party
providers or in which a 3rd party provider needs to connect to many BM-SCs of
the same MNO, scalability issues might limit the effectiveness of the
solution.
NOTE: There are non-standard mechanisms that may alleviate this scalability
issue.
## 6.4 Solution 4: Unicast delivery for TV Services
### 6.4.1 Description
This solution addresses Key issue #5.
The users who are allowed to receive TV services will require subscription for
the TV services in the HPLMN MNO.
The provisioning aspects for TV content providers are handled under Key Issues
# 4 and #6.
The user plane (UP) aspects via BM-SC shown here relates to Broadcast services
via eMBMS and handled via the Broadcast services as described in TS 23.246 [3]
and if applicable, as described in Solution # 1.
**Scenario 1: TV delivery over Unicast and shared MBMS Broadcast considering
Multi-Purpose devices:** Here, the TV channel provider decides dynamically,
when and where to use MBMS Broadcast for service distribution. When the
popularity is low, then the TV channel provider terminates shared MBMS
Broadcast and uses unicast for the TV service. The TV channel provider
provides the content stream for MBMS Broadcast activated TV channels to MNO1.
Figure 6.4.1-1: Network Architecture for Scenario 1: TV delivery over Unicast
and shared MBMS Broadcast considering Multi-Purpose
In Figure 6.4.1-1 the Network Architecture for Scenario 1, TV delivery over
Unicast and shared MBMS Broadcast considering Multi-Purpose devices, is
depicted, leveraging current eMBMS network functionality: BM-SC, MBMS-GW,
E-UTRAN and MME, and corresponding interfaces between network elements. The
functions for Unicast TV offerings (aka the CDN functions) are provided by the
Content Provider and not depicted separately.
For UnicastTV, the Content Provider uses regular unicast data connectivity.
For MBMS Broadcast, the TV Content Provider provides the content of the TV
channel via a User Plane Interface (UP).
Note that the Content Provider may have an agreement with MNO2 in order to
zero-rate TV service data.
The figure depicts three UEs, UE1, UE2 and UE3, which are subscribed to either
MNO1 or MNO2.
\- UE1 which belongs to MNO1 is capable of using Unicast or MBMS Broadcast as
defined today.
\- UE2 and UE3 belong to MNO2. When the UE is inside of the MBMS Broadcast
coverage (here UE2), then the UE connects to the MBMS Broadcast by MNO1. When
the UE is outside of the MBMS Broadcast Coverage (UE3), then the UE connects
to the TV Service using Unicast.
In case popularity based switching according to MBMS operations on Demand
(MooD, TS 26.346 [5]) is supported, then:
\- The Content Provider monitors the popularity of the TV service over
Unicast, for each MNO separately.
\- When unicast TV service usage of a channel is high in a certain area, the
TV Content Provider interacts with MNO1 via a dedicated provisioning interface
(PP) in order to activate MBMS Broadcast in the identified area.
\- In order to monitor popularity in the MBMS Broadcast Areas, the MNO is
exposing popularity information (derived from HTTP Consumption Reporting, TS
26.346 [5]) to the Content Provider via a dedicated Provisioning Plane (PP)
Interface. The Content Provider may decide to terminate the on-going MBMS
Broadcast in an area. Remaining UEs continue on Unicast.
**Scenario 2 for dedicated TV devices:** The TV Content Provider has an SLA
with a unique MNO. The dedicated TV receiver includes a TV-Service
subscription associated with the MNO subscription, which allows tuning to TV
Unicast and MBMS Broadcast. Dedicated TV is a TV-Receive-only device and
cannot be used for other services.
Figure 6.4.1-2: Network Architecture for Scenario 2: Dedicated TV Devices
In Figure 6.4.1-2 the Network Architecture for Scenario 2 is depicted. The TV
Content Provider provides the user plane data for the TV channel to the MNO.
The MNO makes the TV content available through the PSS server (aka CDN
functionality for unicast delivery, TS 26.234 [6] and TS 26.247 [7] for 3GP
DASH) and also through MBMS Broadcast (TS 26.346 [5]). The PSS server uses
3GP-DASH format for Unicast delivery.
Note that shared MBMS aspects are not shown since this scenario depicts MBMS
provided by the MNO itself independently and not related to the scenario as
such and can be applied as well.
The MNO manages the dedicated TV service UEs. Figure 6.4.1-2 depicts two UEs
in different conditions: TV UE1 is receiving the TV content using unicast. The
operator may zero rate or discard any charging related information.
In case popularity based switching according to MBMS operations on Demand
(MooD, TS 26.346 [5]) is supported, then:
\- The MNO monitors the TV service consumption per channel in areas and decide
to use unicast or MBMS Broadcast usage.
According to the agreement between the TV Content Provider & the MNO, the MNO
may provide usage information to the Content Provider. When legislation
requires anonymous reception then the operator is anonymizing any TV
subscription information.
**[Scenario 3 for multi-purpose devices]{.underline}**
This Scenario discusses the realization for multi-purpose devices, where the
managing operator (MNO1) provides all functionality for dynamic switching.
Scenario 2 is focusing on dedicated TV devices, whether the device is tailored
to only render the TV service. Scenario 1 focuses on a OTT scenario, where the
TV service provider manages all unicast service functions. Scenario 3 is
focused on Multi-Purpose devices, where the device can be used for TV Services
but also for other 3GPP Services.
Figure 6.4.1-3: Network Architecture for Scenario 3: Multi-Purpose Devices
In Figure 6.4.1-3 the Network Architecture for Scenario 3 is depicted, which
is actually another deployment realization of Scenario 1. The difference to
Scenario 1 is that the MNO1 is managing the TV service and has agreements with
other MNOs (here MNO2). Devices connect always through an TV APN, so that the
P-GW can easily separate the TV service from other data. All unicast data may
be zero-rated, depending on the agreement between MNO1 and MNO2. All unicast
data of MNO1are zero rated according to the agreement with the TV Content
Provider.
The TV Content Provider provides the user plane data for the TV channel to the
MNO. The MNO makes the TV content available through the PSS server (aka CDN
for unicast delivery, TS 26.234 [6] and TS 26.247 [7] for 3GP DASH) and also
through MBMS (TS 26.346 [5]). The PSS server uses 3GP-DASH formats for unicast
delivery. When UEs from other MNOs use unicast to access the TV service, these
UEs connect to the PSS server of MNO1.
The MNO is managing the TV service. Figure 6.4.1-4 depicts three UEs in
different conditions:
\- UE1 belongs to MNO1 and can use services on Unicast and MBMS Broadcast.
\- UE2 belongs to MNO2, but is currently located in a area, where the TV
service of interest is provided with MBMS Broadcast. When MNO1 activates HTTP
Consumption Reporting TS 26.346 [5], UE2 establishes the TV APN to its MNO
(here MNO2) and sends consumption reporting to the BM-SC of MNO1. The operator
may zero rate or discard any charging related information.
\- UE3 is located in an area, where the TV service is provided via unicast.
UE3 establishes the TV APN to its MNO (here MNO2) and connects using Unicast
to the PSS server of MNO1. The operator may zero rate or discard any charging
related information.
In case popularity based switching according to MBMS operations on Demand
(MOOD TS 26.346 [5]) is supported, then:
\- The MNO monitors the TV service consumption per channel in areas and decide
to use Unicast or MBMS Broadcast.
According to the agreement between the TV Content Provider & the MNO, the MNO
may provide usage information to the TV Content Provider. When legislation
requires anonymous reception then the operator is anonymizing any TV
subscription information.
NOTE: Currently the interface between PSS Server and BMSC is not standardized.
Stage 2 details of the PSS function is under SA WG4 responsibility.
### 6.4.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The following functionalities are needed to be supported by the entities:
**UE:** It requires support of existing services available/defined for eMBMS
already.
\- Able to support TV services as required by the solutions in this TR. In
addition, for Unicast support, there needs to be additional PDN connection via
possibly dedicated APN for TV services delivery. Note that it may require
explicit connection towards TV Content Provider for Unicast reachability
information (e.g. IP addresses, ports, etc.), this is to be determined by SA
WG4.
\- Ability to support Consumption Reporting.
**Content Provider/PSS:** MNO needs to provide the required functions for MBMS
Broadcast services as per Key Issues 4 & 6\. MNO needs to enable such
functions towards TV content providers.
**S-GW/P-GW:** No new impacts.
**MME:** No impacts, if APN is configured in the HSS then MME checks when UE
provides an APN and verifies that the user has subscription for that APN.
**HSS:** Configure well known dedicated APN in the subscription for Unicast TV
services support.
### 6.4.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution is developed using existing 3GPP functions and possible new
functions developed in conjunction with TV services support in 3GPP using
eMBMS. As such, the solution does not require any new functions but rather
packaging of combination of functions to enable Unicast support.
Scenario 1 uses OTT mechanism to deliver TV content via Unicast mode and works
independently from MBMS Broadcast delivery. As such, there is no specification
changes required from this study perspective. Though it should be noted that
due to the nature of decoupled and transparent OTT delivery, the performance
may not be optimal.
Scenarios 2 & 3 makes use of the MNO control over the selection of the
delivery mode (Unicast, MBMS Broadcast, switching etc.) based on content
provisioning and specific MNO service provisioning (e.g. dedicated APN etc.)
in order to deliver TV services and as such can provide improved performance
and simplified delivery towards number of content providers.
## 6.5 Solution 5: MBMS service exposure based on extended standard reference
point between BM-SC and SCEF
### 6.5.1 Description
#### 6.5.1.1 General
This solution aims at covering Key issue #4: Decoupling of content, MBMS
service and MBMS transport functions and Key Issue #6: Exposure of eMBMS
service and transport capabilities to the 3rd Party Provider (3PP) Application
Server (AS).
Figure 6.5.1.1-1 shows the MNO\'s eMBMS based architecture with TMB2-C
reference point between SCEF and BM-SC.
Figure 6.5.1.1-1: TMB2-C interface between BM-SC and SCEF
Figure 6.5.1.1-2 shows the message flow for this solution.
Figure 6.5.1.1-2: Example message flow for MBMS service exposure based on
extended reference point between BM-SC and SCEF
1) The 3rd party provider (3PP) AS requires a TMGI to the MNO and indicates
its capability request. The capability request is based on the Capability
details, which include, e.g. the parameters indicated in clause 6.3.1.3.
NOTE 1: The development of APIs to support exposure via SCEF is out of scope
of SA WG2.
2) The SCEF authorizes the 3PP for the usage of the eMBMS services for EnTV.
3) The SCEF contacts the BM-SC to get the TMGI. Such steps include the
Capability details indicated by the 3PP. The response by the BM-SC will depend
also on such details.
4) The SCEF replies to the 3PP AS with the TMGI and the list of supported
capabilities.
NOTE 2 If the preference of the 3PP allows and the BMSC decides that unicast
is possible, the Step 3/4 would not return a TMGI, but PSS address/port
details.
5-8) The SCEF requires the BM-SC to establish the MBMS Bearer and the bearer
is successfully established.
9) The TV content is provided by the 3PP AS to the BM-SC.
20-21b) Several UEs indicate they want to access the same TV content and the
3PP AS indicates to switch to eMBMS.
22-23) The UEs switch to eMBMS operation and receive the TV content.
NOTE 3: Step 20 to 23 are for illustration purpose only.
#### 6.5.1.2 Service exposure via SCEF
In this example the 3PP knows in advance the TV channel information that it
needs to send to the MNO. As an example, the 3PP indicates broadcast as the
preferred way for delivering the TV content and it lets the MNO decide the
best bearer option (broadcast or unicast). The MNO uses MBMS user service at
the beginning.
Figure 6.5.1.2-2: Service exposure based via SCEF
### 6.5.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The following changes are required to the existing nodes and functionality:
\- Reference point. Either:
\- TMB2-C point between BM-SC and SCEF is needed.
\- SCEF
\- Selects the BM-SC based on the information provided by the 3PP (for
broadcast).
\- Forwards to the BM-SC the assistance information received from the 3PP.
\- BM-SC
\- Based on the capability details provided by the 3PP via the SCEF
establishes MBMS bearers.
\- PSS
\- Needs to be caching the TV content in case of unicast delivery.
NOTE 1: Following the SA WG4 MooD operation, either the BM-SC or the PSS can
decide whether to use the unicast or the broadcast delivery mode.
NOTE 2: The BM-SC/PSS interface is not standardized as today and needs
enhancements.
### 6.5.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution addresses
\- Key Issue #4 (Decoupling of content, MBMS service and MBMS transport
functions) thanks the new detailed signalling between SCEF/BM-SC and 3PP.
\- Key Issue #6 (Exposure of eMBMS service and transport capabilities to 3rd
party), because the new signalling makes the 3PP aware of the eMBMS
capabilities of the MNO.
Advantages:
\- Scalability, enabling independent evolution of the MNO\'s eMBMS system and
the 3^rd^ party provider.
\- Access control and authorization functionality already supported by SCEF.
Disadvantage:
\- Potential single point of failure.
# 7 Overall Evaluation
Solution 2 as defined in clause 6.2 successfully fulfils the requirements for:
\- Key issue #2 (clause 4.2): Broadcast Only service for UEs with no MNO
broadcast subscription:
\- The introduction of Receive Only Mode allows UEs with no MNO subscription
to find, camp on cells and receive TV service via eMBMS without need for any
signalling.
\- The PLMN can decide based on policy whether to offer Receive Only Mode
service, this is indicated via system information broadcast indication.
\- UEs can also receive independently unicast service.
\- A subset of Key issue #1 (clause 4.1): Support of Free-to-Air (FTA) service
over 3GPP - for broadcast only service:
\- Subscription aspects for broadcast only service: Receive Only mode supports
broadcast only service without MNO subscription.
\- Anonymity: Receive Only Mode allows UEs to receive broadcast only FTA
service without any uplink signalling, i.e. without any need for identifying
and/or authenticating with the network.
\- Charging aspects: a UE operating Receive Only Mode receives the TV service
anonymously at no associated cost.
Solution 1 as defined in clause 6.1 successfully covers the requirements for:
\- Key issue #3: Support of Shared eMBMS functions:
\- Allows for multiple PLMNs to offer a unified service to content providers
through a common BM-SC and MBMSGW.
\- Based on agreements between the group of PLMNs and content provider the TV
service may be open to all UEs without subscription or closed to UEs with
subscription to any of the participating PLMNs.
\- For M1* to operate across multiple PLMNs, the IP Multicast between E-UTRAN
and MBMSGW must be enabled to operate across PLMNs.
\- Two different types of collaboration between PLMNs have been studied:
A. MBSFN synchronization area spanning across PLMNs.
\- Improves multipath diversity and therefore capacity in areas where multiple
PLMNs provide coverage.
\- Increases complexity and inter-PLMN coordination.
B. MBSFN synchronization areas managed within each PLMN:
\- Offers much lower interconnectivity and coordination between PLMNs.
\- No increased multipath diversity and capacity.
\- Option B should be supported, Option A has benefits and should be evaluated
by RAN groups.
* * *
Option B1 B2 In this option, a common MME which is part of the Shared MBMS
Network and thus manages the M3* interface across multiple PLMNs twoards the
MCEs specific to each PLMN that support the SEN and manages each MBSFN area
per PLMN. In this option B2, Inter PLMN Sm* interface allows each PLMN
supporting the SEN to provide MBMS GW with inter PLMN support over Sm*. Inter-
PLMN M3* would require MME from one PLMN to be able to connect to many MCEs if
MCE is colocated with eNB. Such relationship is much more OAM
intensive/complex to manage and maintain. As Sm* uses GTPv2-C, which is
already enabling Inter-PLMN support for other reference points such as S8, it
is already enabled for similar operation on the base protocol basis. Many more
interface relationship, specially when eNB/MCE colocated, across PLMNs Number
of MBMS Gws are quite limited and as such the number of cross PLMN interaces
require lot less manitenance and complexity. RAN and CN may be under different
OAM management and between PLMNs crossing boundary may be more difficult.
Inter-PLMN interface within CN, easier to manage and maintain. MME from
another PLMN to support M3* interface required but the specific PLMN still
needs to have intra-PLMN interfae for its own MBMS services. As such, it makes
it more complex maintenance of two types of M3/M3* interface. MME and eNB/MCE
belongs to same PLMN, so easier to handle M3 interface witin single PLMN.
* * *
Based on the above evaluation, it is proposed that SA WG2 moves forward with
Inter-PLMN Sm* interface Option B2 for SEN based architecture for Broadcast
services.
Solution 3 as defined in clause 6.3 successfully covers the requirements for:
\- Key Issue #4: Decoupling of content, MBMS service and MBMS transport
functions:
\- Two modes of operation - \"Transport only mode\" and \"Full MBMS service
mode\" can be provided via the TMB2 interface, allowing the 3GPP network to
either provide full MBMS service or only the transport.
\- Key Issue #6: Exposure of eMBMS service and transport capabilities to 3rd
party:
\- The BM-SC can already receive all necessary information regarding MBMS
service and is the right entity to expose all necessary information related to
MBMS service for TV to a 3rd party content provider.
\- Additional information to be exchanged via TMB2 needs to be studied by SA
WG4.
\- The additional Solution 5 as defined in clause 6.5 allows to expose via the
SCEF the services defined with Solution 3.
# 8 Conclusions
Key issue #1 can be supported with the concluded solutions for Key issues #2,
#3, #4, #5 and #6 without further additions specific for free to air service.
For Key issue #2:
\- Solution 2 shall be adopted for normative work.
For Key issue #3:
\- Solution 1 Option B2 Inter-PLMN Sm* interface shall be adopted for
normative work, deployment for MBSFN synchronization areas managed within each
PLMN shall be adopted.
For Key issues #4 and #6:
\- Solution 3 shall be adopted for normative work with the following
considerations:
\- SA WG4 needs to progress further TV service specific information required
to be exchanged via TMB2.
\- The protocol stack of TMB2 is left outside the study phase.
\- The additional Solution 5 (exposure via SCEF of Solution 3 services) is
also allowed.
For Key issue #5:
\- Solution 4 shall be adopted for normative work with the following
considerations:
\- Solutions addressing Scenario 2 and Scenario 3 shall be documented as the
main scenarios to be supported.
\- Scenario 1 is a valid scenario that can be supported without any normative
specification impact from SA WG2 perspective. SA WG4 may provide additional
information/clarification as part of the investigation of their associated
work.
\- Functionality/interface development between BMSC/PSS server and the TV
Content Provider will be worked upon together with SA WG4 for both MBMS
Broadcast and Unicast delivery of TV services.
#