# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The study is to investigate solutions to minimize call setup failure and
improve user experience for VoLTE subscriber in LTE with bad coverage.
The study shall consider the scenarios where UE is both PS and CS registered
or only PS registered and UE is already IMS registered initially.
The study will cover at a minimum the following scenarios:
1) LTE with bad coverage is overlaid with 2/3G CS coverage.
2) LTE with bad coverage is overlaid with WiFi access.
3) LTE with bad coverage is overlaid with both 2/3G CS coverage and WiFi
access.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TS 23.272: \"Circuit Switched (CS) fallback in Evolved Packet
> System (EPS); Stage 2\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TS 23.216: \"Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC); Stage 2\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TR 23.772:\"Enhanced Circuit Switched (CS) Fallback\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TS 23.292:\"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) centralized services;
> Stage 2\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TS 23.003:\"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 24.229:\"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
> Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] apply.
# 4 Architectural Assumption
The existing 3GPP Architecture shall be reused in the development of
alternative solutions.
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key Issue 1 - How to improve VoLTE call setup success rate and minimize
the negative impact on user experience for VoLTE subscriber in LTE with bad
coverage overlaid with 2/3G CS coverage
### 5.1.1 Description
The key issue is focused on the scenario where LTE with bad coverage is
overlaid with 2/3G CS coverage.
The deployment of LTE coverage may not be good enough for some operators,
comparing with their 2G/3G CS coverage. Meanwhile, the penetration loss is
usually great for LTE high frequency signal, so the bad LTE coverage may be
more common for indoor scenes.
VoLTE may require better LTE RSRP compared to data service, which means the
LTE radio signal may be good enough for pure data session but may not be good
enough for VoLTE (i.e, QCI-1). When radio network is configured in such a
manner and it is overlaid with 2G/3G CS coverage, eNodeB may trigger SRVCC
handover as soon as EPS bearer with QCI=1 is setup. At this point, the VoLTE
setup may fail if either UE or IMS does not support bSRVCC or aSRVCC. As a
result, call drop rate is increased due to call setup failure, which
consequently results in bad user experience for VoLTE subscribers.
The key issue is how to improve VoLTE call setup success rate and minimize the
negative impact on user experience for temporarily not moving VoLTE
subscriber.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1 to key issue 1: VoLTE->(e)CSFB
### 6.1.1 Description
This is a solution for Key Issue X for how to avoid call setup failure and
shorten call setup time for VoLTE subscriber in LTE with bad coverage overlaid
with 2/3G CS coverage.
The main idea of this solution is that:
1) IMS part : during VoLTE call setup procedure, eNB reject QCI=1 bearer setup
request due to LTE weak coverage e.g. based on LTE signalling strength and/or
SINR and consequently
a) Regarding Mobile Originating VoLTE call setup procedure as defined in
clause 6.1.2 from step 1 to step 7, P-CSCF sends 500 and as defined in TS
24.229 [7] clause L.5 the UE can attempt the voice call via the CS domain,
e.g. by initiating a service request for CS fallback depending on the local
conditions.
b) Regarding Mobile Terminated VoLTE call procedure as defined in clause 6.13
from step 1 to step 11, P-CSCF returns a response e.g. 4xx to the IMS
indicating the error condition as defined in TS 23.292 [5] clause 7.4.3 and
the SCC AS reattempts the terminating call establishment directly towards the
same UE over CS domain if possible.
2) eCSFB Part: however, compared to call setup time for VoLTE call (e.g. about
\CSFB could be quite long
(e.g. about 8\~12 seconds), which definitely damages the user experience of
VoLTE. Therefore SRVCC based eCSFB is to be performed in order to improve user
experience for VoLTE subscriber as defined in clause 6.1.2 from step 8 to step
17 for mobile originating and in clause 6.13 from step 12 to step 17 for
mobile Terminated.
Regarding SRVCC based eCSFB, we mainly copy/paste as documented in TR 23.772,
clause 5.1 for Solution #1: SRVCC based eCSFB Solution, with following
updates:
1\. For VoLTE subscriber located in LTE weak coverage, UE first uses VoLTE to
have voice service and MME is aware that VoLTE call setup is ongoing upon
receiving QCI=1 bearer request and consequently know the following Extended
Service Request is for voice.
2\. Clarify that MME can easily base on Type Allocation Code (TAC) of IMEI to
decide whether to trigger SRVCC based eCSFB if UE does not indicate support of
SRVCC based CSFB.
Figure 6.1.1-1: Structure of IMEI as specified in TS 23.003 [6] for
information
### 6.1.2 Mobile Originating call flows
Figure 6.1.2-1: Mobile originating call flows
1-2. Normal VoLTE call setup procedure for Mobile originating is performed.
3-5. QCI=1 voice bearer is to be established and eNodeB takes into account not
only whether it can meet the bandwidth for QCI=1 bearer per cell but also
whether or not UE is in poor LTE coverage e.g. based on LTE signaling strength
and/or SINR.
a) For UE located in good LTE coverage points, eNodeB accepts QCI=1 bearer
request and then proceed with VoLTE procedure, which is not depicted in the
Figure 6.1.2-1;
b) For UE located in weak LTE coverage points, eNodeB rejects QCI=1 bearer
request, sends Create Bearer Setup Response message to the MME with bearer
setup failure indicator with cause value of Radio resources not available as
specified in TS 36.413.
eNB need to know whether the UE is combined attached ,which eNB can figure out
based on registered LAI if MME includes registered LAI in the S1-AP INITIAL
CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message or S1-AP UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST
message.
6\. As defined in TS 24.229 [7], Clause 5.2.8.1.1,upon receipt of an
indication that QoS or bearer resources are no longer available for a media
negotiated in a multimedia session currently being established (e.g. an Rx
interface message from PCRF) and if no SIP message removing the media for
which resources are no longer available is received within an operator defined
time after the reception of the indication, the P-CSCF shall cancel that
dialog by responding to the original INVITE request with a 500 (Server
Internal Error) response and also sends a Cancel message to notify the remote
party the dialog has been cancelled.
NOTE 1: Depend on operator policy, the P-CSCF may send 503 or other response
message instead.
7\. As defined in TS 24.229 [7], Clause L.5, after receiving the 500 response
message, the UE can attempt CSFB call by sending Extended Service Request
message.
8\. The MME decides whether to trigger SRVCC based eCSFB based on UE
indication of support of SRVCC based CSFB or using implementation specific
means (e.g. based on Type Allocation Code (TAC) of IMEI) if the UE does not
send the indication.
a) If the MME decides not to trigger SRVCC based eCSFB, normal CSFB procedure
is preformed as specified in TS 23.272 [2] which is not depicted in the above
Figure 6.1.2-1.
b) If the MME decides to trigger SRVCC based eCSFB, MME sends an S1-AP Initial
Context Setup Request or UE Context Modification Request to eNodeB that
includes the UE Radio Capabilities and a CS Fallback Indicator and SRVCC based
eCSFB operation possible indicator.
For VoLTE subscriber located in LTE weak coverage, MME can determines whether
or not the Extended Service Request is for voice based on whether there is
QCI=1 bearer request and consequently decides whether or not to indicate SRVCC
based eCSFB operation possible indicator to eNB.
9a. The eNodeB may optionally solicit a measurement report from the UE to
determine the target GERAN/UTRAN cell to which PS to CS handover will be
performed.
9b. Based on UE measurement reports and CS Fallback Indicator in step 1c and
UE\'s SRVCC capability, the source E‑UTRAN decides to trigger an SRVCC
handover to UTRAN/GERAN by sending Handover Required to MME.
NOTE 2: In case the UE does not support IMS voice and therefore is not
configured to set the SRVCC capability in AS layer (FGI #27 for SRVCC from
E-UTRAN to UTRAN), the solution cannot be applied and regular CSFB is used
instead.
9c. The MME sends a SRVCC PS to CS Request to the SRVCC MSC, indicating that
SRVCC is due to CSFB. The MME does not need to delete a QCI=1 bearer as there
is no QCI=1 bearer for the CSFB triggered SRVCC.
9d. As the SRVCC is due to CSFB the SRVCC MSC does not initiate the Session
Transfer procedure with IMS and only triggers a normal CS Handover
preparation.
If the SRVCC MSC is not the target MSC, then it interworks the PS-CS handover
request with a CS inter MSC handover request by sending a Prepare Handover
Request message to the target MSC.
9e. MSC Server sends a SRVCC PS to CS Response (Target to Source Transparent
Container) message to the source MME.
9f. Source MME sends a Handover Command (Target to Source Transparent
Container) message to the source E-UTRAN and then to the UE. The message
includes information about the voice component only. The Handover from EUTRAN
Command may include an indication the handover was triggered due to CSFB, as
defined in TS 23.272 [2].
For the handover failure behaviour it is preferred that the UE stays in target
RAT after following the procedures defined in this solution. Although not
explicitly defined in specifications, it is most likely that current
implementations would remain in the target RAT after handover failure
detection, since the UE still has a CS call waiting to be established.
9g-9h. UE sends Relocation/Handover Complete message from the RNS/BSS and then
to the SRVCC MSC.
10\. UE sends CM Service Request.
For mobile originating USSD or LCS procedure, MSC verify the service type is
USSD or LCS service per the service type in CM Service Request message:
\- For UMTS, MSC first release TS 11 bearer and then proceed with USSD or LCS
procedure.
\- For GSM, MSC cannot release CS bearer until USSD or LCS procedure is
finished.
11\. The MSC skips the authentication procedure as UE and MME generate the CS
security context during the SRVCC procedure respectively.
12\. The UE receives CM Service Accept and the UE proceeds with CS call
procedures.
13\. The UE proceeds with CS call procedures by sending Setup (TI=0, TI
Flag=0).
UE generates a call instance for SRVCC with TI=0 as in terminated call
instance during SRVCC HO procedure i.e. the call instance is with TI=0 and TI
Flag=1. Therefore, there is no issue that UE sends Setup (TI=0, TI Flag=0).
14\. MSC sends Call proceeding.
15\. As the CS RAB is already pre-allocated during SRVCC Handover preparation
procedure, the MSC skip the CS RAB assignment procedure.
16\. MSC sends Altering to UE.
17\. MSC sends Disconnect (TI=0, TI Flag=0) to release the dummy call instance
created during SRVCC and receive either Release Complete message if there is
no valid Transaction ID or Release message if there is valid Transaction ID.
### 6.1.3 Mobile Terminated call flows
Figure 6.1.3-1: Mobile terminated call flows
1-2. Normal VoLTE call setup procedure for Mobile Terminated is performed.
3-6. Similar as step 3-6 of Mobile Originating call flows specified in the
above clause 6.1.2 and the P-CSCF sends a Cancel message to notify the UE the
MT VoLTE call has been cancelled.
11\. 7-10. P-CSCF returns a response e.g. 4xx to the IMS indicating the error
condition as defined in TS 23.292 [5] clause 7.4.3 and the SCC AS reattempts
the terminating call establishment directly towards the same UE over CS domain
if possible.MT CSFB procedure is performed and consequently step 7 to 9h as
defined in the clause 6.1.2 is performed except that:
a) MME sends S1-AP Initial Context Setup Request or UE Context Modification
Request to eNB with SRVCC based eCSFB operation possible Indicator in case the
service type indicator in SGsAP-PAGING-REQUEST message from MSC indentifies a
voice service.
b) In case the service type indicator in SGsAP-PAGING-REQUEST message from MSC
identifies a LCS or USSD service, MME sends S1-AP Initial Context Setup
Request or UE Context Modification Request to eNB without SRVCC based eCSFB
operation possible Indicator .
12\. Similarly, the MSC skips the authentication procedure as UE and MME
generate the CS security context during the SRVCC procedure respectively.
13\. After receiving Relocation/Handover Complete message from the RNS/BSS,
the applicable CS call procedures continues.
In details, UE generates a call instance for SRVCC with TI=0 as in terminated
call instance during SRVCC HO procedure i.e. the call instance is with TI=0
and TI Flag=1.
Therefore, in order to avoid collision in UE side, the MSC sends Setup (TI=1,
TI Flag=0) instead of Setup (TI=0, TI Flag=0).
14\. UE sends Call Confirmed.
15\. As the CS RAB is already pre-allocated during SRVCC Handover preparation
procedure, the MSC skip the CS RAB assignment procedure.
16\. UE sends Altering to MSC.
17\. MSC sends Disconnect (TI=0, TI Flag=0) to release the dummy call instance
created during SRVCC. and receive either Release Complete message if there is
no valid Transaction ID or Release message if there is valid Transaction ID.
### 6.1.4 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
**UE impacts**
\- The normal handover behaviour for SRVCC defined in procedures of TS 23.272
[2] and TS 23.216 [3] referenced in clauses 5.1.1.1 and 5.1.1.2 of this
solution can be followed without modification to introduce SRVCC based eCSFB.
No new UE behaviour is expected for these procedures as a result of this
solution.
\- For the handover failure behaviour it is preferred that the UE stays in
target RAT after following the procedures defined in this solution. Although
not explicitly defined in specifications, it is most likely that current
implementations would remain in the target RAT after handover failure
detection, since the UE still has a CS call waiting to be established.
\- The SRVCC related UE requirement with IMS voice session as a precondition
for SRVCC defined in corresponding procedures of TS 23.216 [3], TS 23.237 and
TS 23.292 [5] is impacted.
\- No impacts to EMM/MM and AS layer UE behaviour are expected for this
solution.
\- The Call Control entity UE behaviour required for this solution is not
specified in the related stage-2 and stage-3 specifications.
\- The UE indicates support of SRVCC based eCSFB to MME in the Attach
Request/TAU Request message.
\- When receiving 500, as defined in TS 24.229 [7] clause L.5 the UE can
attempt the voice call via the CS domain, e.g. by initiating a service request
for CS fallback depending on the local conditions.
**eNodeB impacts**
\- Regarding QCI=1 bearer setup, eNodeB takes into account not only whether it
can meet the bandwidth for QCI=1 bearer per cell but also whether or not UE is
in poor LTE coverage. For UE located in weak LTE coverage points, eNodeB
rejects QCI=1 bearer request if eNodeB can figure out that UE is combined
attached based on registered LAI.
\- eNodeB receive SRVCC based eCSFB operation possible indicator from the MME
in S1-AP Initial Context Setup Request or UE Context Modification Request.
\- eNodeB check SRVCC based eCSFB operation possible indicator from MME and
eNodeB Check FGI reported by UE whether it supports SRVCC or not and, if the
UE supports SRVCC, the eNodeB initiate SRVCC handover procedure.
**MME impacts**
\- The MME decides whether to trigger SRVCC based eCSFB based on UE indication
of support of SRVCC based CSFB or using implementation specific means (e.g.
based on Type Allocation Code (TAC) of IMEI) if the UE does not send the
indication.
\- MME sends S1-AP Initial Context Setup Request or UE Context Modification
Request to eNB with SRVCC based eCSFB operation possible Indicator in case the
service type indicator in SGsAP-PAGING-REQUEST message from MSC indentifies a
voice service.
\- In case the service type indicator in SGsAP-PAGING-REQUEST message from MSC
identifies a LCS or USSD service, MME sends S1-AP Initial Context Setup
Request or UE Context Modification Request to eNB without SRVCC based eCSFB
operation possible Indicator .
\- MME sends a SRVCC PS to CS Request message to the SRVCC MSC, indicating
that SRVCC is due to CSFB.
\- MME skips QCI=1 bearer deletion, as there is no QCI=1 bearer for the SRVCC
based eCSFB.
\- MME includes registered LAI in the S1-AP INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST
message or S1-AP UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION REQUEST message during attach or TAU
procedure.
**MSC impacts**
\- MSC receives a SRVCC PS to CS Request message from MME, indicating that
SRVCC is due to CSFB.
\- MSC skips the Session Transfer procedure with IMS, as there is no IMS voice
session for SRVCC based eCSFB.
\- MSC skips authentication procedure and CS RAB assignment procedure because
these have been done during SRVCC preparation procedure.
\- MSC sends Setup (TI=1, TI Flag=0) instead of Setup (TI=0, TI Flag=0) for MT
SRVCC based eCSFB call.
\- MSC sends Disconnect (TI=0, TI Flag=0) message to the UE to release the
dummy call instance created by the UE during SRVCC and receive either Release
Complete message if there is no valid Transaction ID or Release message if
there is valid Transaction ID.
\- For mobile originating USSD or LCS procedure, MSC verify the service type
is USSD or LCS service per the service type in CM Service Request message:
\- For UMTS, MSC first release TS 11 bearer and then proceed with USSD or LCS
procedure.
\- For GSM, MSC cannot release CS bearer until USSD or LCS procedure is
finished.
**P-CSCF impacts**
\- For Mobile Terminated procedure, upon receipt of an indication that QoS or
bearer resources are no longer available for a media negotiated in a
multimedia session currently being established (e.g. an Rx interface message
from PCRF) and if no SIP message removing the media for which resources are no
longer available is received within an operator defined time after the
reception of the indication, the P-CSCF returns a response e.g. 4xx to the IMS
indicating the error condition and the SCC AS reattempts the terminating call
establishment directly towards the same UE over CS domain if possible.
### 6.1.5 Solution Evaluation
The advantages of this alternative are:
a) As defined in clause L.5, TS 24.229 [7], UE re-attempting a voice call on
CS access when receiving 500 response to an originating SIP INVITE is
possible.
b) VoLTE call in weak LTE coverage can be moved to 2/3G CS using CSFB.
## 6.1a Solution #1a to key issue 1a: VoLTE->CSFB
### 6.1a.1 Description
This is a solution for Key Issue 1 and the main idea of this solution is that:
> During the VoLTE call setup procedure the eNB rejects QCI=1 bearer setup
> request due to LTE weak coverage.
NOTE: How eNB determines to reject the QCI-1 setup is existing procedure as
defined in TS 23.401, Clause 5.4.1, step 7.
> As defined in TS 24.229 [7], clause 5.2.8.1.1, when the P-CSCF receives an
> indication that QoS or bearer resources are no longer available for a media
> negotiated in a multimedia session currently being established:
a) For MO VoLTE call setup the P-CSCF sends a 500 response to the UE as
defined in TS 24.229 [7], clause 5.2.8.1.1 and the UE attempts the voice call
via the CS domain as defined in TS 24.229 [7], clause L.5;
b) For MT VoLTE call the P-CSCF returns a response to the SCC AS and the SCC
AS reattempts the terminating call establishment over CS domain as defined in
TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.4.3.
### 6.1a.2 Mobile Originating call flows
Figure 6.1a.2-1: Mobile originating call flows
1-2. Normal VoLTE call setup procedure for Mobile originating is performed.
3-5. QCI=1 voice bearer is to be established and eNodeB takes into account not
only whether it can meet the bandwidth for QCI=1 bearer per cell but also
whether or not UE is in poor LTE coverage e.g. based on LTE signalling
strength and/or SINR.
a) For UE located in good LTE coverage points, eNodeB accepts QCI=1 bearer
request and then proceed with VoLTE procedure, which is not depicted in the
Figure 6.1a.2-1;
b) For UE located in weak LTE coverage points, eNodeB rejects QCI=1 bearer
request, sends Create Bearer Setup Response message to the MME with bearer
setup failure.
6\. As defined in TS 24.229 [7], Clause 5.2.8.1.1,upon receipt of an
indication that QoS or bearer resources are no longer available for a media
negotiated in a multimedia session currently being established (e.g. an Rx
interface message from PCRF) and if no SIP message removing the media for
which resources are no longer available is received within an operator defined
time after the reception of the indication, the P-CSCF shall cancel that
dialog by responding to the original INVITE request with a 500 (Server
Internal Error) response and also sends a Cancel message to notify the remote
party the dialog has been cancelled.
7\. As defined in TS 24.229 [7], Clause L.5, after receiving the 500 response
message, the UE can attempt CSFB call by sending Extended Service Request
message and normal CSFB is performed as defined in TS 23.272 [2].
### 6.1a.3 Mobile Terminated call flows
Figure 6.1a.3-1a: Mobile terminated call flows
1-2. Normal VoLTE call setup procedure for Mobile Terminated is performed.
3-6. Similar as step 3-6 of Mobile Originating call flows specified in the
above clause 6.1a.2 and the P-CSCF sends a Cancel message to notify the UE the
MT VoLTE call has been cancelled.
7-11. P-CSCF returns a response e.g. 4xx to the SCC AS indicating the error
condition and the SCC AS reattempts the terminating call establishment
directly towards the same UE over CS domain as defined in TS 23.292 [5],
clause 7.4.3 and normal CSFB is performed as defined in TS 23.272 [2]
### 6.1a.4 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
**P-CSCF impacts**
\- For Mobile Terminated procedure, upon receipt of an indication that QoS or
bearer resources are no longer available for a media negotiated in a
multimedia session currently being established, the P-CSCF returns a response
e.g. 4xx to the SCC AS.
### 6.1a.5 Solution Evaluation
The advantage of this alternative is to move to 2/3G via CSFB is not delayed
and therefore the risk of call failure does not increase.
## 6.2 Solution #2 to key issue 1: SRVCC temporary rejection
### 6.2.1 Description
Triggering SRVCC too early (see Key Issue X) may cause call failure because UE
and/or the target network is not updated to support before Alerting or
Alerting SRVCC. This solution proposes that the target network will reject
this type of SRVCC HO so that the source network (LTE) can retry with the next
appropriate actions.
### 6.2.2 Temporary SRVCC reject in originating phase
The following figure 6.2.2-1 shows Temporary SRVCC rejection in originating
phase.
Figure 6.2.2-1: Temporary SRVCC reject in originating phase
1-6. Normal VoLTE call setup and SRVCC triggering procedure for Mobile
originating case.
\- UE and MSC Server indicate their SRVCC capabilities (pre-alerting, alerting
SRVCC) to P-CSCF/ATCF/S-CSCF in step 1 and step 6 respectively.
7\. 3GPP IMS detects that the current session setup phase is at pre-alerting
or alerting phase and checks whether the corresponding SRVCC capabilities of
the UE and MSC Server can support this type of SRVCC handover. In the
capabilities from either UE or MSC Sever does not match the current type of
SRVCC handover requirements then IMS sends a SIP 480 to MSC Server. Otherwise,
normal SRVCC handover procedure can continue.
8a. SIP 480: Temp unavailable is sent to MSC Server as e.g., UE or MSC does
not support pre-alerting or alerting SRVCC.
9a-11a. SRVCC HO failure procedure as according to TS 23.216 [3] clause:
8.1.1a.1 is followed. Source eNb may retry HO or continue to serve the UE.
8b. Normal SIP response message is sent to MSC Server as e.g., UE or MSC
supports pre-alerting or alerting SRVCC or SRVCC
9b-11b. Normal SRVCC HO procedure as according to the TS 23.216 [3] clause
6.2.2 is followed.
### 6.2.3 Temporary SRVCC reject in terminating phase
The following figure 6.2.3-1 shows Temporary SRVCC rejection in terminating
phase.
Figure 6.2.3-1 Temporary SRVCC reject in terminating phase
1-6. Normal VoLTE call setup and SRVCC triggering procedure for Mobile
terminating case.
\- UE and MSC Server indicate their SRVCC capabilities (pre-alerting, alerting
SRVCC) to P-CSCF/ATCF in step 1 and step 6 respectively.
7-11. Same as in Figure 6.2.2-1 for originating case.
### 6.2.4 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
3GPP IMS is enhanced with a SRVCC capability match procedure as shown in step
7 of both figures 6.2.2-1 and 6.2.3-1 to reject the session transfer request
from MSC Server if the UE or MSC Server SRVCC capability and the current SIP
session state do not match.
If solution 2 is deployed, the MSC shall not send SRVCC PS to CS Response
message to the MME until receiving a response message for the Session Transfer
request from the IMS, no matter whether the response message is for rejection
or for acceptance.
NOTE: HO preparation failure (e.g, Handover Failure In Target EPC/eNB Or
Target System) should not prevent source eNB to trigger another SRVCC handover
request if needed.
### 6.2.5 Solution Evaluation
Only IMS have knowledge of aSRVCC/bSRVCC/eSRVCC, therefore MSC have to wait
for the response message from IMS for the Session Transfer request before
sending SRVCC PS to CS Response message to the MME.
Solution reuses existing defined mechanisms in TS 23.216 [3] with no ; thus no
new standardization effort requirement on any 3GPP interfaces is required.
## 6.3 Solution #3: Optimised CSFB Procedure
### 6.3.1 Solution Description
Basic call setup includes potential Authentication, Identity Check and TMSI
Reallocation procedures. Typically the MSCs invoke the Authentication and
Identity Check-procedures by default and TMSI reallocation if the LA has
changed (even within the same MSC).
Authentication (subscription) and identity check (UE) are also done by the MME
so these procedures can therefore be selectively skipped by an MSC (to which
the UE is with registered via SGs) for CSFB calls without compromising on
security.
TMSI reallocation is normally done for CSFB calls if a location area update is
done at the fallback. However, if the MSC is not changed at the fallback, the
same TMSI can be kept in order to further decrease the call setup time.
Skipping TMSI reallocation for this call case does not significantly
compromise the end user confidentiality.
The Authentication, Identity Check and TMSI Reallocation procedures are
initiated by the MSC and it is up to the MSC to decide if and when to perform
the procedures. As such there is no UE impact by skipping these procedures.
The following clause shows how TS 23.272 [2] clause 4.3.3 MSC could be updated
to capture the procedure optimisations. Underline text indicates the changed
and added text compared to TS 23.272 [2].
Optionally the MO CSFB indication may be utilised as an input to the
determination when security procedures should be executed.
NOTE 1: This solution assumes that VoLTE call setup has failed and CSFB will
be initiated. This procedure is applicable after step 6 in solution 1.
NOTE 2: This solution applies to originating and terminating sessions.
### 6.3.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
MSC Impact (Underline text indicates the changed and added text compared to TS
23.272 [2])
##### 4.3.3 MSC {#msc .H6}
The CS fallback and/or SMS over SGs enabled MSC supports the following
additional functions:
\- Maintaining SGs association towards MME for EPS/IMSI attached UE.
\- Supporting SMS procedures defined in this document.
\- When configured to support the return to the last used PLMN after CSFB:
\- Indicating to GERAN/UTRAN during the release of an RR connection, that the
RR connection was established as a result of CS Fallback, when this is the
case.
\- During the SGs location update procedure, obtaining the last used LTE PLMN
ID via TAI in SGsAP-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST as specified in TS 29.118 [44].
\- Indicating the last used LTE PLMN ID to GERAN/UTRAN (immediately following
a successful RR connection setup or during the release of the UTRAN RR
connection) to help GERAN/UTRAN re-route the UE back to the last used LTE PLMN
by selecting the suitable dedicated target frequency list (for idle mode
mobility) or target cell (for connected mode mobility in case of UTRAN).
\- During a CSFB procedure, including the last used LTE PLMN ID into the
Equivalent PLMN list provided to the UE in LAU Accept message.
NOTE 1: The CS Fallback enabled MSC can also be enhanced to support ICS as
defined in TS 23.292 [5] and/or SRVCC as defined in TS 23.216 [3].
NOTE 2: In order to speed up the potential LAU procedure during CS fallback
the MSC may be configured to [avoid or]{.underline} lower the frequency of
Authentication, TMSI reallocation and Identity check for UEs that are EPS/IMSI
attached via the SGs interface.
NOTE 3: The MSC/VLR uses the CSMO flag in LAU and CM service request message
and the CSFB indication from the MME for CS Fallback statistics.
NOTE 4: The MSC/VLR can determine that a CS Service is established for CSFB
via CSMO or CSMT Flag from the UE or via the CSFB indication from the MME.
If the network supports CSFB priority call handling, the MSC maps, depending
on the deployed CS domain priority scheme, the priority level or another
priority indication of the IAM message to the eMLPP priority level indication
of the paging message that is sent over the SGs interface.
[In order to speed up the call setup procedure during CS fallback the MSC/VLR
may be configured to skip or lower the frequency of security procedure (e.g.
Authentication, TMSI reallocation and Identity check) for UEs that are
EPS/IMSI attached via the SGs interface. In addition to the condition that the
UE is EPS/IMSI attached via SGs the MSC/VLR may also use the CSMO or CSMT
flags to determine that the CS service is established due to
CSFB.]{.underline}
Procedure impacts in step 1d in 6.2 MO CSFB without PS HO.
1d. If configured, [e.g.]{.underline} to support the return to the last used
PLMN after CSFB, the MME sends a MO CSFB indication via SGs to the MSC in
order to indicate that the CM service request message, as described in step 4b
in this clause , is due to the CSFB via CS MO call.
### 6.3.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution requires support in the MSC to enable the MSC to optimize the
procedures described in section 6.3.1 that are associated with originating and
terminating calls for CSFB related calls
## 6.4 Solution #4: UE radio capabilities consideration during PLMN and RAT
### 6.4.1 Solution Description
In network deployments supporting CSFB it is possible that the CS domain can
be selected among alternative RATs and/or alternative PLMNs. The frequency
bands supported by the alternative RATs/PLMNs can vary and also the frequecy
band support in terminals varies.
During Attach or TA/LA Update procedure the MME selects the PLMN and RAT of CS
domain for the UE that shall be registered for CSFB. In the current procedures
the UE radio capabilities support are not considered in the PLMN/RAT selection
of the CS domain and this can result in that the frequency band of the
selected PLMN and RAT does not match the UE radio capabilities. In this case,
when UE performs a subsequent CSFB, the UE has to perform cell selection to
serach for a cell which it can access. After the cell is selected, UE has to
perform a LA procedure before a CS call can be made. In the worst case, the UE
will re-register to a new MSC different from the MSC currently associated to
MME. This will dramatically increase the latency of CS call setup time and
thus impact the CSFB experience.
However, if procedures are enhanced to allow the MME to request a list of
supported PLMN and RAT to be the provided by the eNB, the MME can select CS
domain PLMN and RAT so that cell reselection at CSFB is avoided and call setup
time is minimized.
NOTE 1: This solution requires updates of the eNB configuration and the UE
capability match procedure to allow per Target PLMN UE capability match.
NOTE 2: This solution assumes that VoLTE call setup has failed and CSFB will
be initiated. This procedure is applicable after step 6 in solution 1.
NOTE 3: This solution applies to originating and terminating sessions.
### 6.4.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Editor\'s note: Capture impacts on existing 3GPP nodes and Functional elements
(e.g. UE, MME, eNB, S-GW, P-GW, etc.).
### 6.4.3 Solution evaluation
This solution requires updates of the eNB configuration and the UE capability
match procedure to avoid cell reselection at CSFB. For that purpose the MME
needs to read the UE radio capabilities IE. Hence there are eNB impacts, as
well as MME impacts.
## 6.5 Solution #5: Enabling provisioning of target cell(s) system information
### 6.5.1 Solution Description
The details of the CSFB procedures shown in the CSFB TS 23.272 [2] contains as
an option to use \"RRC connection release with redirection and Multi Cell
System Information to GERAN/UTRAN\".
The required system information that needs to be included in \"RRC connection
release with redirection and Multi Cell System Information to GERAN/UTRAN\"
can be provided to the eNB e.g. using RIM procedures. However, given that the
system information required to access GERAN is not subject to frequent
modification, it can be also be configured in the source eNB by means of O&M
instead of using RIM.
The following clause shows how TS 23.272 [2] clause 4.3.4 E-UTRAN could be
updated to capture the option. Underline text indicates the changed and added
text compared to TS 23.272 [2].
NOTE 1: This solution assumes that VoLTE call setup has failed and CSFB will
be initiated This procedure is applicable after step 6 in solution 1.
NOTE 2: This solution applies to originating and terminating sessions.
### 6.5.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
eNB Impact(Underline text indicates the changed and added text compared to TS
23.272 [2])
##### 4.3.4 E-UTRAN {#e-utran .H6}
The CS fallback enabled E-UTRAN supports the following additional functions:
\- Forwarding paging request for CS domain to the UE.
\- Directing the UE to the target CS capable cell considering the registered
PLMN ID and possibly the LAC for CS domain received from the MME.
\- The configuration of appropriate cell reselection hysteresis at Location
Area boundaries (or across the whole E-UTRAN) to reduce Tracking Area Update
traffic.
\- To facilitate the configuration of TA boundaries with LA boundaries, the
E-UTRAN can gather statistics (from the inbound inter-RAT mobility events of
all UEs) of the most common LAs indicated in the RRC signalling.
\- Configuration to permit the operator to choose the target \'fallback\' RAT
and frequency.
For SMS over SGs, no specific E-UTRAN functionality is required.
If the network supports CSFB priority call handling, the E-UTRAN supports the
following additional functions:
\- For paging message received on S1AP with priority indication, the E-UTRAN
should provide preferential treatment to this request compared to other normal
paging requests.
\- For CS fallback S1AP UE Context Setup/Modification message with priority
indication, i.e. \"CSFB High Priority\", the eNodeB should provide
preferential treatment, e.g. in allocating E-UTRAN radio bearer resources
compared to other normal resource requests. When CSFB based on PS handover is
employed, the eNodeB forwards the priority indication to the target
GERAN/UTRAN. When CSFB RRC connection release with redirection is used, the
eNodeB sets the \"CS Fallback High Priority\" indication in the RRC Release
message.
[The usage of RRC connection release with redirection and multi cell system
information to GERAN/UTRAN reduces the duration of the CSFB procedure. The
required system information can be provided to the source eNB by RIM or
configured by O&M.]{.underline}
[NOTE: If System information is configured in eNB by O&M, any modifications of
the system information needs to be provisioned in both GERAN/UTRAN and
E-UTRAN.]{.underline}
### 6.5.3 Solution evaluation
This solution requires cell [system information to be configured in eNB by
O&M. Hence there are eNB impacts.]{.underline}
## 6.6 Solution #6 to key issue 1: Retry in CS domain
### 6.6.1 Description
This solution enhances a/bSRVCC procedure in the network side to avoid call
establishment failure when the UE does not support this feature. The MSC
enhanced for SRVCC (eMSC) will retry the CS call setup during SRVCC.
### 6.6.2 MSC Retry in terminating phase
The following figure 6.6.2-1 shows eMSC retry procedure in terminating phase.
Figure 6.6.2-1: MSC retry in terminating phase
1-5. Normal VoLTE call setup and SRVCC triggering procedure for Mobile
terminating case.
6\. eMSC initiates the session transfer to IMS core. It was enhanced to carry
the pre-alerting MT support indicator except alerting and pre-alerting-orig
support indicator.
7\. 3GPP IMS detects that the current session setup phase is at pre-alerting
or alerting phase and checks whether the corresponding SRVCC capabilities of
the UE and MSC Server can support this type of SRVCC handover. In this case,
it finds the eMSC support pre-alerting MT even UE does not support it. It
continues the SRVCC procedure.
8\. SCC AS sends the session state information to eMSC. It shows the UE is in
the pre-alerting terminating phase.
9\. UE moves to 2/3 G CS, but finds it does not support this feature.
10\. eMSC sends Disconnect to UE.
11\. eMSC sends Setup to UE.
12\. Normal call establishment.
NOTE: From UE CM layer, it creates a new call instance after step 10.
### 6.6.3 MSC Retry in originating phase
The following figure 6.6.3-1 shows eMSC retry procedure in originating phase.
Figure 6.6.3-1: MSC retry in originating phase
1-5. Normal VoLTE call setup and SRVCC triggering procedure for Mobile
originating case.
6\. eMSC initiates the session transfer to IMS core. It was enhanced to carry
the pre-alerting MO enhancement support indicator except alerting and pre-
alerting-orig support indicator.
7\. 3GPP IMS detects that the current session setup phase is at pre-alerting
or alerting phase and checks whether the corresponding SRVCC capabilities of
the UE and MSC Server can support this type of SRVCC handover. In this case,
it finds the eMSC support pre-alerting MO enhancement even UE does not support
pre-alerting MO. It continues the SRVCC procedure.
8\. SCC AS sends the session state information to eMSC. It shows that the UE
is in the pre-alerting originating phase but does not support it.
7-12. Same as in Figure 6.6.2-1 for terminating case.
### 6.6.4 UE Retry in originating phase
The following figure 6.6.4-1 shows UE retry procedure in originating phase.
Figure 6.6.4-1: UE retry in originating phase
1-10. Same as in figure 6.6.3-1.
11\. According to the UE configuration, the UE retry the CS call in the CS
domain.
### 6.6.5 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
1) MSC retry for Mobile Terminating:
**MSC enhanced for SRVCC**
\- The eMSC includes the enhanced SRVCC capability in the session transfer
request.
\- When receive the session state information, it knows the call status of the
UE and sends the setup to UE when required.
**SCC AS**
\- Checks whether the eMSC is enhanced to handle the a/bSRVCC when UE does not
support this type of SRVCC.
\- When receives the session transfer request, the SCC AS will send the
session status to the enhanced MSC.
2) MSC retry for Mobile Originating:
**MSC enhanced for SRVCC**
\- The eMSC includes the enhanced SRVCC capability in the session transfer
request.
\- When receive the session state information, it knows the call status of the
UE and sends the setup to UE when required.
\- In the MSC retry for Mobile Originating case, the MSC will create CDR for
MO even the MSC sends the setup to UE.
**SCC AS**
\- Checks whether the eMSC is enhanced to handle the a/bSRVCC when UE does not
support this type of SRVCC.
\- When receives the session transfer request, the SCC AS will send the
session status to the enhanced MSC.
**UE**
\- There is no UE impact in the Mobile Terminating.
\- There is user impact instead of UE impact in the Mobile Originating.
NOTE 1: An alternative solution is to enhance the disconnect and/or setup
message to avoid user impact. In this case, there is UE and MSC Server impact.
3) UE retry for MO Originating:
**UE**
\- The UE retry the call in the CS domain after a/bSRVCC when the UE find it
does not support this feature.
### 6.6.6 Solution Evaluation
The retry solution re-uses the a/bSRVCC procedure as much as possible. It does
not increase the call failure and call establishment time.
For the tradeoffs between standard impacts and performance, it suggests the UE
retry in MO case and MSC retry in MT.
# 7 Overall Evaluation
Regarding Key issue 1, there are two parts, which should be discussed one by
one:
1) the first part is how to avoid VoLTE call setup failure by moving UE to
2/3G CS
2) the second part is how to enhance CSFB in order to guarantee VoLTE user
experience in LTE weak coverage
**‑ > First part - how to avoid VoLTE call setup failure by moving UE to 2/3G
CS**
The Table 7-1 captures the key evaluation criteria and evaluations of the
solutions, which is to resolve VoLTE call setup failure in LTE weak coverage
i.e. solution 1(IMS part) and soluto2 and solution 6.
Table 7-1: Evaluation Table
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Evaluation | Solution #1a | Solution #2 | Solution#6 | | Criteria | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Overall | Avoid VoLTE | Avoid VoLTE | Avoid VoLTE | | description | call setup | call setup | call setup | | | failure by | failure by | failure with | | | moving UE to | delaying | by MSC Retry | | | 2/3G CS using | bSRVCC/aSRVCC | or UE retry | | | CSFB in case | to eSRVCC | i.e. sending | | | of LTE weak | | Setup to both | | | coverage | | MO/MT | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Impact on eNB | NO | Implement | No | | | | requirement | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Impact on MME | NO | NO | NO | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Impact on MSC | NO | Yes | Yes | | Server for | | | | | SRVCC | | Wait for the | Include the | | | | response | enhanced SRVCC | | | | message from | capability in | | | | ATCF/SCC AS | the session | | | | before sending | transfer | | | | SRVCC PS to CS | request. When | | | | Response | receive the | | | | | session state | | | | | information, | | | | | it sends the | | | | | setup to UE | | | | | when required. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Impact on | Yes | | | | P-CSCF | | | | | | Return a | | | | | response to | | | | | SCC AS when | | | | | receiving | | | | | QCI=1 bearer | | | | | setup request | | | | | rejection. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Impact on SCC | | Yes | Yes | | AS | | | | | | | Detect whether | Check whether | | | | aSRVCC/bSRVCC | the eMSC is | | | | is supported | enhanced to | | | | by network and | handle the | | | | UE. If not, | a/bSRVCC when | | | | ATCF/SCC AS | UE does not | | | | sends a SIP | support this | | | | 480 to MSC | type of SRVCC. | | | | Server. | | | | | Otherwise, | | | | | normal SRVCC | | | | | handover | | | | | procedure can | | | | | continue. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Impact on UE | NO | NO | YES | | | | | | | | | | UE retry in MO | | | | | will have UE | | | | | impact. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Advantages of | 1)Moving to | 1) UE can | 1 | | Solution | 2/3G via CSFB | stay on LTE if | )aSRVCC/bSRVCC | | | is not delayed | LTE signalling | HO is not | | | and risk of | gets better. | delayed and | | | call failure | | risk of call | | | does not | | failure does | | | increase | | not increase | | | | | | | | 2) Can be | | | | | reused for | | | | | other cases | | | | | where QCI=1 | | | | | bearer setup | | | | | request is | | | | | rejected. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Remarks | 1)Only | 1) Additional | 1) In MSC | | | informative | preparation | retry for MO | | | description | failure and | case, MO call | | | for UE | consequently | end up with MT | | | behaviour when | additional | call and big | | | receiving 500 | SRVCC Handover | impact on user | | | | retry | experience. | | | 2) | | | | | VoLTE->CSFB | 2) There | | | | could cause a | could be some | | | | longer call | requirement on | | | | setup time | eNB | | | | compared to | implementation | | | | native VoLTE. | and | | | | | r | | | | Only | isk/difficulty | | | | s | in | | | | tandardization | interworking | | | | requirement is | among multiple | | | | P-CSCF impacts | vendors. | | | | as described | | | | | in 6.1a.4. | No new | | | | | s | | | | | tandardization | | | | | requirement. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Please note EVS help improve LTE weak coverage for VoLTE and therefore the
call drop rate due to VoLTE call setup failure will progressively decrease and
please also note there is the scenario where CDMA operators could not deploy
SRVCC.
**‑ > Second part - how to enhance CSFB**
The Table 7-2 captures the key evaluation criteria and evaluations of the
solutions, which is to enhance CSFB assuming that VoLTE call setup has failed
and CSFB will be initiated i.e. solution 1(eCSFB part) and soluto3/4/5.
Table 7-2: Evaluation Table
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Evaluation | Solution | Solution | Solution#4 | Solution#5 | | Criteria | #1(eCSFB) | #3 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Overall | Reuse SRVCC | MSC/VLR may | During CSFB | The | | description | for CSFB to | be | combined | required | | | reduce Call | configured | attach | system | | | setup time | to skip or | procedure, | information | | | | lower the | MME query | can be | | | | frequency | eNB and | provided to | | | | of security | make sure | the source | | | | procedure | that the | eNB by RIM | | | | | frequency | or | | | | | band of the | configured | | | | | selected | by O&M. | | | | | PLMN and | | | | | | RAT match | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | radio | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Impact on | Yes | NO | Yes | Yes | | eNB | | | | | | | Trigger | | Inform MME | System | | | SRVCC for | | about the | information | | | CSFB in | | frequency | can be | | | case of no | | band of the | configured | | | QCI=1 | | selected | by O&M. | | | bearer | | PLMN | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by UE | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Impact on | Yes | NO | Yes | No | | MME | | | | | | | Add SRVCC | | MME query | | | | based eCSFB | | eNB and | | | | indicator | | make sure | | | | to MSC in | | that the | | | | SRVCC PS to | | frequency | | | | CS HO | | band of the | | | | Request. | | selected | | | | | | PLMN and | | | | Please note | | RAT match | | | | considering | | the UE | | | | VoLTE has | | radio | | | | been | | c | | | | deployed, | | apabilities | | | | USSD or LCS | | | | | | should be | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by IMS | | | | | | network and | | | | | | therefore | | | | | | only CSFB | | | | | | for voice | | | | | | need to be | | | | | | enhanced. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Impact on | Yes | Yes | No | No | | MSC | | | | | | | 1) Does | MSC/VLR is | | | | | not trigger | configured | | | | | session | to skip or | | | | | transfer to | lower the | | | | | IMS | frequency | | | | | | of security | | | | | 2) MSC | procedure | | | | | sends Setup | | | | | | to UE to | | | | | | create call | | | | | | instance | | | | | | that is | | | | | | different | | | | | | from the | | | | | | dummy call | | | | | | instance | | | | | | created | | | | | | during | | | | | | SRVCC. | | | | | | | | | | | | 3)MSC sends | | | | | | Disconnect | | | | | | message to | | | | | | the UE to | | | | | | release the | | | | | | dummy call. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Impact on | Yes | NO | NO | NO | | UE | | | | | | | 1) | | | | | | Indicate | | | | | | support of | | | | | | SRVCC based | | | | | | eCSFB to | | | | | | MME in the | | | | | | Attach | | | | | | Request/TAU | | | | | | Request | | | | | | message. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Advantages | 1)Reduce | 1) Simple | 1) UE can | 1) Simple | | of Solution | call setup | co | combined | co | | | a lot .e.g. | nfiguration | attach to | nfiguration | | | from 10s to | on MSC with | the | on eNB with | | | 5s for | decent | frequency | decent | | | L->G CSFB | improvement | of 2/3G | improvement | | | | for call | that is | for call | | | | setup time. | supported | setup time | | | | | by UE and | especially | | | | | therefore | for L->G | | | | | no 2/3G | CSFB. | | | | | PLMN | | | | | | selection | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Remarks | 1)Impact on | 1) May | 1) Corner | 1) Risk of | | | UE and no | have | case as | call drop | | | clear | potential | most UE | if there is | | | description | impact on | should | a any | | | in 3GPP | security | support all | mo | | | though some | level. | common | difications | | | terminals | | frequency | of the | | | already | | band. | system | | | supported | | | information | | | this. | | | in | | | | | | G | | | System | | | ERAN/UTRAN. | | | level | | | | | | impact is | | | | | | high. There | | | | | | are studies | | | | | | ongoing by | | | | | | RAN WG on | | | | | | enhancing | | | | | | LTE | | | | | | coverage. | | | | | | Also the | | | | | | use of | | | | | | advance | | | | | | codec like | | | | | | EVS can | | | | | | provide | | | | | | robustness | | | | | | in | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in poorer | | | | | | radio | | | | | | condition. | | | | | | These | | | | | | RAN/codec | | | | | | features | | | | | | can help UE | | | | | | to stay in | | | | | | LTE and | | | | | | provide | | | | | | better user | | | | | | experience | | | | | | than moving | | | | | | the UE to | | | | | | CS domain. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# 8 Conclusions
For Key Issue #1, IMS part of solution 1a, as documented in section 6.1a, is
selected for normative work.
#