# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document aims at identifying group-based enhancements in the 3GPP
capability exposure functions.
The network capability exposure functions introduced within the MONTE and AESE
work items apply on a per-UE basis. The study shall investigate whether these
network capability exposure functions can benefit from being performed based
on a per-group basis.
The target procedures are the Monitoring procedures (clause 5.6 in TS 23.682
[2]) and the Communication Pattern Parameters Provisioning procedure (clause
5.10 in TS 23.682 [2]).
NOTE: The Group Message Delivery using MBMS procedure is performed based on a
per-group basis.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply.
# 4 Architectural considerations
4.1 Architectural assumptions and requirements
The architecture for the group-based enhancements in the network capability
exposure functions shall:
\- not impact UE and radio access network;
\- be able to minimize signalling load between 3GPP network entities (e.g.
MME/SGSN, HSS, SCEF);
\- serve many UEs that can have similar characteristics (e.g. location,
connectivity, availability); and/or
\- serve many UEs that can share the same communication pattern parameter(s).
4.2 Architecture reference model
Editor\'s note: This clause will document architecture reference model.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue 1: Supporting group identifier management
A UE can support multiple applications, hence it can be a member of multiple
groups. Application specific groups are maintained at the SCS/AS that support
the respective application(s) and are out of scope of 3GPP. To optimize the
services an SCS/AS can request from the network, there may be the need for the
3GPP network to manage groups of UEs in order to support actions that target
all members of such a group. Membership to such groups can be dynamic or
static. Thus, mechanisms for creating, modifying, and removing corresponding
groups in the 3GPP network entity(ies) need be studied. In order to support
such mechanisms, the following aspects need to be studied at least:
\- Identifiers used to identify a group(s) for the relevant procedures;
\- Methods to allow for the authorization of requests to create, modify and
remove groups IDs to/from PLMN subscriptions;
\- Methods to allow for the creation, modification and removal of groups IDs
to/from PLMN subscriptions; and
\- Consideration of which 3GPP network entity(ies) needs to know the
relationship between group IDs and PLMN subscriptions.
## 5.2 Key issue 2: Group-based Monitoring Event Configuration/Deletion via
HSS and Monitoring Event Reporting procedures
Solutions within the key issue will provide the means to minimize signalling
load in the 3GPP network entities through group-based signalling. It should be
studied if the target procedures can benefit from being performed based on a
per-group basis. Furthermore, it should be investigated which Monitoring
Event(s) can practically benefit from being performed based on a per-group
basis.
The target procedures are:
\- The Monitoring Event Configuration and Deletion via HSS procedure
(described in clause 5.6.1 in TS 23.682 [2]);
\- The Reporting of Monitoring Events from the HSS or the MME/SGSN procedure
(described in clause 5.6.3 in TS 23.682 [2]);
\- The Monitoring Event Configuration and Deletion via HSS for Roaming
Scenarios using an IWK-SCEF procedure (described in clause 5.6.6 in TS 23.682
[2]); and
\- The Reporting of Monitoring Events from the HSS or the MME/SGSN for Roaming
Scenarios procedure (described in clause 5.6.8 in TS 23.682 [2]).
## 5.3 Key issue 3: Group-based Monitoring Event Configuration via PCRF and
Monitoring Event Reporting procedures
Solutions within the key issue will provide the means to minimize signalling
load in the 3GPP network entities through group-based signalling. It should be
studied if the target procedures can benefit from being performed based on a
per-group basis. Furthermore, it should be investigated which Monitoring
Event(s) can practically benefit from being performed based on a per-group
basis.
The target procedures are:
\- The Monitoring Events Configuration and Reporting via PCRF procedure
(described in clause 5.6.4 in TS 23.682 [2]); and
\- The Reporting of Monitoring Events from the PCRF procedure (described in
clause 5.6.5 in TS 23.682 [2]).
## 5.4 Key issue 4: Group-based Communication Pattern Parameters Provisioning
procedure
Solutions within the key issue will provide the means to minimize signalling
load in the 3GPP network entities through group-based signalling. It should be
studied if the target procedure can benefit from being performed based on a
per-group basis.
The target procedure is the Communication Pattern Parameters Provisioning
procedure (described in clause 5.10 in TS 23.682 [2]).
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution 1: Group ID management via HSS
### 6.1.1 Description
The solution allows for the SCS/AS to create, modify, and remove a group of
UEs. The HSS and MME/SGSN may create, modify, and/or remove Internal Group ID-
list field in the Subscription Data and MM Context.
Figure 6.1.1-1 illustrates the signal flow for the Group ID Management via HSS
procedure.
{width="5.675694444444445in" height="3.6756944444444444in"}
Figure 6.1.1-1: Group ID Management via HSS procedure
1\. The SCS/AS sends a Group Management Request (SCS/AS ID, SCS/AS Reference
ID, Group Management Type, External Group ID, External ID(s) or MSISDN(s),
Group Duration) message to the SCEF.
NOTE 1: A relative priority scheme for the treatment of multiple Group
Management Requests, e.g. for deciding which request should be served under
overload condition, can be applied. This priority scheme is used locally by
the SCEF, i.e. it is neither used nor translated in procedures towards other
functions.
The Group Management Type indicates \"Group Creation\", \"Group Removal\",
\"Group Member Removal\", or \"Group Member Addition\":
\- If the Group Management Type indicates \"Group Creation\", the External
Group ID shall be associated with External ID(s) or MSISDN(s) of the UE(s)
included in the Group Management Request.
\- If the Group Management Type indicates \"Group Member Removal\", the
External Group ID shall no longer be associated with External ID(s) or
MSISDN(s) of the UE(s) included in the Group Management Request.
\- If the Group Management Type indicates \"Group Removal\", the External
Group ID shall no longer be associated with any External ID or MSISDN.
\- If the Group Management Type indicates \"Group Member Addition\", the
External Group ID shall be associated with External ID(s) or MSISDN(s) of the
UE(s) included in the Group Management Request.
Group Duration is an optional parameter that indicates the absolute time at
which the group is considered to expire.
2\. The SCEF stores the SCS/AS ID and SCS/AS Reference ID. The SCEF assigns an
SCEF Reference ID. Based on operator policies, if either the SCS/AS is not
authorized to perform the Group Management Request (e.g. if the SLA does not
allow the request), the Group Management Request is malformed, or the SCS/AS
has exceeded its quota or rate of submitting Group Management Requests, the
SCEF performs step 6 and provides an appropriate Cause value indicating the
error.
NOTE 2: The SCEF may map the External Group ID that is provided by the SCS/AS
to a different External Group ID that will be used on the S6t interface. The
External Group ID that is used on the S6t interface is specific to the SCEF.
3\. The SCEF sends a Group Management Request (SCEF ID, SCEF Reference ID,
Group Management Type, External Group ID, External ID(s) or MSISDN(s), Group
Duration) message to the HSS to configure the group-related data in the
Subscription Data of the UE(s).
4\. The HSS examines the Group Management Request message, e.g. whether the
HSS supports the Group Management Request, whether the External Group ID is
already associated with the SCEF ID, whether the External ID(s) or MSISDN(s)
exists, whether the included parameters are in the range acceptable for the
operator, and/or whether the serving CN node(s) of the UE(s) affected by the
request support Internal Group ID-list management in the MM Context. If this
check fails, the HSS follows step 5 and provides a Cause value indicating the
reason for the failure condition to the SCEF.
The HSS stores the SCEF ID and SCEF Reference ID. The HSS derives the Internal
Group-ID from the External Group ID and the SCEF ID. The HSS may choose to
modify the Group Duration, for example, if policies dictate that groups should
expire after a certain time. The HSS modifies the Internal Group ID-list of
the Subscription Data of the UE(s) as follows:
\- If the Group Management Type indicates \"Group Creation\", the HSS
allocates a new Internal Group ID, associates it with the External Group ID
and SCEF ID, and adds the allocated Internal Group ID to the Internal Group
ID-list of the Subscription Data of the UE(s) identified by the External ID(s)
or MSISDN(s);
\- If the Group Management Type indicates \"Group Member Addition\", the HSS
adds the Internal Group ID to the Internal Group ID-list of the Subscription
Data of the UE(s) identified by External ID(s) or MSISDN(s);
\- If the Group Management Type indicates \"Group Member Removal\", the HSS
removes the Internal Group ID from the Internal Group ID-list of the
Subscription Data of the UE(s) identified by External ID(s) or MSISDN(s);
\- If the Group Management Type indicates \"Group Removal\", the HSS removes
the Internal Group ID from the Internal Group ID-list of the Subscription Data
of all UE(s) who is(are) the member(s) of the group.
NOTE 3: The Internal Group Identifier is globally unique ID in a network which
identifies a set of IMSIs (e.g. MTC devices).
5\. The HSS sends a Group Management Response (SCEF Reference ID, Group
Duration, Cause) message to the SCEF to acknowledge acceptance of the Group
Management Request.
6\. The SCEF sends a Group Management Response (SCS/AS Reference ID, Group
Duration, Cause) message to the SCS/AS to acknowledge acceptance of the Group
Management Request
7\. Towards the serving CN nodes serving the UEs affected by the Group
Management Request, the HSS sends either
\- Insert Subscription Data Request (IMSI, Internal Group ID-list associated
with Group Duration(s)) message; or
\- Insert Group Subscription Data Request (IMSIs, Internal Group ID-lists each
associated with Group Duration(s)) message.
8\. The MME/SGSN may verify the request, e.g. if the Internal Group ID-list
management is covered by a roaming agreement when the request is from another
PLMN. If this check fails the MME/SGSN follows step 9 and provides a Cause
value indicating the reason for the failure condition to the HSS. Based on
operator policies, the MME/SGSN may also reject the request due to other
reasons (e.g. overload or HSS has exceeded its quota or rate of requesting the
Internal Group ID-list management requests defined by an SLA).
9\. If the MM Context modification is successful, the MME/SGSN sends either an
Insert Subscription Data Answer (IMSI, Cause) message or an Insert Group Data
Answer (IMSIs, Cause) to the HSS.
10\. The HSS confirms the result of the Group Management Request by sending a
Group Management Confirm (SCEF Reference ID, Cause) message to the SCEF.
11\. The SCEF confirms the result of the Group Management Request by sending a
Group Management Confirm (SCS/AS Reference ID, Cause) message to the SCS/AS.
### 6.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes
The SCEF needs to support:
\- Transmission/reception of the Group Management Request/Response messages
to/from the HSS.
The HSS needs to support:
\- Reception/transmission of the Group Management Request/Response messages
from/to the SCEF;
\- Subscription Data modification of multiple UEs based on the received Group
Management Request message;
\- Transmission/reception of the Insert Group Data Request/Response messages
to/from the MME/SGSN.;
The MME/SGSN needs to support:
\- Reception/Transmission of the Insert Group Data Request/Response messages
from/to the HSS; and
\- MM Context modification of multiple UEs based on the received Insert Group
Data Request message.
### 6.1.3 Solution evaluation
The solution addresses Key Issue #1 \"Supporting Group Identifier
Management\". The solution allows the SCS/AS to create, modify and remove
group IDs to/from PLMN subscriptions. The solution allows HSS and MME/SGSN to
authorize the request for group ID management. The HSS and MME/SGSN can manage
internal group ID as requested.
The solution supports sending subscription data for group ID management from
HSS to MME/SGSN as group based message in order to mitigate signalling cost.
If it is not supported, the solution allows that the insert subscription data
procedure can be performed separately for individual subscription.
## 6.2 Solution 2: Group-based Monitoring Event Configuration/Deletion via HSS
and Monitoring Event Reporting procedures
### 6.2.1 Description
Figure 6.2.1-1 illustrated the signal flow for the Group-based Monitoring
Event Configuration/Deletion via HSS procedure. Only the impacted parts to the
conventional Monitoring Event Configuration and Deletion via HSS procedure are
described.
{width="5.675694444444445in" height="3.6756944444444444in"}
Figure 6.2.1-1: Group-based Monitoring Event Configuration and Deletion via
HSS procedure
1\. The SCS/AS sends a Monitoring Request message which may include External
Group ID and Guard Time.
If the External Group ID is included, External Identifier(s) or MSISDN(s)
shall be ignored.
2\. Step 2 is not updated.
3\. The SCEF sends a Monitoring Request message which may include External
Group ID and Guard Time.
If the External Group ID is included, External Identifier(s) or MSISDN(s)
shall be ignored.
NOTE 1: The SCEF may map the External Group ID that is provided by the SCS/AS
to a different External Group ID that will be used on the S6t interface. The
External Group ID that is used on the S6t interface is specific to the SCEF.
4\. The HSS examines the Monitoring Request message. The HSS may use the Guard
Time for the monitoring event reporting. Guard Time is an optional parameter
included by the SCS/AS to indicate the time during which the CN node or HSS is
allowed to delay the Monitoring Event Reporting since the Monitoring Event is
detected. If an External Group ID is provided to the HSS, the HSS resolves the
External Group ID to an Internal Group ID.
NOTE 2: The Internal Group Identifier is globally unique ID in a network which
identifies a set of IMSIs (e.g. MTC devices).
5\. If required by the specific Monitoring Type and when Monitoring Event(s)
is supported by the serving MME/SGSN(s), the HSS sends either:
\- an Insert Subscriber Data Request message possibly including Guard Time to
each of the serving MME(s)/SGSN(s) based on the number of UE(s) being the
target of the Monitoring Request and served by the CN node; or
\- an Insert Group Subscriber Data Request (Internal Group ID, Guard Time, and
other existing parameters) message to each of the serving MME(s)/SGSN(s) based
on the number of UE(s) being the target of the Monitoring Request and served
by the CN node.
6\. The MME/SGSN verifies the request and stores the received parameters. The
MME/SGSN may use the Guard Time for the monitoring event reporting.
7\. Step 7 is not updated.
8\. Step 8 is not updated.
9\. Step 9 is not updated.
The following figure illustrates the common procedure flow of reporting
Monitoring Events that are detected by the MME/SGSN or HSS. If the guard time
is provided, the HSS sends Monitoring Event reporting for the group of UE(s)
for which the monitoring event has been detected within the guard time. If
there is any device which didn\'t have been reported by the HSS until the
guard time is expired, the SCEF may configure another monitoring event
individually as specified in the TS 23.682 [2] clause 5.6.3.
{width="5.175in" height="1.957638888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.1-2: Group-based Monitoring Event Reporting procedure
2a. If the Monitoring Event is requested for a group of UE(s), the MME/SGSN
sends a Monitoring Indication (SCEF Reference ID, Monitoring Event Report Set,
MSISDN(s)) message to the SCEF.
2a\'. If the Monitoring Event is requested for a group of UE(s), the MME/SGSN
sends a Monitoring Indication (SCEF Reference ID, Monitoring Event Report Set,
Internal Group ID or IMSI(s)) message to the HSS and the HSS sends a
Monitoring Indication (SCEF Reference ID, Monitoring Event Report Set,
External Group ID or External ID(s)/MSISDN(s)) message to the SCEF.
2b. The HSS sends a Monitoring Indication message including External Group ID
or External ID(s)/MSISDN(s).
### 6.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes
The SCEF needs to support:
\- Reception/Transmission of the Monitoring request with an External Group ID,
\- Reception/Transmission of the Monitoring Indication with an External Group
ID
The HSS needs to support:
\- Reception and resolving the Monitoring request with an External Group ID to
Internal Group ID or IMSI(s)/MSISDN(s),
\- Reception and utilizing the guard time at the Monitoring Event Reporting
procedure.
\- Reception/Transmission of a message that requests the Monitoring Type of
UE\'s associated with an Internal Group ID.
\- Reception/Transmission of the Monitoring Indication for a group of UE(s)
The MME/SGSN needs to support:
\- Reception/Transmission of the Insert Group Data Request/Response message
from/to the HSS,
\- Reception and utilizing the guard time at the Monitoring Event Reporting
procedure.
\- Reception/Transmission of a message that requests the Monitoring Type of
UE\'s associated with an Internal Group ID.
\- Transmission of the Monitoring Indication for a group of UE(s).
### 6.2.3 Solution evaluation
The solution addresses Key Issue #2 \"Group-based Monitoring Event
Configuration/Deletion via HSS and Monitoring Reporting Procedures\". The
solution allows for monitoring events to be configured in the HSS on a group
basis and reported from the HSS and MME/SGSN on a group basis.
The solution supports sending Insert Subscription Data message for configuring
monitoring event from HSS to MME/SGSN as group based message in order to
mitigate signalling cost. If it is not supported, the solution allows that the
insert subscription data procedure can be performed separately for individual
subscription.
The solution supports the Guard Time to send the Monitoring Event Reporting on
a group basis within the time in order to mitigate signalling cost of sending
Monitoring Event Report individually.
## 6.3 Solution 3: Group handling between SCS/AS and 3GPP entities
### 6.3.1 Description
Three levels of group handling are described and analysed and the effects on
the 3GPP network are discussed. The three alternative levels of group handling
are:
1) Group handling between SCS/AS and SCEF
2) Group handling between SCS/AS and HSS/PCRF via SCEF
3) Group handling between SCS/AS and MME/SGSN via SCEF and HSS/PCRF
In all of the above cases it is assumed as the SCS/AS handles the definition
of the group i.e. which UEs belongs to which group.
#### 6.3.1.1 Group configuration and monitoring activation
##### 6.3.1.1.1 Alternative 1
In this alternative the SCS/AS the Group Definition is configured in the SCEF,
see Figure 6.3.1.1.1-1.
Figure 6.3.1.1.1-1: Group is handled by the SCEF
0\. The group is defined by the SCS/AS and configured in the SCEF prior to
performing a monitoring request. Configuration of the HSS and PCRF are
performed via OAM.
1\. The SCS/AS sends a Monitoring Request using the Group ID representing the
UEs for which the monitoring shall be activated.
2\. The SCEF based on the configured Group sends Monitoring Request for each
of the UEs in the group to the HSS (step 2a) or the PCRFs (step 2b) serving
each of the IP-CAN sessions of the UEs in the group.
> For step 2b the SCEF may not know the PCRFs serving the UE, and may e.g. use
> the DRA for addressing, the SCEF will request the DRA to provide the PCRF
> address serving each of the IP-CAN sessions of a UE as well as the UE IP
> addresses(s), The SCEF will provide the UE identifier for each UE in the
> group.
3\. Same as in TS 23.682 [2] clauses 5.6.1, 5.6.4 and 5.6.6.
##### 6.3.1.1.2 Alternative 2
In this alternative the Group Definition is configured in the HSS or/and in
PCRF via OAM, see Figure 6.3.1.1.2-1.
Figure 6.3.1.1.2-1: Group is handled by the HSS/PCRF
0\. The group is defined by the SCS/AS and configured in the SCEF, HSS and/or
PCRFs prior to performing a monitoring request. Configuration of the HSS and
PCRF are performed via OAM.
1\. The SCS/AS sends a Monitoring Request using the Group ID representing the
UEs for which the monitoring shall be activated.
2\. The SCEF transfers the Group ID in the Monitoring Request to the HSS (step
2a) or to the PCRFs (step 2b) serving the UEs in the group.
For step 2b the SCEF may not know the PCRFs serving the UEs in the group, and
may e.g. use the DRA for addressing as in alternative 1, the SCEF will request
the DRA to provide the PCRF address serving the UEs in the group, however this
solution a simpler solution would be that the SCEF sends a request to the each
of the PCRFs in the operator network. The SCEF will provide the group
identifier to each PCRF, the PCRF finds all UE IP CAN sessions for the UEs in
the group.
3a. Based on the configured Group definition in the HSS, the HSS sends the
Insert Subscriber Data per UE to the relevant MMEs and SGSNs serving the UEs
in the group.
3b. Based on the configured group definition in the PCRFs, the PCRF triggers
IP-CAN session modification procedure per each IP-CAN session of a UE in the
group. The SCEF will distribute the Monitoring Request to each of the PCRFs
serving the IP-CAN sessions of any of the UEs in the group.
NOTE: If a UE has more than one PDN connection the same UE can be served by
different PCRFs and a GENCEF solution needs to handle the case with multiple
PCRFs triggering the same Monitoring Request (i.e. IP-CAN modification) for
the same UE.
##### 6.3.1.1.3 Alternative 3
In this alternative the Group Definition is configured in the HSS, PCRF,
Serving GW and PDN GW via OAM and group handling is performed in the MME/SGSN,
Serving GW and PDN GW, see Figure 6.3.1.1.3-1.
Figure 6.3.1.1.3-1: Group is handled in the MME/SGSN
0\. The group is defined by the SCS/AS and configured in the SCEF, HSS, PCRFs,
Serving GWs, PDN GWs and MME/SGSNs prior to performing a monitoring request.
Configuration is performed via OAM.
1\. The SCS/AS sends a Monitoring Request using the Group ID representing the
UEs for which the monitoring shall be activated.
2\. The SCEF transfers the Group ID in the Monitoring Request to the HSS (step
2a) and to the PCRFs (step 2b) serving the UEs in the group.
For step 2b the SCEF may not know the PCRFs serving the UEs in the group, and
may e.g. use the DRA for addressing as in alternative 1, the SCEF will request
the DRA to provide the PCRF address serving the UEs in the group, however this
solution a simpler solution would be that the SCEF sends a request to the each
of the PCRFs in the operator network. The SCEF will provide the group
identifier to each PCRF, the PCRF finds all UE IP CAN sessions for the UEs in
the group.
3a. The HSS transfers the Group ID to the MMEs and SGSNs serving the UEs in
the group. To only transfer the Group ID to relevant MMEs and SGSNs the HSS
needs to analyse the Group ID to sort out which MME/SGSN (home or visited
MME/SGSNs) serves the UEs in the defined group.
The MME/SGSN receiving the Group ID configures the monitoring event per UE in
the group.
3b. The PCRF triggers an IP-CAN session modification on a group level i.e.
sending a group message to all PDN GWs serving the UEs in the group over Gx.
The PDN GWs needs to have the group definition to know which Serving GWs are
serving the UEs in the group i.e. where to send the Update Bearer Request for
the group over S5/S8. The Serving GWs needs also to have the group definition
to know which MMEs and SGSNs serving the UEs in the group i.e. where to send
the Update Bearer Requests for the group over S4 respective S11.
#### 6.3.1.2 Reporting of monitoring events
Independent of which of the above alternatives 1 to 3 the reporting of the
monitoring events will be on per UE based as none of the monitoring events in
TS 23.682 [2] are on group level. Three alternatives of reporting can be seen:
A1. Monitoring reporting is individually done per UE to the SCS/AS as in
existing specification TS 23.682 [2]. This result in a message per UE and
monitoring event in the north bound direction from MME/SGSN/HSS to SCS/AS.
This alternative can be used for all the above alternatives 1 to 3.
A2. Same as A1 but the SCEF cumulates the per UE monitoring reports and sends
one group message to the SCS/AS.
B. Monitoring is sent in a group message per UE to the SCS/AS. The monitoring
event per UE needs to be cumulated on each north bound node level to form one
group monitoring report in the SCS/AS.
All nodes (MME/SGSN/Serving GW/PDN GW/PCRF/HSS) need to introduce a group
handling to cumulate the reports.
### 6.3.2 Impacts on existing nodes
#### 6.3.2.1 Alternative 1
SCEF:
\- Handling of group definition
\- Activation of monitoring per UE based on group identity received from
SCS/AS either to HSS or PCRF
DRA:
\- Handling of group definition
\- New operation to support retrieval of the PCRF addresses serving each IP-
CAN session of a UE.
#### 6.3.2.2 Alternative 2
SCEF:
\- Handling of group definition.
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from SCEF
to HSS (path a)
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from SCEF
to PCRF i.e. SCEF needs to have configured all PCRFs in the MNO (path b).
HSS:
\- Handling of group definition
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from SCEF
to HSS (path a)
\- Trigger monitoring activation per UE based on the group identity received
from SCEF (path a)
PCRF:
\- Handling of group definition
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from SCEF
to PCRF (path b)
\- Trigger monitoring activation per UE based on the group identity received
from SCEF
DRA:
\- Handling of group definition
\- New operation to support retrieval of the PCRF addresses serving each IP-
CAN session of a UE.
#### 6.3.2.3 Alternative 3
SCEF:
\- Handling of group definition
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from SCEF
to HSS (path a)
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from SCEF
to PCRF i.e. SCEF needs to have knowledge about which PCRFs handling the UEs
in the group (path b).
HSS:
\- Handling of group definition
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from SCEF
to HSS (path a)
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from HSS to
MME/SGSN. The signalling will be from HSS to multiple MME/SGSNs including
visited MME/SGSNs in roaming cases (path a).
PCRF:
\- Handling of group definition
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from SCEF
to PCRF (path b)
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from PCRF
to PDN GW. PCRF stores the PDN GW address serving the UE IP-CAN session for
UEs in the group. The signalling will be from PCRF to multiple PDN-GWs. FFS if
some type of group session modification procedure is used or some type of new
message will be used. (Step 3b)
PDN GW (path b):
\- Handling of group definition
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from PCRF
to PDN GW (path b)
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from PDN GW
to Serving GW. The signalling will be from PDN GW to multiple Serving GWs
including roaming cases. FFS if some type of group session modification
procedure is used or some type of new group message will be used.
Serving GW (path b):
\- Handling of group definition
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from PDN GW
to Serving GW (path b)
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from
Serving GW to MME/SGSN. The signalling will be from Serving GW to multiple
MME/SGSNs. FFS if some type of group session modification procedure is used or
some type of new group message will be used.
MME/SGSN:
\- Handling of group definition.
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from HSS
and MME/SGSN (path a)
\- New signalling procedure to trigger group monitoring activation from PDN GW
to Serving GW (path b)
\- Triggering monitoring activation based on group identity received from HSS
or Serving GW
DRA:
\- Handling of group definition
\- New operation to support retrieval of the PCRF addresses serving each IP-
CAN session of a UE.
### 6.3.3 Solution evaluation
#### 6.3.3.1 Alternative 1
This alternative reduces the signalling on the interface between the SCS/AS
and the SCEF but no change in the signalling in EPC.
The SCEF will be based on the group definition and the group id from SCS/AS
activate monitoring per UE either via HSS (path a) or via PCRF (path b) i.e.
new functionality in SCEF for group handling.
This solution reuses existing Monitoring triggers and thus limits impacts to
two nodes only.
This solution does not create any interoperability issues among nodes that may
not be upgraded to support group handling.
The solution does not mitigate signalling load when the monitoring event
reporting procedure is performed for the UE(s) in the group.
#### 6.3.3.2 Alternative 2
This alternative reduces the signalling on the interface between the SCS/AS
and the SCEF and over S6t, Rx and Nt, but no change in the signalling over S6,
Gx, S5, S11 or S4.
For path a) the SCEF transfers the group id for monitoring activation to HSS
and the HSS needs new functionality to send monitoring activation per UE to
every MME/SGSN serving UEs in the group, this will also include roaming UEs.
For path b) the SCEF transfers the group id for monitoring activation to the
PCRFs handling the UEs in the group i.e. the SCEF needs to be aware of which
UEs in the group is served by which PCRF. The PCRF needs new functionality to
send monitoring activation per UE based on the group id from SCEF and the
group definition.
#### 6.3.3.3 Alternative 3
This alternative reduces the signalling over all the interfaces between the
SCS/AS and the MME and SGSN.
For path a) this alternative introduces new group handling functionality in
the HSS and MME/SGSN. The HSS transfers the group id for activation to all
MMEs/SGSNs serving UEs in the group including roaming UEs in visited
MMEs/SGSNs. The group definition must also be provided to MMES/SGSNs in the
visited networks. New signalling procedures and messages are needed over S6a
as existing signalling is based on per UE signalling and the new signalling
will be on group level. New functionality is needed in the MME/SGSN not only
handling per UE functionality to also handle group functionality.
For path b) this alternative introduces group handling functionality in the
PCRF, PDN GW, Serving GW and MME/SGSN. If group identity shall be sent from
PCRF and terminate in MME/SGSN the PCRF will send the group identity to
multiple PDN GWs, PDN GW will send the group identity to multiple Serving GWs
and the Serving GWs will send the group identity to multiple MMEs/SGSNs. This
means that PCRF, PDN GW, Serving GW and MME/SGSN all needs to have knowledge
of the group definition to send the activation requests to correct MMEs/SGSNs.
The group definition must also be provided to MMES/SGSNs/SGWs in the visited
networks. This requires new signalling procedures and messages over GTP-C as
existing signalling and messages only handles per UE signalling and messages.
Step 3 in this solution does not work (effectively) for roaming scenarios and
creates additional complexity for Inter-PLMN support of such handling.
#### 6.3.3.4 Reporting of monitoring events (valid for all alternatives)
For reporting alternatives A1 and A2 no signalling reductions will be seen
over the 3GPP interfaces as report signalling is done per UE. For alternative
B some signalling reduction can be achieved due to the reported is cumulated
on each node level to a group level reporting but this needs also new
functionality in every involved node to handle such a group reporting. The
group monitoring activation will result in momentarily activation of
monitoring for all UEs in the group and can give the result that MME/SGSNS/HSS
simultaneously will send an event report per UE i.e. high signalling load.
#### 6.3.3.5 Summary of solution evaluation
Based on above evaluation it can be seen that a solution based the principles
in alternative 3 has huge effects on all nodes in EPC and will require a
number of new signalling procedures and new messages to be specified. Path a)
will introduce new messages between HSS and MME/SGSN including new procedures
in these nodes. Path b) will introduce new messages between PCRF, PGW, SGW and
MME/SGSN and new procedures in all these nodes The handling of the group
management i.e. group definition provided to all relevant MMEs/SGSNs both in
the home network and in possible visited networks will add a new logistic
burden for the operator and even then does not result in an useful benefit. If
the group management is handled via the subscription data in HSS and no group
management is needed in MME/SGSN there will be no additional burden for the
operator.
Solutions based on the principles as shown in alternative 2 will not get the
same level of reduced signalling compared to alternative 3 but the affects to
the network is much smaller i.e. only affecting PCRF (path b) and HSS (path a)
and no changes in procedures/signalling/messages in the southbound direction
from HSS and PCRF. The logistics for group definition will also be much
simplified as it is only handled in SCEF, HSS and PCRF and not handled in the
visited network.
The way forward would be a solution based on the principles from alternative
2.
## 6.4 Solution 4: Group Based Communication Patterns Provisioning
### 6.4.1 Description
This is a solution to Key Issue #4: Group-based Communication Patterns
Provisioning procedure.
TS 23.682 [2], clause 5.10, describes the Communication Pattern parameters
provisioning procedure that is used to set CP(s) of a single UE. This
procedure is illustrated in Figure 6.4.1-1.
{width="5.391666666666667in" height="3.45in"}
Figure 6.4.1-1: Signalling sequence for provisioning of CP Parameters
To allow for the CP Provisioning Procedure to be group based, the following
changes to the CP Provisioning procedure of TS 23.682 [2], clause 5.10 are
made:
0\. Pre-Conditions:
\- The SCEF has defined a group that the HSS can map to an Internal Group ID.
1\. Step 1 is updated to say that the SCS/AS may provide the SCEF with an
External Group ID in the Update Request (instead of an External ID or MSISDN).
2\. Step 2 is not modified except to note that when an External Group ID is
provided in step 1, the SCEF performs Step 2 for each UE in the Group.
3\. Step 3 is updated to say that the SCEF may provide the HSS with an
External Group ID in the Update CP Parameter Request (instead of an External
ID or MSISDN).
NOTE 1: The SCEF may map the External Group ID that is provided by the SCS/AS
to a different External Group ID that will be used on the S6t interface. The
External Group ID that is used on the S6t interface is specific to the SCEF.
4\. Step 4 is updated to say that, when an External Group Identifier is
provided to the HSS, the HSS resolves the External Group Identifier and SCEF
ID to an Internal Group Identifier and stores the CP parameter set(s) and
their validity time(s) as part of UE subscription data of each UE whose
subscription indicates that they are associated with the Internal Group
Identifier.
NOTE 2: The Internal Group Identifier is a globally unique ID which identifies
a set of IMSIs (e.g. MTC devices).
5\. Step 5 is not updated.
6\. Step 6 is not updated.
7\. Step 7 is updated to say that the HSS may update the CP parameters of the
UE\'s with the Internal Group ID by either:
\- performing the Insert Subscription Data procedure for each UE that was
updated by the Update CP Parameter Request as described in TS 23.682 [2],
clause 5.10; or
\- sending a single update Subscription Data request to each MME that serves
members of the group.
### 6.4.2 Impacts on existing nodes
The SCEF needs to support:
\- Transmission of the CP Parameter Provisioning Request with an External
Group ID;
The HSS needs to support:
\- Reception of the Update CP Parameter Request with an External Group ID;
\- Resolving the External Group ID and SCEF ID to an Internal Group ID.
\- Subscription Data modification of multiple UEs based on the received CP
Parameter Provisioning Request with an External Group ID;
\- Transmission/Reception of a message that updates the CP Parameters of the
UE\'s associated with an Internal Group ID to/from the MME.
The MME needs to support:
\- Reception/Transmission of a message that updates the CP Parameters of the
UE\'s associated with an Internal Group ID from/to the HSS; and
\- MM Context modification of multiple UEs based on the received group
message.
### 6.4.3 Solution evaluation
The solution addresses Key Issue #4 \"Group-based Communication pattern
Parameters Provisioning Procedure.\" The solution allows for communication
patterns to be provisioned in the HSS on a group basis.
# 7 Overall evaluation
# 8 Conclusions
Key Issue #1 \"Supporting Group Identifier Management\", it is recommended
that the O&M system described in the solution of clause 6.3 is adopted. No
normative work is expected.
Key Issue #2 \"Group-based Monitoring Event Configuration/Deletion via HSS and
Monitoring Event Reporting Procedures\", it is recommended that the solution
of clause 6.2 is adopted as the basis for normative work with the following
clarification:
\- The signalling enhancement on group-basis is applicable between the HSS and
the SCEF, and between the SCEF and the SCS/AS. No changes on the interface
between HSS and MME/SGSN are required.
\- The monitoring event reporting message between the HSS and the SCEF needs
to carry a list of User ID(s) in the group
\- The guard timer is not applicable on the MME/SGSN
Key Issue #3 \"Group-based Monitoring Event Configuration via PCRF and
Monitoring Event Reporting procedures\", it is recommended that the
Alternative 2 in the solution of clause 6.3 that deals with configuring
monitoring reporting events from the PCRF to be adopted for normative work
with the following clarification:
\- The signalling enhancement on group-basis is applicable between the PCRF
and the SCEF, and between the SCEF and the SCS/AS. No changes on the interface
between PCRF and MME/SGSN are required.
\- The monitoring event reporting message between the PCRF and the SCEF needs
to carry a list of User ID(s) in the group
Key Issue #4 \"Group-based Communication pattern Parameters Provisioning
Procedure\", it is recommended that the solution of clause 6.4 is adopted as
the basis for normative work with the following clarification:
\- The signalling enhancement on group-basis is applicable on between the HSS
and the SCEF, and between the SCEF and the SCS/AS. No changes on the interface
between HSS and MME/SGSN are required.
#