# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objective of this technical report is to study and identify solutions
**suitable for interworking between LTE mission critical systems and non-LTE
mission critical systems that satisfy the MCPTT requirements in 3GPP TS 22.179
[2]. Support is included for systems compliant to the following
technologies:**
\- P25;
\- TETRA; and
\- Legacy LMR.
Editor\'s note: Support for MCVideo and MCData is FFS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT) over LTE; Stage
1\".
[3] ETSI EN 300 392‑1: \"Terrestrial Trunked Radio (TETRA); Voice plus Data;
Part 1: General Network Design\".
[4] ITU‑T Recommendation E.218: \"Management of the allocation of terrestrial
trunk radio Mobile Country Codes\".
[5] TIA TSB‑102‑B: \"Project 25 TIA‑102 Document Suite Overview\".
[6] TIA TIA‑102.AABC‑D: \"Project 25 Trunking Control Channel Messages\".
[7] TIA TIA‑102.BACA‑B: \"Project 25 Inter-RF Subsystem Interface Messages and
Procedures for Voice Services, Mobility Management, and RFSS Capability
Polling Services\".
[8] TIA TIA‑102.AABD‑B: \"Project 25 Trunking Procedures\".
[9] ETSI EN 300 395-2: Terrestrial Trunked Radio (TETRA): Speech codec for
full-rate traffic channel; Part 2: TETRA codec.
[10] 3GPP TS 26.179: \"MCPTT - Codecs and media handling\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.379: \"Functional architecture and information flows to
support Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Stage 2\".
[12] ETSI ETS 300 392‑11‑22: \"Terrestrial Trunked Radio (TETRA); Voice plus
Data (V+D); Part 11: Supplementary services stage 2; Sub-part 22: Dynamic
Group Number Assignment (DGNA)\".
[13] TIA TIA-102.BABA: \"Project 25 Vocoder Description\".
[14] TIA TIA-102.BABA-1: \"Project 25 Half Rate Vocoder Addendum\".
[15] TIA TIA-102.AABH-B: \"Project 25 Dynamic Regrouping Messages and
Procedures\".
[16] ETSI TR 103 269-1: \"TCCE Critical Communications Architecture; Part 1:
Critical Communications Architecture Reference Model\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Interworking:** A means of communication between mission critical systems
and LMR systems whereby MC users obtaining service from a mission critical
system can communicate with LMR users who are obtaining service from one or
more LMR systems.
**Interworking function:** Adapts LMR Systems to mission critical systems via
the IWF interface and supports interworking between LMR systems and mission
critical systems.
**Interworking group:** A group, which is composed of group members from MCPTT
system and LMR system and defined in MCPTT system or LMR system.
**LMR system:** The collection of applications, services, and enabling
capabilities required to provide LMR service for a mission critical
organization. The term LMR system is defined for discussion purposes only and
is out of scope of the present specification.
**LMR user:** A user of an LMR service, who has a device with the capability
to participate in legacy LMR services. The term LMR user is defined for
discussion purposes only and is out of scope of the present specification.
**Temporary interworking group:** A group created by regrouping groups from
MCPTT system and LMR system.
NOTE: The terms interworking function, LMR system and LMR user are defined for
discussion purposes only and are out of scope of the present specification.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACELP Algebraic Code-Excited Linear Prediction (TETRA)
CCA Critical Communications Application (TETRA)
DGNA Dynamic Group Number Assignment (TETRA)
E2EE End-to-End Encryption
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
GMS Group Management Server
GSSI Group Short Subscriber Identity (TETRA)
GTSI Group TETRA Subscriber Identity (TETRA)
IAT Inter-Arrival Time
IKI Inter-KMF Interface
IMBE Improved MultiBand Excitation
ISSI Individual Short Subscriber Identity (TETRA)
ITSI Individual TETRA Subscriber Identity (TETRA)
IWF InterWorking Function
KMF Key Management Facility
KMS Key Management Service
LIP Local Information Protocol (TETRA)
LMR Land Mobile Radio
MCC Mobile Country Code (TETRA)
MCPTT Mission Critical Push To Talk
MIKEY Multimedia Internet KEYing
MNC Mobile Network Code (TETRA)
MS Mobile Station (TETRA)
OTAR Over-The-Air Rekeying
P25 Project 25
SAKKE SAkai Kasahara Key Encryption
SGID Subscriber Group ID (P25)
SUID Subscriber Unit ID (P25)
SWB Super WideBand
TCCE TETRA and Critical Communications Evolution
TETRA TErrestrial Trunked Radio
UE User Equipment
UID Unit ID (P25)
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
WACN Wide Area Communications Network (P25)
WB-AMR WideBand Adaptive Multi-Rate
# 4 Interworking scenarios
## 4.1 MC service scenarios
### 4.1.1 General
The following subclauses capture interworking scenarios between any MC service
and legacy systems.
### 4.1.2 Scenario 1: Private communication
#### 4.1.2.1 General
The scenarios in this subclause are generic and apply to P25, TETRA and legacy
LMR.
There are two scenarios for private communications between MC service and LMR
systems. These scenarios consider two terminals, UE A of MC service and MS B
of LMR belong to different mission critical communication systems, could
initiate a private communications in either direction. For example in a
particular scenario UE A could initiate a private communication to MS B, or MS
B could initiate a private communication to UE A.
#### 4.1.2.2 MC service UE A initiates private communication to LMR MS B
Figure 4.1.2.2-1 illustrates this scenario:
Figure 4.1.2.2-1: MC service UE A initiates private communication to LMR MS B
In figure 4.1.2.2-1, MC service UE A is a user of MC service system A
(coloured blue), while LMR MS B is a subscriber of LMR System B (coloured
yellow). The MC service and LMR systems are different and connected via the
interworking interface. MC service UE A initiates a private communication to
LMR MS B, which receives the service from LMR system B.
#### 4.1.2.3 LMR MS B initiates a private communication to MC service UE A
Figure 4.1.2.3-1 illustrates this scenario:
Figure 4.1.2.3-1: LMR MS B initiates a private communication to MC service UE
A
Likewise, in figure 4.1.2.3-1, MC service UE A is a user of MC system A, while
LMR MS B is a subscriber of LMR System B. The MC service and LMR systems are
different and are connected via the interworking interface. LMR MS B initiates
a private communication to MC service UE A, which receives the service from MC
system A.
### 4.1.3 Scenario 2: Group communication
#### 4.1.3.1 General
The scenarios in this subclause are generic and apply to P25, TETRA and legacy
LMR.
#### 4.1.3.2 MC service UE A or LMR MS B initiates a group communication
Figure 4.1.3.2-1 and figure 4.1.3.2-2 illustrate these scenarios:
Figure 4.1.3.2-1: MC service UE A initiates a group communication
Figure 4.1.3.2-2: LMR MS B initiates a group communication
In these scenarios, UE A and possibly other UEs of MC system A, MS B and
possibly other MSs of LMR system B, participate in the same group
communication. The MC service and LMR systems are connected via the
interworking interface such that any communication is placed to all
participants in both systems.
As shown in figure 4.1.3.2-1, MC service UE A initiates a group communication
which results in group communication with group members on the LMR system.
As shown in figure 4.1.3.2-2, LMR MS B initiates a group communication which
results in group communication with group members on the MC service system.
Editor's note: Which system is the controlling system for group communication
is FFS.
Editor's note: Whether MC service UE A and LMR MS B involving the group
communication belong to the same group or different groups is FFS.
#### 4.1.3.3 Group regrouping between Group Y and Group Z
Figure 4.1.3.3-1 and figure 4.1.3.3-2 below illustrate these scenarios:
Figure 4.1.3.3-1: MC service UE A initiates group regrouping between Group Y
and Group Z
Figure 4.1.3.3-2: LMR MS B initiates group regrouping between Group Y and
Group Z
In these scenarios, MC service UE A and MC service other UEs belong to group
Y, the interworking interface.
Regrouping is initiated to combine Group Y and Group Z. If MC service UE A
initiates a group communication on Group Y, the communication is sent to all
affiliated members of Group Y and Group Z. If LMR MS B initiates a group
communication, the communication is sent to all affiliated members of Group Y
and Group Z. The MC service and LMR systems are connected via the interworking
interface such that any communication placed on Group Y or Group Z is sent to
all participants in both systems.
Editor's note: It is FFS which system is controlling system for the regrouped
group.
Editor's note: It is FFS how the configuration data of Group Y and Group Z is
distributed between controlling system and the participating system.
## 4.2 MCPTT scenarios
### 4.2.1 Scenario 3: Floor control between MCPTT and legacy systems
#### 4.2.1.1 General
Floor control within MCPTT system is managed by the centralized floor control
server and this functional entity is located within the MCPTT server as
described in 3GPP TS 23.379, subclause 7.4.2.3.4 [11]. It coordinates the
floor requests from participating MCPTT UEs by granting, queueing, rejecting,
or revoking floor requests.
Within the context of interworking between MCPTT and legacy systems, if
multiple users under two systems within a single group communication request
the floor simultaneously, only one user\'s request needs to be granted.
Similar consideration applies to rejecting a request or revoking the floor
from a user under one system due to another user\'s action under another
system.
To ensure the integrity of floor control operation across two systems, cross-
system floor management needs to occur. This may be characterized as an inter-
system management mechanism in contrast to the floor management at a single-
system level. This inter-system floor management includes arbitration of
multiple requests from two systems and resolve any conflict, taking aspects
into consideration such as order or priority of the user\'s request, etc.
## 4.3 MCData scenarios
Editor\'s note: Describe scenarios related to MCData in further sub-clauses.
Editor\'s note: MCData scenarios can be added when the relevant requirements
specifications are approved.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Identity
### 5.1.1 Key issue #1-1: Mapping of MCPTT and TETRA/P25 user identities
#### 5.1.1.1 Description
In the TETRA Standard, an Individual TETRA Subscriber Identity (ITSI) consists
of a 48 bits length structure comprising the TETRA Mobile Country Code, TETRA
Mobile Network Code, and Individual Short Subscriber Identity (ISSI) of the
Terminal. The ISSI is unique within one TETRA system. The numbering scheme is
specified in ETSI EN 300 392‑1 [3], and the TETRA Mobile Country Codes are
specified in ITU‑T Recommendation E.218 [4].
In the P25 Standard, the Subscriber Unit ID (SUID) is 56 bits comprising the
P25 Wide Area Communications Network (WACN) ID (20 bits), System ID (12 bits),
and Unit Identifier (UID) (24 bits). The SUID is considered globally unique.
The 24 bit UID is unique within the UID\'s home system where a system = unique
combination of WACN ID (20) + System ID (12). The numbering scheme is
specified in TIA TSB‑102‑B [6], TIA TIA‑102.AABC‑D [6], TIA TIA‑102.BACA‑B [7]
and TIA TIA‑102.AABD-B [8].
MCPTT user identity (MCPTT ID) is also a globally unique identifier within the
MCPTT service that represents the MCPTT user, and is a Uniform Resource
Identifier (URI).
Although the TETRA ITSI and P25 SUID provide functions which are analogous to
MCPTT ID, they are comprised of different elements and have different fixed
length structures e.g. TETRA ITSI is 48 bits, P25 SUID is 56 bits. In order to
realise interworking between MCPTT and non-MCPTT systems, further study on
mapping of different **user identities is necessary.**
### 5.1.2 Key issue #1-2: Mapping of MCPTT and TETRA/P25 group identities
#### 5.1.2.1 Description
TETRA defines a Group TETRA Subscriber Identity (GTSI) for each group, which
comprises the TETRA Mobile Country Code, TETRA Mobile Network Code and Group
Short Subscriber Identity (GSSI). The GSSI is unique within one TETRA system.
One ITSI may have access to one or more GTSIs.
In the P25 standard, the Subscriber Group ID (SGID) is 48 bits (20 WACN ID+12
System ID+16 Group ID). The SGID is considered globally unique. The 16 bit GID
is unique within the GID\'s home system where system = unique combination of
WACN ID (20) + System ID.
MCPTT has a globally unique identifier (MCPTT Group ID) for each of its
groups, which is a URI.
Although the TETRA GTSI and P25 SGID provide functions which are analogous to
the MCPTT Group ID, they are comprised of different elements and have
different fixed length structures. In order to realise interworking between
MCPTT and non-MCPTT systems, further study on mapping of different group
**identities is necessary.**
## 5.2 Homing and affiliation
### 5.2.1 Key issue #2-1: Group affiliation management
#### 5.2.1.1 Description
Where users in an LMR system affiliate to a group in an interconnected LMR
system that is a participating system for the group, the system where those
group members are receiving service may send affiliations to the controlling
system of the group on their behalf in one of the following ways:
\- An affiliation may be sent to the controlling system for each group member
that affiliated in the participating system; or
\- a single affiliation is sent to the controlling system when the first group
member requests an affiliation to the group in the participating system, and a
de-affiliation request is only sent when the last affiliated user requests to
de-affiliate from the group; or
\- the participating system may send a group affiliation to the controlling
system, without regard for whether particular units within the system have
interest in the group; or
\- the controlling system will consider the participating system to be
permanently implicitly affiliated (e.g. due to configuration) and no explicit
affiliation signalling is sent.
The MCPTT standard provides for users to affiliate with a group through a
participating service acting as a proxy for the home service of the group. The
home service of the group routes calls to the participating service as long as
there are affiliated users served by the participating service. Users can
subscribe to group affiliation membership information and receive a list of
currently affiliated members.
Gaps:
1\. Support for statically established affiliation between P25 systems and
MCPTT services.
2\. Reconciliation of system level vs user level intersystem group affiliation
management.
3\. Representation of LMR systems/users in MCPTT group affiliation membership
lists.
### 5.2.2 Key issue #2-2: Group controlling system
#### 5.2.2.1 Description
For group communications, in order to resolve which system of the LMR system
or the MCPTT should manage group affiliations and resolve contention issues
for call setup and floor control, one system of the LMR system and the MCPTT
system should be nominated as the group controlling system for each group
where interworking is defined.
### 5.2.3 Key issue #2-3: Late entry to group call
#### 5.2.3.1 Description
If a group call has been set up by the controlling system and does not include
the participating system, e.g. because the participating system had no
affiliated group members at the start of the group call, the controlling
system needs to send late call entry signalling to the participating system if
a group member in the participating system affiliates to the group whilst the
group call is ongoing.
## 5.3 Session setup and termination
### 5.3.1 Key issue #3-1: Private call
#### 5.3.1.1 Description
MCPTT system and LMR system utilise different mechanisms to manage a private
call including user identity, codec and protocol. MCPTT service supports
multiple simultaneously active MCPTT client instances of a single MCPTT user
ID, each on its own UE. Neither P25 nor TETRA systems explicitly support this
feature.
At least seven multi-instance cases need to be considered:
1\. A legacy radio user sends an unacknowledged transmission (such as an
unacknowledged talk-spurt) addressed to an MCPTT user with multiple MCPTT
client instances;
2\. An MCPTT user with multiple MCPTT client instances, by using one of those
instances, sends an unacknowledged transmission to a legacy radio user;
3\. A legacy radio user sends a transmission to an MCPTT user with multiple
MCPTT client instances where the transmission requires end-to-end
acknowledgement at the radio/transport level;
4\. An MCPTT user with multiple MCPTT client instances, by using one of those
instances, sends a transmission to a legacy radio user where the transmission
requires end-to-end acknowledgement at the radio/transport level;
5\. A legacy radio user sends a transmission to an MCPTT user with multiple
MCPTT client instances where the transmission requires a user response (e.g.,
a manual commencement private call);
6\. An MCPTT user with multiple MCPTT client instances, by using one of those
instances, sends a transmission to a legacy radio user where the transmission
requires a user response; and,
7\. During a persistent session between a legacy radio user and an MCPTT user
with multiple MCPTT client instances (e.g., a \"normal\" private call), a new
instance of an MCPTT user with multiple MCPTT client instances becomes active.
Intuitively, the behaviours associated with a user with a single client
instance exchanging information with a user with multiple client instances
should be consistent with the degenerate case of two users with multiple
client instances exchanging private information.
Commencement mode: some LMR systems may only support manual commencement mode
(called party answers) and some may only support automatic commencement mode
(called party always auto-answers). For example, if a caller that assumes
automatic commencement mode calls a party that supports manual commencement
mode, the caller would assume that the media was delivered and would not know
that the called party had not answered.
Full duplex calls: MCPTT supports full duplex private calls, P25 Phase 1
doesn\'t and P25 Phase 2 might not. LMR consoles and TETRA support full
duplex. A full duplex talker would not know that the media is not being
delivered while the half duplex party is talking.
Gaps:
1\. Definition and implementation of appropriate behaviours for the seven
multi-instance cases identified above;
2\. Negotiation of commencement mode;
3\. Negotiation of varying support for duplex calls;
4\. Routing of signalling messages between MCPTT user and LMR user via the
interworking function;
5\. Protocol translation between MCPTT system and LMR system; and
6\. Floor control arbitration between MCPTT system and LMR system.
### 5.3.2 Key issue #3-2: Call back
#### 5.3.2.1 Description
Call alert is an individually addressed legacy feature requesting that the
destination user make a private call to the initiating user at some future
time. Call back request is an essentially identical MCPTT feature. For those
legacy systems that support call alert functionality, there is no significant
incompatibility between the features apart from those induced by the multiple
instance problem identified in subclause 5.3.1 of the present document.
When a legacy user sends a call alert to a multiply instanced MCPTT user, the
request should be propagated to all instances of the MCPTT user. The user of
some instance will likely call back using a private call at some time.
When a MCPTT user makes a call back request to a legacy user, there is no
addressing ambiguity in the message delivery. There is, however, a potential
issue with how to direct the individual call placed by the legacy user to
respond to the request. One approach to this problem would attempt to direct
the call to the specific instance that made the call back request.
Alternatively, the call could be directed to all instances of the MCPTT users
without regard for which instance issued the request.
Gaps:
1\. Behavioural decision and approach for routing of private call from a
legacy user to a MCPTT users in response to a call back request.
Editor\'s note: It\'s unclear how the interoperability scenario described
above maps to stage 1 requirements. Consultation with SA1 might be necessary.
### 5.3.3 Key issue #3-3: Group call
#### 5.3.3.1 Description
MCPTT system and LMR system utilise different mechanisms to manage a group
call including user identity, group identity, codec and protocol.
The group call will be initiated either by MCPTT user or LMR user, with the
group call participating users from two different systems.
There are three group call scenarios between MCPTT system and LMR system:
1\. Group call on a group consisting of two sub-groups formed by group
regrouping, one from the MCPTT system and the other from the LMR system;
2\. Group call on a group consisting of members from both the MCPTT system and
the LMR system;
3\. Group call on two linked groups, one from the MCPTT system and the other
from the LMR system.
The procedures for the above group call scenarios needs further study.
Gaps:
1\. Routing of signalling messages between MCPTT user and LMR user via
interworking function;
2\. Protocol translation between MCPTT system and LMR system;
3\. Determination of the controlling system for the group call;
4\. Floor control arbitration between MCPTT system and LMR system; and
5\. Support for group linking at the IWF.
## 5.4 Media plane
### 5.4.1 Key issue #4-1: Vocoder reconciliation
#### 5.4.1.1 Description
Vocoder reconciliation is the process of selecting source vocoders and
transcoding stages to facilitate communication between MCPTT users and legacy
users.
Criteria for making \"optimal\" vocoder and transcoder choices should at a
minimum include:
1\. Intelligibility;
2\. Tone transference;
3\. Included population;
4\. E2EE requirements;
5\. Transcoding availability; and,
6\. Trans-encryption authorization and availability.
Analog conventional systems have no \"native\" vocoder, per se, but will need
to have a means of converting received digitised voice into analogue signals
for transmission.
Digital legacy systems support at most two options for vocoder formats over
the air (e.g., P25 phase 1 and 2 vocoders for some P25 trunking systems), or
may only support a single format (e.g., P25 phase 1 vocoder for P25
conventional systems or ACELP for TETRA).
In TETRA, a speech codec has been specified for TETRA‑V2 in ETSI EN 300 395‑2
[9]:
\- TETRA ACELP speech codec (mandatory):
\- IAT: 30 ms
\- Speech frame size: 137 bits
\- Data rate: 4566.7 bit/s
Project 25 codecs are described in TIA TIA‑102.BABA [13] and TIA
TIA‑102.BABA‑1 [14]. The Improved Multi-Band Excitation (IMBE) voice coding
algorithm is adopted as the Project 25 vocoder standard. It consists of a net
bit rate of 4.4 kbps for voice information and a gross bit rate of 7.2 kbps
after error control coding.
In 3GPP, two different speech codecs have been specified in 3GPP TS 26.179
[10].
\- AMR-WB codec (mandatory)
\- IAT: 20 ms
\- Data rate: 9 modes with 6.60 kbit/s to 23.85 kbit/s
EVS codec in super-wideband mode (SWB) (optional)
\- IAT: 20 ms
\- Data rate: 13 modes (5.9 kbit/s to 128 kbit/s) + 9 WB-AMR Iw modes: 6.60
kbit/s to 23.85 kbit/s
The changing demand for a call (e.g. Late Call Entry) during its life time can
affect the optimal vocoder selection for the call unless the vocoder is
statically configured. For example, an optimal selection for a call that
includes a P25 phase 1 system and MCPTT users who all support the Phase 1
vocoder may be to use the Phase 1 vocoder for the call. In the event that the
P25 system no longer has demand for the call (e.g., the last P25 user de-
affiliates with the group), a different vocoder selection might be optimal.
Likewise, the addition of a P25 system (resulting from a new affiliation, for
instance) to a call might result in a different optimal vocoder selection.
Gaps:
1\. Vocoder selection and transcoding mechanisms to allow voice to be
accurately conveyed between users on legacy and MCPTT systems.
2\. Information content required to support various selection criteria;
3\. Security policies for trans-encryption;
4\. Management of vocoder selections in response to late call entry;
5\. Management of vocoder selections in response to call exit;
6\. Configuration mechanisms in legacy and/or MCPTT systems might not be
adequate to statically configure talk groups for the lowest quality vocoder of
all expected participants.
Editor\'s note: The study may require involvement of other standardisation
groups, e.g. SA4.
###
###
####
####
####
####
####
####
####
####
### 5.5 Encryption
### 5.5.1 Key issue #5-1: End to end payload encryption
#### 5.5.1.1 Description
In Project 25, the encryption scheme and security key identity (Key ID) are
periodically transmitted with the voice payload. Cryptographic synchronization
and resynchronization are accommodated via a \"message indicator\" (crypto-
synch) which is also periodically transmitted with the voice payload. Having
learned the scheme, key and crypto-synch once for a transmission, and having
not lost any subsequent voice frames, a receiving entity can decrypt the
entirety of the transmission.
In a macro system comprising only MCPTT and Project 25 services, E2EE requires
that the MCPTT client employ an agreed P25 phase 1 or 2 vocoder, use a P25
compliant encryption scheme, and have a means to identify the key, and include
resynchronization information sufficient to allow for decryption for P25 units
entering and late entering the transmission.
In a macro system comprising MCPTT, Project 25 and some other non-Project 25
system, E2EE calling is not possible for all call legs.
In TETRA, the encryption process requires the transmission of Algorithm ID and
Key ID during the synchronization vectors at the start of and during the call.
Transmission of the algorithm ID, key ID and synchronization vectors at the
start and during a call are also required for compatibility with TETRA.
Selection of the ACELP vocoder and management of the frame stealing process to
transmit encryption synchronization in-band is required.
E2EE at the application level renders voice transcoding impossible, as there
is no way for the transcoding entity to perfom codec translation on encrypted
media without access to the encryption keys.
TETRA air interface encryption will not need to be supported or accommodated
in MCPTT.
Support for E2EEwill continue to be a high priority requirement for most
customers throughout all stages of the transition from LMR to MCPTT
interworking.
Gaps:
1\. Means for transmitting the Project 25 Key ID or its equivalent in E2EE
calls including Project 25 systems.
2\. Means for transmitting the Project 25 encryption scheme or its equivalent
in E2EE calls including Project 25 systems.
3\. Means for transmitting the TETRA encryption synchronization vector,
including the Key ID and the Algorithm ID within the MCPTT system.
4\. Means for ensuring the time synchronization between the sync vector and
the stream of encrypted speech packets in a TETRA to MCPTT interworked system.
5\. Support for the TETRA vocoder in MCPTT to allow end to end security.
6\. Support for the P25 vocoders in MCPTT to allow end to end security.
7\. Definition of suitable policy options and means to provide for suitable
security in mixed macro-systems.
Editor\'s note: Need to consult SA3 on these aspects at some point.
Editor\'s note: E2EE has implications with legal interception requirements.
### 5.5.2 Key issue #5-2: Key agreement
#### 5.5.2.1 Description
In Project 25 systems, the key used for voice encryption is selected by the
transmitting radio and identified in the transmission by an Algorithm ID and
Key ID pair. The receiving radio searches its key database for a matching key
and uses that key to decrypt the voice transmission. Furthermore, the Key ID
used in the transmission is only required to be unique within a Key Management
domain. Key ID = 0, in particular, is a special case that needs to be
addressed in interworking.
Project 25 does not specify any standardized protocols for binding a talk-
group or other plaintext to a particular key. Moreover, it specifically allows
for a user to override whatever key selection might be programmed into the
radio.
Both P25 and TETRA have options for key management. Keys may be provided
manually or automatically over the air. The frequency and method of key update
can vary per user. Interworking with MCPTT will require mechanisms to allow
the same keys to be used in the systems on both sides of the interworking
interface.
TETRA over the air keying messages will need to be supported.
Gaps:
1\. Means for uniquely identifying the encryption key in meta-systems
comprising a multiplicity of uncoordinated P25 systems connected to a network
MCPTT services.
2\. Means for agreeing on keys used for transmissions between P25 and MCPTT
systems.
3\. Accommodation of Key-ID = 0 in P25 systems.
4\. Means for sharing encryption keys between a legacy TETRA system and an
MCPTT system.
5\. Means for supporting TETRA over the air keying messages.
Editor\'s note: Need to consult SA3 on these aspects at some point.
### 5.5.3 Key issue #5-3: Unencrypted transmissions within an encrypted call
#### 5.5.3.1 Description
Exceptional operational circumstances arise in which an \"encrypted group\"
carries unencrypted transmissions. In LMR systems, this case may occur, among
other reasons, when keys have not been fully or correctly distributed for a
group but operational considerations necessitate communications in spite of
potential security vulnerabilities. It also occurs in scenarios related to
group re-grouping in disaster situations where encrypted and unencrypted
groups are patched together to form a new group, but not all members share a
common key.
Similarly, circumstances arise in which the key selected by one user for an
encrypted call may be different than that selected by some other users. For
example, a manually keyed radio may not have access to an updated key.
TETRA has a feature called Clear Voice Override that can be used as described
above but is not commonly used because it may be viewed as a security risk.
Gaps:
1\. Interworking encrypted calls need to accommodate unencrypted transmissions
within an otherwise encrypted session.
2\. Interworking encrypted calls need to accommodate the selection of
different keys for different transmissions within the same encrypted session.
Editor\'s note: The interoperability scenario described above is not currently
supported by stage 1.
### 5.5.4 Key issue #5-4: Key management
#### 5.5.4.1 Description
Project 25 and TETRA systems include two primary means for the management of
E2EE keys. With so called \"manual\" key management, a \"key fill device\" is
(usually) directly connected to a mobile radio and provides keys using
standardized protocols. In \"Over-the-air Rekeying\" (OTAR), keys are
distributed using a secure over-the-air protocol from a \"Key Management
Facility\" (KMF) to mobile radios. Generally speaking, each KMF is responsible
for key management of a subset of P25 radios. Also, standardized means exist
for KMFs to share keys so that a radio \"under the control\" of one KMF can
interoperate with a radio under the control of another KMF.
For example, in figure 5.5.4.1-1 the three P25 radios can share a common key
from KMF B by virtue of radio 2 receiving the key via OTAR and radio 3 via a
key fill device from KMF B, and Radio 1 receiving the same key from KMF A by
virtue of OTAR after having been provided that key via the P25 Inter-KMF
Interface (IKI).
Figure 5.5.4.1-1: Example of P25 Key Management
In addition to simple key distribution and inter-agency key sharing, P25
supports a large number of use cases for key fill and over-the-air rekeying,
consistent with the needs that legacy users have expressed over many years.
These include means for \"cold-starting\" (initial distribution of keys),
routine key rotation, repudiating a compromised unit, and zeroization
(deletion and erasing of some or all of the keys of a potentially compromised
unit).
TETRA has the same types of key management processes and options.
In MCPTT, the encryption keys for a private call between two MCPTT users are
sent by the originating UE in a MIKEY-SAKKE payload to the terminating UE, via
the KMS servers. This forms the root key for further media key derivation. The
same MIKEY-SAKKE payload solution is applied for a group call, the group key
is provided by the Group Management server to all the participants in the
group call in advance of the call.
Gaps:
1\. Sharing of end-to-end keys originated by P25 and TETRA user agencies with
authorized MCPTT clients.
2\. Sharing of end-to-end keys originated by MCPTT user agencies with
authorized P25 and TETRA subscriber units.
3\. Management of end-to-end keys originated in P25 and TETRA user agencies
and shared with authorized MCPTT clients.
4\. Management of end-to-end keys originated in MCPTT user agencies and shared
with authorized P25 and TETRA subscriber units.
5\. Carriage of key management messages for P25 or TETRA over MCPTT.
Editor\'s note: Need to consult SA3 on these aspects at some point.
Editor\'s note: The study may require involvement of other standardisation
groups, e.g. SA3, SA3-LI, ETSI TCCE.
## 5.6 Group management
### 5.6.1 Key issue #6-1: Regrouping
#### 5.6.1.1 Description
Group regrouping enables dispatchers or any authorized user to temporarily
combine groups together. Group regrouping is used for different reasons.
Due to an incident in an area it can be necessary to temporarily enable users
from different groups to communicate to each other to coordinate. After the
incident the dispatcher may cancel the group regrouping and the users continue
with their original configured groups.
During quiet periods control room managers can decide to combine groups and
handle their operations and communications with one dispatcher. Prior to
busier periods the group regrouping is cancelled and the groups are handled by
separate dispatchers.
MCPTT, P25, and TETRA all support group regrouping with similar requirements.
TETRA uses DGNA (Dynamic Group Number Assignment, see ETSI ETS 300 392‑11‑22
[12]), that provides patch and dynamic regrouping services that are similar to
group regroup in MCPTT. P25 supports patch and simulselect that are similar to
MCPTT group regroup and MCPTT temporary group broadcast group, respectively.
(see TIA‑102 AABH [15]).
Gaps:
1\. Interworking LMR regrouping with MCPTT;
2\. ownership of the regroup;
3\. simultaneous regroup requests from each side of the IWF-1 interface;
4\. operation where constituent groups contain both MCPTT and LMR users; and,
5\. resolution of vocoder and encryption mode for the regroup.
### 5.6.2 Key issue #6-2: Group linking
#### 5.6.2.1 Description
Group linking is the case where separate groups in each system are linked
together, where each linked group is only consist of users within the same
system and users affiliate/attach to the group directly in their own system.
It is used within the same technology, e.g., TETRA and TETRA over ISI
interface, while it may be an optional solution to achieve interworking group
call.
The following problems need further study:
1) Identify the linked group within a system;
2) Static and dynamic group linking;
3) Store and maintain the linking relationship; and
4) Determine the controlling group among the linked groups.
### 5.6.3 Key issue #6-3: Separate regrouping within each system
#### 5.6.3.1 Description
##### 5.6.3.1.1 Local regrouping overview
If one of the MCPTT or the LMR system does not support group regrouping
signalling via the IWF, group regrouping is only possible within each system
locally. The outcome of this will be one or more regrouped groups on one
system connected to the other system via the IWF, without the other system
necessarily being aware that the regrouping has taken place.
The following subclauses illustrate the issues with regrouping and identifies
requirements for the solutions.
##### 5.6.3.1.2 Regrouping issues
###### 5.6.3.1.2.1 Temporary group identification
If group regrouping is initiated on the MCPTT system, the IWF will need to
understand the relationship between the temporary identity used on the MC
system and the original MC service group identity to ensure that group members
within the LMR system can continue to take part in group communications with
group members within the MCPTT system. The IWF may hide the use of the
temporary MCPTT group identity from the LMR system.
###### 5.6.3.1.2.2 Media routing
Care must be taken to ensure that regrouping a group that is connected to the
LMR system via the IWF does not lead to duplication of media.
## 5.7 Prioritisation and pre-emption
### 5.7.1 Key issue #7-1: Emergency calls
#### 5.7.1.1 Description
An emergency group call is the most critical of mission critical PTT calls,
usually indicating a life threatening condition for the user. This group call
typically has the highest priority when allocation of resources is concerned -
second highest behind system call in P25 and MCPTT systems. However, since
system call is rare, for all practical purposes an emergency group call is the
highest priority PTT call.
In addition to high priority, emergency group calls may pre-empt (take
resources away) from lower priority in-progress transmissions. This is
configurable (ruthless pre-emption versus top-of-queue).
A user can initiate an emergency group call by first indicating ergonomically
that he/she is in an emergency situation. Emergency group calls can be
initiated on the user\'s currently selected group, or a special group
designated for emergencies based on configuration.
Special call processing is associated with an emergency group call in the UEs,
at the dispatch centre, and throughout the system. Dispatch consoles are
typically involved in emergency declarations, cancellations, and display of
emergency conditions. Significant attention is made to ensure that an
emergency group call transmission is set-up and received with extremely high
reliability. Normal priority group calls in progress can be changed to an
emergency group call.
During times of resource contention, the PTT system can be configured to allow
emergency group calls to have either \"top-of-queue\" or \"ruthless pre-
emption\" priority. \"Top-of-queue\" means that the call setup will be
processed immediately after sufficient resources are available. \"Ruthless
pre-emption\" means that low priority transmissions can have their resources
removed to allow the emergency group call to proceed.
An in-progress emergency is defined as an emergency notification from a UE or
a dispatch console that has been accepted by the mission critical PTT system,
but has not yet been cancelled by a UE or a dispatch console. In normal
operation, the system infrastructure tracks the state of the group emergency.
The activation of an emergency group call by a user puts the user into an
emergency state. Until the emergency state is cancelled at the radio/UE, every
transmission on this group by that user is an emergency group call
transmission.
The user identity of the initiator of an emergency group call is known and
conveyed to other affiliated group members. Late entrants to the group are
also notified of in-progress emergencies and of the identity of the initiator.
Multiple users can make emergency calls and be in emergency state
simultaneously on the same group.
Special procedures are used to cancel an in-progress emergency. In some LMR
systems a timer is used to drop the in-progress emergency when there has been
a period of inactivity. In other LMR systems a special message can be
transmitted from sufficiently privileged users to cancel the in-progress
emergency. In either case, the emergency state of the user can only be
cancelled by that user.
Emergency calls are the highest priority calls in TETRA systems.
Gaps:
1\. Mapping of emergency calls and actions between systems. Emergency
behaviours between systems may not be compatible. For example:
a. Pre-emption may be allowed in one system, but not allowed in the other;
b. Cancellation of the emergency on one system may require a deliberate
action, while it may be automatic on another system (e.g. based on a timer);
and,
c. Emergency operation when Dynamic Regrouping is active has significant
special processing differences in North American LMR systems.
2\. Configuration of the default emergency group may be different on one
system versus the other.
3\. Similar gaps for group call and unit identities as described in subclauses
5.4, 5.5 and 5.1.1 of the present document.
4\. Emergency cancellation: trust -- What should the trust relationship be
between the legacy LMR system and the MCPTT system? Particularly, should each
believe that the other has done an acceptable job of verifying that the user
tearing down the emergency is in fact authorized to do so, or does there need
to be some kind of end-to-end authentication/authorization?
5\. Emergency private call is supported in MCPTT and TETRA, but not in P25.
6\. In North American LMR systems, the system can be optionally configured to
track, or not track, the group emergency over the air interface. Tracking
means that all users of the group will have emergency priority when
transmitting until the emergency condition is over; not tracking means only
the UE with the emergency condition has emergency priority when transmitting.
7\. In TETRA, some emergency call features are customizable, such as who
receives the call and who is authorized to end the call.
8\. TETRA may convey location information for emergency calls and alerts,
using the LIP (Location Information Protocol). For TETRA seamless management
of location information during emergencies will be a high priority
requirement.
### 5.7.2 Key issue #7-2: Emergency alerts
#### 5.7.2.1 Description
Emergency alerts are sent from an end-user device to indicate that the user of
device has an emergency condition. The notification always goes to dispatch
consoles, but can also go to other users monitoring an optional, specified
group. There is a risk that emergency alerts can be lost if only a low-level
acknowledgement is conveyed to the initiator so it is common practice that
acknowledgement of the emergency alert means that it has been delivered to the
dispatcher.
Activation and transmission of an emergency alert usually requires a special
user-initiated procedure at the UE. The identity of the user declaring the
emergency alert is known, and optionally the identity of the group associated
with the alert. Based on configuration, activation and transmission of an
emergency alert optionally puts the UE into an \"emergency state\". When in
emergency state, subsequent PTTs from the UE will make an emergency group
call.
The receipt of an emergency alert usually causes audible and visual alerts to
be heard/displayed at the dispatch centre and optionally on other UEs. A
dispatch operator acknowledges the emergency situation (method is manufacturer
dependent) which usually includes stopping the audible and/or visual
indications (i.e. human acknowledgement is required).
As a configurable option, mission critical PTT systems may allow UEs that are
unauthorized to make an emergency alert.
Transmission, receipt, and return acknowledgement to the UE of an Emergency
Alert is expected to be timely, typically in less than 500 msec.
An emergency alert cancel enables a UE to notify a dispatch console that the
user of this UE has cancelled the emergency condition. The user/UE is
responsible for maintaining its own emergency status, and monitoring and
optionally displaying in-progress emergencies and emergency alerts of other
UEs and groups.
Cancellation of an emergency alert, and also the internal emergency state of a
UE, usually requires a special user-initiated procedure at the UE. Only the
initiator is able to cancel the emergency condition of the UE. An emergency
group call cancellation does not cancel an internal UE emergency state that
may have been initiated by an emergency alert from the user.
A dispatcher, or any authorized user, is allowed to cancel an emergency alert
within the mission critical PTT system, but this does not alter the emergency
state of any UE.
Gaps:
1\. In MCPTT an emergency alert is accompanied by transmission of the best-
known user location. In P25, the location service is a separate function and
coupling with transmission of the emergency alert is possible, but not
standardized.
2\. Geo-fencing and ad hoc emergency alert groups. In MCPTT a user may become
alerted due to proximity to other users who may or may not be affiliated to
the same group. These alerts cannot be conveyed to an LMR system, because LMR
systems do not have the same concept of geo-fenced ad hoc groups.
3\. Configuration of the default emergency group, which also applies to
emergency alerts, may be different on one system versus the other.
4\. Similar gaps for unit identities as described in subclause 5.1.1 of the
present document.
5\. Emergency alert cancellation: What should the trust relationship be
between the legacy LMR system and the LTE/PTT system? Particularly, should
each believe that the other has done an acceptable job of verifying that the
user tearing down the emergency alert is in fact authorized to do so, or does
there need to be some kind of end-to-end authentication/authorization?
## 5.8 Floor control
### 5.8.1 Key Issue #8-1: Simultaneous floor request
#### 5.8.1.1 Description
When multiple users in a single group across two systems request the floor
simultaneously, arbitration needs to occur across the two systems to ensure
that only one user is granted the floor at any given time. Doing so ensures
the integrity of the voice communication. The situation needs to be avoided
where more than one user has the floor at the same time, which results in
multiple users talking over each other, which degrades the intelligibility of
the voice conversation significantly.
Figure 5.8.1.1-1 illustrates this scenario:
Figure 5.8.1.1-1: Simultaneous floor requests by MCPTT UE and LMR MS
In figure 5.8.1.1-1, users in a group communication are distributed between
MCPTT and LMR systems, and one MCPTT UE and one LMR MS request for the floor
simultaneously. In this case, the requests are arbitrated between the two
systems so that only one user\'s request is granted.
In the figure above, as an example, the floor request from MCPTT UE A1 is
granted and the LMR MS B1 is rejected.
### 5.8.2 Key Issue #8-2: User\'s floor is revoked by another user in another
system
#### 5.8.2.1 Description
When there is a group communication involving users across two systems, there
may be a situation where a floor request from a user under one system triggers
revocation of the current floor-granted user under another system for reasons
such as the higher priority of the new request. In this case, arbitration
needs to occur across the two systems to maintain the integrity of the group
communication. A suitable mechanism needs to be in place to ensure the floor
revocation and floor grant occurs across two systems.
Figure 5.8.2.1-1 illustrates this scenario:
Figure 5.8.2.1-1: MCPTT UE revokes the floor from LMR MS
In figure 5.8.2.1-1, users in a group communication are distributed between
MCPTT and LMR systems, and an LMR MS initially has the floor and talking. Then
an MCPTT UE requests a floor with higher priority than the LMR MS that
currently has the floor. Due to the higher priority of MCPTT UE, its floor
request is granted and the current floor to the LMR MS is revoked.
In the figure above, as an example, the floor request from MCPTT UE A1 is
granted due to higher priority and the LMR MS B1\'s floor is revoked.
A similar scenario applies if the role and the priority in the two systems are
reversed.
### 5.8.3 Key issue #8-3: Floor Request timing
#### 5.8.3.1 Description
Interworked (and interconnected) systems may be subject to additional radio
access and transport delays in comparison with a heterogeneous single-MCPTT
server network without relay or gateway nodes. This means that floor request
transmissions sent from either an LMR device on an LMR system, or an MCPTT UE
on an MCPTT system can take different times to arrive at the controlling floor
control server. These delays can be several tens of milliseconds and
potentially in excess of 80ms depending on configuration, and more in the case
of long transport backhaul. These delays are significant in comparison with
both the SA1 requirement of a round trip response time of 300ms and the human
response time of 200 -- 300ms.
In particular, if one part of a combined system is likely to be subject to
greater uplink delays towards the controlling floor control server than
another part, then users of UEs or LMR devices on the delayed component will
be subject to an inherent bias in the chance of their floor requests being
accepted. Even if queuing is applied, it is possible that a queue with small
depth might cause floor requests from a delayed system part to be rejected
because they exceeded the queuing depth.
A floor control server acting fairly would need a good approximation to the
time at which the floor request was issued by a requesting MCPTT UE or LMR
device in order to correctly prioritise and order the requests in the queue
and respond in a timely fashion.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 General solutions
### 6.1.1 Solution #0-1: General interworking architecture solution between
MCPTT and LMR Systems.
#### 6.1.1.1 General
LMR system specifications define the equipment and sub-systems that constitute
the network, including base stations and terminals. While in MCPTT systems,
the MCPTT server provides centralised support for MCPTT services. In order to
realize communication between these different systems, an interworking
function (IWF) function is introduced to support protocol translation,
identity mapping, routing, and so on.
Figure 6.1.1.1-1 illustrates a solution based on the existing architecture of
an interworking mechanism.
Figure 6.1.1.1-1: General Interworking architecture between MCPTT and LMR
Systems
An IWF function is introduced in between the MCPTT system.and the LMR system.
The IWF is composed of two parts:
1\. An interface to the MCPTT system based on the current MCPTT specification
3GPP TS 23.379 [11], the IWF-1 can use a subset of existing MCPTT reference
points (e.g. MCPTT-3 between one MCPTT server and another MCPTT server).
2\. An interface to the LMR system based on reference point(s) defined by the
LMR system.
To ensure that calls can take place between MCPTT and LMR systems, the
functionalities of the IWF supported for interworking with MCPTT system and
IWF-1 will be identified in MCPTT specification.
Editor's note: The functionalities of the IWF supported for interworking with
MCPTT system may be defined by other standard groups.
NOTE: TCCE (TETRA and Critical Communications Evolution) group has developed
ETSI TR 103 269‑1 [16] which defines an architecture model supporting Critical
Communications Application (CCA) to operate with broadband IP networks such as
3GPP LTE (i.e. between the IWF and the LMR system).
#### 6.1.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New procedures that utilize an IWF-1 reference point are needed.
#### 6.1.1.3 Solution evaluation
This solution specifies a general interworking architecture between the MCPTT
system and an LMR system.The solution introduces a new interworking reference
point IWF-1, which terminates in the IWF, where that IWF supports functions
such as protocol translation, identity mapping, transcoding and routing.
## 6.2 Identity
### 6.2.1 Solution #1-1: Identity mapping
#### 6.2.1.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #1-1 and key issue #1-2 about user identity
and group identity mapping between MCPTT system and LMR system.
The IWF provides centralised support for interworking between MCPTT system and
LMR system.
In MCPTT system, the identity of the LMR user should be provided as MCPTT ID,
and the identity of the LMR group should be provided as MCPTT group ID, which
can be used by IWF to derive the corresponding identities used in LMR system.
The IWF shall perform the identity mapping between MCPTT system and LMR system
during exchange of signalling and media messages.
#### 6.2.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Need a reference point to an IWF.
#### 6.2.1.3 Solution evaluation
This solution specifies the functionality of the IWF to resolve the user
identity and group identity mapping between MCPTT system and LMR system.
## 6.3 Homing and affiliation
### 6.3.1 Solution #2-1: Group affiliation
#### 6.3.1.1 Description
##### 6.3.1.1.1 Affiliation cases
The participating system of the group, which may be the LMR system or the
MCPTT system, may inform the controlling system of the group concerning group
affiliations, and may pass affiliation related signalling to the controlling
system in one of the following ways:
\- Every group affiliation in the participating system results in an
affiliation sent to the controlling system, which may contain the identity
(with appropriate translation by the IWF) of the affiliating group member; or
\- A group affiliation is sent from the participating system to the
controlling system when the first group member affiliates to the designated
group in the participating system, and a group deaffiliation is sent to the
controlling system when the last group member deaffiliates, and no other group
affiliation signalling is sent
In the second option, only the group identity is sent from participating
system to controlling system and group members\' identities are not sent. This
implies that when a call is set up or the floor is requested by a client in
the participating system, the identity of the client will not be perceived by
the controlling system as having previously affiliated to the group.
##### 6.3.1.1.2 Group affiliation to group defined in MCPTT system
The LMR system may affiliate its group members to the interworking group via
the IWF. The LMR system manages the affiliations from other LMR group members
internally without involving the MCPTT system.
For group regroup, the affiliated group members are automatically affiliated
to the temporary group.
The signalling procedure of interworking group affiliation is described in
figure 6.3.1.1.2-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The group to be affiliated to is defined in MCPTT system.
2\. The IWF is connected to and is authorized to interwork with the MCPTT
system.
3\. The interworking group information is available at the IWF.
4\. The mapping relationship of group and user identities between MCPTT system
and LMR system has been configured at the IWF.
NOTE 1: For all the signalling messages passing through the IWF between MCPTT
system and LMR system, the IWF shall perform the identity conversion and
protocol translation.
Figure 6.3.1.1.2-1: Group affiliation to group defined in MCPTT system
1\. The IWF sends a group affiliation request to the MCPTT server on behalf of
the LMR system.
2a. MCPTT server checks if the group policy is locally cached. If the group
policy is not locally cached on the MCPTT server then MCPTT server requests
the group policy from the group management server.
2b. MCPTT server receives the group policy from the group management server.
3\. Based on the group policy and user subscription, the MCPTT server
affiliates the LMR system to the group. If a separate affiliation for each LMR
user is expected, the status of the affiliating user is stored by the MCPTT
server as the status associated with an MCPTT ID provided by the IWF that
corresponds to the identity of that LMR user. If a separate affiliation for
each LMR user is not expected, an affiliation status for the group using an
identity provided by the IWF is stored, however no individual user\'s
affiliation status is stored.
4\. The MCPTT server sends the group affiliation status update message to the
group management server, the group management server stores and updates the
group affiliation status.
5\. The MCPTT server returns group affiliation response to the IWF.
6\. The IWF completes the group affiliation with the LMR system.
NOTE 2: How the LMR user(s) affiliates to a group is outside the scope of the
present document.
##### 6.3.1.1.3 Group de-affiliation to group defined in MCPTT system
The signalling procedure of interworking group de-affiliation is described in
figure 6.3.1.1.3-1.
The LMR system manages the individual de-affiliation requests from the LMR
users. The LMR system may de-affiliate its group members from the interworking
group via the IWF.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The mapping relationship of group and user identities between MCPTT system
and LMR system has been configured at IWF.
2\. The affiliation procedure described in subclause 6.3.1 is performed.
NOTE 1: For all the signalling messages passing through the IWF between MCPTT
system and LMR system, the IWF shall perform the identity convert and protocol
translation.
Figure 6.3.1.1.3-1: Group de-affiliation to group defined in MCPTT system
1\. The IWF sends the group de-affiliation request to the MCPTT server on
behalf of the LMR system.
2\. If a separate de-affiliation from each LMR user is expected and based on
the group policy and user subscription, the MCPTT server may de-affiliate the
LMR group member from the group. Further, the MCPTT server may store the
affiliation status of the user(s) for the requested MC service group(s). If a
separate de-affiliation from each LMR user is not expected, the de-affiliation
signalling de-affiliates the entire LMR system from the group.
3\. The MCPTT server sends the group de-affiliation status update message to
the group management server, the group management server stores and updates
the group affiliation status.
4\. The MCPTT server returns group de-affiliation response to the IWF.
5\. The IWF completes the group de-affiliation with the LMR system.
NOTE 2: How the LMR user(s) de-affiliate from a group is outside the scope of
the present document.
#### 6.3.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New procedures are needed between the MCPTT server and IWF.
If a single affiliation at system level is sent from a participating LMR
system on behalf of all affiliated group members, without sending individual
group member affiliations, then either the MCPTT server will need to process
call set up and floor control requests from group members from the LMR system
that have not individually affiliated as far as that MCPTT server is aware, or
the IWF will have to provide a single identity on behalf of any calling group
member, and calling and talking party identities corresponding to the actual
LMR users will not be available to MCPTT group members.
To allow the MCPTT server to process call requests on behalf of users from the
LMR system who have not explicitly affiliated, in the case that the identity
of the calling party on the LMR system is required, the MCPTT server behaviour
will need to be changed such that call setup and floor requests are permitted
from users from the LMR system who have not explicitly affiliated to the
group.
#### 6.3.1.3 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a new procedure for an LMR user to affiliate to and de-
affiliate from an interworking group defined in MCPTT system.
Using a single affiliation by the participating system when any group members
have affiliated within that system and a de-affiliation only when the last
group member de-affiliates will enable interworking with LMR systems that do
not support sending individual group members\' affiliations through the IWF.
If the identities corresponding to the calling party from the LMR system are
required to be conveyed to receiving MCPTT users, the behaviour of the MCPTT
server will need to be changed to allow call setup and floor control
signalling from users from the LMR system who have not affiliated to the
group.
### 6.3.2 Solution #2-2: Group controlling system
#### 6.3.2.1 Description
A group which contains group members in both the LMR system and the MCPTT
system can be considered to be a single group spanning both systems. To enable
consistent behaviour for contention management and media distribution, one of
the two systems needs to be defined as the controlling system for the combined
group. The other system is considered to be the participating system for
affiliation and group calls. From the perspective of the MCPTT system, the
controlling system will be the system in which the group is defined:
\- If the MC service group ID is defined in a group management server within
the MCPTT system, the MCPTT system will be the controlling system.
\- If the MC service group ID appears to the MCPTT system to refer to an MC
service group that is defined in a partner system which is represented by the
IWF, the LMR system will be the controlling system.
Therefore, either the LMR system or the MCPTT system may be defined as the
controlling system for each group.
The participating system will send affiliation signalling to the controlling
system to indicate its interest in inter-system group calls within the
relevant group(s).
Where group calls are to be setup, when a group member in the participating
system initiates a group call the participating system will send call requests
to the controlling system. The controlling system will include the
participating system in group calls within the relevant group(s) provided the
participating system is implicitly affiliated.
Where floor control signalling is sent within a group by a group member within
the participating system, the participating system will send floor requests to
the controlling system for arbitration. The controlling system will send floor
control grant signalling to the participating system for distribution to group
members within the call. Further floor control key issues are listed in key
issues 8-1, 8-2 and 8-3.
#### 6.3.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
There is no functional impact on existing nodes, as both MCPTT and LMR systems
have the concept of controlling and participating servers and systems.
The MC service group identity identifies which system is the controlling
system for an MC service group, as the identity of the group contains the
identity of the system where the group is defined. This may be the LMR system
if the MC service group address identifies the IWF as the system where the
group is defined.
#### 6.3.2.3 Solution evaluation
This solution allows a single point of control for affiliation, group call and
floor control.
## 6.4 Session setup and termination
### 6.4.1 Solution #3-1: Private call with parameter negotiation solution
#### 6.4.1.1 Description
##### 6.4.1.1.1 General
The following sub-clauses address the gaps in key issue #4 of the present
document. Solutions for the 3 gaps are presented, followed by procedures for
private call setup in manual and automatic commencement modes. The procedures
incorporate the concepts from the gap solutions.
###### 6.4.1.1.1.1 Gap 1 - Multiple MCPTT client instances
No special mechanisms are needed for interworking to support communication
with multiple instances of MCPTT clients. MCPTT users can be addressed by
MCPTT ID which the MCPTT system routes to the correct MCPTT client instance.
There are no cases in TS 23.379 for an MCPTT client instance to late join a
private call and therefore no solution needed in TR 23.782 for an additional
MCPTT client instance late joining a private call.
###### 6.4.1.1.1.2 Gap 2 - Commencement mode compatibility
LMR systems support various combinations of private call parameters and
capabilities. To cope with various LMR implementations of private call, this
subclause introduces the concept of parameter negotiation. Subclauses
6.4.1.1.2 and 6.4.1.1.3 below incorporate these concepts.
The new parameters to be negotiated are:
\- media type (codec type);
\- E2EE mode;
\- commencement mode;
\- implicit floor (who talks first); and
\- duplex mode (full or half duplex).
Editor's note: Negotiation of codec type and the impact of E2EE on this
solution are FFS.
The operation is as follows. The caller presents desired values for the
parameters at call setup. The server forwards the parameter selection as part
of call setup to the system of the called party. The called party\'s system
responds with an alternate choice for one or more parameters or simply accepts
the call. The server chooses the final set of parameters and conveys them to
the calling party or rejects the call.
While this subclause pertains to private calls with LMR users, the procedures
are written such that they can also apply to any user in any peer system.
For cases where one or more parameters proposed by the MCPTT client are not
supported by the IWF, it\'s up to the MCPTT client to decide whether to end
the call attempt or whether to adapt its behavior to the calling user and try
again with the new parameters.
###### 6.4.1.1.1.3 Gap 3 - Full duplex calls
The proposed solution for duplex mode negotiation for gap 2 above is
applicable to this gap.
##### 6.4.1.1.2 Private call setup in automatic commencement mode -- users in
multiple systems
In this procedure, an MCPTT user is initiating an MCPTT private call
(automatic commencement mode) for communicating with a user in an LMR system,
with or without floor control enabled.
In figure 6.4.1.1.2-1, an MCPTT client initiates establishment of an MCPTT
private call with an LMR user.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The calling MCPTT user has selected automatic commencement mode for the
call;
Figure 6.4.1.1.2-1: Private call setup in automatic commencement mode -- users
in multiple systems
1\. MCPTT client 1 registers to the MCPTT service, as per procedure in
subclause 10.2 in 3GPP TS 23.379 [11].
2\. The MCPTT user at MCPTT client 1 would like to initiate an MCPTT private
call.
3\. MCPTT client 1 sends an MCPTT private call request towards the MCPTT
server. The MCPTT private call request contains:
\- the MCPTT ID corresponding to the LMR called user and an SDP offer
containing one or more media types;
\- the encryption mode;
\- an indication of whether MCPTT client 1 is requesting the floor;
\- requested commencement mode (automatic in this case); and
\- an indication of whether the call is to be full or half duplex (whether to
establish floor control).
4\. MCPTT server 1 checks whether the MCPTT user at MCPTT client 1 is
authorized to initiate the private call. If the MCPTT private call request is
requesting automatic commencement mode then the MCPTT server 1 also checks
whether the MCPTT user at MCPTT client 1 is authorized to initiate a call in
automatic commencement mode.
5\. If authorized, MCPTT server 1 sends the MCPTT private call request towards
the IWF, including the original parameters with possible modification to the
listed media types.
6\. The IWF sends an MCPTT private call response to the MCPTT server,
indicating alternative values for any parameters that it or its client cannot
support. If no alternative parameters are given in the response, a call can be
established without steps 9 and 10 and the LMR end user can be notified of the
incoming call.
7\. MCPTT server 1 forwards the MCPTT private call response to MCPTT client 1.
MCPTT server 1 checks whether the any alternative parameter values are
proposed by the IWF. If the parameters in the MCPTT private call response
match those in the original MCPTT private call request from MCPTT client 1,
then MCPTT client 1 proceeds to step 8. If the parameters in the MCPTT private
call response have changed and are acceptable to MCPTT client 1, then MCPTT
client 1 sends a new MCPTT private call request with the new parameters and
behaves according to those parameters. The calling MCPTT user may be notified
of the change in parameters, for example, that the call is to be without floor
control. The MCPTT user may choose to end the call rather than continue with
the new parameters.
8\. MCPTT client 1 has successfully established media plane for communication
to the IWF and either end can transmit media. For successful call
establishment of a private call with implicit floor control request from MCPTT
client 1, floor participant at MCPTT client 1 is granted floor by the floor
control server at MCPTT service provider 1, giving it permission to transmit.
At the same time the IWF is informed by the floor control server at MCPTT
service provider 1 that the floor is taken.
##### 6.4.1.1.3 Private call setup in manual commencement mode -- users in
multiple systems
In this procedure, an MCPTT user is initiating an MCPTT private call (manual
commencement mode) for communicating with an LMR user via an IWF, with or
without floor control enabled.
In figure 6.4.1.1.3-1, an MCPTT client initiates establishment of an MCPTT
private call with an LMR user.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The calling MCPTT user has selected manual commencement mode for the call.
Figure 6.4.1.1.3-1: Private call setup in manual commencement mode -- users in
multiple systems
1\. MCPTT client 1 registers to the MCPTT service, as per procedure in
subclause 10.2 in 3GPP TS 23.379 [11].
2\. The MCPTT user at MCPTT client 1 would like to initiate an MCPTT private
call.
3\. MCPTT client 1 sends an MCPTT private call request towards the MCPTT
server. The MCPTT private call request contains:
\- the MCPTT ID corresponding to the called LMR user and an SDP offer
containing one or more media types;
\- an indication of whether MCPTT client 1 is requesting the floor;
\- requested commencement mode (manual in this case); and
\- an indication of whether the call is to be full or half duplex (whether to
establish floor control).
4\. MCPTT server 1 checks whether the MCPTT user at MCPTT client 1 is
authorized to initiate the private call. If the MCPTT private call request is
requesting manual commencement mode then the MCPTT server 1 also checks
whether the MCPTT user at MCPTT client 1 is authorized to initiate a call in
manual commencement mode.
5\. If authorized, MCPTT server 1 sends the MCPTT private call request towards
the IWF, including the original parameters with possible modification to the
listed media types.
6\. The IWF sends an MCPTT private call response to the MCPTT server, which
may indicate alternative values.
7\. MCPTT server 1 forwards the MCPTT private call response to MCPTT client 1.
MCPTT client 1 checks whether the any alternative parameter values were
included in the response and may adapt its behaviour toward the end user or
may end the call. If the parameters in the MCPTT private call response have
changed and are acceptable to MCPTT client 1, then MCPTT client 1 sends a new
MCPTT private call request with the new parameters to MCPTT server 1 and
behaves according to those parameters. The calling user may be notified of the
change in parameters, for example, that the call is to be without floor
control. The user may choose to end the call rather than continue with the new
parameters.
8\. The receiving IWF sends an MCPTT ringing to the MCPTT server while waiting
for the call to be accepted.
9\. MCPTT server 1 forwards the MCPTT ringing to MCPTT client1. MCPTT client 1
may indicate to the MCPTT user that the LMR user has been notified, e.g. by
producing ringback audio.
10\. Once the call has been accepted, the IWF sends an MCPTT private call
response to MCPTT server 1.
11\. MCPTT server 1 forwards the MCPTT private call response to MCPTT client
1. MCPTT client 1 may indicate to the MCPTT user that the call is connected,
e.g. by stopping the ringback audio.
12\. MCPTT client 1 has successfully established media plane for communication
to the IWF and either end can transmit media. For successful call
establishment of a private call with implicit floor control request from MCPTT
client 1, floor participant at MCPTT client 1 is granted floor by the floor
control server at MCPTT service provider 1, giving it permission to transmit.
At the same time the IWF is informed by the MCPTT floor control that the floor
is taken.
#### 6.4.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Introduction of parameters for negotiation modifies the existing procedures
and call flows between the MCPTT server and a partner MCPTT system and between
the MCPTT server and MCPTT clients.
#### 6.4.1.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution provides a simple enhancement so that MCPTT clients can support
various LMR modes of operation (commencement modes, duplex mode and who talks
first) and describes how LMR systems can cope with multiple MCPTT client
instances.
### 6.4.2 Solution #3-2: Private call initiated by LMR user to MCPTT user
#### 6.4.2.1 Description
The private call initiated by a LMR user to an MCPTT user shall be supported.
When the IWF receives a private call request from an LMR user to an MCPTT
user, the IWF shall send the private call request towards the MCPTT server
based on the called party (e.g., user identity).
The signalling procedure for private call initiated by a LMR user to an MCPTT
user is described in figure 6.4.2.1-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. MCPTT client 1 is registered and its respective user - MCPTT user 1 is
authenticated and authorized to use the MCPTT service.
2\. The called LMR user is provided an MCPTT ID and considered as an MCPTT
user registered at IWF.
3\. The identity mapping relationship for the MCPTT user and the LMR user
between the MCPTT system and LMR system is maintained at the IWF.
Figure 6.4.2.1-1: Private call initiated by LMR user to MCPTT user
1\. Upon receiving the private call from the LMR user to the MCPTT user, the
IWF converts the LMR user identity to the MCPTT ID and performs the protocol
translation.
NOTE 1: How LMR user initiates a private call is outside the scope of the
present document.
2\. The IWF sends a private call request (calling MCPTT ID, called MCPTT ID,
media description information (e.g., codec), E2EE and commencement mode) to
the MCPTT server .The called MCPTT ID is the identity of LMR user in MCPTT
system. The IWF may include a requested commencement mode that indicates that
the call is to be established in automatic commencement mode if automatic
commencement mode is requested by the initiating LMR user.
3\. MCPTT server calls the called MCPTT user at MCPTT client 1 to join the
MCPTT private call as described in 3GPP TS 23.379 [11]. The MCPTT user accepts
the private call. If E2EE is negotiated, then the calling MCPTT user and the
called LMR user shall use the same codec. If E2EE is not specified, the
calling MCPTT user and the called LMR user can use different codecs and
transcode is needed at the IWF.
4\. The MCPTT server returns the private call response to the IWF.
5\. IWF performs identity convert and protocol translation, and sends back a
private call response to the LMR user. The LMR user confirms the successful
private call setup.
NOTE 2: How IWF provides response to LMR system and how LMR user confirms a
private call is successfully established are outside the scope of the present
document.
6\. LMR user and MCPTT client 1 have successfully established media plane for
communication and either user can transmit media. For successful call
establishment for private call with floor control request from LMR user, the
MCPTT client 1 is informed that floor is taken.
NOTE 3: The LMR system is the controlling system. How the floor control is
managed in the LMR system is outside the scope of the present document.
#### 6.4.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New procedures are needed between the MCPTT server and IWF.
#### 6.4.2.3 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a solution to address private call initiated by a LMR
user to an MCPTT user. The parameters used for private call for interworking
is negotiated during the call setup including commencement mode, E2EE, etc.
### 6.4.3 Solution #3-3: Group call on a temporary group
#### 6.4.3.1 General
This solution addresses key issue #3-3 group call. This solution describes the
group call initiated on a temporary interworking group consisting of groups
from MCPTT system and LMR system. This solution is applied for pre-arranged
group call, broadcast group call and emergency and imminent peril group call.
#### 6.4.3.2 Description
##### 6.4.3.2.1 Group call initiated by MCPTT user over interworking temporary
group defined in MCPTT system
This subclause describes the group call between MCPTT system and LMR system on
a temparary interworking group, which consists of two sub-groups that one from
MCPTT system and the other from LMR system.
When the group call is initiated by an MCPTT user, the MCPTT server hosting
the interworking temporary group shall act as the controlling server and
request the IWF to call the LMR sub-group.
The signalling procedure is described in figure 6.4.3.2.1-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The temporary interworking group consisting of the two sub-groups, one
from MCPTT system and the other from LMR system, has been created and
configured.
2\. MCPTT client 1 is registered and its respective user - MCPTT user 1 is
authenticated and authorized to use the MCPTT service.
3\. The users in this temporary interworking group have been affiliated to the
temporary interworking group during group regroup procedure.
4\. The mapping relationship of group and user identities between MCPTT system
and LMR system has been configured at IWF. For all the signalling pass through
the IWF between MCPTT system and LMR system, the IWF shall perform identity
conversion and protocol translation.
Figure 6.4.3.2.1-1: Group call initiated by MCPTT user over temporary
interworking group defined in MCPTT system
1\. MCPTT user at MCPTT client 1 would like to initiate a group call for the
selected interworking group identified by MCPTT group ID.
2\. MCPTT client 1 sends a group call request including MCPTT group ID, SDP
offer with media parameters towards the MCPTT server, which hosts the
temporary group selected by the user. If there is a floor request to transmit,
then the group call request contains an indication of an implicit floor
request.3. MCPTT server checks whether the user of MCPTT client 1 is
authorized to initiate a group call over the selected temporary group. If
authorized and the group call is ongoing for that group, the MCPTT server adds
the requesting MCPTT client 1 to the existing group call and notifies the
MCPTT client 1 that the group call is already in progress. Otherwise, MCPTT
server resolves the MCPTT group ID with GMS and gets the identities of sub-
groups.
4\. MCPTT server proceeds group call setup procedures to call sub-group from
MCPTT system as described in 3GPP TS 23.379 [11].
5\. MCPTT server sends a group call request including identity of the sub-
group from LMR system towards the IWF.
6\. Upon receiving the group call request, the IWF performs the identity
conversion and protocol translation, and call the LMR sub-group.
NOTE 1: How the LMR sub-group is called is outside the scope of the present
document.
7\. IWF then returns group call response to the MCPTT server. If E2EE is
specified, then the MCPTT users and the LMR users shall use the same codec. If
E2EE is not specified, the MCPTT users and the LMR users can use different
codecs and transcode is needed at the IWF.
8\. The MCPTT server sends group call request the MCPTT client 1 about
successful call establishment.
9\. Interworking group call has successfully established media plane for
communication and either user can transmit media. For successful call
establishment for group call with floor request from MCPTT client 1, floor
participant at MCPTT client 1 is granted floor by the floor control server
within MCPTT server, giving it permission to transmit. At the same time group
members are informed that floor is taken.
NOTE 2: The MCPTT system where the interworking group is defined is the
controlling system of the group call.
##### 6.4.3.2.2 Group call initiated by LMR user over temporary interworking
group defined in MCPTT system.
This subclause describes the group call between MCPTT system and LMR system on
a temparary interworking group, which consists of two sub-groups that one from
MCPTT system and the other from LMR system.
When a group call is initiated by an LMR user, the MCPTT server hosting the
interworking group shall act as the controlling server and requests the IWF to
call the LMR sub-group.
The signalling procedure is described in figure 6.4.3.2.2-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The temporary interworking group consisting and the two sub-groups that
one from MCPTT system and the other from LMR system has been created and
configured.
2\. MCPTT client 1 is registered and its respective user - MCPTT user 1 is
authenticated and authorized to use the MCPTT service.
3\. The users in this temporary interworking group have been affiliated to the
temporary interworking group during group regroup procedure.
4\. The mapping relationship of group and user identities between MCPTT system
and LMR system has been configured at IWF. For all the signalling pass through
the IWF between MCPTT system and LMR system, the IWF shall perform identity
conversion and protocol translation.
Figure 6.4.3.2.2-1: Group call initiated by LMR user over temporary
interworking group defined in MCPTT system
1\. Upon receiving the group call from the LMR user, the IWF performs identity
conversion and protocol translation. For a group call with floor control,
floor control is to be established.
NOTE 1: How LMR user initiates a group call with or without floor control is
outside the scope of the present document.
2\. The IWF sends a group call request including MCPTT group ID to MCPTT
server host the temporary group for call establishment. If floor control is
requested by the calling LMR user, an indication of implicit floor request is
included.
3\. The MCPTT server resolves the group ID with GMS to get the identities of
sub-groups. MCPTT server calls the sub-group from MCPTT system as described in
3GPP TS 23.379 [11].
If E2EE is specified, then the MCPTT users and the LMR users shall use the
same codec. If E2EE is not specified, the MCPTT users and the LMR users can
use different codecs and transcode is needed at the IWF.
4\. MCPTT server sends group call request to the IWF to call the sub-group
from the LMR system.
5\. The IWF performs the identity conversion and protocol translation. And
calls the sub-group from LMR system.
NOTE 2: How the sub-group from LMR system being called is outside the scope of
the present document.
6\. The IWF performs the identity conversion and protocol translation and
sends group call response to the MCPTT server.
7\. The MCPTT server confirms the successful establishment of the group call.
8\. A group call response is returned to the initiating LMR user from LMR
system via the IWF for confirmation of the successful call establishment.
9\. The interworking group call has successfully established media plane for
communication and either user can transmit media. For successful call
establishment for group call with floor control request from LMR user, the
MCPTT client 1 is informed that floor is taken.
NOTE 3: The MCPTT system where the temporary interworking group defined is the
controlling system of the group call. How the floor control is managed in the
LMR system is outside the scope of the present document.
#### 6.4.3.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New procedures are needed between the MCPTT server and IWF over IWF-1.
#### 6.4.3.4 Solution evaluation
The solution proposes a solution that makes it possible for an LMR user or an
MCPTT user to initiate a group call over a temporary interworking group
defined in MCPTT system. This solution reuses the temporary group call
procedure described in TS 23.379 to the utmost.
### 6.4.4 Solution #3-4: Group call on an interworking group
#### 6.4.4.1 General
This solution addresses key issue #19 group call. This solution describes the
group call initiated on an interworking group with group members from MCPTT
system and LMR system. This solution is applied for pre-arranged group call,
broadcast group call and emergency and imminent peril group call.
#### 6.4.4.2 Description
##### 6.4.4.2.1 Group call initiated by MCPTT user over interworking group
defined in MCPTT system
This subclause describes the group call between MCPTT system and LMR system on
an interworking group in MCPTT system, and it consists of group members from
MCPTT system and LMR system.
When a group call is initiated by an MCPTT user, the MCPTT server hosting the
interworking group shall act as the controlling server and request the IWF to
call the LMR group members.
The signalling procedure is described in figure 6.4.4.2.1-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The interworking group, consisting of group members from the MCPTT system
and the LMR system, has been created and configured.
2\. MCPTT client 1 is registered and its respective user - MCPTT user 1 is
authenticated and authorized to use the MCPTT service.
3\. The MC users have been affiliated to the interworking group, and the IWF
has affiliated to the group on behalf of the LMR group members.
4\. The mapping relationship of group and user identities between MCPTT system
and LMR system has been configured at the IWF. For all signalling passed
through the IWF between MCPTT system and LMR system, the IWF shall perform
identity conversion and protocol translation.
Figure 6.4.4.2.1-1: Group call initiated by MCPTT user over interworking group
defined in MCPTT system
1\. MCPTT user at MCPTT client 1 would like to initiate a group call for the
selected interworking group identified by MCPTT group ID.
2\. MCPTT client 1 sends a group call request including MCPTT group ID, SDP
offer with media parameters towards the MCPTT server, which hosts the
interworking group selected by the user. If there is a floor request to
transmit, then the group call request contains an indication of an implicit
floor request.
3\. MCPTT server checks whether the user of MCPTT client 1 is authorized to
initiate a group call over the selected interworking group. If authorized and
the group call is ongoing for that group, the MCPTT server adds the requesting
MCPTT client 1 to the existing group call and notifies the MCPTT client 1 that
the group call is already in progress. Otherwise, MCPTT server resolves the
MCPTT group ID with GMS and gets the identities of group members.
4\. MCPTT server proceeds group call setup procedures to call group members
from MCPTT system as described in 3GPP TS 23.379 [11].
5\. MCPTT server sends a group call request including identity of the group
member from LMR system towards the IWF.
NOTE 1: Step 5 may occur at the same time as or before step 4.
6\. Upon receiving the group call request, the IWF performs the identity
conversion and protocol translation, and call the group member from LMR
system.
NOTE 2: How the LMR group members are called within the LMR system is outside
the scope of the present document.
7\. IWF then returns a group call response to the MCPTT server.
8\. The MCPTT server sends group call request the MCPTT client 1 about
successful call establishment.
9\. Interworking group call has successfully established media plane for
communication and group members can transmit media. For successful call
establishment for group call with floor request from MCPTT client 1, floor
participant at MCPTT client 1 is granted floor by the floor control server
within MCPTT server, giving it permission to transmit. At the same time group
members are informed that floor is taken.
NOTE 3: If E2EE is specified, then the MCPTT users and the LMR users shall use
the same codec. If E2EE is not specified, the MCPTT users and the LMR users
can use different codecs and transcode is needed at the IWF.
##### 6.4.4.2.2 Group call initiated by MCPTT user over interworking group
defined in LMR system
This subclause describes the solution to achieve the group call between MCPTT
system and LMR system by creating a interworking group in LMR system, which
consists of group members from MCPTT system and LMR system.
When a group call is initiated by an MCPTT user, the LMR system hosting the
interworking group shall act as the controlling system. The group call request
from the initiating MCPTT user shall be routed to the LMR system via the IWF
for controlling of the group call establishment.
The signalling procedure is described in figure 6.4.4.2.2-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The interworking group, consisting of group members from the MCPTT system
and the LMR system, has been created and configured.
2\. MCPTT client 1 is registered and its respective user - MCPTT user 1 is
authenticated and authorized to use the MCPTT service, and has affiliated to
the interworking group.
3\. The mapping relationship of group and user identities between MCPTT system
and LMR system has been configured at IWF. For all signalling passed through
the IWF between MCPTT system and LMR system, the IWF shall perform identity
conversion and protocol translation.
Figure 6.4.4.2.2-1: Group call initiated by MCPTT user over interworking group
defined in LMR system
1\. MCPTT user at MCPTT client 1 would like to initiate a group call for the
selected interworking group identified by MCPTT group ID.
2\. MCPTT client 1 sends a group call request including MCPTT group ID, SDP
offer with media parameters towards the MCPTT server. If there is a floor
request to transmit, then the group call request contains an indication of an
implicit floor request.
3\. MCPTT server checks whether the user of MCPTT client 1 is authorized to
initiate a group call for the selected interworking group.
4\. If authorized, MCPTT server routes the group call request to the IWF.
5\. The IWF performs identity conversion and protocol translation, and
initiates group call to the target LMR system hosting the interworking group.
Then IWF gets the identity of group member from MCPTT system.
NOTE 1: How LMR system handles the group call and resolves a group is outside
the scope of the present document.
6\. The IWF performs the identity conversion and protocol translation, then
sends a group call request including the identity of the group member from
MCPTT system to MCPTT server.
7\. MCPTT server performs the group call procedure as described in 3GPP TS
23.379 [11].
8\. MCPTT server sends a group call response to the IWF.
9\. Identity conversion and protocol translation are performed. IWF returns
group call response to the target LMR system and target LMR system confirms
that the group call is successfully setup.
NOTE 2: How LMR system confirms the successful group call establishment is
outside the scope of the present document.
10\. The group call response is delivered to MCPTT client 1 for confirmation
of the successful call establishment.
12\. Interworking group has successfully established media plane for
communication and either user can transmit media. For successful call
establishment for group call with floor control request from MCPTT client 1,
floor participant at MCPTT client 1 is granted floor by the LMR system, giving
it permission to transmit. At the same time other group members are informed
that floor is taken.
NOTE 3: If E2EE is specified, then the MCPTT users and the LMR users shall use
the same codec. If E2EE is not specified, the MCPTT users and the LMR users
can use different codecs and transcoding is needed at the IWF.
##### 6.4.4.2.3 Group call initiated by LMR user over interworking group
defined in MCPTT system.
This subclause describes the solution to achieve the group call between MCPTT
system and LMR system by creating a interworking group in MCPTT system, and it
consists of group members from MCPTT system and LMR system.
When a group call is initiated by an LMR user, the MCPTT server hosting the
interworking group shall act as the controlling server and requests the IWF to
call the group members from LMR system.
The signalling procedure is described in figure 6.4.4.2.3-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The interworking group, consisting of group members from the MCPTT system
and the LMR system, has been created and configured.
2\. MCPTT client 1 is registered and its respective user - MCPTT user 1 is
authenticated and authorized to use the MCPTT service, and is affiliated to
the interworking group.
3\. The mapping relationship of group and user identities between MCPTT system
and LMR system has been configured at IWF. For all the signalling that passes
through the IWF between MCPTT system and LMR system, the IWF shall perform
identity conversion and protocol translation.
Figure 6.4.4.2.3-1: Group call initiated by LMR user over interworking group
defined in MCPTT system
1\. Upon receiving the group call from the LMR user, the IWF performs identity
conversion and protocol translation. For a group call with floor control,
floor control is to be established.
NOTE 1: How LMR user initiates a group call with or without floor control is
outside the scope of the present document.
2\. The IWF sends a group call request including MCPTT group ID to MCPTT
server host the interworking group for call establishment. If floor control is
requested by the calling LMR user, an indication of implicit floor request is
included.
3\. The MCPTT server resolves the group ID with GMS to get the identities of
group members. MCPTT server calls the group members from MCPTT system as
described in 3GPP TS 23.379 [11].
4\. MCPTT server sends group call request to the IWF to call the group member
from the LMR system.
5\. The IWF performs the identity conversion and protocol translation. And
calls the group member from LMR system.
NOTE 2: How the LMR group members are called within the LMR system is outside
the scope of the present document.
6\. The IWF performs the identity conversion and protocol translation and
sends group call response to the MCPTT server.
7\. The MCPTT server confirms the successful establishment of the group call.
8\. A group call response is returned to the initiating LMR user from LMR
system via the IWF for confirmation of the successful call establishment.
9\. The interworking group call has successfully established media plane for
communication and either user can transmit media. For successful call
establishment for group call with floor control request from LMR user, the
MCPTT client 1 is informed that floor is taken.
NOTE 3: How the floor control is managed in the LMR system is outside the
scope of the present document.
NOTE 4: If E2EE is specified, then the MCPTT users and the LMR users shall use
the same codec. If E2EE is not specified, the MCPTT users and the LMR users
can use different codecs and transcoding is needed at the IWF.
##### 6.4.4.2.4 Group call initiated by LMR user over interworking group
defined in LMR system.
This subclause describes the solution to achieve the group call between MCPTT
system and LMR system by creating a interworking group in LMR system, which
consists of group members from MCPTT system and LMR system.
When a group call is initiated by an LMR user, the LMR system hosting the
interworking group shall act as the controlling system and requests the IWF to
call the MCPTT group members.
The signalling procedure is described in figure 6.4.4.2.4-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The interworking group, consisting of group members from the MCPTT system
and from the LMR system, has been created and configured.
2\. MCPTT client 1 is registered and its respective user - MCPTT user 1 is
authenticated and authorized to use the MCPTT service and has affiliated to
the interworking group.
3\. The mapping relationship of group and user identities between MCPTT system
and LMR system has been configured at IWF. For all the signalling that passes
through the IWF between MCPTT system and LMR system, the IWF shall perform
identity conversion and protocol translation.
Figure 6.4.4.2.4-1: Group call initiated by LMR user over interworking group
defined in LMR system
1\. LMR user initiates a group call over the selected interworking group
defined in LMR system. IWF gets the identity of the group member from MCPTT
system.
NOTE 1: How LMR user initiates a group call and how the IWF gets the identity
of the MCPTT group member is outside the scope of the present document.
2\. The IWF sends a group call request to MCPTT server including the identity
of the group member from the LMR system.
3\. Upon receiving the group call request, MCPTT server calls MCPTT group
member as described in 3GPP TS 23.379 [11].
4\. MCPTT server sends back the group call response to the IWF.
5\. The IWF performs the identity conversion and protocol translation and
sends the group call response to the calling LMR system. The LMR system
confirms the successful group call establishment.
NOTE 2: How LMR user confirms the successful group call establishment is
outside the scope of the present document.
6\. The interworking group call has successfully established media plane for
communication and either user can transmit media. For successful call
establishment for group call with floor control request from LMR user, the
MCPTT client 1 is informed that floor is taken.
NOTE 3: The LMR system where the interworking group defined is the controlling
system of the group call. How the floor control is managed in the LMR system
is outside the scope of the present document.
NOTE 4: If E2EE is specified, then the MCPTT users and the LMR users shall use
the same codec. If E2EE is not specified, the MCPTT users and the LMR users
can use different codecs and transcode is needed at the IWF.
#### 6.4.4.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New procedures are needed between the MCPTT server and IWF.
#### 6.4.4.4 Solution evaluation
This solution provides new procedures that make it possible for an LMR user or
an MCPTT user to initiate a group call over interworking group defined in the
LMR system or in the MCPTT system.
The solution cannot be fulfilled if the clients of one system (e.g. the LMR
system) cannot make calls to a group defined on the other system (e.g. the
MCPTT system).
If LMR system only supports group calls over group regrouping or linked
groups, the group call procedures over interworking group may not be
applicable.
This solution requires that each group member be called from the other side of
IWF-1, a large signalling load may result across IWF-1.
### 6.4.5 Solution #3-5: Late entry in interworking group call
#### 6.4.5.1 Description
##### 6.4.5.1.1 Late entry overview
If a group call is ongoing in the group controlling system, but does not
include the participating system for example if the participating system had
no affiliated group members at the time that the call was established, the
participating system needs to be included in the group call when or shortly
after a group member affiliates.
If an explicit affiliation is sent to the controlling system because of the
affiliations of group members within the participating system, either when the
first group member affiliates to the group in the participating system or when
each group member affiliates to the group in the participating system, then
late entry call setup signalling can be sent to the participating system when
the controlling system receives the group affiliation from the participating
system.
These procedures are described in the following subclauses.
##### 6.4.5.1.2 Late entry following affiliation, MCPTT controlling system
In this procedure, an explicit affiliation is used as the trigger for late
call entry signalling and the MCPTT system is the controlling system.
The signalling procedure is described in figure 6.4.5.1.2-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. A group call is ongoing in the MCPTT system, and the MCPTT system is the
controlling system for the interworking group call.
2\. The LMR system is the participating system, and is not taking part in the
group call as there were no group members affiliated to the group at the start
of the call.
Figure 6.4.5.1.2-1:Late entry from LMR system with MCPTT system controlling
1\. A group member affiliates to the interworking group in the LMR system.
2\. The IWF sends a group affiliation request for the interworking group to
the MCPTT server. If the LMR system provides individual affiliations from
group members, the MCPTT ID corresponding to the affiliating group member is
included in the request. If the LMR system does not provide individual
affiliations from group members, the MCPTT ID will correspond to the IWF.
3\. The MCPTT server checks that the affiliation to the MCPTT group from the
IWF is authorized.
4\. The MCPTT server responds to the IWF that the affiliation is accepted.
5\. The MCPTT server sends a late entry group call setup for the interworking
group to the IWF to include the LMR system in the group call.
6\. The IWF responds with a successful call setup response.
7\. The media plane is established between MCPTT server and IWF. Floor control
signalling is sent to the IWF to indicate the current talking party.
##### 6.4.5.1.3 Late entry following affiliation, LMR controlling system
In this procedure, an explicit affiliation is used as the trigger for late
call entry signalling and the LMR system is the controlling system.
The signalling procedure is described in figure 6.4.5.1.3-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. A group call is ongoing in the LMR system, and the LMR system is the
controlling system for the interworking group call.
2\. The MCPTT system is the participating system, and is not taking part in
the group call as there were no group members affiliated to the group at the
start of the call.
Figure 6.4.5.1.3-1:Late entry from LMR system with MCPTT system controlling
1\. An MCPTT client whose user is a group member affiliates to the
interworking group in the MCPTT system.
2\. The MCPTT server sends a group affiliation request for the interworking
group to the IWF.
3\. The IWF sends a group affiliation response for the interworking group to
the MCPTT server. It is assumed that the IWF or connected LMR system has
performed any necessary authorization checks prior to sending a positive
response.
4\. The MCPTT server sends a group affiliation response to the MCPTT client,
informing the MCPTT client of successful affiliation to the interworking
group.
5\. As there is an ongoing call, the IWF sends a group call late entry setup
request to the MCPTT server.
NOTE 1: The message may be the same as that which would be sent to set up a
group call in a non-late entry case
6\. The MCPTT server sends the group call request to the MCPTT client.
7\. The MCPTT server responds to the IWF with a successful call setup
response.
8\. The MCPTT client responds to the MCPTT server acknowledging the set up of
the group call.
NOTE 2: Step 7 may occur either before step 6, or as shown following step 6
and before step 8, or following step 8.
9\. The media plane is established between IWF, MCPTT server and MCPTT client.
Floor control signalling indicates the current talking party to the MCPTT
client.
#### 6.4.5.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The MCPTT server must respond to affiliation to the group from the LMR system
with late entry call setup signalling, which may be the same as call setup
signalling in a non-late entry case.
#### 6.4.5.3 Solution evaluation
This solution allows late entry into ongoing interworking group calls.
## 6.5 Media plane
> 6.5.1 Solution #4-1: Codec reconciliation
#### 6.5.1.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #4-1 Vocoder reconciliation.
During group call, the MCPTT server can initiate the codec reconciliation to
switch to a more suitable codec according to LMR participants behaviours, e.g,
when the first LMR user enters late or rejoins the group call, or the last
user leaves the group call.
The procedure of MCPTT server initiated codec reconciliation is described in
figure 6.5.1.1-1.
Pre-conditions:
  * An MCPTT group call is ongoing using an MCPTT specific codec or a group call is ongoing using an LMR codec.
Figure 6.5.1.1-1: Codec reconciliation procedure
0\. A interworking group call is ongoing. When the first LMR user enters late
or rejoins the group call, or the last user leaves the group call, MCPTT
server can initiate codec reconciliation to select a select an optimal codec.
1\. MCPTT server sends codec reconciliation request to all the participants to
renegotiate a new codec.
2\. The participants returns a codec reconciliation response.
3\. Then the participants use the new codec of the group call.
Editor's note: When to start using the new codec, e.g., after current
transmission, is FFS.
#### 6.5.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
This solution requires the MCPTT server to initiate codec reconciliation
according to the LMR participants in the group call, e.g., late entry to the
call, rejoin and leave the call.
MCPTT codecs used when there are only MCPTT group members are needed to be
configured in the group configuration data.
#### 6.5.1.3 Solution evaluation
This solution provides dynamic codec reconciliation to select an optimal codec
according to the current LMR participants in the group call.
This solution result in large amount of signallings at MCPTT server when
switching to the new codec. The voice continuity and quality may be impacted
based on when to apply the new codec.
## 6.6 Encryption
6.6.1 Solution #5-1: Means for supporting TETRA end-to-end encrypted speech
#### 6.6.1.1 Description
##### 6.6.1.1.1 General
The following sub-clauses address the gaps in key issue #5-1 of the present
document. Solutions for the 3 gaps are presented.
###### 6.6.1.1.1.1 Gap 3 - means for transmitting the TETRA encryption
synchronization vector, including the Key ID and the Algorithm ID within the
MCPTT system
The TETRA end-to-end encryption synchronization vector will be carried in
MCPTT as an optional parameter in an RTP packet that may also carry one or
more TETRA speech frames. The TETRA end-to-end encryption synchronization
vector contains the Key ID, the Algorithm ID and the cipher synchronization
information. (The Key ID identifies the encryption key used to encrypt the
speech and the Algorithm ID identifies the end‑to‑end encryption algorithm in
use.)
###### 6.6.1.1.1.2 Gap 4 - means for ensuring the time synchronization between
the sync vector and the stream of encrypted speech packets in a TETRA to MCPTT
interworked system:
Receivers of end-to-end encrypted TETRA speech have to be able to apply an
encryption synchronization vector to a specific speech frame which could be
delivered at a later time than the encryption synchronization vector. TETRA
speech frames and TETRA end-to-end synchronization vectors will be delivered
to TETRA speech receivers in the same order as they were transmitted to allow
the receivers to maintain synchronization with the encrypted speech. RTP
sequence numbering and/or speech frame numbering in the RTP payload can be
used to maintain the ordering. The integrity of the RTP sequence numbering
needs to be maintained throughout the MCPTT network.
###### 6.6.1.1.1.3 Gap 5 - support for the TETRA vocoder in MCPTT to allow
end‑to‑end security
ETSI TCCE will provide an ETSI standard specifying the format of TETRA speech
(including encryption synchronization vectors) to be carried in RTP packets
over MCPTT. ETSI TCCE will obtain IANA registration for the format and the
name to be used in MCPTT call setup SDP negotiations. ETSI TCCE will specify
any speech format transformations, timing and encryption synchronization
actions to be performed by the IWF or TETRA SwMI.
### 6.6.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
MCPTT UEs configured to support end‑to‑end encrypted speech communications
with TETRA equipment shall support:
\- SDP negotiation for the use of the TETRA speech format;
\- use of the TETRA speech transport format for MCPTT;
\- use of the TETRA ACELP vocoder;
\- use of the TETRA end-to-end encryption mechanism;
\- use of a key management protocol that allows delivery of TETRA end‑to‑end
encryption keys
\- use of appropriate encryption algorithms.
The IWF will need to be able to perform any necessary transformations of the
speech format timing and encryption synchronization actions to be specified by
ETSI TCCE.
### 6.6.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution provides a method for transporting TETRA end‑to end encrypted
speech between MCPTT clients and the TETRA IWF.
## 6.7 Group management
### 6.7.1 Solution #6-1: Group regroup
#### 6.7.1.1 Description
##### 6.7.1.1.1 General
The following subclauses address the gaps in key issue #6-1 of the present
document.
##### 6.7.1.1.2 Gap 1 -- interworking LMR group regrouping with MC service
The procedures in TS 23.280 [17] are followed, but with the replacement of
step 4 and the addition of step 5a. The IWF will behave on the interface as if
it is a peer MC service server with a peer group management client and peer
group management server.
Exceptions to the TS 23.280 [17] procedures are detailed in the subclauses
below.
The impact from this gap solution will be a new reference point between the
IWF and the group management server.
###### 6.7.1.1.2.1 MC service initiates the group regroup
The procedures in TS 23.280 [17] are followed, but with the replacement of
step 4 and the addition of step 5a. The IWF will behave on the interface as if
it is a peer MC service server and a peer group management server.
Figure 6.7.1.1.2.1-1: Temporary group formation - group regrouping to an IWF
1\. The group management client of the MC service user (e.g. dispatcher)
requests group regroup operation to the group management server (which is the
group management server of the authorized MC service user). The identities of
the groups being combined shall be included in this message. The group
management client may indicate the security level required for the temporary
group. The group management client may indicate the priority level required
for the temporary group.
2\. The group management server checks whether group regroup operation is
performed by an authorized MC service user, based on group policy. The group
management server checks whether the group is a temporary group. If the group
is a temporary group, then the group regrouping will be rejected, otherwise
the group regrouping can proceed.
3\. The group management server forwards the group regroup request to the IWF
with the information about the IWF\'s groups.
4\. The IWF may check whether any constituent MC service groups are in
emergency, have calls ongoing or are already part of an MC service group
regroup. The IWF sends a check group status to the MC service server.
5\. The MC service server responds with the status of the group regroup\'s
constituent MC service groups. For LMR systems that do not support group
regrouping, the IWF may return failure.
6\. The group management server creates and stores the information of the
temporary group, including the temporary MC service group ID, off-network
information, and the MC service IDs of the groups being combined, the priority
level of the temporary group, and the security level of the temporary group.
If the authorized MC service user does not specify the security level and the
priority level, the group management server shall set the lower security level
and the higher priority of the constituent groups.
7\. The group management server 1 notifies the IWF about its group regroup
operation.
8\. The IWF acknowledges the group management server.
9\. The group management server notifies the MC service server of the
temporary group creation with the information of the constituent groups.
10\. The MC service server acknowledges the notification from the group
management server.
11\. The group management server notifies the affiliated MC service group
members of the constituent MC service groups of the group management server,
possibly with an indication of lower security level.
12\. The group management server provides a group regroup response to the
group management client of the authorized MC service user (e.g. dispatcher).
Editor\'s note: A double patch, where two patches both contain two of the same
groups, could cause duplication of media. How and whether to avoid double
patches is FFS.
###### 6.7.1.1.2.2 IWF initiates the group regroup
The procedures in TS 23.280 [17] are followed, but with the replacement of
steps 1 and 2. The IWF will behave on the interface as if it is a peer MC
service server with a peer group management server.
Figure 6.7.1.1.2.2-1: Temporary group formation - group regrouping from an IWF
1\. The IWF may check whether any constituent MC service groups are in
emergency, have calls ongoing or are already part of an MC service group
regroup by sending a check group status request to the MC service server.
2\. The MC service server responds with the status of the MC service groups.
NOTE: Steps 3-10 are as described in TS 23.280 [17]. Steps internal to the IWF
are out of scope and are not shown.
3\. The IWF sends a group regroup request to the group management server.
4\. The group management server checks whether the group is a temporary group.
If the group is a temporary group, then the group regrouping will be rejected,
otherwise the group regrouping can proceed.
5\. The group management server provides a group regroup response. Due to
security aspects concerning sharing information among different systems, the
group management server does not share the users\' information of the groups
under its management to the IWF.
6\. The IWF notifies the group management server regarding the temporary group
creation with information of the constituent groups.
7\. The IWF acknowledges the notification from the group management server.
8\. The group management server notifies the MC service server regarding the
temporary group creation with the information of the constituent groups.
9\. The MC service server acknowledges the notification from the group
management server.
10\. The group management server notifies the affiliated MC service group
members of the constituent MC service groups of the group management server,
possibly with an indication of a lower security level.
##### 6.7.1.1.3 Gap 2 -- ownership of the group regroup
This solution proposes that the server that initiates the group regroup owns
the group regroup, as implied in TS 23.280 [17].
##### 6.7.1.1.4 Gap 3 - simultaneous group regroup requests from each side of
the IWF-1 interface
Some LMR implementations do not allow a group that is already in a group
regroup to be group regrouped again, i.e. both sides of the IWF interface try
to group regroup the same group. The following cases are examined:
Case 1: MC service group regroup, LMR group. When the group management server
sends a group regroup request to the IWF and the LMR group is already in an:
\- LMR group regroup. The IWF decides whether to remove the LMR group from the
existing LMR group regroup or to reject the request. In the case of the
latter, the IWF informs the group management server, which informs the group
management client which informs the authorized MC service user of the LMR
group(s) that cannot be group regrouped.
\- MC service group regroup. The IWF determines that the group is already in a
group regroup on the MC system via the check group status request and
response. The IWF decides whether to reject the request. To reject the
request, the IWF informs the group management server, which informs the group
management client which informs the authorized MC service user of the LMR
group(s) that cannot be group regrouped.
Case 2: LMR group regroup, MC service group. When the IWF sets up the group
regroup it can decide whether to omit the MC service group that\'s in another
MC service group regroup, from the new LMR group regroup. The IWF cannot
remove the MC service group from an existing MC service group regroup.
Case 3: LMR group regroup, LMR group. This case is out of scope of the present
document.
Case 4: MC service group regroup, MC service group. The MC service system has
control over its own groups in its own group regroups. There\'s no impact to
the LMR system if MC service groups are group regrouped multiple times.
The impact from this gap will be some result codes to inform the authorized
user via the group regroup notification response that one or more LMR groups
cannot be group regrouped and an information flow element listing those LMR
groups.
##### 6.7.1.1.5 Gap 4 -- Group regroup with MC service clients and LMR clients
###### 6.7.1.1.5.1 General
The subclauses below address expected issues with group regroups containing MC
service clients and LMR clients.
###### 6.7.1.1.5.2 Announcement group part of group regroup
Some LMR systems allow announcement groups (similar to an MC group broadcast
group) to be part of a group regroup, others do not.
The case to consider is when the MC service server sets up a group regroup
that includes an LMR announcement group. When the MC service server sends a
group regroup request to the IWF, the IWF checks whether any constituent
groups in the request are announcement groups that the LMR system owns. If the
LMR system does not support announcement groups as part of group regroups,
then the IWF indicates the groups that cannot be supported in the group
regroup notification response. The group management server sends the response
back to the originating authorized MC service user via the group management
client. The authorized MC service user can retry the group regroup without the
unsupported constituent group(s).
The impact from this gap will be new result codes to inform the authorized
user via the group regroup notification response that one or more LMR groups
are announcement groups and cannot be group regrouped. In addition, an
information flow element listing those LMR groups is needed.
###### 6.7.1.1.5.3 Emergency on constituent group
Some LMR systems allow a constituent group to be in the emergency state,
others do not.
Case 1: MC service group regroup, emergency on LMR group, LMR does not support
emergencies on group regroups. The group management server initiates a group
regroup and a constituent group that is owned by the LMR system is in
emergency. When the IWF receives the group regroup request that contains an
LMR system owned constituent group that is in emergency, and the IWF does not
wish to support a group regroup with this group in emergency, the IWF
indicates that in the group regroup response. The response contains the
group(s) that it does not wish to support and a result code indicating why.
The MC service authorized user creating the group regroup is notified via the
group management client.
Case 2: MC service group regroup, emergency on LMR group, LMR supports
emergencies on group regroups. For LMR systems that support emergencies on
constituent groups, the IWF informs the MC service server of the emergency on
the group regrouped group, and includes the identity of the constituent group
that\'s in emergency. When the emergency is cancelled, the IWF informs the MC
service server and includes the identity of the constituent group that\'s no
longer in emergency.
Case 3: LMR group regroup, emergency on MC service group, LMR doesn\'t support
emergencies on group regroups. The IWF initiates a regroup and a constituent
group that is owned by the MC system is in emergency. The IWF checks whether
any constituent MC service groups are in emergency using the check group
status request and response and decides whether to include them in the group
regroup.
Case 4: LMR group regroup, emergency on MC service group, LMR supports
emergencies on group regroups. The IWF initiates a group regroup and a
constituent group that is owned by the MC system is in emergency. The IWF
checks whether any constituent MC service groups are in emergency using the
check group status request and response. The IWF can decide how to treat the
group regroup, given that at least one constituent MC service group is in
emergency.
Editor\'s note: How the IWF knows when the emergency on the group is cancelled
is FFS.
The impact from this gap will be new message flows and procedures to request,
cancel and track emergencies on a partner system\'s group regrouped group,
changes to the group regroup response information flow and new messages to
check on the operational status of an MC service group.
###### 6.7.1.1.5.4 Activity on constituent group
Some LMR implementations do not allow a group with a call in progress to be
added to a group regroup.
Case 1: MC service group regroup, LMR group activity. This solution proposes a
\'group has call in progress\' result code for a group regroup request. The MC
service user that\'s requesting the group regroup can elect to omit the LMR
group from the group regroup or can wait and try again.
Case 2: LMR group regroup, MC service group activity. The IWF can check
whether a constituent MC service group has call activity by using the check
group status request and response. The IWF can omit the MC service group from
the group regroup.
The impact from this gap will be changes to the group regroup response
information flow and new messages to check on the operational status of an MC
service group.
##### 6.7.1.1.6 Gap 5 - Resolution of vocoder and encryption mode for the
group regroup
Editor\'s note: This subclause can be completed when vocoder and encryption
modes procedures are defined for interconnect scenarios and when the
encryption key issues in the present document are solved. It is expected that
the solution will refer to and leverage those solutions.
#### 6.7.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The solution requires:
\- a new reference point between the LMR system and the group management
server;
\- changes to some MC service group regroup procedures and information flows;
\- new message flows and procedures to request, cancel and track emergencies
on a partner system\'s group regrouped group; and,
\- new messages to check on the operational status of an MC service group.
#### 6.7.1.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution addresses four of the five regroup key issue gaps: general
regroup interworking, ownership of regroups spanning IWF-1, simultaneous
regroups and issues with mixed system regroups. A new reference point and some
new MC service messages are required.
This solution does not apply if the LMR system does not support group regroup
procedure over the interworking reference point.
### 6.7.2 Solution #6-2: Group regroup between MCPTT and LMR system in MCPTT
system
#### 6.7.2.1 Description
Group regroup for interworking between MCPTT and LMR system is to create an
temporary interworking group in MCPTT system including constituent MCPTT
groups, LMR groups.
The signalling procedure of interworking group creation is described in figure
6.7.2.1-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. MCPTT client is registered and its respective user - MCPTT user is
authenticated and authorized to use the MCPTT service and regroup groups.
2\. The constituent groups to be regrouped are pre-configured at MCPTT client.
3\. The mapping relationship of group and user identities between MCPTT system
and LMR system has been configured at IWF. For all the signalling that passes
through the IWF between MCPTT system and LMR system, the IWF shall perform the
identity conversion and protocol translation.
Figure 6.7.2.1-1: Group regroup between MCPTT and LMR system in MCPTT system
1\. MCPTT user at group management client initiates group regroup by sending
group regroup request to group management server. The identities of
constituent groups are included.
2\. The group management server checks if the MCPTT user is authorized to
perform group regroup operation. If success, the group management server
creates and stores the information of the temporary group, including the
temporary group ID, the group ID of the groups being combined, the priority
level of the temporary group and the security level of the temporary group. If
the authorized user does not specify the security level and the priority
level, the group management server shall set the lowest security level and the
highest priority of the constituent groups.The users of the temporary group
may be automatically affiliated if configured.
3\. Group management server sends the group regroup request to the IWF.
4\. IWF performs the authorization check with LMR system that whether the LMR
group can be regrouped.
5\. IWF returns the group regroup response to group management server.
6\. Group management server creates the temporary interworking group and
stores the group information.
7\. The group management server notifies the MCPTT server regarding the group
regroup with the information of the temporary group.
8\. The group management server notifies the IWF regarding the group creation
regroup with the information of the temporary group.
9\. After receiving the group regroup notify message, the IWF performs the
identity mapping and notifies the LMR system about the temporary interworking
group.
10\. The group management server notifies the MCPTT group members about the
temporary interworking group.
11\. The group management server returns a group regroup response to the group
management client of the authorized user.
NOTE: How the IWF interacts with LMR system is outside the scope of the
present document.
#### 6.7.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New procedures are needed between the group management server and IWF.
#### 6.7.2.3 Solution evaluation
The solution proposes a new procedure to support the user regroup for
interworking. This solution reuses the existing group creation procedure
defined in TS 23.379 at the utmost.This solution does not apply if the LMR
system does not support user regroup procedure over the interworking reference
point.
### 6.7.3 Solution #6-3: Group creation between MCPTT and LMR system
#### 6.7.3.1 Description
Group creation for interworking between MCPTT and LMR system is to create an
interworking group in MCPTT system including both MCPTT users and LMR users.
The signalling procedure of interworking group creation is described in figure
6.7.3.1-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. MCPTT client is registered and its respective user - MCPTT user is
authenticated and authorized to use the MCPTT service and create an
interworking group.
2\. The LMR users information to be included in the newly created group is
pre-configured at MCPTT client.
3\. The mapping relationship of group and user identities between MCPTT system
and LMR system has been configured at IWF. For all the signalling that passes
through the IWF between MCPTT system and LMR system, the IWF shall perform the
identity conversion and protocol translation.
Figure 6.7.3.1-1: Group creation between MCPTT and LMR system
1\. MCPTT user at group management client initiates interworking group
creation by sending group creation request to group management server. Both
the MCPTT users and the LMR users are included.
2\. Group management server performs authorization check.
3\. Group management server sends the group creation request to the IWF.
4\. IWF performs the authorization check with LMR system that whether the LMR
users can be included.
5\. IWF returns the group creation response to group management server.
6\. The group management server creates and stores the information of the
interworking group as group configuration data as described in TS 23.280 [17].
The users of the temporary group may be automatically affiliated if
configured.
7\. The group management server notifies the MCPTT server regarding the group
creation with the information of the group members.
8\. The group management server notifies the IWF regarding the group creation
with the information of the group members.
9\. After receiving the group creation notify message, the IWF performs the
group identity and user identity mapping between MCPTT system and LMR system,
and notifies the LMR system the group creation
10\. The group management server notifies the MCPTT users.
11\. The group management server returns a group creation response to the
group management client of the authorized user.
NOTE: How IWF interacts with LMR system is outside the scope of the present
document.
#### 6.7.3.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New procedures are needed between the group management server and IWF.
#### 6.7.3.3 Solution evaluation
The solution proposes a new procedure to support the user regroup for
interworking. This solution reuses the existing group creation procedure
defined in TS 23.379 at the utmost.
This solution does not apply if the LMR system does not support user regroup
procedure over the interworking reference point.
### 6.7.4 Solution #6-4: Local group regrouping within each system
#### 6.7.4.1 Regrouping solution description
To prevent routing issues and complexity, the following rules can be applied:
\- If group regrouping signalling using temporary groups is used on the MC
system, the IWF must prevent the regroup signalling from propagating to the
LMR system; and
\- the IWF must handle the translation between temporary group identities on
the MC system and the original interworking group identity used on the LMR
system; and
\- regrouping can only take place within a system if
\- the re-grouped groups are not interworking groups; or
\- the system in which the regouping is performed is the controlling system
for those interworking groups involved in the re-grouping; or
\- the system in which the regrouping is performed in a participating system
and only one of the groups included in the re-grouping is an interworking
group, and floor control for the set of regrouped groups in the participating
system is deferred to the controlling system via the IWF.
#### 6.7.4.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
If group regrouping is permitted on the MCPTT system, there is no impact on
the MCPTT server with respect to group regrouping signalling sent between
systems, as the IWF will isolate the LMR system from the regroup signalling.
Group configuration within the group management server should identify
interworking groups, and provide restrictions on the ability to perform group
regrouping for interworking groups.
The MCPTT server will need to allow the configuration of groups that are
interworking groups and for which regrouping is not permitted, and to prevent
regrouping in those groups.
#### 6.7.4.3 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a means of allowing group regrouping within a system
and still providing communication between systems, subject to limitations.
## 6.8 Prioritization and pre-emption
Editor\'s note: This subclause is a placeholder for future prioritization and
pre-emption solutions.
## 6.9 Floor control
### 6.9.1 Solution #8-1: Time-stamping of floor requests during transmission
#### 6.9.1.1 Description
##### 6.9.1.1.1 General
The following sub-clauses provide a solution to Key Issue #8-3 of the present
document.
A solution to ensuring that the floor grant procedure works fairly when
transmission requests are queueable is to introduce a configurable option of
including a time-stamp in the floor request messages for MC systems where
interworking is a possibility. The time-stamp is used once the call is in
progress. The solution is targeted at the operation of groups which feature
interworked devices.
The following subclauses describe the behaviour at the affected nodes.
##### 6.9.1.1.2 Behaviour at the MC service client
If the MC UE supports this feature and is configured to use it then the MC
service client adds a time-stamp to its floor request messages. The source of
the time-stamp is not specified. It shall be possible to compare the time-
stamp supplied by the MC service client with that used in the rest of the MC
service.
##### 6.9.1.1.3 Behaviour at the IWF
In the case that the MC service server is the controlling server, when an LMR
device requests the floor, the IWF will receive an floor request from the
interworked system. An IWF supporting the feature will ensure that the floor
request message that it sends towards the MC service server contains a time-
stamp. The source of the time-stamp is not specified, but if the IWF requires
a timing source itself then there are many accurate sources available -- e.g.
NTP, IEEE1588.
Depending on configuration of the IWF and capabilities of the interworked
system, the time-stamp to be used may be either obtained via interworking or
inserted by the IWF.
If the LMR system provides the controlling server and has the ability to
interpret a time-stamp the IWF will send a suitably formatted floor request
towards that system when it receives a floor request from the MC system.
##### 6.9.1.1.4 Behaviour at the floor control server
A floor control server supporting the feature will receive floor requests in
the usual way. If priority and transmit queuing is supported then the floor
control server will need to receive the incoming floor requests and then
arbitrate and respond in a timely manner. The availability of a time-stamp
will enable the floor control server to sort incoming floor requests in order
of transmission, which would not otherwise be possible.
If queuing is supported then the floor control server will be able to order
the time of floor requests by using the available time-stamp and notify any
queued requesters in the correct order.
##### 6.9.1.1.5 Floor request and floor grant procedure with time-stamping
The procedure and flows for carrying out floor request, arbitration and grant
remains essentially the same as currently described in TS 23.379 [11], except
for handling the addition of the time-stamp as a parameter within the floor
requests and floor arbitration. In the example given in figure 6.9.1.1.5-1 an
LMR device (not shown) and a MCPTT UE request the floor within close proximity
in time to each other, the LMR device slightly earlier than the MCPTT UE.
Queuing is supported. Figure 6.9.1.1.5-2 illustrates the case when the LMR
system provides the controlling server.
Pre-condition:
1\. MCPTT session is established between MCPTT client, interworked system and
controlling server.
2\. Session is ongoing.
Figure 6.9.1.1.5-1: Procedure flows for floor grant in interworking when time-
stamp is included (MCPTT controlling server)
Process:
1\. Media transmission is ongoing.
2\. The MCPTT client wishes to send voice media over the session.
3\. MCPTT client sends a floor request message to its floor control server
containing time-stamp information.
4\. The IWF sends a floor request message containing time-stamp information to
the floor control server representing the time that the LMR device made its
floor request.
5\. The floor control server makes a determination of action to take on the
request based on criteria (e.g. floor priority, time of sending).
6\. The floor control server sends queue position info to the floor
participants.
7\. The floor becomes idle.
8\. The floor control server responds with a floor granted message towards the
IWF.
9\. The floor control server sends a floor taken message towards the MCPTT
client including information about who is granted the floor.
10\. The receipt of the floor taken may be used to inform the user of the
MCPTT client.
In the case that the LMR system provides the controlling server then the pre-
conditions remain the same and the information flow is as follows:
Figure 6.9.1.1.5-2: Procedure flows for floor grant in interworking when time-
stamp is included (LMR system controlling server)
Process:
1\. Media transmission is ongoing
2\. The MCPTT client wishes to send voice media over the session.
3\. MCPTT client sends a floor request message to its floor control server
containing time-stamp information and in turn the floor control server sends a
corresponding floor request message towards the IWF.
4\. As a result of decisions in the controlling system the IWF sends queue
position info to the MCPTT floor control server and in turn the floor control
server sends queue position info to the MCPTT client.
5\. The floor becomes idle.
6\. The IWF sends a floor taken message towards the MCPTT server including
information about who is granted the floor and in turn the MCPTT floor control
server send floor taken to the MCPTT client.
7\. The receipt of the floor taken may be used to inform the user of the MCPTT
client.
#### 6.9.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
An MC service client making use of this option shall be required to include an
accurate time-stamp into its floor request messages.
A floor control server supporting the feature shall be able to make priority,
floor grant arbitration and queue position allocation making use of time-stamp
information received in the floor request message.
An IWF supporting the feature shall be suitably configurable to be able to
include time-stamp information in floor request messages that it sends to a
controlling floor control server.
#### 6.9.1.3 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a mechanism to resolve any latency bias between
interworked systems and apply floor control fairly. The overall performance in
a combined system supporting the solution will depend on the accuracy level
with which the time-stamps are applied across the interworked systems.
In the case when the LMR system provides the controlling server, the solution
is only applicable if the LMR system supports use of time-stamping
information.
# 7 Overall evaluation
> 7.1 General
Editor\'s note: This subclause is a placeholder for a general description.
## 7.2 Architecture evaluation
The architecture evaluated in solution #0-1 in subclause 6.1.1 specifies a
general interworking architectures between MCPTT system and LMR system. The
solution#0-1 introduces an IWF entity, which acts as an MCPTT server
connecting with MCPTT server utilizing IWF-1 reference point, to support
protocol translation, identity mapping, transcode, routing and so on.
## 7.3 Solution evaluation
The solutions specified in this technical report address a number of key
issues identified in interworking between the MCPTT system and an LMR system.
Table 7.3-1 presents a summary of all solution evaluations.
Editor\'s note: The table 7.3-1 may no be sync with TR contents and is not
complete, and needs further updates.
Table 7.3-1: Solution evaluations
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue | Solution | Evaluation | Impact on | | | | | other entities | | | | | and working | | | | | groups | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #1-1 user | Solution | | | | identities | #1-1: | | | | mapping | Identity | | | | | mapping | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #1-2 group | | | | | identities | | | | | mapping | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #2-1 group | Solution | This solution | New procedures | | affiliation | #2-1: Group | provides a new | are needed | | management | affiliation | procedure for | between the | | | | an LMR user to | MCPTT server | | | | affiliate to | and IWF. | | | | and | | | | | de-affiliate | | | | | from an | | | | | interworking | | | | | group defined | | | | | in MCPTT | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | | | The group | | | | | affiliation | | | | | for | | | | | interworking | | | | | also can be | | | | | done by | | | | | configuring | | | | | the group | | | | | affiliation | | | | | status in the | | | | | group | | | | | configuration | | | | | data when | | | | | create the | | | | | interworking | | | | | group. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #3-1 private | Solution | This solution | Introduction | | call | #3-1: Private | provides a | of parameters | | | call with | simple | for | | | parameter | enhancement so | negotiation | | | negotiation | that MCPTT | modifies the | | | solution | clients can | existing | | | | support | procedures and | | | | various LMR | call flows | | | | modes of | between the | | | | operation | MCPTT server | | | | (commencement | and a partner | | | | modes, duplex | MCPTT system | | | | mode and who | and between | | | | talks first) | the MCPTT | | | | and describes | server and | | | | how LMR | MCPTT clients. | | | | systems can | | | | | cope with | | | | | multiple MCPTT | | | | | client | | | | | instances. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution | This solution | New procedures | | | #3-2: Private | provides a | are needed | | | call initiated | solution to | between the | | | by LMR user to | address | MCPTT server | | | MCPTT user | private call | and IWF. | | | | initiated by a | | | | | LMR user to an | | | | | MCPTT user. | | | | | The parameters | | | | | used for | | | | | private call | | | | | for | | | | | interworking | | | | | is negotiated | | | | | during the | | | | | call setup | | | | | including | | | | | commencement | | | | | mode, E2EE, | | | | | etc. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #3-2 call | | | | | back | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #3-3 group | Solution | The solution | New procedures | | call | #3-3: Group | proposes a | are needed | | | call on a | solution that | between the | | | temporary | makes it | MCPTT server | | | group | possible for | and IWF over | | | | an LMR user or | IWF-1. | | | | an MCPTT user | | | | | to initiate a | | | | | group call | | | | | over a | | | | | temporary | | | | | interworking | | | | | group defined | | | | | in MCPTT | | | | | system. This | | | | | solution | | | | | reuses the | | | | | temporary | | | | | group call | | | | | procedure | | | | | described in | | | | | TS 23.379 to | | | | | the utmost. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution | | | | | #3-4: Group | | | | | call on an | | | | | interworking | | | | | group | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #4-1 vocoder | | | | | reconciliation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #4-2 | | | | | inter-system | | | | | transmission | | | | | and message | | | | | trunking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #5-1 end to | Solution | | | | end payload | #3-1, #3-2， | | | | encryption | #3-3 and | | | | | #3-4 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #5-2 key | | | | | agreement | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #5-3 | | | | | unencrypted | | | | | transmission | | | | | within an | | | | | encrypted call | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #5-4 key | | | | | management | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #6-1 | Solution | This solution | The solution | | regrouping | #6-1: Group | addresses four | requires: | | | regroup | of the five | | | | | regroup key | - a new | | | | issue gaps: | reference | | | | general | point between | | | | regroup | the LMR system | | | | interworking, | and the group | | | | ownership of | management | | | | regroups | server; | | | | spanning | | | | | IWF-1, | - changes to | | | | simultaneous | some MC | | | | regroups and | service group | | | | issues with | regroup | | | | mixed system | procedures and | | | | regroups. A | information | | | | new reference | flows; | | | | point and some | | | | | new MC service | - new message | | | | messages are | flows and | | | | required. | procedures to | | | | | request, | | | | This solution | cancel and | | | | does not apply | track | | | | if the LMR | emergencies on | | | | system does | a partner | | | | not support | system\'s | | | | group regroup | group | | | | procedure over | regrouped | | | | the | group; and, | | | | interworking | | | | | reference | - new | | | | point. | messages to | | | | | check on the | | | | | operational | | | | | status of an | | | | | MC service | | | | | group. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution | The solution | New procedures | | | #6-2: Group | proposes a new | are needed | | | regroup | procedure to | between the | | | between MCPTT | support the | group | | | and LMR in | user regroup | management | | | MCPTT system | for | server and | | | | interworking. | IWF. | | | | This solution | | | | | reuses the | | | | | existing group | | | | | creation | | | | | procedure | | | | | defined in | | | | | TS 23.379 at | | | | | the | | | | | utmost.This | | | | | solution does | | | | | not apply if | | | | | the LMR system | | | | | does not | | | | | support user | | | | | regroup | | | | | procedure over | | | | | the | | | | | interworking | | | | | reference | | | | | point. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution | The solution | New procedures | | | #6-3: Group | proposes a new | are needed | | | creation | procedure to | between the | | | between MCPTT | support the | group | | | and LMR system | user regroup | management | | | | for | server and | | | | interworking. | IWF. | | | | This solution | | | | | reuses the | | | | | existing group | | | | | creation | | | | | procedure | | | | | defined in TS | | | | | 23.379 at the | | | | | utmost. | | | | | | | | | | This solution | | | | | does not apply | | | | | if the LMR | | | | | system does | | | | | not support | | | | | user regroup | | | | | procedure over | | | | | the | | | | | interworking | | | | | reference | | | | | point. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #7-1 | | | | | emergency | | | | | calls | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #7-2 | | | | | emergency | | | | | alerts | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #8-1 | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | floor request | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #8-2 floor | | | | | revoked | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #8-3 floor | Solution 8-1: | This solution | An MC service | | request timing | Time-stamping | provides a | client making | | | of floor | mechanism to | use of this | | | requests | resolve any | option shall | | | during | latency bias | be required to | | | transmission | between | include an | | | | interworked | accurate | | | | systems and | time-stamp | | | | apply floor | into its floor | | | | control | request | | | | fairly. The | messages. | | | | overall | | | | | performance in | A floor | | | | a combined | control server | | | | system | supporting the | | | | supporting the | feature shall | | | | solution will | be able to | | | | depend on the | make priority, | | | | accuracy level | floor grant | | | | with which the | arbitration | | | | time-stamps | and queue | | | | are applied | position | | | | across the | allocation | | | | interworked | making use of | | | | systems. | time-stamp | | | | | information | | | | In the case | received in | | | | when the LMR | the floor | | | | system | request | | | | provides the | message. | | | | controlling | | | | | server, the | An IWF | | | | solution is | supporting the | | | | only | feature shall | | | | applicable if | be suitably | | | | the LMR system | configurable | | | | supports use | to be able to | | | | of | include | | | | time-stamping | time-stamp | | | | information. | information in | | | | | floor request | | | | | messages that | | | | | it sends to a | | | | | controlling | | | | | floor control | | | | | server. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# 8 Conclusions
## 8.1 General
Editor\'s note: General descriptions are needed.
## 8.2 Conclusions on key issues
### 8.2.1 Key issue #1-1: Mapping of MCPTT and TETRA/P25 user identities
### 8.2.2 Key issue #1-2: Mapping of MCPTT and TETRA/P25 group identities
### 8.2.3 Key issue #2-1: Group affiliation
### 8.2.4 Key issue #3-1: Private call
### 8.2.5 Key issue #3-2: Call Back
For the call back key issue, MCPTT system and LMR system support call back
feature, while SA1 do not have requirements about call back. It is concluded
that not treat in this release. It will require dialogue with SA1 working
groups for confirmation.
### 8.2.6 Key issue #3-3: Group call
### 8.2.7 Key issue #4-1: Vocoder reconciliation
### 8.2.8 Key issue #5-1: End to end payload encryption
### 8.2.9 Key issue #5-2: Key agreement
This key issue #5-2 is about key agreement in SA3. It will require dialogue
with SA3 working groups for solutions.
### 8.2.10 Key issue #5-3: Unencrypted transmissions within an encrypted call
This key issue #5-3 is about dynamic key accommodation in SA3. It will require
dialogue with SA3 working groups for solutions.
### 8.2.11 Key issue #5-4: Key management
This key issue #5-4 is about key management in SA3. It will require dialogue
with SA3 working groups for solutions.
### 8.2.12 Key issue #6-1: Regrouping
### 8.2.13 Key issue #7-1: Emergency calls
### 8.2.14 Key issue #7-2: Emergency alerts
### 8.2.15 Key issue#8-1: Simultaneous floor request
### 8.2.16 Key issue #8-2: User\'s floor is revoked by another user in another
system
### 8.2.17 Key issue #8-3: Floor Request timing
# Annex A (Informative): Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D |** TSG | **TSG | * | ** |** Su | ** | ** | | ate**| #** | D | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| bject | Old_ _| New_ _| | | | oc.__| | | /Comm | | | | | | | | | ent_ * | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | TR | | 0.0.0 | | 16-05 | | | | | Ske | | | | | | | | | leton | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA | | | | Impl | 0.0.0 | 0.1.0 | | 16-06 | 6#11 | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | p-CRs | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roved | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | SA6: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0557, | | | | | | | | | S6-1 | | | | | | | | | 60594 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | S6-1 | | | | | | | | | 60605 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA | | | | Impl | 0.1.0 | 0.2.0 | | 16-08 | 6#12 | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | p-CRs | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roved | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | SA6: | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0724, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0854, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0855, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0859, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0860, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0861, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0862, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0863, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0864, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0865, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0866, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0897, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0905, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0907, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0917, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0918, | | | | | | | | | S6-1 | | | | | | | | | 60935 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA | | | | Impl | 0.2.0 | 0.3.0 | | 16-10 | 6#13 | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | p-CRs | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roved | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | SA6: | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 0972, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 1193, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 1194, | | | | | | | | | S6-16 | | | | | | | | | 1195, | | | | | | | | | S6-1 | | | | | | | | | 61202 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA | | | | Impl | 0.3.0 | 0.4.0 | | 17-02 | 6#15 | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | p-CRs | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roved | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | SA6: | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0020, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0122, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0126, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0127, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0128, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0132, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0164, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0165, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0166, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0167, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0168, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0169, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0171, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0172, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0195, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0196, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0198, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0199, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0202, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0205. | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA | | | | Renum | 0.4.0 | 0.4.1 | | 17-02 | 6#15 | | | | bered | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ssues | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | solut | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | estru | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | | | -solu | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ubcla | | | | | | | | | uses. | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA | | | | Impl | 0.4.1 | 0.5.0 | | 17-04 | 6#16 | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | p-CRs | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roved | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | SA6: | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0322, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0326, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0378, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0379, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0381, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0390, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0431, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0433, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0434, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0436, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0437, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0438, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0459, | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | |