# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objective of this technical report is to study how mission critical
communication services utilize MBMS. This may include study of modifications
to the MCPTT architectures and/or procedures as specified in 3GPP TS 23.179
[6]. This technical report will identify any enhancements needed to support
mission critical services delivered over MBMS, based on the stage 1
requirements, including 3GPP TS 22.179 [2], 3GPP TS 22.280 [3], 3GPP TS 22.281
[4] and 3GPP TS 22.282 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT) over LTE; Stage
1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements (MCCoRe);
Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical Video services over LTE\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.282: \"Mission Critical Data services over LTE\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.179: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
mission critical communication services; Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services; Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.303: \"Proximity-based services (ProSe); Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
Stage 2\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.746: \"Study on System Architecture Enhancements to eMBMS for
Television Video Service\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.379: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) call control;
Protocol specification\".
[14] 3GPP TS 24.380: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) media plane
control; Protocol specification\".
[15] 3GPP TS 25.446: \"MBMS synchronisation protocol (SYNC)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Protocols and codecs\".
[17] 3GPP TR 26.947: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Selection and characterisation of application layer Forward Error Correction
(FEC)\".
[18] 3GPP TR 26.989: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Media, codecs
and Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) enhancements for MCPTT over
LTE\".
[19] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[20] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[21] 3GPP TS 36.443: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); M2 Application Protocol (M2AP)\".
[22] 3GPP TS 36.445: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); M1 data transport\".
[23] 3GPP TS 36.508: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Packet Core (EPC); Common test environments for User Equipment (UE)
conformance testing\".
[24] 3GPP TR 36.868: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Study on group communication for E-UTRA\".
[25] 3GPP TR 36.890: \"Study on Support of single-cell point-to-multipoint
transmission in LTE\".
[26] 3GPP TR 36.912: \"Feasibility study for Further Advancements for E-UTRA
(LTE-Advanced)\".
[27] 3GPP TR 36.942: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[28] IETF RFC 3095: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Framework and four
profiles: RTP, UDP, ESP, and uncompressed\".
[29] IETF RFC 3926: \"FLUTE - File Delivery over Unidirectional Transport\".
[30] IETF RFC 4815: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Corrections and
Clarifications to RFC 3095\".
[31] IETF RFC 5053: \"Raptor Forward Error Correction Scheme for Object
Delivery\".
[32] IETF RFC 5795: \"The RObust Header Compression (ROHC) Framework\".
[33] IETF RFC 6363: \"Forward Error Correction (FEC) Framework\".
[34] IETF RFC 6865: \"Simple Reed-Solomon Forward Error Correction (FEC)
Scheme for FECFRAME\".
[35] RP-151110: \"New WI proposal: Support of single-cell point-to-multipoint
transmission in LTE\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BM-SC Broadcast-Multicast Service Centre
GCS AS Group Communication Service Application Server
GCSE Group Communication System Enabler
FEC Forward Error Correction
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service
MBMS SAI MBMS Service Area Identity
MBSFN MBMS Single Frequency Network
MCE MBMS Coordination Entity
MCS Mission Critical Service
MCPTT Mission Critical Push To Talk
PDB Packet Delay Budget
PCC Policy and Charging Control
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
QoS Quality of Service
RAN Radio Access Network
SC-PTM Single Cell-Point To Multipoint
TMGI Temporary Mobile Group Identity
# 4 Assumptions and architectural requirements
## 4.1 General
The MBMS usage for mission critical services serves different purposes. The
assumptions and requirements in the following subclauses are used as the base
for this study.
## 4.2 Assumptions
It is assumed that many of the MBMS related requirements for MCPTT are also
applicable for other mission critical communication services.
## 4.3 High level reference diagram
### 4.3.1 General
The reference diagram assumes that the MCS server is not associated with any
PLMN (regardless of the subscription of the UEs that use it). The MCS server
is perceived as a third party application server by each serving PLMN.
### 4.3.2 Non-roaming architecture
Figure 4.3.2-1 shows the high level view of the MCS architecture using MBMS.
Figure 4.3.2-1: MCPTT on-network architecture showing MBMS
This architecture is the current architecture in 3GPP TS 23.179 [6].
### 4.3.3 Roaming architecture
Figure 4.3.3-1 shows the high level view of the MC service architecture using
MBMS for the home routed roaming model for unicast delivery. For MBMS
delivery, BM-SC in the V-PLMN has a direct MB2 connection with the MCS server.
Figure 4.3.3-1: MBMS roaming with home-routed unicast model
This architecture is the new architecture which will be studied in Rel-14.
Figure 4.3.3-2 and figure 4.3.3-3 show the high level view of the MC service
architecture using MBMS for the local breakout roaming model for unicast
delivery. For MBMS delivery, BM-SC in the V-PLMN has a direct MB2 connection
with the MCS server.
Figure 4.3.3-2: MBMS roaming with local breakout unicast model
This architecture is the new architecture which will be studied in Rel-14.
Figure 4.3.3-3: MBMS roaming with local breakout unicast model
This architecture is the new architecture which will be studied in Rel-14.
## 4.4 Architectural requirements
### 4.4.1 General architectural requirements
General architectural requirements include:
a) To develop economies of scale, by reusing the GCSE and MBMS architecture
and procedures for mission critical services.
b) Resource efficiency including efficient transfer of mission critical
communication sessions from unicast to broadcast and vice versa.
c) Utilizing pre-established MBMS bearers to enable support for queuing of
mission critical services resource requests at application level.
d) Service continuity to minimize interruption of mission critical
communication at mobility.
e) Performance requirements required by mission critical communication
services.
### 4.4.2 MCPTT requirements
Resource efficiency is required by MCPTT. To achieve resource efficiency for
MCPTT it is assumed that the MCPTT server will analyse resource needs and
decide on the usage of MBMS based on an on-demand or a predefined manner.
A prerequisite of a MCPTT call setup may be the availability of radio
resources (see 3GPP TS 22.179 [2]). It is assumed that pre-established MBMS
bearer with known bandwidth can be used to enable queuing of resource requests
at application level.
Service continuity requires real time decision by the MCPTT server to transfer
calls between unicast and MBMS delivery. Besides the service continuity
scenarios defined in GCSE (see 3GPP TS 23.468 [11]) it is assumed that there
are other service continuity scenarios that may be required by MCPTT, such as
service continuity between two MBSFNs.
The MCPTT performance requirements shall be met both when using unicast and
broadcast. It is assumed that the MCPTT performance requirements may serve as
input to MCPTT server on the decision to use MBMS bearers or unicast bearers.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue 1 - Service continuity
### 5.1.1 Description
There is a MCPTT requirement to minimize the interruption at mobility. To
fulfil this requirement a service continuity procedure is required.
Furthermore for performance and capacity reasons it is desirable to keep MCPTT
UE in idle mode when receiving MCPTT group calls over MBMS. Hence, to transfer
MCPTT group transmissions from MBMS to unicast to support service continuity
should be avoided if possible.
Figure 5.1.1-1 illustrates five different service continuity use cases for an
MCPTT UE moving around when MBMS is used. Each MBMS service area in the figure
represents a broadcast area where an MBMS bearer has been activated with one
MBMS activation request from the GCS AS. The different use cases can be
described as follows:
1\. The MCPTT UE moves from one cell to another within the same MBSFN area.
Both cells are contributing to the MBSFN transmission. This mobility case is
supported in current RAN specification, see subclause 15.4 in 3GPP TS 36.300
[19].
2\. The MCPTT UE moves from one MBSFN area to another MBSFN area. In this
scenario both MBSFN areas are transmitting the same MBMS bearer, i.e. the same
TMGI. MBSFN area 1 and MBSFN area 2 may use different frequencies. This
mobility case is currently not supported in a good way, the behaviour will be
that the MCPTT UE detects bad reception from MBSFN area 1 and triggers a
transfer to unicast. After some time the MCPTT UE will detect the MBSFN area 2
transmission and return to reception over MBMS. In this scenario it is not
possible to avoid going to unicast.
3a. The MCPTT UE moves from one MBMS services area to another MBMS service
area. In this scenario the two MBMS service area transmissions use different
MBMS bearers i.e. different TMGI. Furthermore a specific MCPTT group call
could but is not required to be transmitted in both MBMS service areas. This
mobility case is currently not supported in a good way, the behaviour will be
that the MCPTT UE detects bad reception from MBSFN area 2 and triggers a
transfer to unicast. After some time the MCPTT UE will detect the MBSFN area 3
transmission and if the same group call is transmitted in the new area the
MCPTT UE will return to reception over MBMS. In this scenario it is not
possible to avoid going to unicast.
3b. The MCPTT UE moves from one MBMS service area to another MBMS service
area. In this scenario the two MBMS service area transmissions use different
MBMS bearers with the same TMGI, separated by the application with the use of
different flow IDs. The flow IDs is not visible to the UE.
4\. The MCPTT UE moves out from an MBSFN area to a new cell that is not
transmitting over MBMS. This service continuity use case is defined in 3GPP TS
23.468 [12].
5\. The UE A moves out of coverage and use UE-R as a UE-to-network relay UE.
In this scenario the UE A moves from in coverage and listening to an MBMS
bearer to out of coverage but remains in on-network by using UE-R as a relay.
There is currently no service continuity procedure defined for this scenario.
The key issue described is the service continuity issues in use case 2 and use
case 3 according to the description above.
Figure 5.1.1-1: Service continuity use cases
## 5.2 Key issue 2 - Service announcement
### 5.2.1 Description
The service announcement procedure provides MBMS bearer related information to
the MCPTT client, so that the MCPTT client knows how to receive the data over
an MBMS bearer. Typically this information includes TMGI, multicast address
and session related information. Besides providing the correct service
announcement information there are two key items that the service announcement
procedure must consider:
1\. Deliver the service announcement information in time to meet performance
requirements
2\. Handle a high load situation so not the service announcement procedure
itself loads the cell significantly
The current functionality of MCPTT sends the service announcement information
over a unicast bearer in a SIP MESSAGE request. This provides a relative quick
and secure way to send service announcement messages; however it requires a
unicast bearer, which consumes network resources. Furthermore in a congested
situation it is not feasible to send a service announcement over SIP on a
unicast bearer, an update of the service announcement information will drown
the cell during congestion.
## 5.3 Key issue 3 - MBMS bearer reception acknowledgement
### 5.3.1 Description
There is a MCPTT requirement that the EPS shall inform the MCPTT system if a
new MCPTT call cannot be set up. When using MBMS in a high load scenario it is
not desirable to have all MCPTT users acknowledge the MCPTT call setup, as
this would cause further overload from receiving user\'s acknowledgements. To
handle this, the MCPTT users shall be able to receive the MCPTT call and
remain in idle mode, which also means that the MCPTT server must trust that
the MCPTT user is able to receive the MCPTT call, and furthermore it must
assume that the client reports when reception of the MBMS bearer is not of
sufficient quality.
Between MCPTT calls there might be long period of silence. During these
periods it is difficult for the MCPTT client to analyse the reception quality
of the MBMS bearer and notify the server if the quality goes below a
threshold.
The issue becomes more complex due to mobility, since the UE in idle mode does
not automatically report a cell change. Furthermore the MBMS activation
procedure does not provide a feedback on which cells that were activated in an
MBMS service area.
## 5.4 Key issue 4 - Handling resource shortage
### 5.4.1 Description
In a situation when cells in an area are heavily loaded, the MCPTT server must
be able to prioritise and queue MCPTT call requests in respect of resource
availability. When the MCPTT server is requesting unicast resources over Rx,
it is not possible to queue a requests in PCC. A request over Rx will be
acknowledged with an accept answer or reject answer; it cannot be put on hold.
When resources are allocated in RAN, the MCPTT can be notified about the
success or other outcome of the resource allocation. From an MCPTT server
perspective this can be used to fulfil the requirement that the EPS shall
inform the MCPTT system if a new MCPTT call cannot be set up. This can happen
at radio resource shortage. However to manage queuing of MCPTT call requests
in such situation is not possible with the existing functionality of PCC.
### 5.4.2 Architectural requirements
To handle queuing of MCPTT call setup request at resource shortage, one or
several MBMS bearers shall be used to provide a known bandwidth including QoS
to a MCPTT server. An MBMS bearer for MCPTT in this way will allow the MCPTT
server to manage MCPTT call setup requests and if necessary queue requests
when there is a resource shortage.
## 5.5 Key issue 5 - Performance (KPI 3)
### 5.5.1 Description
When a new MCPTT call is established on unicast bearers, all participants that
are in idle mode are paged by the EPS network to initiate the procedure to
transfer the MCPTT clients to connected mode. The paging procedure is critical
for the performance of the MCPTT call setup. The paging cycle can be set to a
minimum of 320 ms. Typically PLMN operators tune networks with longer paging
cycle to reduce power consumption.
The first talk burst in a MCPTT call will have underperforming mouth to ear
latency (KPI 3) when there are users to be paged. The reason for this is that
the user that requests the MCPTT call will get a quick acknowledgement back
and may start to transmit. However paging of receiving users will take time
and the EPS network will need to buffer the media for these users until radio
resource are available. This will have the consequence of degraded mouth to
ear latency.
This issue increases specifically for MCPTT broadcast group calls, which only
consist of one talk burst.
## 5.6 Key issue 6 - Usage of Forward Error Correction (FEC)
### 5.6.1 Description
Experience shows that today certain services over MBMS (e.g. live TV
broadcast, VoD) may suffer significant packet losses (1% to 5 % as order of
magnitude). To overcome the situation and guarantee the expected coverage,
MBMS deployments add an adapted FEC percentage, based on QoE metrics.
Mission critical communications over MBMS use the GCSE architecture defined in
3GPP TS 23.468 [11], which has no FEC support today. Impacts on MCPTT,
MCVideo, MCData quality of service have not been evaluated and shall be
studied. This key issue shall describe whether FEC should be applied to MCPTT,
MCVideo and MCData services, to allow them to reach their respective required
levels of QoS (packet losses and packet delay budget).This key issue shall
produce the transport requirements for reaching the required QoS for MCPTT,
MCVideo and MCData services.
Implications with encrypted information, multiple media on the same broadcast
channel or interoperability when switching between broadcast and unicast
bearers may need to be also addressed.
## 5.7 Key issue 7 - MBMS bearer management involving multiple MCPTT servers
### 5.7.1 Description
There are scenarios in which the participants of an MC service group
communication are served by different MC service systems or are within the
same MC service system but served by different MC service servers
(participating role). When the MC service group communication is initiated,
the following two possible scenarios are proposed:
\- Scenario 1) The downlink media is sent to the MC service client directly by
the MC service server (controlling role).
> In this case, the MC service server (controlling role) sends the downlink
> media over the MBMS bearer. The MC service server (controlling role) first
> initiates the activation of one or more MBMS bearer(s). In order to know
> whether an MBMS bearer is to be used, the MC service server (controlling
> role) must get all of the necessary information (e.g. the location of each
> participant user and the MBMS listening status of each participant user).
\- Scenario 2) The downlink media is sent to the MC service client by the MC
service user's MC service server (participating role).
> In this case, each MC service server (participating role) sends the downlink
> media over an MBMS bearer. Each MC service server (participating role)
> activates and uses a different MBMS bearer for sending media to their
> participating MC service users, even when these participating MC service
> users are in the same MBMS coverage. How to share an MBMS bearer among MC
> service servers (participating role) for the same service area needs further
> study.
Figure 5.7.1-1: Scenario of MBMS transmission for the group call involved
multiple MC service server(s) scenarios
NOTE: In above figure, MC service server 2 is the MC service server
(participating role) for the black colour marked MC service group call
participants. MC service server 3 is the MC service server (participating
role) for the red colour marked MC service group call participants. MC service
server 2 and MC service server 3 may belong to the same MC service system or
to different MC service systems.
## 5.8 Key issue 8 -- Cohesive MBMS operation
### 5.8.1 Description
In Release 13, SC-PTM was introduced as a second mechanism of MBMS delivery in
addition to MBSFN. The main motivation was specifically to meet the needs of
Mission Critical services (see reference RP-151110 [35]). This results in the
situation where there are now two MBMS mechanisms for Mission Critical
services -- MBSFN and SC-PTM.
SC-PTM introduces two new logical channels, SC-MCCH and SC-MTCH, mapped to DL-
SCH transport channel. SC-PTM is an air-interface-impacting feature, hence
specific support in the UE is required for its operation. In other words, UE
that only supports MBSFN cannot receive MBMS message if the network delivers
it by SC-PTM.
In the current specifications, key information is missing in both MCE and GCS
AS to make an informed decision to select the appropriate use of MBMS with
respect to the UE's support and MCS needs.
\- GCS AS is responsible for selecting whether MBMS or unicast is used for a
given UE in a given group communication according to 3GPP TS 23.468 [11]
subclause 4.1. However, the current specifications do not provide a mechanism
for the GCS AS to : 1) make the appropriate selection to reflect the UE
population with respect to their MBMS capabilities, and 2) know the MBMS
mechanism selected by the MCE.
\- MCE is responsible for selecting whether MBSFN or SC-PTM is used for a
group communication according to 3GPP TS 36.300 [19] subclause 15.1.1.
However, the current specifications do not provide a mechanism for the MCE to
make the appropriate selection to reflect the UE population with respect to
their MBMS capabilities.
This is illustrated in the following figure:
Figure 5.8.1-1: GCSE and two MBMS delivery mechanisms (modified from 3GPP TS
23.468 [11], fig 4.2.2-1)
### 5.8.2 Architectural requirements
For the GCS AS to determine whether MBMS or unicast is used for a given UE in
a group communication, the GCS AS needs to determine if the UE is able to
receive the group communication over MBMS or not. To achieve the coherent MBMS
operation, the following information should be made available to the GCS AS,
e.g.
\- The MBMS mechanism selected by the MCE (if it has already selected);
\- The UE\'s support of the MBMS mechanism(s); and
\- The eNB cell the member UE is located.
A suitable solution is required so that the GCS AS, the MCE, and the UE can
exchange relevant information to achieve end-to-end MBMS operation.
## 5.9 Key issue 9 - Notification on MBMS bearer activation result
### 5.9.1 Description
The GCS AS uses the MB2-C reference point (see reference 3GPP TS 23.468 [11])
to activate an MBMS bearer. The MBMS architecture and procedure are defined in
3GPP TS 23.246 [8] and the E-UTRAN stage-2 description of the related
procedures is defined in 3GPP TS 36.300 [19]. Figure 5.9.1-1 illustrates the
complete MBMS bearer activation procedure from the GCS AS to the clients.
Figure 5.9.1-1: MBMS bearer activation from GCS AS
The currently defined procedures do not include any notification from E-UTRAN
on the result of the MBMS resource allocation (step 15).
This implies two issues for the GCS AS:
\- The GCS AS does not know when the MBMS bearer is available
\- The GCS AS has no information on the result of the MBMS bearer allocation
in the cells
### 5.9.2 Architectural requirements
For the GCS AS to know when to start to use the MBMS bearer and if the MBMS
bearer is available in the area (based on the MBMS SAI(s) or a list of ECGI(s)
or both) indicated in the MBMS bearer activation request it is required that
the notifications are sent to GCS AS based on the MBMS resource allocation
result for each cell.
## 5.10 Key issue 10 - Header compression of MBMS data
### 5.10.1 Description
According to 3GPP TS 23.246 [8] header compression of MBMS data is currently
not supported in E-UTRAN. For RTP traffic with small payload packets (e.g.
audio packets for MCPTT) the benefit of header compression becomes more
obvious. This key issue includes efficiency aspects in using header
compression for MBMS data. Consideration should also be taken to increased
latency for header compression and decompression and also increased risk of
packet loss due to introduction of header compression.
## 5.11 Key issue 11 -- Handling MBMS bearer suspension
### 5.11.1 Description
In Rel-12, 3GPP has introduced the capability of automatically suspending
(pre-empting) / resuming MBMS bearers in case of MBMS congestion. Some
signalling is in place (see 3GPP TS 36.321 [20], 3GPP TS 36.443 [21], and 3GPP
TS 23.468 [11]) to notify UEs of MBMS bearer suspension and to allow the UEs
to notify the application server. Currently the efficient handling of MBMS
bearer suspension/resumption by the mission critical GCS AS has not been
considered.
This key issue includes the following considerations:
\- Efficient signalling of MBMS bearer suspension / resumption.
\- Minimized application impact of MBMS bearer suspension, especially in the
case of emergency group call.
Efficient application recovery from conditions of MBMS congestion and MBMS
bearer suspension.
## 5.12 Key issue 12 -- MBMS media delivery while UE in idle mode
### 5.12.1 Description
From a mission critical service point of view there are advantages of MBMS
media delivery while the UE is in idle mode. These advantages include MC
service operation in a downlink (receive-only) mode for MCPTT, MCVideo, or
MCData. For example, MCVideo calls may be significantly longer than MCPTT
talkbursts. Identifying those MC UEs that could effectively operate in this
receive-only mode for significant periods of time could be a potential uplink
bearer resource saving to a densely populated incident where uplink bearer
resources need to be conserved for those MC users that need them the most.
This key issue includes the following considerations for MBMS media delivery
while the MC UE is in idle mode:
\- From an MC services application procedure perspective, what aspects can
help maintain or inhibit preservation of this receive-only mode during MC
service delivery.
\- Optimized application signalling across the GC-1 interface to best utilize
this receive only mode.
\- Implications to this receive only mode of MC service delivery with respect
to mobility.
## 5.13 Key issue 13 -- Location information reporting
### 5.13.1 Description
The MC server acting as a GCS AS activates an MBMS bearer in a certain MBMS
broadcast area, see reference 3GPP TS 23.468 [11]. The MBMS broadcast area
includes a list of cells, or a list of MBMS SAIs, or both. One important input
parameter to the decision to activate an MBMS bearer in a certain area is the
location information reported by the MC clients. The study of this key issue
should evaluate:
> \- Which location information is needed for the MC server to take proper
> MBMS bearer activation decisions.
\- What triggers are needed to send a location information update message.
\- When is location information updates required and when it is optional.
\- How can location information updates be minimized during congested
scenarios.
The study of the key issue should both consider the location information
functionality already existing in MCPTT Rel‑13 and also evaluate if new
functionality is needed due to new requirements or related to studies of other
key issues and solutions in this study item.
## 5.14 Key issue 14 -- MBMS usage in roaming, interconnect and migration
scenarios
### 5.14.1 Description
In GCSE specification 3GPP TS 23.468 [11] there are two different roaming
architectures defined. One of them is based on local breakout and the other
one is based on home routed media. Besides the roaming architecture, the MCPTT
requirements related to migration and interconnect will also make the use of
MBMS bearers more complex.
The study of this key issue should evaluate:
> \- Pros and cons for the different roaming architectures defined in
> subclause 4.3.3.
\- How to utilize and share MBMS bearers between different MCPTT systems in
interconnect and migration scenarios.
\- Impact on MBMS bearer announcement when roaming.
In the study of this key issue consideration shall be taken that roaming and
migration can be applicable independently.
## 5.15 Key issue 15 -- Packet drop due to IP Differentiated Services
### 5.15.1 Description
IP Differentiated Services code point marking is a mandatory requirement on
the M1 interface (as per subclause 5.4 of 3GPP TS 36.445 [22]). This allows
routers and switches on the M1 interface between the MBMS-GW and the eNodeBs
to drop packets based on priority in case of congestion. This could prevent
the UE from providing the MBMS service to the user.
Since the MBMS-GW uses IP multicast on the M1 interface, there is by
definition no reporting back to the MBMS GW if network elements on the M1
interface drop packets.
This key issue includes the following consideration:
Signalling from the UE to the GCS AS over GC1 to signal dropped packets.
## 5.16 Key issue 16 -- MBMS bearer usage across different MC services
### 5.16.1 Description
MBMS bearer delivery is used in group communication for better performance,
efficiency and network resource utilization. As a media transmission
component, MBMS bearer can be used for any groups for any media content.
In Rel-13, the only mission critical application is MCPTT, and the management
of MBMS bearers is done by the MCPTT server. With more mission critical
services such as MCVideo and MCData introduced in Rel-14, it is necessary to
provide a mechanism to manage MBMS bearers used by several MBMS services
including the relative priorities of different MC service groups'
communications and other traffic with respect to transport.
Thus the key issue is how to manage MBMS bearers for multiple MC services and
mange the priorities across different MC services.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution 1-1: Service continuity between MBSFN areas used by different
MBMS bearers
### 6.1.1 Solution description
This solution addresses scenario 3a as described in key issue 1 in subclause
5.1.
The service continuity solution described in this subclause is suitable in the
scenario when multiple MBMS bearers are used with the purpose to cover a
larger area. In mission critical communication, several media streams may be
multiplexed in one MBMS bearer. Furthermore, one media stream (e.g. MCPTT
group call) may be sent on more than one MBMS bearer if the receiving users
are distributed over more than one MBMS service area. An MC service client
that is interested in receiving a media stream that is broadcasted in both
MBMS bearers is a candidate for this service continuity procedure.
Figure 6.1.1-1 illustrates a deployment scenario that provides service
continuity between two MBSFN areas. Two different MBMS bearers are activated
(TMGI 1 and TMGI 2), the activation of the bearers is done in the two MBSFN
areas (MBSFN 1 and MBSFN 2). The MBSFN areas 1 and 2 are partially
overlapping, meaning that some transmitting cells belong to both MBSFN area 1
and MBSFN area 2.
Figure 6.1.1-1: Two MBMS bearer using overlapping MBSFN areas
The procedural steps will work as follows:
1\. The UE is located in MBSFN 1 and can listen to TMGI 1. No additional MBMS
bearers that the MC service client is interested in are active in the current
cell.
2\. The UE moves into a new cell in which both TMGI 1 and TMGI 2 are active.
This cell is part of both MBSFN area 1 and MBSFN area 2, and broadcast the
same service on both TMGIs. After some seconds, the UE detects the new MBMS
bearer and detects that TMGI 2 broadcasts the same service. The UE may now
listen to both TMGI 1 and TMGI 2 and receive duplicated packets. The MC
service client must also verify that it is the same content sent on both
bearers. The duplicated packets may also be used to perform error corrections.
NOTE: It is assumed that both MBMS bearers has been announced to the MC
service client, and the MC service UE is listening to SIB-13 and (SC-)MCCH to
detect these MBMS bearers.
3\. The UE moves into a new cell in which only TMGI 2 is active.
This service continuity procedure mitigates the risk of packet loss that may
occur if the UE would request to transfer the media stream to a unicast bearer
when moving into the new area and then back to a multicast bearer when the UE
can listen to TMGI 2. However, it is still required that the MC service client
sends a location report (and MBMS listening report), which means that a
unicast bearer is needed. The location report from the MC service client is
required, since the MC service server must know that the UE has entered a new
area and can only listen to MBMS bearer active in that area. If this is not
done the MC service server might send a media stream that the MC service
client is required to listen to on the MBMS bearer 1, since the MC service
server still assumes that the UE is located in the MBSFN area 1.
The solution can be improved as illustrated in figure 6.1.1-2. In this case
two different MBMS bearers are activated (TMGI 1 and TMGI 2), these MBMS
bearers are used only for media. An application level signalling bearer is
activated (TMGI 9), in both MBSFN areas. This bearer is used for floor control
messages and other application level signalling messages that are sent on the
MBMS bearer TMGI 9. A similar concept was already introduced in 3GPP TS 23.179
[6] subclause 10.10.2, where the procedure allowed a separate MBMS bearer for
floor control signalling. The application level signalling bearer will be used
for all control messages needed for both media MBMS bearer (TMGI 1 and TMGI2).
By using an application level signalling bearer (e.g. TMGI 9) the MC service
clients can receive floor control messages for all calls going on in the areas
of both TMGI 1 and TMGI 2. A MC service client that is located in the area of
TMGI 2 and is interested in a MCPTT group call transmission only going on in
TMGI 1, can with the information received in TMGI 9 initiate a unicast bearer
and request to receive that specific call over a unicast instead. Without the
information received over TMGI 9 the MC service client must immediately report
that the MC service client has left the broadcast area that the MC service
server assumes that the MC service client is located in. With the use of TMGI
9 there is no immediate need for the MC service client to inform the MC
service server of a location change.
Figure 6.1.1-2: Two MBMS bearer using overlapping MBSFN areas with a separate
MC application signalling bearer
The procedural steps in this scenario will be the same as described above in
this subclause. However, in this scenario the MC service client is not
required to initiate a unicast bearer to send location report (or MBMS
listening report). The UE may move between the two MBMS bearers (TMGI 1 and
TMGI 2) without the need to report an area change. A condition for this to
work is that there is an application level signalling bearer (TMGI 9)
activated in the full area (i.e. the area of both TMGI 1 and TMGI 2). The TMGI
9 will broadcast all floor control messages for all calls ongoing in both
areas. If the UE is in coverage of one of the two MBMS bearers that does not
transmit the media of interest the UE can report to the server that it is not
able to listen to the media over the MBMS bearer, which triggers the server to
use a unicast bearer instead.
### 6.1.2 Impact on the existing nodes and functionality
There is no impact on RAN or EPC. New procedures are needed in the UE of the
MC service client and in the MC service server.
### 6.1.3 Solution evaluation
This solution provides service continuity when a UE moves from one MBSFN area
to a new MBSFN area. It requires that two separate MBMS bearers are used. The
benefit of the solution is the UE can receive from an adjacent MBSFN
seamlessly without first transitioning to unicast and then back to multicast.
In overload scenario it is desirable to keep UEs in idle mode when possible.
This solution may be a MBSFN deployment solution. However besides how to plan
and configure the MBSFN there is also a benefit if the UE supports fault
correction by utilizing packets from both MBMS bearer when the UE receives
duplicated packets in the border area.
## 6.2 Solution 1-2: Service continuity with a UE-to-Network relay
### 6.2.1 Description
This solution addresses scenario 5 in key issue 1. In this scenario a UE is
moving from a location when the UE is experiencing good reception of the MBMS
bearer to a location outside the MBMS service coverage. The MC service client
applies a service continuity procedure to ensure that the service can be
maintained and that the packet loss can be minimized during transition to a
UE-to-Network relay connection. The solution also provides the benefit that it
offloads the cell when UEs that normally would trigger a transfer from MBMS
bearers to unicast bearers when moving outside the MBMS coverage area.
Figure 6.2.1-1 below illustrates the concept of this procedure. In the figure
UE A (with the MC service client) is first within the MBMS coverage (the far
right most location). The MBMS coverage is represented by the dashed circle.
The UE A is the moving outside the MBMS coverage and first enters a location
in which the MBMS signal is not good enough, but in this location there is
still coverage to use unicast bearers. Unicast bearers use link adaption and
retransmission so the coverage area for unicast bearers is larger than the
coverage of the MBMS bearers. The solid circle outer line represents the
coverage of the unicast bearer.
A UE that is leaving the area of MBMS coverage may in this scenario trigger a
ProSe discovery procedure to initiate the establishment a relay communication
path to UE-R. A UE that is receiving media over an MBMS bearer (and is in idle
mode) and for the moment does not need a unicast bearer is costly (from a
resource efficiency point of view) to transfer to a unicast bearer due to the
need for retransmissions and robust coding in the outer part of the cell.
When the ProSe communication path is established the UE A may continue to
receive the media over the relay UE-R.
Figure 6.2.1-1: UE A is moving from a position in MBMS coverage to outside the
network coverage passing an area where only unicast is possible
### 6.2.2 Procedure
The procedure defined in this subclause allows for MBMS bearer service
continuity when UE is moving from a MBMS coverage area to outside the MBMS
coverage area. The procedure applies when the UE is not finding a target cell
with good RSRP/RSRQ (receiving strong reference signals from other cells),
which could trigger normal cell reselection procedure. In such scenario other
aspects should be evaluated to trigger to a relay communication path.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC service client UE is not using a unicast bearer when this procedure
applies.
Figure 6.2.2-1: Service continuity over MBMS bearer using UE-to-network relay
1\. The MC service client estimates the MBMS bearer quality. The MC service
clients also measure the reference signals from other cells to estimate the
possibilities to transfer to unicast and perform a cell reselection procedure.
2\. If the MBMS bearer quality has reach a certain threshold the MC service
client performs ProSe UE-to-network relay discovery over PC5 and establishes a
secure point-to-point link with the relay (UE-R) over PC5. As part of this
process the remote UE is mutually authenticated at PC5 layer with either the
relay or with the network as specified in 3GPP TS 23.303 [10].
3\. Normal service continuity procedure for a UE-to-network relay occurs. This
may be done according to annex A in 3GPP TS 23.179 [6].
4\. The MC service client informs the UE-R about the reception of media over
the MBMS bearer. This includes sending the TMGIs, MBMS SAIs and ProSe per
packet priority to the UE-R. This procedure is described in subclause 5.4.4.4
in 3GPP TS 23.303 [10].
5\. The UE-R will relay the MBMS media using one-to-many ProSe Direct
Communication. The UE-R may also relay requests to transfer the media flow
from multicast to unicast and vice versa.
### 6.2.3 Impact on the existing nodes and functionality
There is no impact on RAN or EPC.
New procedure is needed in the UE of the MC service client and in the MC
service server.
### 6.2.4 Solution evaluation
The solution proposes a new procedure in the MC service client that provides
service continuity when receiving media over an MBMS bearer and the UE of the
MC service client is moving outside the MBMS coverage area.
The solution will minimize the packet loss in this service continuity
scenario. It further provides a resource efficient solution when a unicast
bearer is not needed, since the MC client will continue to receive the data
over a relay UE that is receiving the same data over an MBMS bearer. This
eliminates the need for a unicast bearer that is costly in terms of
retransmission and robust coding at the outer part of the cell.
## 6.3 Solution 1-3: Service continuity
### 6.3.1 Description
This solution addresses scenario 2 and 3b as described in key issue 1 in
subclause 5.1.
The service continuity scenario described in this subclause is applicable when
multiple MBSFN areas are used with the purpose to cover a larger area for one
single MBMS bearer (same TMGI). It may also apply when multiple MBMS bearers
are used but overlapping of the bearers is not possible (see solution 1-1 that
covers the scenario with overlapping areas).
Figure 6.3.1-1 illustrates the service continuity scenario addressed by this
solution. A UE is moving from a cell in MBSFN area 1 to a target cell that
belongs to MBSFN area 2. In the current architecture the UE that is
approaching the edge of MBSFN area 1 will at some point in time detect that
the MBMS bearer quality is not good enough and by that trigger the service
continuity procedure from multicast to unicast defined in 3GPP TS 23.468 [11].
When this UE continues to move into the MBSFN area 2 it will trigger a service
continuity procedure to move the unicast bearer to the multicast bearer in the
new cell.
Figure 6.3.1-1: Service continuity between MBSFN areas within the same MBMS
bearer
The drawback with a procedure that requires a transfer to unicast and then
back to multicast is that it may fail in the scenario when there is shortage
of network resources and one of the important requirements of using MBMS is
exactly the ability to handle shortage of network resources.
To avoid a transfer to unicast and then back, one option would be to accept
some level of packet loss at the cell reselection, and the time it takes to
find the new MBMS bearer in the target cell. This requires that the cell
planning is made so that the cell reselection will be triggered prior the MBMS
bearer reception quality becomes a problem, which also can trigger a transfer
to unicast. Such service continuity scenario is also described and evaluated
in 3GPP TS 36.868 [24], see subclause 5.2.3.1. This service interruption time
presented in table 6.3.1-1 is estimated at 220-480 ms, see reference 3GPP TS
36.868 [24].
Besides the interruption times in table 6.3.1-1, the time it takes to receive
SIB‑13 containing the MBSFN area information should also be considered, which
is required to know how to read the MCCH. The SIB-13 scheduling periodicity is
dependent on bandwidth and a typical value is 320 ms, see reference 3GPP TS
36.508 [23].
Table 6.3.1-1 Average and worst case (in brackets) multicast/unicast change
time estimation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Time (ms) | Comments | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Acquisition of MCCH | 10 | Processing delay at | | configuration | | the UE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Delay due to MCCH | 160 (320) | For MCCH Repetition | | scheduling period | | period of 320 ms. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Acquisition of MCCH | 10 | Processing delay at | | and MTCH | | the UE | | configuration for | | | | TMGI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Time required if | 50 (100) | Maximum MCCH offset | | acquisition of | | value is 100 ms. It | | multiple MCCHs is | | is assumed that the | | required. | | reading of multiple | | | | MCCH is performed in | | | | parallel | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RRC_Idle to | 50 -80 | Clause 16.2 of | | RRC_Connected (if | | 3 | | not already | | GPP TR 36.912 [26] | | RRC_Connected) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Time for requesting | 55 | Out of RAN2 scope, | | the service over | | the figure is | | unicast bearer | | provided as a | | | | representative | | | | example | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Dedicated bearer for | 115 | Assume dedicated | | VoIP establishment | | bearer for VoIP is | | | | established using | | | | IMS. | | | | | | | | It is assumed 10 ms | | | | for radio interface | | | | delay, 5 ms for | | | | network interface | | | | delay and 5 ms for | | | | processing delay in | | | | the calculation | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total time | 220 to 480 (220 to | | | | 690) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
If the target cell also provides the same MC service then the time it takes to
detect that is 230 (440) ms, i.e the first 4 rows in the table 6.3.1-1. The
time to get SIB-13 should be added to this which can typically take 160 (320)
ms. The total time would then be 390 (760) ms of service interruption.
The service interruption is based on the assumption that a transfer to unicast
is not initiated prior or during the cell reselection procedure.
The procedure defined in subclause 6.3.2 provides a solution to decrease the
service interruption time.
### 6.3.2 Procedure enhancements
When a UE is moving from one MBSFN area to another MBSFN area that broadcasts
the same service the service interruption time should be minimized. The
following three improvements to the MBMS functionality in RAN should be
considered:
\- Broadcast neighbor MBSFN area information in the MBSFN border cells. This
would mitigate the time it takes to receive and interpret SIB-13 in a target
cell after cell reselection.
\- Broadcast neighbor MCCH in the MBSFN border cells. This would mitigate the
time it takes to receive and interpret MCCH in the target cell after the cell
reselection.
\- Decrease the MCCH repetition period, currently limited to a minimum of 320
ms.
NOTE: The MBSFN border cell is illustrated in the figure 6.3.1-1 as the blue
shaded area.
### 6.3.3 Impact on the existing nodes and functionality
This solution has an impact on RAN.
There are no impacts identified on core or application layer.
### 6.3.4 Solution evaluation
The procedure enhancements proposed in this solution provides service
continuation that reach acceptable service interruption time. Without this
solution the MC communication will be transferred to unicast and then back to
multicast to reach acceptable quality of service.
This technical viability of this solution should be discussed with the RAN
WGs.
## 6.4 Solution 2-1: MBMS bearer announcement over MBMS bearer
### 6.4.1 Description
The MBMS announcement procedure currently defined in MCPTT Rel-13 utilize the
GC1 reference point. That procedure provides an interactive way of doing
announcement of an MBMS bearer. The MCS server will send the MBMS bearer
announcement message to the MCS client regardless if there is an MBMS bearer
active or the MCS client can receive the data on the MBMS bearer with
sufficient quality. The benefit of the existing procedure is that it gives a
secure way to inform the MCS client about the MBMS bearer and how to retrieve
the data on the MBMS bearer.
When there is more than one MBMS bearer active in the same location for MCS,
there are not the same reasons to use the GC1 interface for additional MBMS
bearer announcement, as described in key issue 2. The procedure defined in
subclause 6.4.2 provides the use of an MBMS bearer to send MBMS bearer
announcement messages.
The MBMS bearer announcement messages are sent on an MBMS bearer used for
application signalling messages. This bearer will have a different QoS setting
compared to an MBMS bearer used for media, since application signalling
messages are more sensitive to packet loss.
### 6.4.2 Procedure
The procedure defined below enables the MCS to announcement a new MBMS bearer.
Pre-conditions:
\- An MBMS bearer used for MCS application signalling messages must have been
pre-established and announced to the MCS client.
\- Additional MBMS bearer information may have already been announced to the
client.
Figure 6.4.2-1: MBMS bearer announcement over an MBMS bearer
1\. The MCS client monitors an MBMS bearer that is used for MCS application
signalling messages, such as bearer announcement messages.
2\. The MCS server activates a new MBMS bearer.
3\. The MCS server decides to announce the MBMS bearer to the MCS client. The
bearer may have just been activated or may have already been running for some
time. The step may be repeated as needed.
4\. The MCS server sends a MBMS bearer announcement on the MBMS bearer used
for MCS application signalling messages. The MBMS bearer announcement contains
the identity of the MBMS bearer (e.g. the TMGI) and may optionally include
additional information about the newly announced bearer. Required and optional
MBMS bearer announcement details may have already been provided. In this case
the MBMS bearer identity could be used as a key for such MBMS bearer details.
5\. The MCS clients start to monitor the newly announced MBMS bearer.
6\. If requested by the MCS server, the MCS client sends an acknowledgement of
the MBMS bearer to the MCS server.
7\. The MCS server decides to de-announce a MBMS bearer.
8\. The MCS server sends a MBMS bearer de-announcement message that contains
the identity of the MBMS bearer.
9\. The MCS client stops monitoring the de-announced MBMS bearer.
A similar procedure can also be used to modify existing MBMS bearer
announcement information. Example of such modification could be addition of
UDP ports or modification of codec in the SDP.
### 6.4.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New procedures are needed in MCS client and MCS server.
### 6.4.4 Solution evaluation
This solution provides the benefit that the MCS client may stay in idle mode
and still receive the MBMS bearer announcement messages. It also provides the
MCS server the possibility to activate or deactivate the monitoring of a MBMS
bearer in the MCS client. Using a MBMS bearer for application signalling
messages can also improve the MBMS bearer announcement performance and while
keeping UEs in idle mode when providing additional MBMS bearer announcement
information to the MCS client.
## 6.5 Solution 3-1: MBMS bearer quality detection
### 6.5.1 Description
This solution addresses the key issue 3, MBMS bearer reception
acknowledgement. An MC service client that is monitoring an MBMS bearer to
receive MC service media needs to inform the MC service server that the MC
service client is able to receive the MC service media on the MBMS bearer with
sufficient quality or not able to receive the MC service media on the MBMS
bearer with sufficient quality.
The issue can be more complex since the MC service client needs to estimate
the quality of the bearer even in the period when there are no data currently
transmitted on the MBMS bearer (e.g. between MCPTT group call). The reason for
this is that an MC service client that has entered an area with significantly
degraded MBMS quality, might not even notice that an MC service communication
is ongoing, meanwhile the MC server still assumes that the MC service client
can receive the media being broadcasted.
To estimate the MBMS bearer quality, for example, as an equivalent BLER (Block
Error Rate) when no data is sent is implementation specific. This estimation
is dependent on the modulation and coding scheme (MCS) and measurements from
the reference signals from the eNB(s).
### 6.5.2 Procedure
The MC service client needs to indicate the ability of the MC service client
to receive the MBMS bearer.
Pre-conditions:
\- An MBMS bearer is activated and the MBMS bearer information is announced to
the MC service client;
\- The MC service client is located within the MBMS broadcasting area;
\- The MC service UE monitors SIB-13 (or SIB-20) and (SC-)MCCH to receive the
modulation and coding scheme; and
\- The MC service UE monitors the cell specific reference signal and when
MBSFN transmission is used, the MBSFN specific reference signals.
Figure 6.5.2-1: MBMS bearer quality report
1\. The MC service client determines that the MBMS bearer quality needs to be
reported to the MC service server. The MC service client may determine MBMS
bearer quality by using the BLER of the received data. When no data is
received, the quality estimation needs to consider the reference signals and
the modulation and coding scheme (MCS). The UE may also use predictive methods
to estimate the expected MBMS bearer quality (e.g. speed and direction) to
proactively inform the MBMS service server of an expected loss of the MBMS
bearer quality.
NOTE 1: When MBSFN transmission is used the MBSFN reference signal needs to be
used; when SC-PTM is used, the cell specific reference signal needs to be
used. With the measured reference signal, the reference signal received
quality (RSRQ) can be calculated.
2\. If the MBMS bearer quality reaches a certain threshold the MC service
client sends an MBMS bearer quality report. The threshold used indicates that
the MBMS bearer is not acceptable for MC services.
NOTE 2: Prior to sending the MBMS reception report, it could also be
beneficial to include measurements report for different alternative, e.g.
other MBMS bearer with better quality or the option to transfer the
communication to unicast.
3\. The MC service server may request additional measurement, e.g. information
of neighbouring MBMS bearers.
### 6.5.3 Impact on the existing nodes and functionality
There is no impact on RAN or EPC.
New procedure is needed in the UE of the MC service client and in the MC
service server.
### 6.5.4 Solution evaluation
The solution proposes a new procedure in the MC service client that makes it
possible to report the current MBMS bearer quality. This is needed for the
client to report to the MC service server that the MBMS bearer quality is
acceptable or not.
## 6.6 Solution 5-1: Enhanced MCPTT group call setup procedure with MBMS
bearer
### 6.6.1 Description
This solution addresses both key issue 4 and key issue 5.
When the MCPTT server initiates a new MCPTT call, the MCPTT server may decide
to use unicast bearers or broadcast bearers for the downlink media. A similar
decision may also be made for other types of media communication e.g. MCVideo.
To decide to use broadcast or unicast involves a number of aspects. The figure
6.5.1-1 describes a procedural flow to support such decision.
The flow described evaluates which bearer type to use for a new MCPTT group
call. It is assumed that if an MBMS bearer is active it is also announced to
the device.
The announcement of an active MBMS bearer could be part of the MCPTT group
call setup; however it will have an impact on the call setup time. The
announcement may be done according to the procedure defined in solution 2-1 in
subclause 6.4, and the delay for such announcement procedure is mainly related
to the end-to-end MBMS media path delay. Furthermore the time to start to
listen to a new MBMS bearer will also increase the MCPTT group call setup
time. Analysis of comparable delays are presented in subclause 5.2.1.1.2 and
subclause 5.2.1.1.3 in 3GPP TR 36.868 [24].
Figure 6.6.1-1: MBMS bearer decision flow
On a high level the procedure outcome is to use unicast or broadcast bearers
for the new MCPTT group call. For an enhanced call setup procedure the MBMS
bearer may be used to trigger the use of a unicast bearer.
### 6.6.2 Procedure
The procedure defined in this figure 6.6.2-1 can be used in the following
scenarios:
\- Initiate a new call on unicast bearer
\- Transfer an ongoing call from broadcast bearer to unicast bearers
Pre-conditions:
\- There must be an active and announced MBMS bearer
Figure 6.6.2-1: Group paging over an MBMS bearer
1\. The MCPTT server initiates a new MCPTT group call on unicast or decides to
transfer an ongoing call to unicast.
2\. The MCPTT sends an application group paging message on the MBMS bearer to
inform the MCPTT client that the MCPTT server will initiate media transmission
over a unicast bearer.
NOTE: The group paging message is sent with the assumption that there are UEs
in idle mode. Furthermore this message is an application level paging message
and does not replace the normal paging procedure executed by EPC and RAN.
3\. In the case that the UE is in idle mode the UE will initiate a service
request to transfer the UE to connected mode.
4\. The MCPTT server stops sending the media over an MBMS bearer. This step is
only performed if transferring an ongoing call.
5\. The MCPTT server initiates the media transmission over the unicast bearer.
Step 4-5 may be performed in parallel with step 2-3. Step 5 will trigger a
normal paging in EPC and RAN in step 3 if the client is still in idle mode.
### 6.6.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New procedures are needed on the MCPTT client and the MCPTT server.
### 6.6.4 Solution evaluation
The solution provides a performance improvement at MCPTT group call setup. The
requirement related to KPI-3 is reachable also for MCPTT UEs that are in idle
mode.
## 6.7 Solution 6-1: FEC for Mission Critical Services
### 6.7.1 Introduction
The solution addresses key issue 6 (subclause 5.6) and describes how Forward
Error Correction (FEC) can be applied via MBMS bearers for mission critical
services. The solution addresses MCPTT, but can be extended or is applicable
to other mission critical services (i.e. MCData and MCVideo).
### 6.7.2 Use Cases
#### 6.7.2.1 MCPTT
In MCPTT, MBMS bearers are used to transport call control and floor control
through a general purpose channel in addition to media.
Messages for call control and floor control are already protected against
losses by repeating them (see clauses 4.1.3.2 and 4.1.3.3 in 3GPP TS 24.380
[14].
The MCPTT calls are transported as RTP streams.
With a pre-established MBMS bearer, several MCPTT group calls can be
transported. This bearer is announced by a SDP, containing several media
descriptions, defining a set of slots for the upcoming calls. Destination IP
addresses and port of these calls are not defined in advance within the SDP
but announced within the MapGroupToBearer message (subclause 8.4.4 of 3GPP TS
24.380 [14]).
#### 6.7.2.2 MCVideo
This solution will be limited to the case where the video is transported as an
RTP stream. Two cases are distinguished: urgent and non-urgent mission
critical videos, both requiring different levels of QoS, with different KPI.
#### 6.7.2.3 MCData
MCData services offer a wide range of features: SDS, file distribution, data
streaming capabilities.
SDS and file distribution capabilities are loss intolerant and require a fully
reliable delivery method over MBMS. Losses can be reduced by the usage of FEC,
however FEC should be combined with a recovery procedure to fix possible
residual losses.
Data streaming may also benefit from FEC, but the lack of KPI requirements for
data streaming over MBMS prevent its evaluation.
### 6.7.3 QoS requirements
#### 6.7.3.1 QCI and target packet error loss rates
It is assumed that the target packet loss rates are defined in 3GPP TS 23.203
[7] by the QCI 65 (MCPTT: 10^-2^) and 70 (MCData: 10^-6^).
For MCVideo it is assumed that the target packet loss rate is defined in 3GPP
TS 23.203 [7] by the QCI 2 (Conversational Video (Live Streaming): 10^-3^).
These packet loss rates define the residual packet loss rates when a lower
modulation and coding scheme is used without FEC or after the FEC decoding,
when a higher modulation and coding scheme is used.
The PDB (Packet Delay Budget) defined by these QCI are not necessarily in line
with the latency performance requirements synthetized in the next subclause.
#### 6.7.3.2 Latency requirements for mission critical services
Adding FEC introduces an extra latency in the end to end media transport (to
be associated to the mouth to ear latency, KPI 3 in MCPTT) and in the join
time on an ongoing group communication (defined as KPI 4 for MCPTT). This
extra latency shall be bounded to fulfil the low latency requirements for
mission critical services.
The following table compares the latency requirements with the latency
estimations:
Table 6.7.3.2-1: Latency requirements and estimation
This table can be used to evaluate the maximum extra latency for FEC. By
example, it can be deduced that for a MCPTT bearer, transported by SC-PTM, an
additional latency of 200 ms would nevertheless respect KPI 3 and KPI4b.
### 6.7.4 Group call -- Call flow
It is assumed that the bandwidth of an MBMS bearer cannot dynamically be
modified. Existing procedures in 3GPP TS 23.246 [8] subclause 4.4.3.6 (Session
Update) and 3GPP TS 23.468 [11] subclause 5.1.2.4 (Modify MBMS Bearer
Procedure) don't support bandwidth modifications of established MBMS bearers.
The FEC cannot be switched on and off on a per need basis, e.g. due to an UE
request (as this UE is experiencing worse or better radio conditions) as this
would require too much signalling.
Consequently when creating a pre-established MBMS bearer, the MCPTT AS request
to the BM-SC shall include:
\- a target percentage of max packet loss that can be recovered by FEC, or a
percentage of the bitrate dedicated to FEC;
\- a max additional latency; and
\- the SDP to be announced to MCPTT clients.
The BM-SC response shall include the modified SDP containing the FEC
information. This modified SDP shall be used when announcing the newly created
bearer to the MCS clients.
When a UE is in conversation, the RTP packets are transmitted over unicast to
the MCPTT server and then broadcasted over the corresponding bearer to all
participants (under coverage of the Service Areas). The BM-SC adds the
requested FEC, and the receiving UEs can use the additional FEC redundancy to
recover losses.
Figure 6.7.4-1: MCPTT Group call using FEC over MBMS
### 6.7.5 FEC Transport requirements
This clause proposes a set of requirements to be addressed for the design of a
FEC protocol, compliant with the call flow in the previous subclause:
\- The FEC protocol shall be configured for a given bearer, by at least the
following parameters;
1) The code rate (or FEC percentage);
2) The maximum additional latency;
\- The FEC protocol shall not introduce any significant jitter in the service
consumption;
\- The FEC protocol shall be able to protect any UDP packets conveyed by the
MB2-U interface. In particular, the BM-SC does not know in MCPTT the
characteristics (destination IP and port, communication start and stop times)
of the set of medias to be transported;
\- The FEC codec should be systematic: the source packets should be
transported unaltered, with the exception of a possible additional trailer or
footer;
\- The FEC protocol parameters shall be fully described by an additional media
section within the SDP;
\- The FEC protocol should be able to dynamically adapt its code rate
according to the traffic. In particular, in a pre-establisher MBMS bearer for
MCPTT, the FEC protocol should be able to exploit the unused bandwidth if the
media slots are not all used, to offer an additional protection, without
exceeding the maximum allowed latency;
\- The FEC encoding and decoding time and the required CPU shall be
negligible; and
\- After the decoding, the MBMS middleware shall output, to the MCS client,
the same streams as provided on the MB2-U interface.
NOTE: This implies that at least one FEC protocol needs to be mandated.
Figure 6.7.5-1: Protection of any UDP packets conveyed by the MB2-U interface,
MCPTT case
### 6.7.6 Radio scheduling aspects and FEC for MCPTT
As detailed in subclause 6.15.2.1 Packet scheduling of solution 10-2, together
with the SYNC protocol (see 3GPP TS 25.446 [15]), the BM-SC can control
exactly what is sent in each MCH scheduling period of a MBSFN bearer.
Consider the FEC configuration RS (4, 6, 80 ms) defined in A.2.4 with an MSP
set to 40 ms. In this configuration, the 4 packets of 2 consecutive transport
blocks are gathered within a FEC source block, from which 2 repair symbols are
generated and transmitted in later transport blocks as shown below:
Figure 6.7.6-1: RS (4, 6, 80 ms) Aligned packets to transport blocks
In this configuration, the MC client can always recover the 4 source packets
under the assumption that not more than 1 transport block out of 3 are lost.
If the packets are not precisely distributed (e.g. 2 packets per transport
block as shown above) and which may happen if the FEC encoder has no control
of the radio scheduling, the recovery of packets cannot be guaranteed as 1
transport block may contain 3 source packets and if the first transport block
containing 3 source packets is lost, full packet recovery is not possible
anymore.
Figure 6.7.6-2 illustrates the scenario:
Figure 6.7.6-2: RS (4, 6, 80 ms) Misalignment of packets to transport blocks
### 6.7.7 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The MB2-C interface is modified.
The Create Bearer request, shall include: the SDP, the expected FEC percentage
to apply and the maximum additional latency.
The Create Bearer response shall provide a modified SDP, including the
description of the FEC. This modified SDP shall be the one announced to the MC
service clients.
The BM-SC needs to support FEC for Mission Critical Services.
The UE shall include a FEC decoding capability for mission critical services,
which can be added in the MCS client.
For File Distribution a repair/recovery procedure is added to achieve full
reliable transmissions.
### 6.7.8 Solution evaluation
The solution fulfils the QoS requirements for MCPTT as evaluated in Annex A.
FEC protection for call control and floor control is not evaluated in the
Annex as those messages can be repeated if needed. The additional latency
caused by FEC is acceptable, i.e. both KPI3 and KPI4 are still fulfilled.
The BM-SC can control when the packets are scheduled through the SYNC
protocol, and by using that capability improve the AL-FEC performance.
For MCData File Distribution the usage of FEC is beneficial in terms of
network resource consumption as shown in Annex B.
For MCVideo the usage of FEC allows reaching the objective of 10^-3^ residual
packet loss rates.
The MB2 extension proposed in this solution does not modify the existing call
flows.
## 6.8 Solution 6-2: Mission Critical Server-based FEC
### 6.8.1 Description
This subclause discusses a potential solution for the key issue 6 in subclause
5.6.
Under this solution, the terminating MC service server that is in charge for
handling MBMS delivery of the mission critical traffic is enabled to make
decisions on:
\- Whether or not to use FEC for certain groups and types of traffic and under
what configurations and load conditions;
\- What FEC algorithms (e.g. Reed-Solomon) to use and with what parameters;
and
\- When (e.g. on which TMGIs) to turn on / off or to modify the generation and
use of FEC.
The solution can utilize feedback from the UEs (e.g. location information,
quality reports) where appropriate.
The rest of this subclause discusses this mechanism and describes the required
changes.
### 6.8.2 Procedure
The procedure below shows the generation, transmission and decoding of the FEC
packets (see IETF RFC 6363 [33]). The media control (e.g. floor control),
whether on the same or different MBMS bearer than the media, is not shown. In
general, the media control does not need to be FEC protected.
Pre-conditions:
\- A mission critical session has been setup;
\- Member UEs are or are expected to shortly be in an MBMS distribution area;
and
\- The MC service server has already activated the relevant MBMS bearers.
Figure 6.8.2-1: MC Server based FEC
1\. The MC service server sends MBMS bearer announcement message with FEC
information to the MC service clients.
2\. As media packets arrive from the originating MC service UE (not shown in
diagram), the media is processed by the media distribution function on the MC
service server.
3\. The MC service server performs FEC encoding and processing in accordance
with the selected FEC algorithm.
4\. The MC service server sends the media with FEC to the MC service client.
5\. MC service client performs FEC decoding and processing in accordance with
the selected FEC algorithm.
### 6.8.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The MC service server and the MC service client are impacted. These two
application functions need to support the described functionality.
The BM-SC, MBMS-GW and the MB2 interface are not affected.
There are no RAN impacts.
There are no security impacts.
### 6.8.4 Solution evaluation
This solution utilizes existing MC service architecture between MC service
client and MC service server. There are no changes to the MB2 interface.
The solution is flexible in that it allows for the use of FEC algorithms based
on media type (e.g. RTP, file download) such as Reed-Solomon and Raptor codes,
as appropriate.
For MCPTT, the recommended GBR bearer QCI is 65, with a target packet error
loss of 10^-2^ according to 3GPP TS 23.203 [7]. Sending of a source packet
takes 120 ms (3GPP TR 36.868 [24], assuming an MBMS scheduling period of 40
ms). The KPI3 (300 ms) for delivery needs to be met, according to 3GPP TS
22.179 [2]. There will be 300-120 = 180 ms left to deliver the FEC repair
packet. That corresponds to 180/40 ≈ 4 MBMS scheduling periods during which
the FEC repair packet needs to arrive to the MCPTT client, which means that
the latency requirement can be met.
For MCVideo, a bearer with QCI 2 with a target packet error loss of 10^-3^
according to 3GPP TS 23.203 [7] can be used, and the recommended latency limit
is 1 second for urgent traffic according to 3GPP TS 22.281 [4]. Even if a
large MSP of 160 ms were to be used, there would be 5 more subsequent MSPs
where the FEC repair packets could arrive to the MCVideo client without
exceeding the latency limit. It can be concluded that the QoS requirements for
video can be met when FEC is used as described by this solution.
For MCData, the use of FEC is being proposed only for File Distribution over
MBMS bearer. A QCI of 70 or 4 can be used, per 3GPP TS 23.203 [7] to benefit
from a lower modulation and coding scheme. No specific required latency values
are specified in 3GPP TR 22.282 [5]. For FEC, use of Raptor codes may be
appropriate. Unlike MCPTT and MCVideo, the traffic is not packet loss
tolerant. Therefore a file repair/recovery capability additional to FEC is
necessary, if File Distribution over MBMS bearer is employed. This solution is
compatible with this approach.
Based on the above evaluation, the solution is applicable to all Mission
Critical services.
## 6.9 Solution 7-1: Service area owning MC service server distributes media
### 6.9.1 Description
In this solution, a single MC service server sends downlink packets for all
users within a particular MBMS service area. The solution prevents the
situation where multiple MC service servers send the same content to the same
area. To conserve MBMS resources for a particular MBMS service area, only one
MBMS bearer should be used. To accomplish this, the following is proposed:
\- The MC service server (controlling role) obtains MC service client location
and affiliation status for the MC service group members.
\- The MC service server (controlling role) decides when multicast is
appropriate for a group in a service area.
\- The MC service server (controlling role) finds another MC service server
that has an MBMS bearer for the service area. If none exists, the MC service
server (controlling role) allocates a bearer and sends media.
\- This MC service server (controlling role) consults a pre-configured list of
MC service servers to find one with the desired bearer. Other mechanisms for
consideration are an MBMS coordinating CSC or a coordination function within
the SCEF.
\- The MC service server (controlling role) forwards media to the MC service
server owning the bearer.
\- MC service servers allocate bearers using pre-configured QoS, so that the
needs of the entire deployment of MC service servers can be handled by the
allocating MC service server.
### 6.9.2 Procedure
Figure 6.9.2-1: Multiple server MBMS procedure
1\. MC service client 1 affiliates to a group hosted on an MC service server
(controlling role) via MC service client 1\'s MC service server (participating
role).
2\. MC service client 1 keeps its MC service server (participating role) up to
date regarding its location with respect to MBMS service areas.
3\. The MC service server (participating role) keeps the MC service server
(controlling role) up to date for the MBMS locations of all of the MC service
group members of the MC service server\'s (controlling role) MC service
groups.
4\. MC service client 2 initiates a call on an MC service group owned by the
MC service server (controlling role).
5\. The MC service server (controlling role) calculates whether multicast is
desired for each service area in which MC service group members are located,
based upon the locations, affiliation status and other factors of the MC
service group members.
6\. The MC service server (controlling role) determines whether another MC
service system(s) has a bearer(s) with coverage for the MBMS service area(s)
where multicast is desired. To do this, the MC service server (controlling
role) consults a pre-configured list of MC service servers and polls them. For
any MBMS service areas not covered by the other MC service servers\' bearers,
the MC service server (controlling role) prepares to distribute media to those
MBMS service areas via multicast by setting up a bearer itself. The bearers
set up by the MC service server (controlling role) then become available for
other MC service servers in the controlling role for MC service groups where
the MC service server (controlling role) might or might not be an MC service
server (participating role).
NOTE 1: The MC service server (controlling role) assures that no
additional/duplicate bearers are set up for the service area by first checking
whether any other MC service server has a bearer for that area prior to
setting up a bearer. If a bearer exists for the service area, then the MC
service server (controlling role) uses the existing bearer by sending group
content via the MC service server that owns the bearer.
7\. The MC service server (controlling role) requests that other MC service
system(s) owning the discovered bearer(s) distribute the media.
8\. The polled MC service server(s) responds whether there is available
bandwidth for the desired bearer(s). If the bearer of interest has
insufficient bandwidth, the polling MC service server may resort to unicast,
or may allocate another bearer for the congested area. If a duplicate bearer
is allocated for the same area, the bearer should not be shared with other
servers and probably should be torn down as soon as the congestion on the
original bearer clears up in order to conserve resources.
9\. The MC service server (controlling role) informs all of the MC service
servers (participating role) about which service areas will receive multicast
and the associated information such as TMGIs. Those MC service servers
(participating role) then know that they must unicast any remaining
participants outside of those service areas or those cannot hear receive the
TMGIs.
10\. MC service client 2 begins sending media to the MC service server
(controlling role).
11\. The MC service server (controlling role) distributes the media to the MC
service servers (participating role) with the desired MBMS bearers, to MC
service server(s) (participating role) that require the media for unicast
distribution as well as to its own locally served MC service clients.
12\. The MC service server(s) with an allocated bearer(s) distribute the media
to MBMS served MC service clients via multicast.
NOTE 2: For regroup cases, the scenario is the same except that all users\'
location information is forwarded to the controlling server by participating
and non-controlling servers (servers that are the controlling server for the
constituent groups) immediately when the call starts. The rest of the
procedure is the same in terms of how the controlling server makes decisions
about multicast and how bearers are allocated or discovered.
### 6.9.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New procedures are needed in the MC service servers. No MC service client or
BM-SC changes are proposed.
### 6.9.4 Solution evaluation
This solution eliminates redundant bearer setup by a multitude of MC service
servers. It adds some complexity in that the MC service server (controlling
role) needs up to date location information for each of its MC service group
members. Each MC service server (controlling role) also needs to be able to
discover which other MC service servers have bearers serving MBMS service
areas of interest.
## 6.10 Solution 7-2: MBMS bearer management by MC service server (controlling
role) with multiple MC service servers involved
### 6.10.1 Description
For a group communication involving several MC service servers (participating
role), the downlink data may be sent to the MC service clients by MC service
server (controlling role) directly. For using MBMS bearer, the MC service
server (controlling role) shall get the location information of each MC
service user who participates the group communication. If some MC service user
who participates the group communication is served by another MC service
servers (participating role), the MC service server (controlling role) shall
obtain the MC service user's location from the MC service server
(participating role).
### 6.10.2 Procedure
The procedure defined in this subclause specifies how MC service server
(controlling role) obtains the MC service user's location from the MC service
server (participating role).
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC service server (participating role) has obtained the MC service
users' location information (e.g. ECGI) where the service is provided.
Figure 6.10.2-1 MC service user's location acquired for dynamic MBMS bearer
establishment determination
1\. The MC service server (controlling role) receives a group communication
request from the MC service client of one MC service group user.
2\. The MC service server (controlling role) determines that group
communication has been setup, and the group communication will be sent to the
MC service group users' client directly by itself.
3\. The MC service server (controlling role) sends location information
request with MC service group ID or affiliated MC service user ID list (if
available) to MC service user's MC service server (participating role).
4\. The s MC service server (participating role) sends location information
response with the MC service group users' location information.
5\. The MC service group call set up procedure (see subclause 10.6.2 in 3GPP
TS 23.179 [6] for MCPTT group call).
6\. The group communication MC service server (controlling role) determines to
use the MBMS bearer based on the received location information. Then it will
trigger the MBMS bearer activation procedure which is defined in 3GPP TS
23.468 [11].
### 6.10.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
When MBMS bearer is managed by MC service server (controlling role), the MC
service server (controlling role) should get the group users' location
information from the group user's MC service server (participating role) when
needed.
### 6.10.4 Solution evaluation
This solution provides the benefit that the MC service server (controlling
role) can get all the affiliated MC service group users' location information
and implement the MBMS bearer management.
## 6.11 Solution 8-1: GCS AS to indicate the preferred MBMS mechanism to the
MCE
### 6.11.1 Description
This subclause discusses the potential solution for the key issue 8 in
subclause 5.8.
In order to achieve cohesive MBMS operation from end-to-end perspective, one
approach is to have the GCS AS indicate the preferred MBMS mechanism to the
MCE. Then the MCE makes the selection between MBSFN and SC-PTM by taking this
information into account. The GCS AS determines the preferred MBMS mechanism
based on the group member UEs' support of the MBMS mechanisms (i.e. support of
MBSFN, SC-PTM, or both). The GCS AS obtains this information via GC1
interface. This information is conveyed over the MB2-C interface from the GCS
AS to the BM-SC for use by the MCE.
An additional benefit of this approach is for the GCS AS to have more overall
control of the group communication, namely:
1) decision of whether unicast or MBMS is used for a given UE in a group
communication, and
2) influence the MCE's decision of whether MBSFN or SC-PTM is used for a given
group communication.
The rest of this subclause discusses this mechanism and describes the required
changes.
### 6.11.2 Procedure
The procedure below describes how the MBMS mechanism (i.e. MBSFN or SC-PTM) is
selected from end-to-end system perspective based on the mechanism described
in the above subclause.
Pre-conditions:
\- A group is created and member UEs are affiliated to the group.
\- Member UEs are requested to send their location using Location Information
procedure.
Figure 6.11.2-1: MBMS mechanism selection
1\. The GCS AS queries UE1 for its MBMS capability information.
2\. UE1 sends its MBMS capability information (i.e. MBSFN capability info, SC-
PTM capability info).
3-4. Step 1 and 2 are repeated for all other member UEs.
5\. The GCS AS stores the MBMS capability information from all member UEs.
6\. The GCS AS determines the preferred MBMS mechanism based on the
information obtained in step 1 through 4.
7\. The GCS AS activates an MBMS bearer. The activation is triggered through
BM-SC, MBMS-GW, MME, and MCE. The information derived in step 6 for the
preferred MBMS mechanism is conveyed to the MCE.
8\. The MCE determines the MBMS mechanism.
9-12. MBMS session is started in Uu interface based on the selected MBMS
mechanism. The existing M2 interface procedures are used unchanged.
13\. The MBMS session start response message is forwarded towards MBMS GW.
14-17. MBMS session notification message is sent from MCE to GCS AS to
indicate the MBMS mechanism selected by the MCE.
NOTE: MBMS session notification message in step 14 through 17 is shown as a
generic message to convey the selected MBMS mechanism information toward the
GCS AS. It is possible to convey this information in the existing MBMS session
start response message. In case a new message is defined for this purpose, the
actual message name is expected to be defined by the relevant WGs.
### 6.11.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The GCS AS and UE need to support the new procedure to query the member UE's
MBMS capability.
In order to convey the preferred MBMS mechanism to the MCE, the GCS AS can use
a new IE (_preferred MBMS mechanism_) which needs to be supported in GCS AS,
BM-SC, MBMS-GW, MME, and MCE.
The MCE needs to determine the MBMS mechanism by taking _preferred MBMS
mechanism_ IE into consideration.
### 6.11.4 Solution evaluation
This solution allows the GCS AS to create the mapping information between the
UE's location and its MBMS support capability. Based on the UEs' presence in
the cell coverage area under the eNB along with their MBMS support capability,
the GCS AS can make the informed decision to determines the preferred MBMS
mechanism and indicate it to the MCE.
The MCE takes this preference along with other RAN local information into
account and determine the MBMS mechanism. This solution also provides the
feedback mechanism for the MCE to provide the mechanism it has selected back
to the GCS AS so that the latter will know which mechanism is used in the eNB.
## 6.12 Solution 8-2: MCE derives the MBMS mechanism with the interaction with
the eNB and the UE
### 6.12.1 Description
In this solution, the MCE obtains the member UEs' supported MBMS mechanism(s)
via the eNB. This can be done by the member UEs providing this information to
the eNB. The member UE can provide its supported MBMS mechanism(s), for
example, by introducing a new IE in the existing RRC _MBMSInterestIndication_
message.
After obtaining this information from the member UEs, the eNB forward it to
the MCE along with the location information (e.g. cell ID). Then the MCE can
use this information to determine the MBMS mechanism for the eNB.
The MCE notifies the selected MBMS mechanism and the information of the UE and
its location to the GCS AS so that the latter can use this information to
determine the delivery method (i.e. MBMS or unicast) for individual UE in the
group communication.
In addition, the UE reports its device identity (see NOTE 2) to both the MCPTT
AS and the MCE separately. This provides the key for the MCPTT AS to correlate
it with the application level identity (i.e. MCPTT ID).
### 6.12.2 Procedure
The procedure below defines the information flow for the mechanism described
in the previous subclause.
Figure 6.12.2-1: MBMS mechanism selection in MCE
1a. If the user initiates an action to affiliate himself/herself to a group,
this action triggers the group affiliation procedure with the MCPTT AS. The
group affiliation request message (1a-1) includes the UE's device identity
(see NOTE 2) along with the MCPTT ID.
1b. If the MCPTT AS does not have the device identity associated with the
MCPTT ID and there is no explicit affiliation procedure from the MCPTT user,
then it initiates UE query procedure with the affiliated member UE. The UE
query response message (1b-2) contains the device identity (see NOTE 2) along
with the MCPTT ID.
2\. The MCPTT AS triggers the location report procedure with the UE, and the
UE reports its location to the MCPTT AS.
3\. The affiliation procedure and location report procedure take place for
other member UEs.
4\. The MCPTT AS stores the MCPTT ID, device identity (see NOTE 2), and its
location information of the member UEs.
5\. The GCS AS requests the BM-SC to allocate a TMGI.
6\. The MCPTT AS sends MBMS bearer announcement message to the member UEs,
indicating the TMGI of the MBMS bearer.
7\. The member UEs send the RRC _MBMSInterestIndication_ message to the eNB
(see NOTE 3). In addition to the TMGI, the UE includes the UE's device
identity (see NOTE 2) and which MBMS mechanism(s) it supports.
8\. The eNB collects the message from all member UEs. After it's complete, it
sends the list of UEs, the TMGI of interest, their device identity, their MBMS
capability, and the location information (e.g. cell ID), to the MCE.
9\. The GCS AS initiates the MBMS session start procedure.
10\. The MCE determines the MBMS mechanism for the eNB based on the received
information in step 7 and 8.
11\. The MCE triggers the MBMS session start to the eNB based on the selected
MBMS mechanism.
12\. The MBMS session start response is forwarded towards MBMS GW.
13-15. The MCE sends the MBMS session notification message toward the BM-SC,
including the selected MBMS mechanism, and mapping information of UE's device
identity, its MBMS capability, and its location.
16\. The BM-SC sends the MBMS bearer notification message to the GCS AS
forwarding the mapping information obtained in step 13-15.
17\. The GCS AS correlates the MCPTT ID, its capability, and its location
based on information obtained in steps 1 and 16. The device identity (see NOTE
2) is used as the key for this correlation.
NOTE 1: In the above figure, the MCPTT AS and the GCS AS are shown as a single
entity as the former includes the latter functionality. Both of these
terminologies are used in the above description texts depending on the
context.
NOTE 2: The "device identity" described in the above procedure refers to the
UE's NAS level identity, such as S-TMSI, IMSI, IMEI, etc. It should be noted
that the latter two are permanent identities associated with the subscription
and the terminal itself. On the other hand, the former is a temporary identity
assigned by the MME during the NAS procedure. This value may change when it's
re-assigned by the MME. If S-TMSI is used for the purpose of this procedure,
then additional procedure needs to be considered by taking the MME's re-
assignment of this value into account. It is not captured in this diagram for
simplicity's sake as it is outside the essence of the functionality presented
in this solution. Permanent identities may be preferable from this procedure's
perspective due to its simplicity. However, there may be a concern to expose
UE's permanent identities at the AS level interaction between RAN entities.
Note that the purpose of using the "device identity" is to provide "a" unique
identity for the UE. Therefore, strictly speaking, which identity to use for
this procedure is not significant from the MCPTT AS / GCS AS's perspective.
NOTE 3: The eNB needs to broadcast SIB15 for the UE to send the RRC
_MBMSInterestIndication_ message.
NOTE 4: MBMS session notification message and MBMS bearer notification message
in step 13 through 16 are shown as a generic message to convey the information
toward the GCS AS. It is possible to convey this information in the existing
MBMS session start response message. In case a new message is defined for this
purpose, the actual message name is expected to be defined by the relevant
WGs.
### 6.12.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The UE and eNB need to support the new IE to indicate the UE's device identity
and the supported MBMS mechanism(s).
The eNB and the MCE need to support a new procedure to obtain the UE
capability of the group member UEs. The message in this procedure contains the
IEs to indicate the mapping information of the UE's device identity, its
supported MBMS mechanism, and its location information (e.g. cell ID).
The MCE needs to determine the MBMS mechanism by taking the obtained
information into consideration.
The MCE, MME, MBMS GW, BM-SC, and GCS AS need to support the new IEs to
indicate the selected MBMS mechanism, the mapping of the UE's device identity,
its supported MBMS mechanism, and its location (e.g. cell ID).
The MCPTT AS and the UE need to support the additional IE to convey the UE's
device identity in the group affiliation procedure.
The MCPTT AS needs to correlate the MCPTT ID with its MBMS capability
information, and its location using the device identity as the key.
### 6.12.4 Solution evaluation
This solution allows the MCE to determine the MBMS mechanism based on the
interaction within the RAN entities. It also provides the mechanism for the
GCS AS to obtain the necessary information to determine the delivery method
(MBMS or unicast) for a UE in group communication.
## 6.13 Solution 9-1: Notification of MBMS bearer activation result
### 6.13.1 Description
From a GCS AS perspective it is important to know when a requested MBMS bearer
is ready to be used. Furthermore it is also important to know if any of the
cells that were included in the broadcast area fails to allocate the MBMS
resources. The procedure defined below provides activation result messages
towards the GCS AS and notification messages in the case when a cell fails to
allocate the MBMS resources.
### 6.13.2 Procedure
The procedure below defines the information flow for notification of the
result of MBMS bearer activation.
Figure 6.13.2-1: Notification of MBMS bearer activation result
1\. Activate MBMS bearer request from GCS AS to BM-SC, as defined in 3GPP TS
23.468 [11].
2\. Activate MBMS bearer response from BM-SC to GCS AS, as defined in 3GPP TS
23.468 [11].
3-6. MBMS session start procedure in the core network as defined in 3GPP TS
23.246 [8].
7-8. Session start request and response between MCE and MME as defined in 3GPP
TS 36.300 [19].
9-10. MBMS scheduling information request and response as defined in 3GPP TS
36.300 [19]. These steps are only applicable in MBSFN transmission mode, and
may also be performed prior step 7-8
11\. MBMS session start response as defined in in 3GPP TS 36.300 [19], with
the addition that in MBSFN operation, the MCE waits to confirm the reception
of the MBMS session start request to the MME, until the MCE receives at least
one session start response (i.e. step 8) and MBMS scheduling information
response (i.e. step 10) from one of involved the eNB(s).
NOTE 1: If all eNBs report a failure to start the MBMS sessions an aggregated
message can be sent back to the upstream nodes.
12-14. The MBMS session start response is forwarded towards MBMS GW, BM-SC and
GCS AS.
15-18. MBMS session notification is sent from MCE to GCS AS in the scenario
that an eNB has responded with a failure in step 8 or step 10 or if the MBMS
session is pre-empted. This notification should also include the cell
identity.
NOTE 2: Step 15-18 may occur multiple times and at any time when the MBMS
session is active.
NOTE 3: Other notifications are also handled within the same procedural flow,
e.g. MBMS bearer suspension and resumption.
19\. eNBs join the IP multicast group.
20\. (SC-)MCCH change notification.
### 6.13.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New procedures need to be defined in RAN and EPC nodes.
### 6.13.4 Solution evaluation
This solution is needed to fulfil the MCPTT requirement that the EPS shall
inform the MCPTT system if a new MCPTT call cannot be set up. Furthermore this
solution is beneficial when several MBMS bearers are used at the same time.
When the first MBMS bearer is started the MC client acknowledges the reception
of the MBMS bearer by sending an MBMS listening report. When additional MBMS
bearers are started, additional listening report would not be required since
the server can assume that the client can also receive the additional bearer,
however the MBMS server would then need to know if the MBMS bearer activation
has failed in any or several cells.
The proposed solution has impact on existing procedures as defined in 3GPP TS
23.468 [11], 3GPP TS 23.246 [8] and 3GPP TS 36.300 [19]. New messages need to
be defined to notify the MBMS bearer activation result.
## 6.14 Solution 10-1: Header compression of MBMS data
### 6.14.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue 10 and describes how header compression of
MBMS data can be applied to MCPTT group communications delivered over MBMS.
Header compression aims at reducing the bandwidth required for a voice
communication to allow for capacity increase of the MCPTT system.
The header compression proposed is based on ROHC, as specified in IETF RFC
5795 [32] and IETF RFC 3095 [28] amended by IETF RFC 4815 [30].
### 6.14.2 Capacity improvements with ROHC
Header compression brings visible benefit for voice communication where the
header represents more than 50 % of the size of a packet. Therefore this study
only focusses on voice.
Since there is no feedback from MBMS channels, the only feasible ROHC mode
that can be applied in this case is unidirectional mode and profile 1 shall be
used for IP/UDP/RTP. In unidirectional mode, ROHC context is refreshed
periodically and a number of initialization and refresh headers (i.e. the full
RTP/UDP/IP headers) must be sent periodically to ensure proper decompression.
This periodicity is implementation dependent.
Capacity of MBMS for voice communications is evaluated as in 3GPP TR 36.868
[24], with the following assumptions:
1\. 6 sub-frames per frame are reserved for MBSFN (maximum possible assignment
as per current specifications).
2\. The media type is VoIP (AMR 12.65 kbit/s codec).
Without header compression, each speech frame carries 20 ms of coded voice
(264 bits), 40 bytes of IP/UDP/RTP headers (320 bits) and 3 bytes of MAC/RLC
headers plus 2 bytes for MAC signalling (40 bits), for a total of 624 bits
every 20 ms, i.e. 31.2 kbps.
With ROHC, the IP/UDP.RTP headers can be reduced to 3 bytes (24 bits instead
of 320) for a total frame size of 328 bits, i.e. 16.4 kbps. Initialisation and
Refresh packets shall also be sent periodically. Such packets include the full
uncompressed headers, plus an ROHC-IR header which therefore adds 5 bytes to
uncompressed packets. The size of the periodic uncompressed packet is then
624+40=664 bits.
Since the full headers have to be sent periodically, the actual throughput
when using ROHC varies between those two values, depending on the periodicity
of the full headers transmission. We can consider different profiles:
\- One full header every two frames (1/2): the equivalent throughput is
664+328 bits every 40 ms = 24.8 kbps
\- One full header every three frames (1/3): the equivalent throughput is
664+2*328 bits every 60 ms = 22 kbps
\- One full header every four frames (1/4): the equivalent throughput is
664+3*328 bits every 80 ms = 20.6 kbps
\- One full header every five frames (1/5): the equivalent throughput is
664+4*328 bits every 100 ms = 19.76 kbps
\- One full header every ten frames (1/10): the equivalent throughput is
664+9*328 bits every 200 ms = 18.08 kbps
The capacity evaluation in 3GPP TR 36.868 [24] was considering 4 deployment
cases with different spectrum efficiencies and coding schemes (with a 12kbps
AMR codec):
Table 6.14.2-1: Four deployment cases in 3GPP TR 36.868 [24]
+------------+----------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Deployment | Spectrum Efficiency\ | MCS | Capacity | | | [bit/s/Hz] | | | | | | | [Session/MHz] | +------------+----------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Case 1 | 3.13 | 64QAM (4/5) | 49 | +------------+----------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Case 2 | 3.02 | 64QAM (4/5) | 47 | +------------+----------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Case 3 | 0.99 | 16QAM (1/3) | 6 | +------------+----------------------+-------------+-----------------+ | Case 4 | 3.18 | 64QAM (4/5) | 50 | +------------+----------------------+-------------+-----------------+
For the purpose of evaluating the benefits of headers compression, we simplify
to two cases:
\- 3.13 b/s/Hz and MCS = 64QAM (4/5) => 1502 kbps available in MBMS per 1 MHz
of spectrum (3130*0.6*4/5)
\- 0.99 b/s/Hz and MCS = 16QAM (1/3) => 198 kbps available in MBMS per 1 MHz
of spectrum
The capacity (number of simultaneous voice communications over MBMS per MHz of
spectrum) can then be evaluated as in the following table :
Table 6.14.2-2: Capacity for different full header transmission periodicities
* * *
Spectrum Efficiency\ MCS Capacity (Communications over MBMS / MHz of spectrum)
for the different full headers transmission periodicities  
[bit/s/Hz]
                                       1/1                                                                                                               1/2   1/3   1/4   1/5   1/10
3.13 64QAM (4/5) 48 60 68 72 76 83
0.99 16QAM (1/3) 6 7 9 9 10 10
* * *
If appears that already with a periodicity of 2, there is a capacity gain of
25 % with headers compression, for a degradation of the late entry performance
of 20 ms maximum (so 10 ms on average). This increases to 50 % of capacity
gain for a degradation of late entry performance of 60 ms maximum. (i.e. 30 ms
on average).
When looking at the capacity of MBMS for voice group communications, under
congestion circumstances it could be beneficial to increase the number of
simultaneous communications, at the price of degrading some late entry
performances.
### 6.14.3 Impact on performances
3GPP TR 36.868 [24] analysed the time needed to join an ongoing group
communication over MBMS:
Table 6.14.3-1 Time for joining an ongoing group communication estimation\
when using MRB for media delivery\ (The values indicate average delays and the
value in parenthesis indicates worst case delay)
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Time [ms] | comments | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Acquisition of MCCH | 10 | Processing delay at | | configuration in | | the UE | | SIB13 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Average delay due to | 160 (320) | For MCCH Repetition | | MCCH scheduling | | period of 320 ms. | | period | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Acquisition of MCCH | 10 | Processing delay at | | and MTCH | | the UE | | configuration for | | | | TMGI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Average time | 50 (100) | Maximum MCCH offset | | required if | | value is 100 ms. It | | acquisition of | | is assumed that the | | multiple MCCHs is | | reading of multiple | | required. | | MCCH is performed in | | | | parallel | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Average delay due to | 40 (80) | 80 ms of | | MCH scheduling | | mch-SchedulingPeriod | | period | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Acquisition of MSI | 5 | L1 and L2 processing | | for the | | at the UE | | corresponding | | | | service | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Total time | 275 (525) | The value shows the | | | | average time for | | | or | joining an ongoing | | | | group communication. | | | 45 (85) if the | | | | | | | | UE has up to date | | | | MCCH content | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The periodicity of full headers transmission may result in some delay for
users to access an ongoing communication over an MBMS bearer, since they have
to wait for the reception of the full headers before being able to decompress.
In fact the increased delay impacts only the late entry performances, not the
users who are already listening to the MBMS bearer when the communication
starts
For a periodicity of 2, the impact on late entry would be of 20 ms maximum
(i.e. keeping the average time to join below 300 ms). It obviously increases
with the periodicity.
But all communications may not have the same need for late entry delay,
depending e.g. on how critical or on their length. For instance, MCPTT
Emergency calls could not use header compression to ensure best possible
delays, while some routine calls could use header compression with a low
periodicity at the beginning of a talk spur and increase the periodicity over
the talk spur duration (it becomes less important to lose the end of the
sentence when you have already lost most of the beginning).
Once the communication is received (i.e. a full header has been received and
decompression is correctly initialized) the impact of packet loss is not
different from the loss of a packet without compression. Decompression is
possible even with losses as long as no more than 62 packets (if compressed
header is 2 bytes, 14 if it is 1 byte) have been lost. But if so many packets
are lost, the communication will have been lost regardless of compression, and
late entry mechanism will be used to re-enter the communication if possible.
The loss of a packet before the communication is received has an impact on the
entry (immediate or late) if it is a packet with full header, and then the
degradation depends on the periodicity of full header transmission.
### 6.14.4 Architecture with ROHC
Based on the observations above, the application is a good place to take the
decision to compress headers and choose when to send full headers, allowing a
flexible use of headers compression and control of performances degradation,
on a call per call basis.
In the current specifications of the MB2-U interface, user plane data are
transparently transported between the GCS AS and the UE. It allows the header
compression to be processed above the MB2-U reference point, i.e. at the
application layer, without any modification of the lower layers.
### 6.14.5 Impact on existing nodes and functionality
To allow for headers compression managed and processed at the application
layer the following changes are needed :
\- Add the ROHC component in the media distribution function in the MCPTT
server and in media mixer in the MCPTT UE (over MCPTT-8)
\- Add the information about ROHC in the MBMS bearer announcement message
(context identifier ranges, compression profiles) for MBMS bearers (TMGIs)
which will support header compression
\- Specify the processing of received data packets over MBMS in the MCPTT UE
to take possible header compression into account
No modification of lower layers in the IMS, in the EPC or in RAN is needed.
### 6.14.6 Solution evaluation
The solution introduces header compression for media streams transported over
MBMS, as an option, when needed, and under full control by the application, on
a call per call basis.
## 6.15 Solution 10-2: header compression function within the BM‑SC
### 6.15.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue 10 and complements the solution 10-1 by
proposing another location for the header compression function.
Header compression allows an important decrease of the required bandwidth for
voice communications as evaluated in solution 10-1, subclause 6.14.2, but has
an impact on the late entry KPI.
The impact on the late entry KPI can be lowered or nullified in MBSFN if the
header compression is performed by the BM-SC (subclause 6.15.2). Consequently,
this solution proposes to locate the header compression within the BM-SC.
### 6.15.2 Gain on late entry KPI
#### 6.15.2.1 Packet scheduling
In MBSFN, all the IP packets of a given MBMS bearer are transmitted within
transport blocks, scheduled at each MCH scheduling period (MSP). The MSP
minimum value is 40 ms. A small value for the MSP is beneficial for the mouth-
to-ear and late entry performances, but has an impact on the battery life, as
the MBMS client needs to wake up at every new MSP.
In MBSFN, complete subframes are allocated within the MSP (see clause 15.3.3
in 3GPP TS 36.300 [19]), the transport blocks for MBSFN uses all the resource
blocks of the given carrier. Considering the short length of the voice IP
packets, it may be assumed that at each MSP all the packets for the same call
will be transported within the same transport block. Transport blocks cannot
be partially acquired by the UE, they are either successfully received or
lost.
With the SYNC protocol (see 3GPP TS 25.446 [15]), the BM-SC can control
exactly what is sent in each MCH scheduling period if the SYNC sequence
duration is equal to the MSP.
NOTE: If the MBMS mechanism is SC-PTM, the BM-SC cannot control the radio
scheduling with the SYNC protocol as mentioned in 3GPP TS 36.300 [19],
subclause 15.3.7: \"In SC-PTM operation, if/how to use the timestamp
information is left to eNB implementation.\".\ Consequently the gains of this
solution on late entry KPI can only be evaluated for MBSFN.
#### 6.15.2.2 Alignment of the full header packets with the MCH Scheduling
Period
Header compression introduces an additional delay in the late entry KPI if the
first packet of the call within the first received transport block is not a
full header packet. All packets before the first full header packet cannot be
decoded and are discarded.
Considering the AMR WB voice codec for which the delay frame size is 20 ms and
the scheduling aspect of MBSFN, the graph below illustrates the benefits of
aligning the full header packets with the MSP, with MSP set to 80 ms and one
full header every 4 packets:
Figure 6.15.2.2-1 Scheduling aspect with or without alignment (MSP: 80 ms)
Without alignment, if the full header packet is found in the last position in
the first acquired transport block, the three first packets cannot be decoded,
leading to an additional delay of 60 ms for the late entry KPI. With
alignment, there is no additional delay.
Alignment is only possible if the full header period is a multiple of the MSP.
Within the BM-SC, alignment is made possible by the SYNC protocol as described
in the previous subclause.
The following table indicates the additional delays for the late entries for
MSP = 40 or 80 ms with full header periodicity = ½, ¼ or 1/8.
Table 6.15.2.2-1: Impact of header compression on the late entry KPI\ (The
values indicate average delays and the value in parenthesis indicates worst
case delay)
* * *
MSP (ms) Full header periodicity Impact on late entry, no alignment (ms)
Impact on late entry\ Alignment illustration with alignment (ms)
40 ½ 10 (20) 0
40 ¼ 30 (60) 20 (40)
40 1/8 70 (140) 60 (120)
80 ½ 10 (20) 0
80 ¼ 30 (60) 0
80 1/8 70 (140) 40 (80)
* * *
With an MSP of 40 ms and a full header periodicity of ½, the bandwidth gain is
not balanced by an additional late entry delay. With a full header periodicity
of 1/4, the alignment lowers the average late entry delay by 10 ms, and the
maximum late entry by 20 ms.
With a MSP of 80 ms, the periodicity of ½ has no interest, as 1/4 periodicity
has no impact on the late entry delay and offers better bandwidth gain.
Without alignment, ¼ periodicity would lead to an additional late entry delay
of 60 ms in the worst case.
3GPP TS 22.179 [2] requires a late entry below 150 ms (KPI 4a, late entry
without encryption) or below 350 ms (KPI 4b, late entry with encryption).
In MBSFN, with a MSP set to 80 ms, if the UE has no up-to-date MCCH content,
3GPP TR 36.868 [24] evaluates the average late entry delay to 275 ms, with the
worst case of 525 ms. By locating the header compression function within the
BM-SC, with a full header periodicity of 1/4, no delay would be added to the
late entry.
### 6.15.3 Architecture and call flow
Several UDP flows may be multiplexed within a MBMS bearer allocated by the
MCPTT server. The set of UDP flows for MCPTT calls is compressed with the
profile 1 of RoHC (for IP/UDP/RTP). The UDP for the general purpose sub-
channel, used for floor control and call control, shall be compressed with the
profile 2 of RoHC (for IP/UDP).
To distinguish the UDP flows between MCPTT calls and the general purpose sub-
channel, the BM-SC need the destination IP address and port number allocated
for the general purpose sub-channel. This solution proposes that the SDP
announced to the MCPTT clients is also communicated by the MCPTT server to the
BM-SC, as also proposed in solution 6-1. Destination IP address and port
number of the general purpose sub-channel are indicated within the SDP (clause
14.2.2.2 in 3GPP TS 24.379 [13]).
When creating a pre-established MBMS bearer, the MCPTT server's request to the
BM-SC shall include the following new elements:
\- a boolean indicator, to activate the header compression or not;
\- a full header periodicity, if header compression is required; and
\- the SDP to be announced to the MCPTT clients.
NOTE: The full header periodicity is added in the request to allow the MCPTT
to manage precisely the allocated bandwidth.
### 6.15.4 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
\- The MB2-C interface is modified: In the Create Bearer Request message, to
activate RoHC, the MCPTT server includes the new elements listed in 6.14.3;
\- The BM-SC needs to support RoHC for Mission Critical services;
\- Other impacts are shared with solution 10-1;
\- The RoHC component needs to be supported within the UE; and
\- Add information about ROHC in the MBMS bearer announcement message (context
identifier ranges, compression profiles) for MBMS bearers (TMGIs) which will
support header compression
### 6.15.5 Solution evaluation
The solution introduces header compression for media streams transported over
MBMS, and limits or nullifies the late entry delay. The MB-2 extension
proposed in this solution does not modify the existing call flows.
Editor\'s note: SA4, SA2 are required to help evaluating feasibility and
impact of this solution.
## 6.16 Solution 11-1: Reporting of MBMS bearer suspension.
### 6.16.1 Description
This subclause discusses the potential solution for the key issue 11 in
subclause 5.11.
Pre-emption of bearers can take place in the BM-SC, MBMS-GW, MME, MCE and eNB
based on Allocation and Retention Priority (ARP, see subclause 6.3 of 3GPP TS
23.246 [8]), which is outside control of the GCS AS.
RAN may also suspend the MBMS transmission while keeping MBMS context. At some
point, the RAN (MCE) may determine that it can resume a suspended MBMS
transmission, e.g. when the congestion is over (see subclause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
23.468 [11]). The decision which of the suspended MBMS bearers to resume may
be based on e.g. the ARP and QCI for the corresponding MBMS service(s).
If resumption of a bearer needs to be done by the GCS AS, then signalling
needs to be in place to signal bearer suspension to the GCS AS.
### 6.16.2 Procedure
The procedure for signalling of bearer suspension can use the same procedure
as used for signalling the result of bearer activation in solution 9-1 (see
subclause 6.13.2).
### 6.16.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
See subclause 6.13.3.
### 6.16.4 Solution evaluation
Events such as a bearer failing to be activated or being pre-empted are
equally important to the GCS AS. The solution evaluation in subclause 6.13.4
for failure of bearer activation (see subclause 6.13.4) applies equally well
for the present key issue.
## 6.17 Solution 11-2: MBMS suspension notification
### 6.17.1 Description
This subclause presents a solution for a UE based notification of MBMS
suspension, and addresses key issue 11.
The MBMS functionality in E-UTRAN gives the MCE the ability to request the eNB
to release the allocated RAN resources for MBMS while keeping the MBMS context
for that service in the eNB. Currently there are no notification sent back to
the GCS AS when the MCE takes such decision. An MBMS suspension indication is
sent from the eNB over Uu in the MSI (MCH Scheduling Information).
In MC services it is required that the EPS informs the MC service servers when
the MBMS service cannot be delivered, hence a MBMS suspension decision should
be notified to the GCS AS. Since an MBMS suspension indication is sent to the
UE, there are two different approaches to send the MBMS suspension
notification to the GCS AS. One way is to inform the application layer about
the suspension through signalling through the core network, meaning that the
MCE sends a notification indication to the GCS AS via MME, MBMS GW and BM-SC
Such alternative is described in solution 11-1.
Another way to solve this is to let the MC service client inform the GCS AS
about the MBMS suspension indication that the MC service UE can detect from
the MSI. The drawback of such solution is that when there is a high
concentration of UEs within one cell, there is a risk that all MC service
client reports the MBMS suspension at the same time, which may cause an
overload by itself. The procedure specified below mitigates this issue.
In this solution the MC service client is requested by the MC service server
to send a MBMS suspension report. This request for MBMS suspension report can
be included in the MBMS bearer announcement and the MC service server can
choose to only send this request for MBMS suspension report to a subset of all
MC service clients.
### 6.17.2 Procedure
The information flow below defines a procedure in which the MC service client
notifies the MC service server about an MBMS suspension decision in RAN.
The MC service server can decide on a subset of all UE's in the MBMS broadcast
area that shall report on MBMS bearer suspension. When the MC service server
makes the decision on the UE subset, consideration must be taken to the
location of the UEs, since UEs location changes dynamically. This means that
the MBMS suspension reporting instruction may need to be updated regularly
based on the UEs mobility.
Pre-conditions:
\- It is assumed that there is at least one active MBMS bearer
Figure 6.17.2-1: MBMS suspension notification from MC service client
1\. The MC service server sends an MBMS suspension reporting instruction to
the MC service client.
NOTE 1: This message may be included in the MBMS bearer announcement message.
2\. RAN decides to suspend the MBMS bearer, according to existing procedures
in 3GPP TS 36.300 [19].
3\. An MBMS suspension indication is sent in the MSI (MCH Scheduling
Information), according to existing procedures in 3GPP TS 36.300 [19].
4\. The MC service client detects the MBMS suspension and sends an MBMS
suspension report.
MC service client that is not instructed to send an MBMS suspension report
should still detect the MBMS suspension indication from RAN (step 3). An MC
service client shall in this case not send other types of report (e.g. MBMS
listening reports).
The same procedure can be applied at MBMS resumption or other MBMS events that
can be detected by the MC service client.
### 6.17.3 Impact on the existing nodes and functionality
There is no impact on the current RAN and core nodes.
New procedures are needed in the MC service server and the MC service client.
### 6.17.4 Solution evaluation
The solution is a UE centric procedure that address key issue 11, with no
impact on RAN or core network.
The solution provides an efficient way to report MBMS suspension to the MC
service server. In a high load scenario the MC service server may decide to
apply this solution on a subset of all UEs to mitigate the issue with too many
UE's reporting the same MBMS suspension. In this case the location information
of the UEs is critical and the subset of UEs that shall report the suspension
should be re-evaluated based on the mobility of the UEs.
## 6.18 Solution 12-1: Media delivery for MC service clients in MBMS MC
receive-only mode
### 6.18.1 Description
This subclause discusses a potential solution for the key issue 12 in
subclause 5.12.
For MC service clients, MBMS MC receive-only mode is defined as a state
characterized by the absence of any DL and UL unicast bearers associated with
the MC PDN, while the UE is receiving or is capable of receiving media and
media control packets on DL MBMS bearers controlled by the MC PDN. While in
this operating mode, it is possible that the UE may be idle or connected in
other PDNs or the RAN.
To enter this operating mode, the MC service client follows existent
functionality, and performs first its affiliations and sessions set ups and
then receives the MBMS Bearer Announcement message(s) on a unicast bearer.
Eventually, the MC service client is signalled to transition to the MBMS MC
receive-only mode and then the UE and the RAN may release the unicast radio
resources, while starting or continuing in MBMS mode.
Transition to the MBMS MC receive-only mode is initiated by the MC service
server, but the MC User can indicate a preference or acceptability for this
mode when affiliating to a group. Transition out of the MBMS receive-only mode
can be initiated by either the MC service server or the MC service client: in
this case unicast bidirectional connection is restored between the MC service
server and the MC service client.
The rest of this subclause discusses this mechanism and describes the required
additions.
### 6.18.2 Procedure
The procedure for transitioning to and from MBMS MC receive-only mode is shown
in Figure 6.18.2-1.The flow shows the case when the transition out of the MBMS
MC receive-only mode is initiated by the MC service server via signalling on
an MBMS bearer.
The pre-conditions are:
\- The MC service server and the MC service client can communicate via a
bidirectional unicast bearer.
\- The MC service server can use MBMS service to distribute media and media
control.
Figure 6.18.2-1: Transitions to and from MBMS MC receive-only mode
1\. Media and floor control are being sent on MBMS bearer(s). The unicast
bearer between the server and the client is available.
2\. The MC service server decides to place the client in MBMS MC receive-only
mode. This decision is implementation specific.
3\. The MC service server sends the go to MBMS MC receive-only mode message
which may contain the specific criteria for when the client has to initiate a
unicast bearer restoration attempt (e.g. expiration of a timer, failure to
receive certain TMGIs, sending location reporting information and other group
metadata). Some criteria (user action, reception of a page) are implicit and
do not need to be signalled. The MC service client enters an operating mode
where it continues receiving packets on the MBMS bearers, but it does not send
any messages.
4\. The MC service client stops the use of the unicast bearer between the UE
and RAN. The UE may release the radio bearer and go to RRC_IDLE, while
continuing to receive MBMS bearers.
5\. The MC service server decides to bring the MC service client out of MBMS
MC receive-only mode to utilize unicast signaling.
6\. The order to client to come back from MBMS MC receive-only mode message is
sent over an MBMS bearer on the application level signalling MBMS bearer. The
message may contain the mission critical identities (encrypted) associated
with the subset of clients to which it is addressed. The message orders the
client to start unicast bearer restoration either immediately (shown here) or
upon completion of ongoing calls. Alternatively the message can only modify
certain operational parameters (e.g. group priority, unicast restoration
criterias, location reporting configuration), but leave the client in the MBMS
receive-only mode.
7\. The MC service client and/or the MC service server can decide to initiate
unicast bearer restoration based on the need to send or receive any data.
### 6.18.3 Change of cell in MBMS MC receive-only mode
When a client receives the go to MBMS MC receive-only mode message,
information elements within the message may indicate lists of TMGIs that need
to be available on MBMS bearers in any new cell after the UE moves in it. If
at least one of the required TMGI is not available and the client is
interested in a group that is not currently receiving, the client will
initiate unicast restoration procedures. Otherwise, the client will continue
in the MBMS MC receive-only mode until a different unicast restoration
criterion is triggered (e.g. timer expiration, user action, reception of a
page, or arrival of an order to client to come back from MBMS MC receive-only
mode message addressed to it).
### 6.18.4 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The MC service server and the MC service client are impacted, as they need to
support the new functionality, particularly the two new messages: go to MBMS
receive-only mode and order to client in MBMS MC receive-only mode. The
solution does not affect current functionality or signaling.
The BM-SC, the MBMS-GW and the MB2 interface are not affected.
The RAN already supports transitions of UEs to and from idle mode and
reception of MBMS bearers while the UE is in idle mode. No new or different
functionality is required from RAN to support the proposed capability.
### 6.18.5 Solution evaluation
This solution covers the basic functionality related to an MBMS MC receive-
only: transition to and from this operating mode and handling of cell changes
while in the receive-only state. MBMS MC receive-only mode is particularly
useful when a large number (e.g. up to 2000 per cell) of users is in the same
area. The functionality enables graceful restoration of previous operating
modes and continuity of media reception during transitions.
The solution builds upon existing signalling procedures which are not changed.
Only extensions are being proposed.
## 6.19 Solution 13-1: Location reporting
### 6.19.1 Solution description
#### 6.19.1.1 General
For the MC service server to make an intelligent decision on where to activate
multicast resources the MC service server may use different sources of
information, where the MC service UE's physical location is essential. The MC
service server may use any type of location data from the MC service UE.
However when activating MBMS bearer it is the MBMS SAI or a list of cells or
both that can be used over MB2-C, as specified in 3GPP TS 23.468 [10]. The MC
service UE will receive the MBMS SAI from SIB-15 and the cell ID on SIB-1.
Even if a MBMS bearer can be activated based on a list of cell IDs, it is
always the MBMS SAI that is used by BM-SC to route the MBMS session start
request towards RAN. In 3GPP TS 23.246 [8] it is specified that when a cell ID
list is included in the Session Start Request message, E-UTRAN may use it to
determine a set of radio resources to be used for the broadcast. Based on the
cell ID list, the set of radio resources selected may be reduced from the full
set of resources defined by the MBMS service area. The E-UTRAN ensures that
all of its corresponding nodes make the same decision on the reduced set.
When using a cell list in the MBMS bearer activation request, the activated
set of cells that is used in the MBMS service area is unknown to the MC
service server and the UE. This information is only known to RAN. This does
not give a predictable broadcast area. This is not desirable in scenarios
where the incident (or event) area is known for the MC service organization,
but does not reflect in real-time the actual locations of all users. A typical
scenario would be a surveillance of a parade or a protest march.
In a MC high load scenario there is a desire to minimize the location
reporting. According to the informative scalability requirements of 3GPP TS
22.179 [2] there may be 2000 users in one cell. In such scenario it can be
assumed that neighbouring cells also have many users and that there are many
users at the cell borders that are subject to cell reselection procedures.
Reporting location information at every cell change in this scenario it is not
desirable as it will cause a high load of location reports.
To minimize the location reporting and to avoid that the MC service client
reports every cell change the following two aspects may be considered:
\- Use MBMS SAI (without the use of cell list) when activating MBMS bearers.
This improves the predictability of which cells that the E‑UTRAN activates.
\- Configure the MC service UE to report MBMS SAI change under certain
conditions.
Below different MC service UE mobility scenarios are described with
corresponding conditions for location reporting.
In the scenarios below it is assumed that all cells in the MBMS SAI are
activated and that the MC service client is experiencing good MBMS reception.
If the radio condition is weak or one cell within the MBMS SAI was not
activated for any reason the MC service client will send the normal MBMS
listening report. The figures only illustrate the starting point for mobility.
When the MC service UE leaves one MBMS SAI it is fully valid that it enters a
new MBMS SAI with good reception, i.e. it may still be able to receive MC
communication over a multicast channel.
#### 6.19.1.2 Scenario 1 -- Mobility within an MBMS SAI
In this scenario an MC service UE can move freely within the MBMS SAI without
sending a location report at every cell reselection. The MC service UE must
send a location report when moving outside the MBMS SAI.
Figure 6.19.1.2-1: MC service UE reports location information only when
leaving the MBMS SAI
#### 6.19.1.3 Scenario 2 -- Mobility within one MBMS bearer
In this scenario an MBMS bearer is activated with a list of MBMS SAIs. This
means that the same content is broadcasted in the whole MBMS bearer in several
MBMS SAIs.
This assumes that the concept of flow ID is not used. If flow ID is used see
the mobility scenario 3.
The MC service UE may move freely within the MBMS SAIs that broadcast the same
MBMS bearer (same TMGI) without sending a location report at every cell
reselection. The MC service UE must send a location report at MBMS SAI change
when moving outside the MBMS SAIs that broadcast the same MBMS bearer (TMGI
1).
Figure 6.19.1.3-1: MC service UE reports location information when leaving the
MBMS bearer broadcast area
#### 6.19.1.4 Scenario 3 -- Mobility between MBMS bearers (with Flow ID or
Session ID)
In this scenario an MBMS bearer is activated with a list of MBMS SAIs. This
scenario allows the use of flow IDs and may be viewed as a more comprehensive
solution than scenario 2. In this scenario as illustrated in figure 6.19.1.4-1
the MC service UE may move in three different MBMS SAIs. Both MBMS SAI1 and
MBMS SAI2 broadcast the same content. The third (MBMS SAI 3) may broadcast the
same content but may also broadcast something that is more relevant for the
users in that specific area. The MC service UE is not aware of the different
flow IDs used. This means that it is not possible based on the TMGI being
broadcasted to determine that location report is needed when entering MBMS SAI
3 but it is not needed when entering MBMS SAI 2.
One alternative solution is to require the MC service UE to report location
information at every MBMS SAI change. Such a solution would give the MC
service server the correct location information to make a proper decision for
MBMS usage. However, if small MBMS SAIs are used and there is a high number of
UEs in the area, this will lead to a high number of location reports.
A second alternative solution is to use the MBMS session ID. The BM-SC may
assign a MBMS session ID for the MBMS session, which is broadcasted in the
(SC-)MCCH if it is assigned. If the MBMS session ID is used the MC service
client may detect that there is one MBMS session ID for the MBMS bearer in
MBMS SAI 1 and MBMS SAI 2 and that there is another MBMS session ID on the
MBMS bearer in MBMS SAI 3. Based on the different value of the MBMS session
IDs, the MC service client can decide to send a location report only when
entering the MBMS SAI 3. If the MC service client has sent a location report
in the new MBMS SAI3 and then moves back to MBMS SAI2 then the MC service
client must send a new location report.
Figure 6.19.1.4-1: MC service UE moves between MBMS bearers (and flow IDs)
#### 6.19.1.5 Scenario 4 -- Mobility and using a separate MBMS bearer for
control messages
One scenario is to use an MBMS bearer to carry MC application level control
signalling e.g. call and floor control messages. In figure 6.19.1.5-1 an MBMS
bearer (TMGI 9) is used for such purpose. In this scenario there may be one
(TMGI 1) or several (TMGI 1 and TMGI 2) MBMS media bearers that are used for
MC communication services. A MC client listening to TMGI 9 will become aware
of all MC communication that is going on in both TMGI1 and TMGI2. This means
that there is no reason for the MC client to immediately report a location
information when moving between the three MBMS SAIs in the figure.
From the MC service server perspective it is important to know the MC service
UE location so the GCS AS can make a proper decision on which traffic to
broadcast on the two MBMS bearers. However, if the MC service UE has moved to
another MBMS SAI (that still is covered by the MC application level control
bearer), the MC service client is aware of the communication that is going on
or is starting in the MBMS SAI that the MC service UE has just left. If the MC
service client notices that it needs to receive the communication being
broadcasted in the previous MBMS SAI, it can inform the MC service server
about its new location (over unicast) so that the group communication for this
UE is broadcasted over the SAI the UE is currently located.
NOTE: Although the MC service client does not have to report the new location
immediately, it is still of interest to the MC service server to know the new
location, to make proper decision on how to use the MBMS bearer in an optimal
way.
Figure 6.19.1.5-1: Mobility when using an MBMS bearer for application level
control signalling
### 6.19.2 Procedures
#### 6.19.2.1 General
The location procedure defined for MCPTT in 3GPP TS 23.179 [6] supports the
location reporting scenario 1 and 2 in subclause 6.19.1. Additional support
for location reporting triggers conditions for scenario 3 and 4 are needed.
The procedure described in subclause 6.19.2.2 is based on the location
procedure defined in 3GPP TS 23.179 [6] with some additions based on the
description above.
#### 6.19.2.2 Event-triggered location reporting procedure
The MC service server provides location reporting configuration to the MC
service clients, indicating what information the MC service server expects and
what events will trigger the sending of this information to the MC service
server. The decision to report location information can be triggered at the MC
service client by different conditions, e.g., the reception of the location
reporting configuration, initial registration, distance travelled, elapsed
time, cell change, MBMS SAI change, MBMS session change, leaving a specific
MBMS bearer service area, tracking area change, PLMN change, MC service client
session call initiation, or other types of events such as MC service emergency
alert, MC service emergency call or MCPTT imminent peril calls.
Figure 6.19.2.2-1: Event-triggered location reporting procedure
1\. The MC service server sends location reporting configuration message to
the MC service client(s) containing the initial configuration (or a subsequent
update) for reporting the location of the MC service UE. This message can be
sent over a unicast bearer to a specific MC service client or as a group
message over an MBMS bearer to update the location reporting configuration for
multiple MC service clients at the same time.
2\. A location reporting event occurs, triggering step 3.
3\. The MC service client sends a location information report to the MC
service server, containing location information identified by the MC service
server and available to the MC service client.
### 6.19.3 Impact on the existing nodes and functionality
There is no impact on RAN or core network.
New procedures are needed at the application layer between MC service server
and in the MC service client.
### 6.19.4 Solution evaluation
The location reporting procedures already defined for MCPTT in 3GPP TS 23.179
[6] needs to be enhanced and included (or shared) in other MC services.
## 6.20 Solution 14-1: MBMS when roaming
### 6.20.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue 14.
The MC user may use MC communication services when roaming. The roaming
architectures models defined in subclause 4.3 apply in these cases. There are
two aspects that need to be considered:
\- TMGIs contain the PLMN ID and are therefore unique for each PLMN; and
\- MBMS SAIs are not globally unique.
In the scenario where a user roams in a visited PLMN and receives media from
MBMS bearers, several TMGIs are included in the service announcement
procedure. In 3GPP TS 26.346 [16] a list of alternative TMGIs is defined for
that purpose. A similar approach can be used for MC services, hence the MBMS
bearer announcement procedure needs to be enhanced.
For location reporting including MBMS SAI, the MC service server also need to
receive and utilize the PLMN ID, to uniquely identify the correct MBMS SAI.
Editor's note: The usage of MBMS in interconnect and migration scenarios has
not been further studied.
Editor's note: The usage of shared MBMS network as studied by SA2 in 3GPP TR
23.746 [12] has not been further studied.
### 6.20.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The MBMS bearer announcement information flow needs to be updated with an
alternative TMGI.
### 6.20.3 Solution evaluation
One part of the key issue 14 can be solved by an update to the MBMS bearer
announcement.
## 6.21 Solution 15-1: Usage of IP Differentiated Services
### 6.21.1 Description
This subclause discusses a potential solution for key issue 15.
Solution 3-1 on MBMS bearer quality detection allows the MC service client to
report the current MBMS bearer quality to the MC service server. It is not
relevant to the MC service client if packets are lost on the air-interface or
anywhere else, e.g. on the M1 interface; hence solution 3-1 could also serve
as solution for key issue 15.
### 6.21.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The impact is described in subclause 6.5.3.
### 6.21.3 Solution evaluation
See subclause 6.5.4.
## 6.22 Solution 16-1: MBMS bearer usage across different MC services
### 6.22.1 Description
This subclause describes the potential solution for key issue 7 in subclause
5.7 and key issue 16 in subclause 5.16. These two key issues are caused due to
the lack of overall information of MBMS bearer usage between different MC
service servers. Therefore, the general idea is to separate the MBMS bearer
management related functions in GCS AS from the MC service servers and make it
an independent and centralized MBMS management function.
Figure 6.22.1-1 shows the high level view of the architecture for separating
MBMS management function from MC service servers.
The MBMS management server is a functional entity that provides MBMS bearer
management for all MC services and groups supported within the MC service
provider. The MBMS management server has the direct MB2-C connection with the
BM-SC. In order to serve all the MC service servers, the MBMS management
server is assumed as the role of a GCS AS and responsible for:
\- activating or establishing the MBMS bearer with BM-SC;
\- keeping track of MC service UE location with respect to MBMS bearers from
location management server;
\- announcing the MBMS bearer information to MC service UEs;
\- determining for each MC service UE involved in a given group communication
whether to use unicast or multicast transport;
\- informing the assignment of MBMS bearer for specific group communication to
MC service servers; and
\- informing the assignment of MBMS bearer for specific group communication to
MC service UEs.
The MBMS bearer can be used by any group for any MC service. Depending on the
characteristic and capability of the MBMS bearer, the MBMS bearer can be used
for one or more media types by one or more group communication sessions in
parallel.
The CSC-X reference point, which exists between the MBMS management server and
the MC service server, is used for:
\- the MC service server to request MBMS bearer for a given group; and
\- the MBMS management server to provide MBMS bearer information.
The CSC-Y reference point, which exists between the MBMS management server and
the MC service client, is used for MBMS management server to exchange MBMS
bearer information used for group communication.
The CSC-Z reference point, which exists between the MBMS management server and
the group management server, is used for MBMS management server to obtain
group information.
The CSC-W reference point, which exists between the MBMS management server and
the location management server, is used for MBMS management server to obtain
UE location information.
The CSC-B reference point between the MBMS management server and the BM-SC
utilize the MB2-C reference point.
Figure 6.22.1-1: Architecture for separating MBMS management function from MC
service server(s)
NOTE: The location management server and reference points CSC-L and CSC-C are
specified in TS 23.280[9].
Editor's note: Whether additional reference points are needed is FFS
### 6.22.2 Procedure
#### 6.22.2.1 Location information acquiring for MBMS
MBMS management server acquires the latest location information of the MC
service user from the location management server using the procedures
described in 3GPP TS 23.280 [9].
#### 6.22.2.2 Use of pre-established MBMS bearer
##### 6.22.2.2.1 General
In this scenario, the MBMS management server pre-establishes one or more MBMS
bearers in certain pre-configured areas before the initiation of the group
communication session. When a UE originates a request for group call for one
of these areas, the pre-established MBMS bearer(s) is used for the DL media
transmission.
The following steps need to be performed prior the start of the group call
over pre-established MBMS bearer:
\- MBMS bearer(s) is pre-established with BM-SC; and
\- Perform the announcement of the information of pre-established MBMS bearer
to the MCPTT clients.
When these preparation steps are done, the group call using MBMS bearer can
start. Both pre-arranged group calls and chat group calls can use the pre-
established MBMS bearer for distributing the media. The MBMS bearer can be
used by any group. Depending on the capacity of the MBMS bearer, it can be
used to broadcast one or more group calls in parallel.
Both the media packets as well as the media control messages to the receiving
users are sent on the MBMS bearer. Optionally, a separate MBMS bearer could be
used for the media control messages due to different bearer characteristic
requirements.
##### 6.22.2.2.2 Procedures
The procedure figure 6.22.2.2.2-1 shows only one of the receiving users using
MBMS bearer. There can also be users in the same group communication that
receive the call on unicast bearers.
Pre-conditions:
\- The participating users are already affiliated to the group.
Figure 6.22.2.2.2-1: Use of pre-established MBMS bearers
1a. The MBMS management server determines to activate one or more pre-
established MBMS bearers. The activation of the MBMS bearers is done on MB2-C
reference point according to 3GPP TS 23.468 [11]. These bearers will be used
for the media transmission.
1b. Optionally, the MBMS server may also activate an MBMS bearer dedicated for
floor control signalling. The activation of the MBMS bearer is done on MB2-C
reference point according to 3GPP TS 23.468 [11]. This bearer will be used for
the media control signalling.
NOTE 1: The procedure to determine the activation of MBMS bearers is
implementation specific.
2a. The MBMS management server passes the MBMS bearer information associated
with the pre-established MBMS bearers to the MC service client. The MC service
client obtains the TMGIs, identifying the MBMS bearers.
2b. The MBMS server may pass the MBMS bearer information with the pre-
established MBMS bearer used for media control signalling to the MC service
client. The MC service client obtains the TMGIs, identifying the MBMS bearers.
NOTE 2: Step 2a and Step 2b can be done in one MBMS bearer announcement
message.
3\. The MC service client stores the information associated with the TMGI(s).
The MC service client uses the TMGIs and other MBMS bearer related information
to activate the monitoring of the MBMS bearers by the UE.
4\. The MC service client that enters or is in the service area of at least
one announced TMGI indicates to the MBMS management server that the MC service
client is able to receive media over MBMS, whereby the MBMS management server
may decide to use this MBMS bearer associated with the reported TMGIs instead
of unicast bearer for the group communication.
NOTE 3: Step 4 is optional for the UE on subsequent MBMS bearer announcements.
5\. A group call is established. MC service server sends MBMS bearer request
message to the MBMS management server for using MBMS delivery. The MC group ID
and service description information e.g., codec, protocol ID and priority/QoS
for MBMS management server to determine to the MBMS bearer are included. This
request may be sent at any time after the group call is setup.
6\. The MBMS management server returns MBMS bearer usage response message to
confirm the request.
7\. The MBMS management server determines one pre-established MBMS bearer for
media data and/or media control signalling transmission for the group.
Editor's note: It is FFS how the MBMS management server handle pre-emption of
MBMS bearer.
8\. The MBMS management server sends MBMS bearer delivery notification message
over a previously activated MBMS bearer to all users that will receive the
transmission over MBMS bearer. The MBMS bearer delivery notification message
includes association information between the group communication and MBMS
bearer, i.e. MC service group ID, information about the media stream
identifier of the selected MBMS bearer.The identifier (i.e. the TMGI) of the
MBMS bearer broadcasting the call may also be included.
9\. The MBMS management server sends MBMS bearer delivery request message to
the MC service server indicating that an MBMS bearer is determined for the
requested group communication. MC service group ID and the MBMS bearer
description e.g. BM-SC IP address and port number for the user-plane are
included.
10\. Media control signalling message is sent from the MC service server to
clients over the MBMS bearer.
11\. Media flow is sent from MC service server to the other clients over the
MBMS bearer.
#### 6.22.2.3 Use of dynamic MBMS bearer establishment
##### 6.22.2.3.1 General
In this scenario, the MC service server uses a unicast bearer for
communication with the UE in the DL at the start of the group communication
session. When the group communication session is established, the MC service
server requests the MBMS management server to provide an MBMS bearer, the MBMS
management server establishes an MBMS bearer using the procedures defined in
3GPP TS 23.468 [11]. The MBMS management server provides MBMS service
description information associated with the MBMS bearer, obtained from the BM-
SC, to the MC service server and UE for the requested group. The MC service
server starts DL media transmission over the MBMS bearer, and UE starts using
the MBMS bearer to receive DL media and stops using the unicast bearer for the
DL media transmission.
NOTE 1: The MBMS management server logic for determining to establish the new
MBMS delivery bearer is implementation specific. For example, the MBMS bearer
server could establish the MBMS bearer based on the location of the UEs that
are a part of the group communication session.
##### 6.22.2.3.2 Procedures
The figure 6.22.2.3.2-1 describes the high level procedure and signalling
flows on usage of dynamically established MBMS bearer. Only one of the
receiving users using MBMS bearer is shown in the figure 6.22.2.3.2-1, there
can also be users in the same group communication that receives the call on
unicast bearer.
Figure 6.22.2.3.2-1: Use of dynamically established MBMS bearer
1\. A group communication session is established.
2a. The MC service server sends MBMS bearer request message to the MBMS
management server for using MBMS delivery. The MC group ID and service
description information, e.g. codec, protocol ID and priority/QoS are
included.
2b. The MBMS management server returns MBMS bearer usage response message to
confirmation the request.
3\. The MCservice server establishes one or more MBMS bearers for the group
communication session according to the procedures defined in 3GPP TS 23.468
[11]. MBMS bearer service description associated with the MBMS bearers is
returned from the BM-SC.
4\. The MBMS management server retrieves group information including group
members and their affiliation status from the GMS.
5\. The MBMS management server passes the MBMS bearers information to the MC
service client of the group. The MC service client obtains the TMGIs.
6\. The MC service client stores the MBMS bearer information associated with
the TMGIs, and then starts to activate the monitoring of the MBMS bearers by
the UE.
7\. The MC service client that enters or is in the service area of at least
one announced TMGI indicates to the MBMS management server that the MC service
client is able to receive media over MBMS, whereby the MBMS management server
may decide to use this MBMS bearer associated with the reported TMGIs instead
of unicast bearer for the group communication.
8\. The MBMS management server determines the dynamically established MBMS
bearers for media data and/or media control signalling transmission for the
group communication.
9\. The MBMS management server sends an MBMS bearer delivery notification
message over a previously activated MBMS bearer to all users that will receive
the transmission over MBMS bearer. The MBMS bearer delivery notification
message includes association information between the group communication and
MBMS bearer, i.e. MC service group ID, information about the media stream
identifier of the selected MBMS bearer. The identifier (i.e. the TMGI) of the
MBMS bearer broadcasting the call may also be included.
10\. The MBMS management server sends a MBMS bearer delivery request message
to the MC service server indicating that a MBMS bearer is determined for the
requested group communication. MC service group ID and the MBMS bearer
description e.g., BM-SC IP address and port number for the user-plane, and
MBMS service area identities are included.
11\. Media control signalling message is sent from the MC service server to
clients over the MBMS bearer.
12\. Media flow is sent from MC service server to the other clients over the
MBMS bearer.
### 6.22.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New functional entity is need in common service core.
New reference points between the new functional entity and MC service server,
GMS and MC service client and BM-SC are needed.
New procedures are needed in the new functional entity, MC service server, GMS
and MC service client.
### 6.22.4 Solution evaluation
This solution provides the benefit that there will be a centralized MBMS
bearer control function serving all the MC service servers for the same or
different MC services. It eliminates redundant bearer setup by a multitude of
MC service servers and can provide the priority arbitration across different
MC services.
# 7 Overall evaluation
## 7.1 General
The use of MBMS for mission critical communication services serves different
purposes. Resource efficiency is one obvious purpose; other objectives of MBMS
usage for MC services includes improved performance, queuing of call requests,
overload handling, and synchronous client reception. This clause provides the
evaluation of the MBMS architecture for MC services and evaluations on all
solutions identified in this technical report.
## 7.2 Architecture evaluation
The architectures in subclause 4.3 specify both non-roaming and roaming
architectures. The differences in the roaming models are only related to
unicast. The MBMS usage for MC communication services does not differ in the
three different roaming models.
Some solutions evaluated in this study have identified need for enhancements
on the application plane for the MBMS usage. This is valid for solution 7-1,
7-2 and 16-1.
## 7.3 Solution evaluation
The solutions specified in this technical report address a number of key
issues identified in the usage of MBMS for mission critical communication
services. Table 7.3-1 presents a summary of all solution evaluations.
Table 7.3-1: Solution evaluations
+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Key issue | Solution | Evaluation | Impact on | Valid for | | | | | other | MC services | | | | | entities | | | | | | and working | | | | | | groups | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | Solution | Provides a | This could | MCPTT, | | | 1-1: | solution | handle as a | MCData, | | | Service | for service | deployment | MCVideo | | | continuity | continuity | a | | | | between | between | lternative, | | | | MBSFN areas | different | with | | | | used by | MBSFN | optional | | | | different | areas, when | i | | | | MBMS | MBSFN areas | mprovements | | | | bearers | can be | of existing | | | | | deployed | procedures | | | | | o | in MC | | | | | verlapping. | service | | | | | Additional | client and | | | | | robustness | server. No | | | | | can be | other | | | | | achieved by | entities | | | | | using | are | | | | | information | impacted. | | | | | in | | | | | | duplicated | | | | | | packets. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Solution | The | Only new | MCPTT, | | | 1-2: | solution | procedures | MCData, | | | Service | defines a | in MC | MCVideo | | | continuity | way to | services | | | | with a | trigger a | server and | | | | UE | connection | MC service | | | | -to-Network | to a | client. No | | | | relay | UE | other | | | | | -to-Network | entities | | | | | relay to | are | | | | | continue to | impacted | | | | | receive the | | | | | | broadcasted | | | | | | service. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Solution | This | Impact on | MCPTT, | | | 1-3: | service | RAN. The | MCData, | | | Service | continuity | technical | MCVideo | | | continuity | solution | viability | | | | | provides | should be | | | | | acceptable | discussed | | | | | service | with RAN | | | | | i | WGs. | | | | | nterruption | | | | | | time, when | | | | | | a MC UE is | | | | | | required to | | | | | | stay in | | | | | | IDLE when | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | MC | | | | | | com | | | | | | munication. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | Solution | Provides a | Only new | MCPTT, | | | 2-1: MBMS | more | procedures | MCData, | | | bearer | efficient | in MC | MCVideo | | | a | service | services | | | | nnouncement | a | server and | | | | over MBMS | nnouncement | MC service | | | | bearer | procedure, | client. No | | | | | s | other | | | | | pecifically | entities | | | | | it allows | are | | | | | UEs to | impacted | | | | | remain in | | | | | | idle model | | | | | | and still | | | | | | receive | | | | | | MBMS bearer | | | | | | an | | | | | | nouncement. | | | | | | A | | | | | | nnouncement | | | | | | can be | | | | | | performed | | | | | | with | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | latency. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | Solution | The | Only new | MCPTT, | | | 3-1: MBMS | solution | procedures | MCData, | | | bearer | proposes a | in MC | MCVideo | | | quality | new | services | | | | detection | procedure | server and | | | | | in the MC | MC service | | | | | service | client. No | | | | | client that | other | | | | | makes it | entities | | | | | possible to | are | | | | | report the | impacted | | | | | current | | | | | | MBMS bearer | | | | | | quality. | | | | | | This is | | | | | | needed for | | | | | | the client | | | | | | to report | | | | | | to the MC | | | | | | service | | | | | | server that | | | | | | the MBMS | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | quality is | | | | | | acceptable | | | | | | or not. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4, 5 | Solution | Improve the | Only new | MCPTT | | | 5-1: | MCPTT call | procedures | | | | Enhanced | setup | in MC | | | | MCPTT group | procedure, | services | | | | call setup | by reducing | server and | | | | procedure | the latency | MC service | | | | with MBMS | due to | client. No | | | | bearer | normal | other | | | | | paging | entities | | | | | procedure. | are | | | | | It also | impacted | | | | | optimizes | | | | | | the of MBMS | | | | | | and unicast | | | | | | resources | | | | | | from an | | | | | | application | | | | | | perspective | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | Solution | The FEC | New | MCPTT, | | | 6-1: FEC | encoding | procedures | | | | for Mission | fu | in MC | MCVideo, | | | Critical | nctionality | services | | | | Services | is at the | server, MC | MCData | | | | BM-SC. | service | | | | | Solution | client and | | | | | reduces | BM-SC are | | | | | packet loss | added. | | | | | by adding | | | | | | latency. | The MB2-C | | | | | The | interface | | | | | increase in | needs to be | | | | | latency | modified. | | | | | appears to | The BM-SC | | | | | be within | and the UE | | | | | the limits | need to | | | | | of the | support FEC | | | | | specified | for Mission | | | | | KPIs. | Critical | | | | | Solution | Services. | | | | | allows | | | | | | exact | Impact on | | | | | placement | spe | | | | | of FEC | cifications | | | | | repair | owned by | | | | | packets | SA4 and | | | | | within | SA2. | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | blocks and | | | | | | ov | | | | | | er-the-air, | | | | | | via the | | | | | | SYNC | | | | | | protocol. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | solution | | | | | | allows the | | | | | | QoS | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | to be met | | | | | | for MCPTT | | | | | | and allows | | | | | | FEC for | | | | | | MCData and | | | | | | MCVideo | | | | | | services. | | | | | | The MB-2 | | | | | | extension | | | | | | proposed by | | | | | | this | | | | | | solution | | | | | | does not | | | | | | modify | | | | | | procedures. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Solution | The FEC | Only new | MCPTT, | | | 6-2: | encoding | procedures | MCData, | | | Mission | fu | in MC | MCVideo | | | Critical | nctionality | services | | | | S | is at the | server and | | | | erver-based | MC services | MC service | | | | FEC | servers. | client. No | | | | | Solution | other | | | | | reduces | entities | | | | | packet loss | are | | | | | by adding | impacted | | | | | latency. | | | | | | The | | | | | | increase in | | | | | | latency | | | | | | appears to | | | | | | be within | | | | | | the limits | | | | | | of the | | | | | | specified | | | | | | KPIs. | | | | | | Solution | | | | | | allows | | | | | | rapid and | | | | | | flexible MC | | | | | | server | | | | | | control | | | | | | over the | | | | | | sending of | | | | | | FEC repair | | | | | | packets. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | Solution | Eliminates | Only new | MCPTT, | | | 7-1: | redundant | procedures | MCData, | | | Service | bearer | in MC | MCVideo | | | area owning | setup by a | services | | | | MC service | multitude | server. | | | | server | of MC | | | | | distributes | service | No other | | | | media | servers. | entities | | | | | | are | | | | | | impacted | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Solution | Provides | Only new | MCPTT, | | | 7-2: MBMS | the benefit | procedures | MCData, | | | bearer | that the MC | in MC | MCVideo | | | management | service | services | | | | by MC | server | server. No | | | | service | ( | other | | | | server | controlling | entities | | | | ( | role) can | are | | | | controlling | get all the | impacted | | | | role) with | affiliated | | | | | multiple MC | MC service | | | | | service | group users | | | | | servers | location | | | | | involved | information | | | | | | to manage | | | | | | the MBMS | | | | | | bearers | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | Solution | GCS AS | The | MCPTT, | | | 8-1: GCS AS | acquires | proposed | MCData, | | | to indicate | the | solution | MCVideo | | | the | knowledge | needs to be | | | | preferred | of UE | evaluated | | | | MBMS | capability | by SA2. | | | | mechanism | and MCE's | Based on | | | | to the MCE | selected | the SA2 | | | | | MBMS | solution, | | | | | mechanism | stage 3 | | | | | due to the | sp | | | | | i | ecification | | | | | ntroduction | work need | | | | | of new | to be done | | | | | procedure | which may | | | | | in GC1 and | involve | | | | | MCE -- GCS | multiple | | | | | AS | WGs in RAN | | | | | interfaces. | and CT. | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Solution | MCE | Same with | MCPTT, | | | 8-2: MCE | determines | solution | MCData, | | | derives the | the MBMS | 8-1 | MCVideo | | | MBMS | mechanism | | | | | mechanism | based on | | | | | with the | the | | | | | interaction | interaction | | | | | with the | with the | | | | | eNB and the | RAN | | | | | UE | entities | | | | | | and | | | | | | notifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | selection | | | | | | to the GCS | | | | | | AS. GCS AS | | | | | | acquires | | | | | | the mapping | | | | | | information | | | | | | so that it | | | | | | can | | | | | | determine | | | | | | the | | | | | | delivery | | | | | | method in | | | | | | group | | | | | | com | | | | | | munication. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 9, 15 | Solution | Provides | New | MCPTT, | | | 9-1: | n | procedures | MCData, | | | N | otification | must be | MCVideo | | | otification | to GCS AS | defined in | | | | of MBMS | of | RAN and EPC | | | | bearer | activation | nodes. | | | | activation | result and | | | | | result | resource | Impact on | | | | | allocation | sp | | | | | situations | ecification | | | | | in RAN. | owned by | | | | | This is | RAN3 and | | | | | valuable | SA2 | | | | | for the | | | | | | pre | | | | | | dictability | | | | | | of the | | | | | | usage MBMS | | | | | | bearer. | | | | | | This is | | | | | | need to | | | | | | fulfil the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | for MC | | | | | | services | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | Solution | The | Only new | MCPTT, | | | 10-1: | solution | procedures | MCData, | | | Header | allows to | in MC | MCVideo | | | compression | add headers | services | | | | of MBMS | compression | server and | | | | data | for media | MC service | | | | | streams | client. No | | | | | transported | other | | | | | over MBMS, | entities | | | | | as an | are | | | | | option, | impacted | | | | | when | | | | | | needed, and | | | | | | under full | | | | | | control by | | | | | | the | | | | | | a | | | | | | pplication, | | | | | | on a call | | | | | | per call | | | | | | basis. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Solution | The | The MB2-C | MCPTT, | | | 10-2: | solution | interface | MCData, | | | header | allows | is modified | MCVideo | | | compression | adding | | | | | function | headers | Support for | | | | within the | compression | RoHC in MC | | | | BM‑SC | for media | services | | | | | streams | server and | | | | | transported | MC service | | | | | over MBMS, | client. | | | | | and limits | | | | | | or | | | | | | nullifies | | | | | | the late | | | | | | entry | | | | | | delay. The | | | | | | MB-2 | | | | | | extension | | | | | | proposed in | | | | | | this | | | | | | solution | | | | | | does not | | | | | | modify the | | | | | | existing | | | | | | call flows. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 11 | Solution | This | New | MCPTT, | | | 11-1: | solution is | procedures | MCData, | | | Reporting | based on | must be | MCVideo | | | of MBMS | the | defined in | | | | bearer | procedure | RAN and EPC | | | | suspension | in solution | nodes. | | | | | 9-1. See | | | | | | evaluation | Impact on | | | | | for | sp | | | | | solution | ecification | | | | | 9-1. | owned by | | | | | | RAN3 and | | | | | | SA2 | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Solution | Provides a | Only new | MCPTT, | | | 11-2: MBMS | client | procedures | MCData, | | | suspension | based | in MC | MCVideo | | | n | reporting | services | | | | otification | function of | server and | | | | | MBMS | MC service | | | | | suspension. | client. No | | | | | Can also be | other | | | | | used in | entities | | | | | high load | are | | | | | scenario | impacted | | | | | with a | | | | | | reduced set | | | | | | of clients | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | detection | | | | | | of MBMS | | | | | | suspension | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 12 | Solution | Enables a | Only new | Required | | | 12-1: Media | receive | procedures | for MCPTT, | | | delivery | only mode | in MC | beneficial | | | for MC | for MC | services | for MCVideo | | | service | service | server and | and MCData | | | clients in | client | MC service | | | | MBMS MC | which is a | client. No | | | | r | crticial | other | | | | eceive-only | feature | entities | | | | mode | when a | are | | | | | large | impacted | | | | | number of | | | | | | users are | | | | | | located in | | | | | | the same | | | | | | cell. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 13 | Solution | The | Only new | MCPTT, | | | 13-1: | solution is | procedures | MCData, | | | Location | based on | in MC | MCVideo | | | reporting | existing | services | | | | | location | server and | | | | | reporting | MC service | | | | | procedures | client. No | | | | | with | other | | | | | updates on | entities | | | | | additional | are | | | | | location | impacted. | | | | | reporting | | | | | | criteria | | | | | | and an | | | | | | addition of | | | | | | using MBMS | | | | | | bearers to | | | | | | send | | | | | | location | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | updates. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 14 | Solution | A solution | Only new | MCPTT, | | | 14-1: MBMS | for MBMS | information | MCData, | | | when | bearer | flow in MC | MCVideo | | | roaming | a | services | | | | | nnouncement | server and | | | | | in roaming | MC service | | | | | scenario is | client. No | | | | | proposed. | other | | | | | | entities | | | | | | are | | | | | | impacted. | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 16 | Key issue | This | New | MCPTT, | | | 16 -- MBMS | solution | functional | MCData, | | | bearer | introduces | entity is | MCVideo | | | usage | a | need in | | | | across | centralized | common | | | | different | MBMS bearer | service | | | | MC services | control | core. | | | | | function | | | | | | serves all | New | | | | | the MC | reference | | | | | service | points | | | | | servers for | between the | | | | | the same or | new | | | | | different | functional | | | | | MC | entity and | | | | | services. | MC service | | | | | It | server, GMS | | | | | eliminates | and MC | | | | | redundant | service | | | | | bearer | client and | | | | | setup by a | BM-SC are | | | | | multitude | needed. | | | | | of MC | | | | | | service | New | | | | | servers and | procedures | | | | | can provide | are needed | | | | | the | in the new | | | | | priority | functional | | | | | arbitration | entity, MC | | | | | across | service | | | | | different | server, GMS | | | | | MC | and MC | | | | | services. | service | | | | | It can | client. | | | | | provide | | | | | | utmost | | | | | | loose | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | with MC | | | | | | service | | | | | | application | | | | | | and high | | | | | | scalability | | | | | | to be a | | | | | | common | | | | | | fu | | | | | | nctionality | | | | | | used by | | | | | | more | | | | | | ap | | | | | | plications. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# 8 Conclusions
## 8.1 General
During the study on MBMS usage for MC communication service 16 key issues has
been identified. To these key issues a number of solution has been discussed
and evaluated.
The assumption and architecture requirements are covered in clause 4. Three
different roaming architectures, based on the GCSE architectures are
considered. However, the difference in these roaming architectures is only
related to how unicast traffic is handled. From the MBMS perspective the
interface remains the same for all three alternatives, i.e. the use of MB2
between the GCS AS in an MC service provider domain towards the BM-SC in a
visited operator network domain.
The study has not considered the use of a shared MBMS network, as currently
being studied by SA2 in 3GPP TR 23.746 [12].
In the following subclauses conclusions on all solutions are drawn. A general
conclusion is that solutions that have dependencies on enhancements in RAN,
MBMS core or in both should be discussed with related working groups. It is
recommended to start such dialogue upon this conclusion. In these cases the
time schedule for Rel-14 is a challenge to reach. The exact timing for the
solution to be introduced to the normative specifications will depend on the
discussion at respective working groups. The determining factors may include
areas such as:
1\. Complexities of the issue and the respective solution;
2\. How many working groups are involved for the normative work;
3\. The timing the respective working groups can take up the work based on
their work load.
## 8.2 Conclusions on key issues
### 8.2.1 Key issue 1 - Service continuity
For the service continuity key issue there are different solutions for the
different service continuity scenarios. The different solutions are not
competing and all are applicable for a good support for service continuity.
Solutions that do not have any RAN or MBMS core impact may be implemented in
Rel-14. One of the solutions for service continuity, has RAN impact, and is
therefore a candidate for Rel-15.
### 8.2.2 Key issue 2 - Service announcement
An efficient service announcement procedure is needed specifically when using
several MBMS bearers. The service announcement only impacts the MC service
server and the MC service client; therefore the proposed solution is
recommended to be implemented in Rel-14.
### 8.2.3 Key issue 3 - MBMS bearer reception acknowledgement
The solution for detecting MBMS bearer reception quality, handling of resource
shortage and improved performance are all application layer related. There is
no impact on RAN and MBMS core networks. The recommendation is to specify
normative procedures under Rel-14 work items.
### 8.2.4 Key issue 4 - Handling resource shortage
The solution for key issue 5 solves key issue 4 as well. It provides an
enhanced MCPTT group call setup procedure. It is recommended to include this
solution in the Rel-14 normative work.
### 8.2.5 Key issue 5 - Performance (KPI 3)
The solution for key issue 5 provides improvements for MCPTT performance and
only impacts the MCPTT client and the MCPTT server. It is recommended to
include this solution in the Rel-14 normative work.
### 8.2.6 Key issue 6 - Usage of Forward Error Correction (FEC)
Two solutions were proposed and evaluated: Solution 6-1 "FEC for Mission
Critical Services" and Soltion 6-2 "Mission Critical Server-based FEC". It is
concluded that:
\- The solutions are similar in their functional capabilities, with difference
being the placement of the FEC encoding function (BM-SC for Solution 6-1 and
MC service server for Solution 6-2). The solutions are equal from the MC
client perspective.
\- Use of FEC for MCVideo is supported by both solutions and is recommended
for inclusion in normative specifications.
\- Use of FEC for the MCData File Distribution service is supported by both
solutions and is recommended for inclusion in normative specifications. As FEC
cannot guarantee zero packet loss, additional File Repair capabilities are
recommended.
\- Use of FEC for MCPTT service is supported by both solutions and can be
recommended for inclusion in normative specifications. Although, further study
is useful to clarify whether the gain is bigger that the overhead as some
packet loss might be acceptable for MCPTT.
\- Solution 6-2 allows a full control of the delivery by the Mission Critical
solution provider and does not modify the MB2 interface.
\- Solution 6-1 relies on existing BM-SC functionalities and re-uses
efficiency gains due to the close interconnection between the BM-SC and RAN.
\- Both solutions should be further evaluated and considered as candidates for
inclusion in Rel-15 work.
\- A dialogue should be initiated with working groups impacted by solution
6.1.
### 8.2.7 Key issue 7 -- MBMS bearer management involving multiple MCPTT
servers
The solutions for management of MBMS bearers involving multiple MCPTT servers
do not have any impact on RAN or MBMS core networks. Two solutions have been
studied. An implementation of one of these solutions is feasible and
recommended for Rel-14.
The solutions for key issue 16 may also be used to solve this key issue.
Editor's note: The recommended solution for implementation is to be decided.
### 8.2.8 Key issue 8 -- Cohesive MBMS operation
This key issue 8 is related to the two MBMS transmission modes in RAN, and
that RAN is not aware of the UE MBMS capability or the MC group information. A
decision on a solution for this should be evaluated in SA2 due to its
architectural nature. It will require dialogue with RAN working groups.
### 8.2.9 Key issue 9 - Notification on MBMS bearer activation result
The solution for notification on MBMS bearer activation result has an impact
on RAN and MBMS core procedures and interfaces. It is recommended to start a
dialogue with involved working groups. The consequences if this is not
implemented is an increased unicast signalling when MBMS bearer activation is
not successful or if a MBMS bearer is pre-empted or overloaded.
### 8.2.10 Key issue 10 - Header compression of MBMS data
The evaluation of using header compression for small packets shows that header
compression has significant advantages. There are two competing solutions for
header compression. One of the solutions has RAN and MBMS core impact and the
other solution only MC service server and MC service client impact. Header
compression is already supported in RAN and MBMS core for UTRAN. Based on this
a conclusions should be drawn after a dialogue with other relevant working
groups.
### 8.2.11 Key issue 11 -- Handling MBMS bearer suspension
There are two partly competing solutions handling of MBMS bearer suspension.
One of the solutions can be based on the same concept as the solution 9-1,
which provides a MBMS bearer activation notification procedure. That procedure
is identified as needed for another key issues (see subclause 5.9) and in that
sense the two solutions may co-exist.
### 8.2.12 Key issue 12 -- MBMS media delivery while UE in idle mode
The solution for key issue 12 provides a new feature that allows the UE to
enter an application specific idle mode. This is needed in a high load
scenario. The solution has only an impact on the application layer, and new
procedures are needed in the MC service server and in the MC service client.
### 8.2.13 Key issue 13 -- Location information reporting
The solution for location reporting is recommended to be implemented in
Rel-14. There is no impact on other working groups. Only a minor enhancement
on existing location reporting has been identified.
### 8.2.14 Key issue 14 -- MBMS usage in roaming, interconnect and migration
scenarios
Key issue 14 covers different aspects in roaming, interconnect and migration
scenarios. A solution for MBMS bearer announcement that also works in a
roaming scenario has been analysed and is recommended for Rel-14. Other
aspects that are more related to the architecture requires additional study.
MBMS usage in migration and interconnect scenarios has not been covered in
this technical report. The migration and interconnect part of key issue 14 may
also be within the scope of the study item: Study on mission critical system
migration and interconnect between MCPTT systems.
### 8.2.15 Key issue 15 - Packet drop due to IP Differentiated Services
Key issue 15 can be solved by the solution to key issue 9, and the same
conclusion can be drawn.
### 8.2.16 Key issue 16 -- MBMS bearer usage across different MC services
The solution for key issue 16, proposes a new functional entity for MBMS
bearer management. This solution requires further study, both for the MBMS
parts specifically as well as for other parts e.g. the need for a common
location reporting function. It is proposed to postpone a further evaluation
and conclusion on the solution in Rel-15.
## 8.3 Normative Rel-14 work
The following solutions have been agreed in the Rel-14 technical
specifications for MC services:
Solution 1-1: Service continuity between MBSFN areas used by different MBMS
bearers
Solution 1-2: Service continuity with a UE-to-Network relay
Solution 2-1: MBMS bearer announcement over MBMS bearer
Solution 3-1: MBMS bearer quality detection
Solution 5-1: Enhanced MCPTT group call setup procedure with MBMS bearer
Solution 11-2: Reporting of MBMS bearer suspension
Solution 13-1: Location information reporting
Solution 14-1: MBMS when roaming
###### ### Annex A: Performance evaluation of solution 6-1 for MCPTT
# A.1 MBMS Bearer Simulation Model
In 3GPP TR 26.947 [17], a set of detailed models is described for the loss
distribution in the MBMS channel, in order to evaluate the efficiency of
alternative FEC solutions for commercial services. These models have been
reused in 3GPP TR 26.989 [18] for the selection of the MCPTT codecs.
Subclauses A.1.1, A.1.2 are largely based on Annex A.1 from 3GPP TS 26.989
[18] and are partially reproduced here for convenience.
## A.1.1 Coverage
When multiple participants in a group are located in a single cell the system
can reduce the resources needed to support the users by having them share an
MBMS bearer. This MBMS bearer has the following characteristics:
1) It is not power-controlled. There is no dynamic feedback by which the eNB
can decide to dynamically adjust its transmission resources to improve error
performance or meet a target error rate.
2) Use of retransmissions is \"blind\" in that the retransmissions are not
sent based on dynamic feedback such as ACK/NACKs. These retransmissions cannot
be used to guarantee a certain level of performance or target error rate
throughout the cell.
Therefore, error rates on the MBMS bearer can vary considerably throughout the
cell, e.g., indoors, basements, elevators, stairwells, or the edge of cell in
an SC-PTM topology (see below).
The topology for using an MBMS bearer can be configured in two ways:
1) As a Single-Cell Point-to-Multipoint (SC-PTM) bearer where adjacent cells
do not necessarily transmit the same group\'s content on the same MBMS bearer.
In this topology the adjacent cells typically interfere with the MBMS bearer
in the serving cell resulting in poorer coverage than the MBSFN topology.
2) As part of a MBSFN, where all the cells are broadcasting the same content
on the same MBMS bearers, preventing inter-cell interference and allowing the
users to combine these transmissions to improve coverage and reception.
Coverage using an MBMS bearer cannot guarantee a target FER throughout the
entire coverage area. In SC-PTM, the limitations of geometry/SNR and the
interference from adjacent cells limits the throughput and error rate that can
be achieved.
Transmissions from a single cell surrounded by two rings of adjacent cells
that transmit at only 50 % of their total unicast traffic were simulated using
the following simulation parameters:
Table A.1.1-1 Simulation parameters
| Freq (MHz) | Cell Radius (km) | Ant Height (Hb) (m) | Avg  
Clutter Height  
(m) | Dhb  
(m) | Slope | I | Avg EIRP (dBW) in 5 MHz | eNB Tx Pwr  
(dBW)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
D1 | 2000 | 0.288 | 30 | 15 | 15 | 37.6 | 128.1 | 33 | 13  
| UE  
Ant Loss (dB) | Impl. Loss (dB) | Log normal Shadowing | Down tilt (deg) | Noise  
Figure (dB) | Penetration  
Loss  
(dB) | Receive  
Height  
(m) | Vert Beam  
width (deg) | Horiz Beam  
width (deg)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
D1 | 6 | 3 | 8 | 10 | 6 | 20 | 1.5 | 10 | 70  
{width="2.4743055555555555in" height="2.3208333333333333in"}
Figure A.1.1.-1 Serving cell (green) in the centre is surrounded by the two
rings of (yellow) cells that are only transmitting at 50 % to reduce their
interference on the serving cell.
The results of the simulation showed that even with the two rings of
neighbouring cells reducing their load to 50 %, the serving cell could not
guarantee an FER \ 10 %), RS(4, 8, _l_)
configurations are significantly more efficient than the others and are the
only ones reaching the QoS requirements, at the cost of a 100 % overhead and a
120 ms extra latency.
## A.3.3 Conclusion
Despite the low latency requirements for MCPTT, some significant gains are
allowed by the usage of an application layer FEC. RS(4, 8, 160 ms) allows
coping with the worse conditions (BLER \~10 %), whatever the loss distribution
of our models (3 km/h and 120 km/h), offering a residual loss rate under 1%
while respecting the KPIs. In better conditions, a 50 % overhead configuration
like RS(4,6, 80 ms) is suitable.
Those performances are made possible because the BM-SC can control exactly the
scheduling of the packets (see subclause A.1.3) and align the FEC blocks with
the transport blocks.
###### ### Annex B: Interest of FEC for MCData file distribution capability
The level of protection against losses for file distribution offered by the
usage of FEC over MBMS can be estimated from the 3GPP TR 26.947 [17]. This
study evaluates the FEC performance for file distribution over MBMS, when
associating the usage of the FLUTE protocol (see reference IETF RFC 3926 [29])
allowing the unidirectional delivery of files over UDP, and raptor10 FEC
scheme (see reference IETF RFC 5053 [31]).
NOTE: This annex does not intend to be prescriptive for either the delivery
protocol or the FEC scheme.
3GPP TR 26.947 [17] modelled the loss distributions over MBMS in LTE as
presented in annex A.1.2 and evaluated the FEC overhead required to achieve 99
% probability of recovery for a given file.
The evaluation has been performed with the following MBMS bearer models:
Table B-1: Typical LTE MBMS bearer parameters
* * *
LTE eMBMS Bearer  
Bearer bitrates 398.4 kbit/s, 266.4, 1.0656 Mbit/s RLC-SDU size 498 byte 1332
byte RLC-SDU frequency 10 ms 40 ms, 10 ms MAC PDU loss pattern Markov Markov
Speed 3 and 120 km/h 3 and 120 km/h MAC-PDU loss probability 1 %, 5 %, 10 %,
20 % 1 %, 5 %, 10 %, 20 %
* * *
_(source: Table 8 from 3GPP_  _TR_  _26.947 [17])_
The following file length has been considered:
Table B-2: File length
* * *
Number File Size Example 1 50 kByte (51 200 bytes) JPEG coded logo 2 1 MByte
(1 048 576 bytes) AAC encoded audio clip 3 3 MByte (3 145 728 bytes) MP3 audio
clip 4 128 MByte (134 217 728) bytes 30 min SD movie coded at 500 kbit/s 5 1.8
GByte (1 887 436 800) bytes 2 hours HD movie coded at 2 MBit/s
* * *
_(source: Table 1 from 3GPP_  _TR_  _26.947 [17])_
3GPP TR 26.947 [17] provides the evaluated FEC overhead for each of those
cases (Attachment-2-Benchmark-Codes.xls, tab \"LTE-Download - 5053&Ideal\").
At 3km/h with a 266 kb/s bearer, the evaluated FEC overhead to achieve a 99 %
reception success rate is:
{width="5.213888888888889in" height="3.134027777777778in"}
Figure B-1: FEC Overhead at 3km/h, 266 kbit/s
The FEC overhead for other bitrates is similar.
With an average BLER inferior about 5 %, a 10 % FEC overhead is enough to
offer 99 % probability of good reception for files whose length is superior to
1MB. For smaller files, an additionnal FEC overhead is required.
Without FEC, 99 % probability of good reception over MBMS can only be achieved
by multiple retransmissions of the same file. E.g. for a 1MB file delivered
over MBMS with a BLER of 1 %, at least 3 retransmissions are necessary. For a
100 MB file with a BLER of 1 %, at least 4 retransmissions are necessary.
NOTE: The probability of good reception for a retransmitted file over MBMS
without FEC can be estimated with the following formula : P ~good\ reception~
= (1- (BLER) ^NTransmission^) ^NPackets^ where NTransmission is the number of
retransmission and NPackets the number of IP Packets required for the delivery
of the given file.
#