# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies solutions to satisfy the requirements for
interconnection and migration between Mission Critical systems. It may
identify enhancements to be included in the Technical Specifications for those
services. Requirements for this study are taken from the Stage 1 requirements,
including 3GPP TS 22.179 [2], 3GPP TS 22.280 [3], 3GPP TS 22.281 [4] and 3GPP
TS 22.282 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT) over LTE; Stage
1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements (MCCore);
Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical Video services over LTE\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.282: \"Mission Critical Data services over LTE\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services; Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.379: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.379: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) call control;
Protocol specification\"
[9] 3GPP TS 33.179: \"Security of Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over
LTE\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Group call:** A mechanism by which an MCPTT user can make one-to-many MCPTT
transmissions to other MCPTT users that are affiliated members of an MCPTT
group.
**Group home MCPTT system** : The MCPTT system where the MCPTT group is
defined.
**Group host MCPTT server** : The MCPTT server within an MCPTT system which
provides centralised support for MCPTT services of an MCPTT group defined in a
group home MCPTT system.
**Interconnection:** A means of communication between MCPTT systems whereby
MCPTT users obtaining service from one MCPTT system can communicate with other
MCPTT users who are obtaining MCPTT service from one or more other MCPTT
systems.
**Interconnection group:** An MCPTT group that is configured to allow
inclusion of group members who are users from partner MCPTT system(s).
**MCPTT system:** The collection of applications, services, and enabling
capabilities required to provide Mission Critical Push To Talk for one or more
Mission Critical Organizations, managed by a single MCPTT service provider.
**Migration:** A means for an MCPTT user to obtain MCPTT service directly from
a partner MCPTT system.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 22.179 [2] apply:
**Partner MCPTT system**
**Primary MCPTT system**
**Private call**
Editor\'s note: Definitions need to be modified, or additional definitions
included to encompass services other than MCPTT
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
GMS Group Management Server
MCPTT Mission Critical Push To Talk
# 4 Migration and interconnection scenarios
## 4.1 Generic scenarios
### 4.1.1 Scenario 1: UE in visited network using partner MC system with
connection to primary MC system (migration)
Figure 4.1.1-1 below illustrates this scenario:
Figure 4.1.1-1: UE in visited network using partner MC system with connection
to primary MC system (migration)
In Figure 4.1.1-1 MC system A (coloured blue) is the primary MC system of UE
A. MC system A is in a different trust domain to MC system B, however MC
system A has a business relationship with MC system B which allows MC system B
to provide MC services to users of MC system A. MC UE A has migrated to obtain
one or more MC services from MC system B (coloured yellow), as MC system B is
a partner MC system for UE A.
MC system B is the primary MC system of UE Z. While UE A is served by MC
system B, UE A can take part in MC communications with UE Z, and with other
UEs in MC system B. The communications connections are represented by red
dashed lines, which can be private calls, group calls and other types of
mission critical communication. The partner MC system B has a connection to
the primary MC system A of UE A, and may be used to provide services such as
logging of UE A's MC communications.
UE A may perform direct signalling to its primary MC system A, for example for
user authentication and authorisation purposes. This is shown as a green
dotted line on figure 4.1.1-1, and does not represent any communications
services.
This scenario does not require UE A to take part in any communications with
other UEs who are obtaining service from primary MC system A of UE A.
### 4.1.2 Scenario 2: Communicating between UEs in different home networks
using different primary MC systems (interconnection)
Figure 4.1.2-1 below illustrates this scenario:
Figure 4.1.2-1: Communicating between UEs in different home networks using
different primary MC systems (interconnection)
In Figure 4.1.2-1 MC system A (coloured blue) is the primary MC system of UE
A, and MC system B (coloured yellow) is the primary system of UE Z. MC system
A has a business relationship with MC system B which allows calls to be made
between the two MC systems. In this scenario, no UE has migrated to seek
service from a partner MC system, and all UEs are obtaining service via their
respective home MC systems.
MC communication is provided between the two primary MC systems, such that UEs
can communicate together across the different MC systems, shown in figure
4.1.2-1 as red dashed lines. Private calls, group calls and other types of MC
communications can include UEs from either or both MC systems.
### 4.1.3 Further migration and interconnection scenarios
Additional migration and interconnection scenarios can be built based on
Scenarios 1 and 2. For example, UE A from primary MC system A can migrate to
partner MC system B, and whilst receiving service from MC system B can also
communicate using private calls, group calls and other forms of communication
with UE Z and with UEs who remain served by their primary MC system A. However
the mechanisms required to satisfy scenarios 1 and 2 are also expected to
satisfy these further scenarios.
## 4.2 MC service communication scenarios
### 4.2.1 Scenario 1: Group communications
#### 4.2.1.1 Migrated UE communicates in group in partner MCPTT system
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.1.1-1.
Figure 4.2.1.1-1: Migrated group communications
In this scenario, the migration scenario is that described in subclause 4.1.1.
Referring to figure 4.2.1.1-1, UE A is receiving MC service from a partner MC
system B, and communicates in group G with UE Z and with other UEs for whom MC
system B is the primary MC system. Communications may be MCPTT calls, MCVideo
calls or MCData transactions. Group G is defined in a group management server
in MC system B, and MC system B is therefore the controlling MC system for
Group G.
In order to communicate in group G, UE A will be authorised to communicate in
group G, and will affiliate to group G. The authorisation process will include
MC system B, and may include MC system A.
In order to communicate in group G, UE A obtains configuration information
from the GMS hosting the configuration data for group G in MC system B. This
data will include security parameters, such as encryption keys.
Because UE A has primary service from MC system A, communications in group G
may be logged by MC system A for the duration that UE A is affiliated to group
G.
When UE A transmits to the group, UE A\'s MC service ID may be conveyed to
other UEs participating in the group (UE Z and further UEs in MC system B).
When UE Z transmits to the group, UE Z\'s MC service ID may be conveyed to UE
A.
#### 4.2.1.2 Group communications between interconnected primary MCPTT systems
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.1.2-1.
Figure 4.2.1.2-1 Group communications between interconnected primary MC
systems
In this scenario, the interconnection scenario is that described in subclause
4.1.2. Referring to figure 4.2.1.2-1, UE A is receiving MC service from its
primary MC system A and communicating in group H, and UE Z is receiving MC
service from its primary MC system B, and also communicating in group H, and
the two MC systems are connected such that any communications sent to group H
is sent to all participants in group H in both MC systems.
It is assumed that one MC system, for example MC system A, is the controlling
MC system for Group H so that there is a single point for floor control and/or
transmission control management, including prioritisation and interruption of
transmitting parties. Therefore in this example, MC system B is the
participating MC system for Group H.
In order to communicate in Group H, UEs A and Z are affiliated to group H. The
controlling system for Group H, in this example MC system A, will hold group
configuration data for Group H in a GMS.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether MC system B will hold separate group
configuration data for Group H in a GMS, or whether UE Z will receive
configuration data from a GMS in MC system A.
Editor\'s note: If the service provided to Group H in MC system B differs in
any way from the service provided to Group H in MC system A, configuration
data for Group H for group participants in MC system B will differ from
configuration data for Group H in MC system A, and therefore it is possible
that Group H will be also defined in a GMS in MC system B.
In order to provide communication between group members in MC system A and MC
system B, affiliation information needs to be exchanged between MC systems A
and B when at least one group member has affiliated to group H in MC system B.
When UE A transmits information to Group H in MC system A, the MC service ID
of UE A may be provided to UE Z in MC system B.
#### 4.2.1.3 Further group call scenarios
Additional group call scenarios can be built based on the scenarios described
in subclauses 4.2.1.1 and 4.2.1.2.
For example, if UE A from MC system A migrates to MC system B and joins Group
H in order to communicate with further UEs within UE A\'s primary MC system A
or to communicate with UEs within the partner MC system B then UE A must be
authorised to affiliate to Group H in MC system B.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether such authorisation may involve MC system A,
or MC system B, or both.
### 4.2.2 Scenario 2: Private communications
#### 4.2.2.1 General
There are several scenarios for private communications which can be built on
the migration and interconnection scenarios described in subclause 4.1
depending on whether one party or both parties have migrated to a partner MC
system, and whether both parties are obtaining service from the same MC
system. These scenarios are described in the following subclauses. These
scenarios apply to MCPTT private calls, MCVideo transmissions or MCData
transactions which are made between two individual MC service users.
In these scenarios, the MC systems are in different trust domains from each
other. Each of the MC systems must have a business relationship with the other
MC systems that permits users to migrate and to permit interconnected calls to
take place.
Each scenario considers two UEs, UE A and either UE Z or UE B, where one or
both of these UEs has migrated to a different MC system. The call scenario
could take place in either direction: for example in a particular scenario UE
A could place a private call to UE Z, or UE Z could place a private call to UE
A.
#### 4.2.2.2 UE A and UE Z in primary MC systems communicate using
interconnection function
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.2.2-1.
Figure 4.2.2.2-1: UE A and UE Z in primary MC systems using interconnection
function
In this scenario, both UE A and UE Z are receiving MC service from their
primary MC systems, MC systems A and B respectively. A private MCPTT call or
MC Video call is placed between UE A and UE Z the two primary MC systems, or
an MCData transaction is initiated from UE A in its primary MC system A to UE
Z in its primary MC system B. Each primary MC system has access to the media
for logging purposes.
NOTE: The red dashed line in the figure indicates the MC systems where media
or data content may be required, but does not indicate the actual routing of
media, data content or signalling information. Media or data content routing
may be different when logging or lawful interception is not required, compared
with when one or both of these functions is required.
#### 4.2.2.3 UE A migrated to primary MC system of UE Z
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.2.3-1.
Figure 4.2.2.3-1: UE A migrates to primary MC system of UE Z
In this scenario, UE A is obtaining MC service from MC system B, which is a
partner MC system for UE A and primary MC system for UE Z. Media or data
content may be routed to MC system A, the primary MC system for UE A, to allow
logging to take place.
NOTE: The red dashed lines in the figure indicates the MC systems where media
or data content may be required, but does not indicate the actual routing of
media, data content or signalling information. Media or data content routing
may be different when logging or lawful interception is not required, compared
with when one or both of these functions is required.
#### 4.2.2.4 UE A migrated to partner MC system that is different from primary
MC system of UE Z
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.2.4-1.
Figure 4.2.2.4-1: UE A migrated to different partner MC system
In this scenario, UE A is obtaining MC service from MC system C, which is a
partner system for UE A. Media or data content for an MCPTT or MCVideo call or
an MCData transaction between UE A and UE Z may also flow to or though MC
system A, the primary MC system of UE A, to allow logging to take place.
NOTE: The red dashed lines in the figure indicates the MC systems where media
or data content may be required, but does not indicate the actual routing of
media, data content or signalling information. Media or data content routing
may be different when logging or lawful interception is not required, compared
with when one or both of these functions is required.
#### 4.2.2.5 UE A and UE Z both migrated to different partner MC systems
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.2.5-1.
Figure 4.2.2.5-1: UE A and UE Z migrated to different partner MC systems
In this scenario, UE A is obtaining MC service from MC system C, which is a
partner MC system for UE A, and UE Z is obtaining MC service from MC system D,
which is a partner MC system for UE Z. MC systems A and B may receive the
media or data content for logging purposes.
NOTE: The red dashed lines in the figureindicates the MC systems where media
or data content may be required, but does not indicate the actual routing of
media, data content or signalling information. Media or data content routing
may be different when logging or lawful interception is not required, compared
with when one or both of these functions is required.
#### 4.2.2.6 UE A and UE Z both migrated to the same partner MC system
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.2.6-1.
Figure 4.2.2.6-1 UE A and UE Z both migrated to the same partner MC system
In this scenario, UE A and UE Z have both migrated to the same MC system, MC
system C, which is a partner MC system for both. Media or data content may
flow to MC systems A and B for logging purposes.
NOTE: The red dashed lines in the figure indicate the MC systems where media
or data content may be required, but does not indicate the actual routing of
media, data content or signalling information. Media or data content routing
may be different when logging or lawful interception is not required, compared
with when one or both of these functions is required.
#### 4.2.2.7 UE A migrated to the partner MC system communicating with UE B in
primary MC system, which is primary MC system of UE A
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.2.7-1.
Figure 4.2.2.7-1 UE A migrated with UEB in primary MC system of UE A and UE B
In this scenario, UE A has migrated to the MC system B which is a partner MC
system for UE A, and UE A is communicating with UE B which is in its primary
MC system, which is also the primary MC system for UE A.
NOTE: The red dashed lines in the figure indicates the MC systems where media
or data content may be required, but does not indicate the actual routing of
media, data content or signalling information. Media or data content routing
may be different when logging or lawful interception is not required, compared
with when one or both of these functions is required.
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key Issues for interconnection
### 5.1.1 Key issue 1.1: MC system authorization to support interconnection
calls
#### 5.1.1.1 Description
Where a primary MC system needs users and groups from that MC system to take
part in calls which include users and groups from a partner MC system, the
primary MC system will need to be authorized to take a part in calls in
conjunction with that partner MC system. The MC system may need separate
authorizations to permit:
\- Users who are receiving service within a primary system to make private
calls, video calls and data transmissions to users that are receiving service
from an interconnected partner MC system;
\- Users who are receiving service within a primary MC system to join groups
and make group calls, where the groups are home in an interconnected partner
MC system;
\- Users who are receiving service from a partner MC system to make private
calls, video calls and data transmissions to users that are home in this
primary MC system;
\- Users who are receiving service from a partner MC system to join groups and
make group calls to groups that are home in this primary MC system.
#### 5.1.1.2 Architectural Requirements
The system configuration for an MC system will need to include authorization
to allow its served users take part in calls which include users in a second
MC system.
Authorization may need to be sufficiently granular to permit separate
configuration of authorizations for the separate cases:
\- Users who are receiving service within a primary MC system making private
calls, video calls and data transmissions to users that are receiving service
from an interconnected partner MC system;
\- Users who are receiving service within a primary MC system joining groups
and making group calls, where the groups are home in an interconnected partner
MC system;
\- Users who are receiving service from partner MC systems making private
calls, video calls and data transmissions to users that are home in this
primary MC system;
\- Users who are receiving service from partner MC systems joining groups and
making group calls to groups that are home in this primary MC system.
Editor\'s note: Security aspects of this key issue, and any SA3 involvement,
are FFS.
### 5.1.2 Key issue 1.2: Identification of users and groups in interconnection
calls
#### 5.1.2.1 Description
In order to place individually addressed calls (e.g. Private call, MCData SDS
message, MCVideo call) where the called MC service user is homed in a partner
MC system, or to affiliate to groups and take part in group calls where the
called MC service group is hosted in a partner MC system, the calling MC
service user needs to be able to identify the called MC service user who is
homed in a partner MC system or requested MC service group that is defined in
a partner MC system.
In order to route individually addressed calls or requests to affiliate to and
place group calls, the MC system of the calling party needs to be able to
derive the address of the called MC system from the called address sent by the
calling MC service user.
#### 5.1.2.2 Architectural Requirements
The address of the called party needs to include the address of the primary MC
system of the called party.
The address of an MC service group needs to include the address of the primary
MC system of the MC service group.
These requirements are satisfied by the structure of MCPTT addresses specified
in subclause 8.1 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [6].
Editor\'s note: address format for MCVideo and MCData are FFS.
### 5.1.3 Key issue 1.3: Authorization for interconnection private calls
#### 5.1.3.1 Description
Where an individually addressed call (e.g. Private Call, MCData SDS message,
MCVideo call) is placed from an MC service user in the primary MC system of
that MC service user to an MC service user in a partner MC system, both the
primary MC system and the partner system will need to authorize the call.
In order to authorize the call, the calling MC service user will need to be
configured such that that MC service user is authorized to place a call to an
MC service user in the partner MC system, and possibly to the specific called
MC service user. Also in order to authorize the call, the called MC service
user will need to be configured such that the MC service user is authorized to
receive a call from the partner MC system, and possibly by the calling MC
service user.
#### 5.1.3.2 Architectural Requirements
The MC service user database for the calling MC service user will need to
contain authorization for the MC service user to place a call to an MC service
user in a partner MC system, and may need to contain authorization to place
calls to specific MC service users, or specific sets of MC service users in
the partner MC systems.
NOTE 1: Managing call lists of individual MC service users who are homed in a
partner MC systems may be difficult.
The MC service user database for the called MC service user will need to
contain authorization for the MC service user to receive calls from an MC
service user in another MC system, and may need to contain authorization to
receive calls from specific MC service users, or specific sets of MC service
users.
NOTE 2: Managing call lists of individual MC service users who are homed in
partner MC systems may be difficult.
### 5.1.4 Key issue 1.4: Affiliation and authorization for interconnection MC
service group calls
#### 5.1.4.1 Description
Where an MC service user wishes to affiliate to a group that is defined in a
partner MC system that is in a different trust domain from the primary MC
system of that MC service user, the home MC system of the MC service group
will need to authorize that MC service user to affiliate to the requested MC
service group and to take part in MC service group calls within that MC
service group. The primary MC system of the MC service user may also need to
authorize that MC service user to take part in MC service group calls which
are hosted in a partner MC system in a different trust domain from that
user\'s primary MC system. See 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] [R‑6.17.2-004] and subclause
10.3.3.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.379 [7].
Editor\'s note: clause references in TS 23.379 are subject to change.
#### 5.1.4.2 Architectural Requirements
The primary MC service server of an MC service user needs to be able to
authorize that MC service user to affiliate to an MC service group defined in
a partner MC system in a different trust domain. The home MC service server of
the MC service group needs to be able to authorize MC service users to
affiliate to the MC service group where those MC service users have a
different primary MC system in a different trust domain. The MC service user
database and MC service group configuration server need to have the
appropriate configuration for this to take place.
### 5.1.5 Key issue 1.5: MC service group configuration for group defined in
partner MC system
#### 5.1.5.1 Description
An MC system providing interconnected group calls where the MC service group
is defined in a partner MC system may need to apply locally defined
configuration parameters for the MC service group in order to provide an
appropriate level of service for that MC service group in that MC system.
Examples of such parameters are:
\- User priority for the MC service group -- if a user priority is required to
be set by the local MC system instead the partner MC system that is home to
the MC service group, or if the MC service users are not known in the home MC
system of the MC service group.
\- Priority of the MC service group -- where the MC service group priority
needs to be set relative to other MC service groups defined in the local MC
system, especially if the priority structures of the two MC systems are
different.
#### 5.1.5.2 Architectural Requirements
There will need to be mechanisms to allow the partner system to apply locally
defined configuration parameters to that MC service group to provide an
appropriate level of service for that MC service group within the partner MC
system.
Editor\'s note: Sharing MC service group configuration information between
primary and partner MC systems is FFS
### 5.1.6 Key issue 1.6: Controlling MC service server and system for
interconnection private calls
#### 5.1.6.1 Description
One server in one MC system needs to be nominated as the controlling server
for interconnection private calls, either the server of the calling party in
the MC system of the calling party, or the server of the called party in the
called party\'s MC system.
Current MCPTT stage 3 in 3GPP TS 24.379 [8] identifies the controlling server
within a private call as the MC service server of the calling party, and the
MC service server of the called party acts as the participating function. In
Release 13 the mechanism by which the controlling server identifies the
participating server is out of scope.
#### 5.1.6.2 Architectural Requirements
The current stage 3 rules provide a logical solution to determining which MC
service server acts as controlling function for interconnection private calls:
the MC service server providing service to the calling party in the calling
party\'s MC system should act as controlling server. Therefore the MC service
server of the called party in the MC system of the called party should act as
the participating server.
A means is needed to identify the participating server which provides service
to the called user in a different MC system, for example by the structure of
that user\'s MC service ID (which should already identify the system within
which the MC service user and its serving MC service server are located) or by
configured look up table.
### 5.1.7 Key issue 1.7: Media routing for interconnection private calls
#### 5.1.7.1 Description
Media routing is specified as being allowed to flow either through the primary
MC system of both MC service users, or routed locally through an entity
allowing duplication of the media flow to the MC systems of both MC service
users according to subclause 5.2.3 of 3GPP TS 23.379 [7]. The need to flow
through both systems is to enable logging to take place.
If the two systems are separate, a direct media path may not always be
possible (e.g. there may not be an APN that provides connectivity from an MC
service user in one MC system to the media distribution function of the
interconnected MC system).
Editor\'s note: clause numbering references in 3GPP TS 23.379 are subject to
change.
#### 5.1.7.2 Architectural Requirements
Media routing may need to be made via the media distribution functions of both
MC systems to the MC service users served by these MC systems, as there may
not be a possibility of a direct connection from one MC system to an MC
service user that is receiving MC service on another MC system, and also to
allow logging of both MC service users to take place.
### 5.1.8 Key issue 1.8: Media routing for interconnection MC service group
calls
#### 5.1.8.1 Description
Media may need to be logged in the primary MC systems of all MC service group
members participating in an MC service group call.
The participating MC service server for an MC service group which is the
primary MC service server of a set of MC service group members is the only MC
service server which has the location information which is needed to decide
whether a call should be carried over unicast or multicast bearers.
There may also be no means of directly routing media from a controlling MC
service server in a different system from an MC service user directly to that
MC service user (e.g. there may not be an APN available to the MC service
user).
#### 5.1.8.2 Architectural Requirements
Group call media needs to be distributed to the primary MC system of each user
participating in a group call as there might not be a direct connection from
one MC system to an MC service user that is receiving MC service on another MC
system, and also to allow logging of all MC service users to take place. A
media routing to achieve this may be to route media from the participating
server which hosts the talking party to the controlling MC service server that
is the group host MC service server and outbound via the participating servers
in each MC system that is taking part in the call. This is consistent with
Release 13 MCPTT Stage 3 behaviour.
### 5.1.9 Key issue 1.9: Security for interconnection calls
#### 5.1.9.1 Description
The Release 13 security solution for MCPTT specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [9] is
a single domain solution, with a single identity management server and a
single key management server serving all users. 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] requires
the authorization to join a group and the end to end security for a group to
be determined by the group home system in [R‑6.17.2-006] and [R‑6.17.2-007].
In order to encrypt media to be sent to a user in another MC system in a
private call, the calling MC service user needs to be provided with identity
based encryption keys which allow the calling MC service user to successfully
encrypt a session key for the call for the called party\'s use. Similar
mechanisms will be required for MC Video and MC Data calls. In order to
encrypt media for a group call where the group host MC system is different
from the MC system of the MC service user, the MC service client of the MC
service user needs to possess identity based encryption keys valid in the same
partner MC system as the group management server to allow that group
management server to encrypt the group master key for the group for the MC
service client of that MC service user.
MC system to system interconnection will be achieved by IP networks. These
networks may be outside the control of either or both MC service providers.
The interconnection information flow -- signalling, media, floor control etc
-- will need to be protected as it passes through such IP networks.
Floor control and SIP signalling is protected with a Client Server Key which
is exchanged between an MC service client and that user\'s primary MC service
server, and not known to partner MC systems.
#### 5.1.9.2 Architectural Requirements
A mechanism is needed for an MC service user receiving service in its primary
MC system to obtain key material from the partner MC system in order to take
part in end to end encrypted calls with speech, video or data content to
individuals and to participate in groups where those groups are hosted in the
partner MC system.
Editor\'s note: Such a mechanism is in the remit of SA3.
A mechanism is needed to protect MC system to MC system information, including
signalling, media and floor control.
Editors\' note: Such a mechanism is in the remit of SA3
An MC service client is only able to exchange floor control and SIP signalling
with its primary MC service server due to the encryption mechanisms used to
protect this signalling. This is consistent with Release 13 stage 3 protocol.
### 5.1.10 Key issue 1.10: MC system network topology hiding
#### 5.1.10.1 Description
The topology of an MC system, such as the number of MC service servers, their
location and their IP network plan may be considered sensitive to the MC
system operator. The topology therefore should be hidden from a partner MC
system during interconnection scenarios.
#### 5.1.10.2 Architectural Requirements
A mechanism is needed to allow an MC system to interconnect to a partner MC
system without revealing the network topology of that MC system.
### 5.1.11 Key issue 1.11: Bearer control for interconnection calls
#### 5.1.11.1 Description
Each MC service server may obtain and maintain location information relating
to its served users. This allows the server to make decisions whether to set
up group calls over unicast or multicast bearers. In Release 13, the location
information is not shared with other MC service servers. Therefore each server
controls the bearers relating to its own served MC service users only.
If two MC service servers provide service using the same PLMN, there is a
possibility that group members served by both MC service servers are present
on the same cell. Neither MC service server holds the location information for
the full set of users.
There may be security concerns in allowing MC service servers to share the
location of their served users.
There may be security concerns in allowing MC service servers to share
information about served areas.
#### 5.1.11.2 Architectural Requirements
If permitted by security policy, two MC service servers providing service
within the same group call could share multicast channel and cell information
to allow each MC service server to allocate group members to a bearer managed
by the other MC service server.
Editor\'s note: Security concerns may need input from SA3.
### 5.1.12 Key issue 1.12: Group membership
#### 5.1.12.1 Description
Group membership is defined by MCPTT administrators. For mutual aid scenarios
groups are required with members from primary and partner system(s). As the
MCPTT administrator of the primary system of a group has no access to the user
database of the partner systems, coordination is needed with the MCPTT
administrators of the partner systems for the management of group membership
of an interconnection group.
#### 5.1.12.2 Architectural requirements
A mechanism is needed to manage group members from a partner system, taking
the following aspects into account:
  * The administrator of the primary system of the group controls if a group is an interconnection group, and if so with users from which partner system(s).
  * The administrator of the primary system of the interconnection group configures if additions and deletions of group members from the selected partner system(s) first need to be reviewed and approved by the MCPTT administrator of the primary system or that they are implemented directly.
  * The administrator of a partner system is provided with an overview of the interconnection groups of the primary system for which users from that partner system can be proposed to be added as group member.
  * The administrator of a partner system defines the actual list of users from that partner system that are proposed to be added as group members to the primary system of an interconnection group.
  * If so configured the administrator of the primary system of the group reviews and approves the addition of the proposed list(s) of group members from the partner system(s) to the interconnection group.
  * The administrator of a partner system is responsible for updates to the list of group members from that partner system.
  * If so configured the administrator of the primary system of the group reviews and approves updates to the list(s) of group members from the partner system(s) before updating the group.
## 5.2 Key Issues for migration
### 5.2.1 Key issue 2.1: MC authorization for migration
#### 5.2.1.1 Description
An MC service user that wishes to migrate to a partner MC system will need to
be authorized to migrate from its primary MC system, and authorized to migrate
to that specific partner MC system. See 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] [R‑6.17.2 001].
Authorization may be service specific, e.g. to permit MCPTT service but deny
MCVideo service when migrated to a specific partner MC system.
The partner MC system will need to authorize that MC service user to migrate
and gain service. See 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] [R‑6.17.2‑001].
The partner MC system may wish to apply different configuration parameters to
a migrated MC service user compared with the parameters authorized for that MC
service user when operating in its primary MC system. Examples of such
parameters are:
\- Authorizations to make certain types of call, e.g. private call, group call
may be restricted.
\- The list of MC service users that can be called using a private call may be
different.
\- The priority of the MC service user to make calls may be different,
especially if the sets of relative priorities of different MC service users
are defined differently between the primary and partner systems
\- Authorizations to create group-broadcast groups may be restricted.
#### 5.2.1.2 Architectural Requirements
The user configuration for an MC service user will need to include
authorization to allow that MC service user to migrate to a list of identified
partner MC systems. The configuration may restrict the service available on
migration on a system by system basis.
An MC system will need to include a configuration which allows that MC system
to authorize an incoming migration request from a particular MC service user.
The MC system will need to verify that the migration request is permitted by
the primary MC system of that MC service user.An MC system will need to
provide a user profile for migrated MC service users, which may change their
authorizations compared with the authorizations that those MC service users
expect when receiving service within their primary MC systems.
NOTE: Because of the potential numbers of migrating MC service users, the
configuration in the partner system may need to be more general than on an
individual MC service user by MC service user configuration, e.g. it may be
more appropriate to allow configuration to accept incoming migration requests
and list authorization for migrating MC service users on a system by system
basis.
### 5.2.2 Key issue 2.2: Authentication at MC service application layer of MC
service users during migration
#### 5.2.2.1 Description
An MC service user that wishes to migrate to a partner MC system will need to
be authenticated with a credential obtained from his primary MC system when he
attempts to migrate. See 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] [R‑6.17.2 002].
#### 5.2.2.2 Architectural Requirements
The migrating user will need a mechanism to obtain a credential from the
primary MC system of the user, to present to the partner MC system on
migration.
The partner system will need a mechanism to verify the credential from the
primary MC system and use the credential to validate the authenticity of the
migrating MC service user.
Editor\'s note: The mechanisms are within the remit of SA3.
### 5.2.3 Key issue 2.3: Connectivity to partner MC system for migration
#### 5.2.3.1 Description
In order to migrate to a partner MC system, the MC service client or MC
service user will need to identify the operational conditions in which
migration is desirable or necessary.
However MC service users of an MC system should not need to be aware of the
business relationships that their MC system (i.e. MC system A) has with
partner MC systems (e.g. MC system B). As such, when an MC service user from
MC system A (MC service user A) wishes to gain MC service from MC system B, MC
service user A should not have to perform any manual configuration of their UE
(UE A). Instead, UE A should be provisioned with the necessary credentials and
other information to allow MC service user A to receive MC service from MC
system B, potentially after prompting MC service user A if they wish to
receive MC service from MC system B.
In addition, different MC systems can belong to different jurisdictions, of
which can differ in geographical locations of operation. Therefore, depending
on the geographical location of MC service user A, different MC systems may be
available to MC service user A from which to gain MC service. Moreover, MC
system A may wish to limit or provide a preferred MC system (which could be a
partner MC system or MC system A itself) depending on where MC service user A
is currently geographically located. The geographical location of MC service
user A may be based on the MNC and MCC of UE A\'s RPLMN or based on something
more accurate e.g. GPS co-ordinates. Alternatively, the MC system may leave
the choice to the MC service user of which partner MC system to migrate, in
which case the MC service user will need to have means of identifying the
appropriate partner MC system to which to perform migration
Since UE A could be a shared UE amongst multiple MC service users, it is
necessary that each MC service user of UE A be authenticated and authorised by
MC system A for gaining MC service from MC system B. Therefore, a subsequent
MC service user of MC system A (MC service user A\') who uses UE A and who is
prohibited from participating in MC system B is prevented from doing so, but
may still be allowed to participate in MC system A (subject to usual MC
service authentication and authorisation).
In order to migrate to a partner MC system, an MC service client will need to
have access to visited network resources, including a PDN (as identified by an
APN) and a SIP core that provides IP and SIP connectivity, respectively, to
that partner MC system.
#### 5.2.3.2 Architectural Requirements
The MC service client will need to be aware of its location, or the PLMN or
other IP network within which that MC service client is operating (e.g. when
roaming to a visited PLMN).
The MC service client may need to present its current location or VPLMN to the
user to allow the user to decide whether to migrate and to which partner MC
system to migrate. The MC service client may need to migrate automatically
based on its location or based on its connected VPLMN. The MC service user
database may need to contain configuration information to authorize the MC
service client to migrate to one or more particular MC systems based on its
location or connected VPLMN
If an MC service user requests and is authorised to gain MC service from
another MC system, the MC service user\'s UE shall be configurable with
PDN/bearer information (e.g. APNs), access credentials (e.g. for PDN
connections, forSIP core, for MC service) and other information that allows
the UE to receive MC service from one or more partner MC systems for the
geographic area in which the MC service user is currently located. The
configured information shall be valid only for the currently authorised MC
service user of the UE and shall not be made available to subsequent MC
service users of the UE.
Appropriate IP routing between the primary and partner MC systems of the MC
service user is needed.
### 5.2.4 Key issue 2.4: Tracking current MC system of MC service users during
migration
#### 5.2.4.1 Description
The primary MC system of a migrated user will need to record the current
partner MC system within which the migrated MC service user is receiving
service, in order to include that MC service user in calls.
#### 5.2.4.2 Architectural Requirements
There needs to be a mechanism by which MC systems can inform each other about
the registration status of migrated users, or a mechanism that allows a client
to inform its primary MC system about a migration to a partner system. A
partner MC system needs to be able to unambiguously identify the primary
system of a migrating MC service user, and a primary MC system needs to be
able to unambiguously identify the partner MC system to which an MC service
user has migrated in order to route migration and call related information to
that partner MC system.
The primary MC system of a migrating MC service user needs to maintain a
register which indicates the partner MC system to which that MC service user
has migrated.
### 5.2.5 Key issue 2.5: Identification of migrated MC system during migration
#### 5.2.5.1 Description
In order to place individually addressed calls (e.g. Private Call, MCData SDS
message) or to affiliate to groups and take part in group calls where the
targets of those individual calls or those groups are home in a different MC
system, the calling MC service user must be able to present the partner system
to which that MC service user has migrated with an identity of the called MC
service user or requested MC service group where that identity also identifies
the home system of that MC service user or MC service group.
The architectural requirements are the same as those in the interconnection
scenario, described in subclause 5.1.2.
### 5.2.6 Key issue 2.6: Authorization, configuration and affiliation for MC
service group calls during migration
#### 5.2.6.1 Description
Requirements for authorization and affiliation to MC service groups defined in
a partner MC system and retrieval of group configuration for those MC service
groups whilst migrated to that partner MC system are the same as those in the
interconnection scenario, described in subclause 5.1.4.
### 5.2.7 Key issue 2.7: Definition of controlling MC service server and media
routing between MC service servers during migration
#### 5.2.7.1 Description
The requirements for definition of a controlling MC service server and one or
more participating MC service servers, and the routing of media and provision
for logging by one or more MC service servers within a call are the same as
those in the interconnection scenario, described in subclauses 5.1.6, 5.1.7
and 5.1.8.
### 5.2.8 Key issue 2.8: Security for calls whilst migrated
#### 5.2.8.1 Description
The Release 13 security solution for MCPTT specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [9] is
a single domain solution, with a single identity management server and a
single key management server serving all users. 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] requires
the authorization to affiliate to a group and the end to end security for a
group to be determined by the home MC system of the group in [R‑6.17.2-006]
and [R‑6.17.2-007]. In order to encrypt media to be sent to an MC service user
in the partner MC system in a private call whilst migrated to that partner MC
system, and to be provisioned with group master keys for groups defined within
the partner MC network, the migrated MC service user needs to be provided with
identity based encryption keys which are valid within the migrated network.
Floor control and SIP signalling are protected with a Client Server Key. In
order to take part in calls within the partner MC system, the migrated MC
service client needs to share a CSK with the partner MC service server that is
providing that MC service client with service.
#### 5.2.8.2 Architectural Requirements
A mechanism is needed for an MC service user receiving service when migrated
to a partner MC system to obtain key material from that partner MC system in
order to take part in end to end encrypted calls to individual MC service
users within that partner system and in MC service groups hosted in the
partner MC system.
If the MC service user needs to make calls to MC service users who are present
in that MC service user\'s primary MC system, or to MC service groups hosted
in that MC service user\'s primary MC system whilst that MC service user has
migrated to a partner MC system, a mechanism is needed for the MC service user
to obtain identity based key material valid for its primary MC system whilst
migrated to the partner MC system.
Editor\'s note: mechanisms are in the remit of SA3.
### 5.2.9 Key issue 2.9: Migration during link failure conditions
#### 5.2.9.1 Description
An MC service user may require to migrate to a partner MC system whilst there
is no connectivity with the primary MC system of that MC service user, e.g.
during link failure conditions between the partner MC system and the primary
MC system of that MC service user, or between the PLMN that is serving the
migrated MC service user and the primary MC system of the MC service user or
the home PLMN of the migrated MC service user.
Editor\'s note: the stage 1 requirements for this function need to be verified
#### 5.2.9.2 Architectural Requirements
A mechanism is necessary for a migrating MC service user to present a
credential to the partner system in order to obtain MC services, without an
online verification to the primary MC system of the MC service user being
available.
Editor\'s note: Authentication of the migrated MC service user in this failure
condition is FFS
The partner MC system may require the application of a user profile to the
migrating MC service user that is different to the user profile that would be
applied in normal migration conditions if it is not possible to verify the
credentials of that MC service user in real time.
Editor\'s note: Mechanisms for credential verification are in the remit of
SA3.
### 5.2.10 Key issue 2.10: Media routing during migration for logging and
lawful interception
#### 5.2.10.1 Description
There may be regulatory and operational requirements to provide logging and
lawful interception of communications which include a migrated MC service
user. Logging and lawful interception may be required in both the primary MC
system and the partner MC system of the migrated MC service user. This may
apply for all users in a call. See 3GPP TS 22.280 [3], [R‑6.13.5-001] and
[R‑6.15.4-003], and further requirements in subclause 6.15.4 concerning
logging of metadata.
#### 5.2.10.2 Architectural Requirements
Media needs to be provided to the Mission Critical Organizations responsible
for the MC service user and MC service groups in which the MC service user
communicates whilst migrated. There may be separate Mission Critical
Organisations responsible for the MC service user and the MC service group who
each require the media from any one call.
Metadata needs to be provided to the Mission Critical Organizations
responsible for the MC service user and MC service groups in which the MC
service user communicates whilst migrated. There may be separate Mission
Critical Organisations responsible for the MC service user and the MC service
group who each require the metadata from any one call.
Lawful interception needs to take place where required in the primary and
partner MC systems of the MC service user.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution 1: System authorization and configuration for interconnection
and migration
### 6.1.1 Description
This solution applies to key issues 1.1, MC system authorization to support
interconnection calls, and 2.1, MC authorization for migration.
Service configuration (on-network) for a primary system can contain lists of
partner MC systems with which interconnection is permitted, and lists of
partner MC systems with which migration is permitted.
Editor\'s note: it is FFS which of TS 23.280, TS 23.281, TS 23.282 and TS
23.379 will contain the relevant service configuration information.
Each entry of a partner MC system will contain a list of configuration
information related to that partner MC system.
NOTE 1: It is expected that the partner MC system will have a similar set of
configuration information related to the primary MC system to enable
interconnection or migration to take place. If one of a pair of interconnected
systems does not have suitable configuration for the other MC system of that
pair of systems, interconnection and migration of MC users between these two
MC systems will not be possible.
NOTE 2: Each system of an interconnected pair of MC systems considers itself
the primary MC system with respect to a set of system configuration
information relating to the other MC system, and considers the other MC system
to be the partner system in this context.
Editor\'s note: It may be necessary to consider mechanisms to align the
configuration of pairs of MC systems to allow interconnection and migration to
take place.
This information will include:
\- Application identity of that MC system,
NOTE 3: The application identity of the MC system is the domain portion of the
MC service IDs for whom the system is primary.
\- Addressing information for relevant entities in that MC system, such as IP
addresses or URIs and identification of PDN within which the MC system can be
reached. The addressing information will be listed for at least the MC service
servers and configuration servers which may be involved in interconnection and
migration calls.
\- Relevant signalling plane addresses, such as the address for the SIP core
via which signalling can be sent to the partner system
\- For interconnection:
\- Whether outgoing MCPTT private calls are permitted to users in that partner
MC system.
\- Whether incoming MCPTT private calls are permitted from users in that
partner MC system.
\- Whether MCPTT users in this primary MC system are permitted to affiliate
and make MCPTT group calls to MCPTT groups defined in that partner MC system.
\- Whether MCPTT groups defined in this primary MC system will permit
affiliation and MCPTT group calls to be made from users in that partner MC
system.
\- Whether outgoing MCVideo calls can be made to users in that partner MC
system.
\- Whether incoming MCVideo calls are permitted from users in that partner MC
system.
\- Whether MCVideo users in this primary MC system are permitted to affiliate
to and make MCVideo calls to MCVideo groups defined in that partner MC system.
\- Whether MCVideo groups defined in this primary MC system will permit
affiliation and MCVideo group calls to be made from users in that partner MC
system.
\- Whether outgoing MCData transactions can be sent to users in that partner
MC system.
\- Whether incoming MCData transactions are permitted from users in that
partner MC system.
\- For migration:
\- Whether users from that partner MC system are permitted to migrate to this
primary MC system
\- Whether users from that partner MC system are permitted to take part in
MCPTT private calls within this primary MC system.
\- Whether users from that partner MC system are permitted to affiliate to
MCPTT groups and join MCPTT group calls within this primary MC system.
\- Whether users from that partner MC system are permitted to take part in
MCVideo calls within this primary MC system.
\- Whether users from that partner MC system are permitted to send or receive
MCData transactions within this primary MC system.
### 6.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Service configuration data will need to be extended to incorporate the
information listed in the previous subclause.
### 6.1.3 Solution Evaluation
Editor\'s Note: Use this section for evaluation at solution level.
## 6.2 Solution 2: Connectivity to partner MC system for migration
### 6.2.1 Description
Preconditions:
\- The MC service UE has successfully set-up bearers to the primary MC
system\'s PDN(s).
\- The MC service UE has successfully performed an MC service user
authentication with the primary MC system.
\- The configuration management client has secure access to the configuration
management server in the primary MC service system.
Figure 6.2.1-1: MCPTT user authentication and registration, multiple domain(s)
1\. The configuration management client sends get partner MC system connection
details request message to the configuration management server of the MC
services user\'s primary MC system, which includes the MC services ID, the MC
service UE\'s location information. The message may also include an identifier
of a particular partner MC system e.g. that provides service at the current
location of the UE.
Editor\'s note: triggers causing the configuration management client to send
the above message are FFS but could be e.g. by prior arrangement by the
administrator, by received UE location.
2\. The configuration management server checks to see if the requesting MC
services user is authorised for migration.
3\. If an identifier of a particular partner MC system was not received in
step 1 then a suitable partner system is automatically determined to be used
for migration for the MC service user based on the received MC service UE\'s
location information. If an identifier of a particular partner MC system was
received in step 1 and if the primary MC system has a migration agreement with
that partner MC system for the MC service user then the configuration
management server determines the requested partner MC system is to be used,
otherwise the configuration management server automatically determines a
partner MC system to be used for the MC service user based on the received MC
service UE\'s location information.
4\. Depending on policy information for the MC services user (e.g. per MC
services user profile configuration, per service configuration), the
configuration management server may send get outbound migration SIP identities
request to the SIP database in the primary MC system, which includes the SIP
private user identity and SIP public user identity for the MC services user.
5\. The SIP database in the primary MC system allocates (e.g. from a pool,
using a random SIP identity generation function) an outbound migration SIP
private user identity and an outbound migration SIP public user identity, and
then creates a binding of these to the received SIP private user identity and
SIP public user identity.
6\. The SIP database in the primary MC system sends get outbound migration SIP
identities response containing the outbound migration SIP private user
identity and outbound migration SIP public user identity, as assigned in step
5, to the configuration management server in the primary MC system.
7\. The configuration management server sends partner MC system access request
to the configuration management server of the partner MC system (as determined
in step 2), which includes the MC services user ID, an identifier of the MC
service user\'s SIP database in the primary MC system, a SIP private user
identity and a SIP public user identity of the MC service user (which may be
the outbound migration SIP private user identity and outbound migration SIP
public user identity, depending on step 4).
NOTE 1: The identifier of the MC service user\'s SIP database in the primary
MC system may actually be an identifier of a Subscription Locator Function
(SLF) e.g. in systems that utilise multiple SIP databases.
8\. The configuration management server in the partner MC system checks to see
if the requesting primary MC system and the MC services user of the primary MC
system are authorised for migration to its MC system.
9\. The configuration management server in the partner MC system sends get
inbound migration SIP identities request to the SIP database of the partner MC
system, which includes the identifier of the MC service user\'s SIP database
in the primary MC system, the primary MC system\'s SIP private user identity
and primary MC system\'s SIP public user identity (as received in step 7).
10\. The SIP database in the partner MC system allocates (e.g. from a pool,
using a random SIP identity generation function) an inbound migration SIP
private user identity and an inbound migration SIP public user identity, and
then creates a binding of these to the received identifier of the MC service
user\'s SIP database in the primary MC system, primary MC system\'s SIP
private user identity and primary MC system\'s SIP public user identity.
11\. The SIP database in the partner MC system sends get inbound migration SIP
identities response containing the inbound migration SIP private user identity
and inbound migration SIP public user identity, as assigned in step 10, to the
configuration management server in the partner MC system.
12\. The configuration management server in the partner MC system sends
partner MC system access response, which includes the inbound migration SIP
private user identity, the inbound migration SIP public user identity, and
initial UE configuration data for the partner MC system.
NOTE 2: If the information in the initial UE configuration data is not subject
to change very frequently (e.g. PAP or CHAP credentials for access to PDNs are
either not needed or are not allocated on a per user basis) then this
information could be exchanged between the partner MC system and primary MC
system off-line (e.g. as part of contractual communications between the two
entities) and statically configured in the configuration management server.
13\. The configuration management server in the primary MC system sends get
partner MC system connection details response to the configuration management
client, which includes the inbound migration SIP private user identity, the
inbound migration SIP public user identity, initial UE configuration data for
the partner MC system.
NOTE 3: The MC service UE, when storing the configuration information for the
partner MC system, needs to ensure that the configuration information for the
primary MC system is not overwritten or discarded, in order to ensure that the
MC service UE can connect back to the MC service UE\'s primary MC system
later.
NOTE 4: There could be a long time in between the steps 1 to 13 (inclusive)
taking place and the following steps taking place.
14\. The MC service UE sets-up the necessary bearers/PDN connections using the
bearer information in the received initial UE configuration data for the
partner MC system, and then performs MC service user authentication.
15\. The signalling user agent sends a SIP registration request to the SIP
core of the partner MC system, which includes the inbound migration SIP
private user identity and the inbound migration SIP public user identity.
16\. The SIP core in the partner MC system sends get SIP authentication
information request to the SIP database also in the partner MC system, which
includes the inbound migration SIP private user identity and the inbound
migration SIP public user identity.
17\. The SIP database in the partner MC system, due to the binding created in
step 10, recognises the inbound migration SIP private user identity and
determines the identifier of the MC service user\'s SIP database in the
primary MC system, the primary MC system\'s SIP private user identity and the
primary MC system\'s SIP public user identity.
NOTE 5: The primary MC system\'s SIP private user identity is used to
determine the primary MC system\'s SIP database.
18\. The SIP database in the partner MC system sends get SIP authentication
information request to the SIP database in the primary MC system, which
includes the primary MC system\'s SIP private user identity and the primary MC
system\'s SIP public user identity (as determined in step 17).
19\. The SIP database in the primary MC system recognises the primary MC
system\'s SIP private user identity and MC system\'s SIP public user identity
and sends get SIP authentication information response to the SIP database in
the partner MC system, which includes the primary MC system\'s SIP private
user identity, the primary MC system\'s SIP public user identity, and
authentication information (e.g. authentication vectors).
20\. The SIP database in the partner MC system, due to the binding created in
step 10, recognises the primary MC system\'s SIP private user identity and the
primary MC system\'s SIP public user identity, and determines the inbound
migration SIP private user identity and inbound SIP public user identity.
21\. The SIP database in the partner MC system sends get SIP authentication
information response to the SIP core also in the partner MC system, which
includes the inbound migration SIP private user identity, the inbound
migration SIP private user identity, and the authentication information (as
received in step 19).
22\. The SIP core in the partner MC system sends SIP authentication challenge
request to the signalling user agent in the MC service UE, which includes the
inbound migration SIP private user identity, the inbound SIP public user
identity, and the authentication challenge information (derived from the
authentication information received in step 21).
23\. The signalling user agent in the MC service UE determines the challenge
response information (i.e. by utilising the IMS-AKA data in the ISIM) to the
SIP core in the partner MC system, and sends SIP authentication challenge
response, which includes the challenge response information.
24\. The SIP core in the partner MC system sends SIP registration response to
the signalling user agent in the MC service UE, which includes an indication
that the authentication is successful.
25\. The MC service UE is now SIP registered in the SIP core of the partner MC
system and subsequently can perform MC service authorization and start
receiving one or more MC services.
### 6.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The following functional entities are impacted:
\- Configuration management client
\- Configuration management server (for inbound and outbound migration)
\- SIP database (for inbound migration and optionally outbound migration)
NOTE: The signalling user agent and the SIP core of the partner MC system are
unaffected, since they are provided with the necessary information that they
expect and can use e.g. SIP private user identity and SIP public user
identity.
Table 6.2.2-1 provides a high-level overview of the impacts on reference
points and associated messaging between existing nodes.
Table 6.2.2-1: Overview of impacts on reference points and associated
messaging
Message in figure 6.2.1-1 Reference point Existing message Comments
* * *
Get partner MC system connection details request/response (steps 1 & 13) CSC-4
Get updated MCPTT user profile request If this configuration data is provided
on an as needed basis, then stage 2 may benefit by defining a new message flow
here. Get outbound migration SIP identities request/response (steps 4 & 6)
AAA-1 / Sh Data Pull Request/Answer (DPR/DPA) Left to stage 3 to decide if
DPR/DPA could be reused or new messaging is needed for this function. Partner
MC system access request/response (7 & 12) New (CMS-CMS) N/A New reference
point needed between CMS in primary MC system and CMS in partner MC system.
HTTP or Diameter recommended. Get inbound migration SIP identities
request/response (steps 9 and 11) AAA-1 / Sh Data Pull Request/Answer
(DPR/DPA) Could reuse same messaging as for \"get outbound migration SIP
identities request/response\" (steps 4 & 6). SIP registration request/response
(15 & 24) Gm, Mw SIP INVITE No changes needed. Get SIP authentication
information request/response (steps 16, 18, 19 & 21) Cx Diameter Cx-AV-REQ
(Multimedia‑Auth‑Request) and Cx-AV-REQresp (Multimedia‑Auth‑Response) No
changes needed, other than proxying (a feature that of which Diameter is
already very capable). SIP authentication challenge request/response Gm SIP
error cause 4xx (e.g. 401) and SIP INVITE, respectively No changes needed.
### 6.2.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution allows an MC service UE to be configured with all of the
required information needed to access a partner MC system, the partner MC
system\'s PDN(s), and the partner MC system\'s SIP core (as described in
Scenario 1, specified in subclause 4.1.1). Existing messaging is largely
reused, with only new parameters needed in most cases, however, one new
reference point is needed between the configuration management servers in the
primary MC system and partner MC system. No new nodes are required.
This solution has the advantage of being able to reuse the existing MC service
SIP security parameters (i.e. the existing IMS-AKA security mechanism data
already stored in the ISIM on the UICC) available to the MC service UE. Such
reuse negates the need to provide, specifically for migration, additional SIP
security mechanism data (therefore eliminating the need for confidential
information to be sent OTA) or even a whole new SIP security mechanism in
addition to IMS‑AKA (which is currently the only SIP security mechanism
specified by SA3 for use in MCPTT). However, this solution has the
disadvantage in that there needs to be connectivity between the partner MC
system and primary MC system.
Where needed, the primary MC system can provide specific SIP public user
identity and SIP private user identity for migration (see steps 4-6 in figure
6.2.1-1) allowing obfuscation of the SIP public user identity and SIP private
user identity used by the primary MC system, as well as the ability to
immediately terminate, and prevent any further, SIP logins from the SIP core
of the partner MC system. Depending on implementation and O&M, this could be
done for all partner MC systems or on a per partner MC system basis.
## 6.3 Solution 3: Call control and media routing for MCPTT group calls for
interconnection
### 6.3.1 Description of solution
This solution applies to aspects of the following key issues:
\- 1.4: Affiliation and authorization for interconnection MC service group
calls.
\- 1.8: Media routing for interconnection MC group calls
\- 1.10: MC system network topology hiding
The solution applies to MCPTT, but the principles of this solution should be
applicable to MCVideo and MCData as well.
A gateway server is introduced into the primary MC system of the MCPTT group
and into the partner MC system the MCPTT group. This is shown in figure
6.3.1-1.
Figure 6.3.1-1: Use of gateway MCPTT server for interconnection
The gateway server in the primary MC system of the MCPTT group interfaces to
the primary MCPTT server of the MCPTT group and provides a single point of
contact for all MCPTT servers and MCPTT UEs in the partner MC system of the
MCPTT group without exposing the internal network architecture of the primary
MC system of the group.
The gateway server may provide gateway services to one or more MC services,
i.e. MCPTT, MCVideo and MCData.
The gateway server in the partner MC system of the MCPTT group interfaces to
the primary MCPTT system of the MCPTT group and provides a single point of
contact between the MCPTT servers and MCPTT UEs in the partner MC system of
the group and the primary MC system of the group, without exposing the
internal network architecture of the partner MC system of the group.
Reference point MCPTT-3\' provides the interface between gateway servers and
is based on reference point MCPTT-3.
Affiliation from MCPTT UEs in the partner MC system of the MCPTT group is sent
via the gateway servers to the primary MC system of the MCPTT group.
Floor control signalling and media is sent via the gateway servers between the
primary and partner MC systems of the MCPTT group. Media replication and
distribution in the partner MC system of the group is achieved by the gateway
server in conjunction with the primary MCPTT servers of the MCPTT users within
that partner MC system.
The gateway MCPTT server in the partner MC system for the MCPTT group may be
provided with local configuration for the group, which may allow this gateway
MCPTT server to apply local policy to affiliation, call setup and floor
control signalling in that partner MC system of the MCPTT group.
### 6.3.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Introduction of the gateway MCPTT server should prevent any change to the
MCPTT server entity, or reference point MCPTT-3.
### 6.3.3 Solution Evaluation
Editor\'s Note: Use this section for evaluation at solution level.
## 6.4 Solution 4: User authorization and configuration for interconnection
### 6.4.1 Description
This solution applies to aspects of the following key issues:
\- 1.1 MC system authorization to support interconnection calls.
\- 1.3 Authorization for interconnection private calls.
\- 1.4: Affiliation and authorization for interconnection MC service group
calls.
A set of configuration information will be added to user configuration data
(on-network) to provide a set of permissions for the different services
available to an MC user for interconnection calls. The list will contain
information on a per-partner MC system basis, to allow the service that is
available for interconnection calls with one partner MC system to be different
to that available for a different partner MC system.
Editor\'s note: the procedure for managing the configuration information is
FFS. Group related information may need to include information provided by the
partner system.
For each partner MC system with which the MC user is permitted some
interconnection functionality, the configuration parameters should include:
\- Application identity of that MC system
NOTE: The application identity of the MC system is the domain portion of the
MC service IDs for whom the system is primary.
\- Addressing information for relevant entities that enable communication with
that partner MC system, This may include addressing information for signalling
plane and application plane as needed.
NOTE: It is possible that no entities in another system are directly
addressable in an interconnection scenario, and the addresses may refer to
local entities by which users and groups in the partner MC system can be
reached.
\- Whether MCPTT private calls are permitted with users in that partner MC
system.
\- List of MC users in that partner MC system to whom private calls may be
made.
\- List of MC users in that partner MC system from whom private calls may be
received.
\- Indication whether private calls can be made to users of that partner MC
system who are not included in the list.
\- Indication whether private calls can be received from users of that partner
MC system who are not included in the list.
\- List of groups in that partner MC system of which the MC user is a member
\- Address information for the group management server from which the group
profile may be obtained.
\- List of MC services for which the group applies (MCPTT, MCVideo, MCData).
\- Whether MCVideo calls are permitted with users in that partner MC system.
\- List of MC users in that partner MC system to whom MCVideo calls may be
made.
\- List of MC users in that partner MC system from whom MCVideo calls may be
received.
\- Indication whether MCVideo calls can be made to users of that partner MC
system who are not included in the list.
\- Indication whether MCVideo calls can be received from users of that partner
MC system who are not included in the list.
\- Whether MCData transactions are permitted with users in that partner MC
system.
\- List of MC users in that partner MC system to whom MCData transactions may
be initiated.
\- List of MC users in that partner MC system from whom MCData transactions
may be initiated.
\- Indication whether MCData transactions can be initiated to users of that
partner MC system who are not included in the list.
\- Indication whether MCData transactions can be initiated from users of that
partner MC system who are not included in the list.
### 6.4.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
User configuration data will need to be extended to incorporate the
information listed in the previous subclause.
Editor\'s note: this may affect configuration servers within each of the three
services, and/or the common functional architecture
### 6.4.3 Solution Evaluation
Editor\'s Note: Use this section for evaluation at solution level.
## 6.5 Solution 5: Group configuration management for interconnection
### 6.5.1 Description of solutions
These solutions apply to aspects of the following key issues:
\- 1.4: Affiliation and authorization for interconnection MC service group
calls.
\- 1.5: MC group configuration for group defined in partner MC system
\- 1.10: MC system network topology hiding
The principles of these solutions apply to MCPTT, MCVideo and MCData.
The solutions add gateway servers to the primary MC system of the MC service
group, the primary MC system of the MC service users, or both. The purpose of
the gateways is to hide system topology, to prevent direct access to servers
from clients in different domains, and to simplify the routeing issues between
domains.
#### 6.5.1.1 Solution 5.1: Gateway in primary MC system of MC service users
Figure 6.5.1.1-1 shows the use of a gateway in the primary MC system of the MC
service users.
Figure 6.5.1.1-1: Gateway in primary MC system of MC service users
The gateway in the primary MC system of the MC users allows this primary
system to present a single point of access to the primary MC system of the
group, and to hide lower layer addressing information related to the MC
service UEs. The gateway can retrieve the group configuration data on behalf
of the MC service clients, and can apply local configuration rules according
to a template which is configured in the primary MC system of the MC users.
The user configuration data may indicate an address for the gateway server to
the MC service clients as the source for group configuration data instead of
the addresses of the group management servers themselves. The group management
clients in the MC service UEs use reference point CSC-2 to request and
retrieve group configuration data; reference point CSCM-x is used by the
gateway server to retrieve group configuration data from the group management
server in the primary MC system of the group.
The local configuration template may modify the configuration data provided by
the primary MC system of the MC service group in ways such as:
\- Location information concerning areas within which the group is permitted
to operate, or within which acknowledgements from group members are required
will be according to local requirements.
\- The priority of the group and the level within group hierarchy for
broadcast groups will be according to local policies, to be consistent with
locally defined groups within that system.
\- Permission for specific call types such as emergency call, emergency alert,
and imminent peril call may be changed according to local policy.
The locally modified group configuration data may be utilised by a local MC
service server in providing communications within the MC service group. The
part of the configuration data relevant to the MC service client will be
downloaded to the MC service client.
The primary MC system of the group may provide the partner MC system of the
group (primary MC system of the users) with group configuration data that is
different from the data used within the primary MC system of the group. For
example, it may list only the group members who are allowed access to the
group from that partner MC system for the group.
#### 6.5.1.2 Solution 5.2: Gateway in primary MC system of MC service groups
Figure 6.5.1.2-1 shows the use of a gateway in the primary MC system of the MC
service groups, and where there is no gateway server in the primary MC system
of the MC service users (which is the partner MC system of the MC service
group).
Figure 6.5.1.2-1: Gateway in primary MC system of MC service groups
The gateway in the primary MC system of the MC service group allows this
primary system of the MC group to present a single point of access for group
configuration, and to hide the responsible group management servers. If the
primary system of the MC service users does not implement a gateway server,
this gateway server in the primary MC system of the group also hides the group
management servers\' addresses, and so the system topology, from clients in
the partner MC system of the group. It also shields the group management
servers from the PDN used by the MC service clients.
The user configuration data provided to the MC service clients in the partner
MC system of the group may indicate an address for the gateway server to the
MC service clients as the source for group configuration data, instead of the
addresses of the group management servers themselves. The group management
clients in the MC service UEs use reference point CSC-2 to request and
retrieve group configuration data; reference point CSCM-x is used by the
gateway server to retrieve group configuration data from the group management
servers.
The primary MC system of the group may provide the partner MC system of the
group (primary MC system of the users) with group configuration data that is
different from the data used within the primary MC system of the group. For
example, it may list only the group members who are allowed access to the
group from that partner MC system for the group.
#### 6.5.1.3 Solution 5.3: Gateways in primary MC system of MC service groups
and primary MC system of MC service users
Figure 6.5.1.3-1 shows the use of gateways in both the primary MC system of
the MC service users and the primary MC system of the MC service groups. The
gateways operate as described in solutions x.1 and x.2.
Figure 6.5.1.3-1: Gateways in primary MC systems of MC service users and MC
service groups
In this solution, the topology of the primary MC system of the MC service
groups is hidden by the gateway server in this system. The gateway server
allows the primary MC system of the MC service groups to present a single
interface point to its partner system. The gateway server in the primary MC
system of the MC service users allows that MC system to apply local
configuration, if needed, to the group configuration data received from the
primary MC system of the group. This gateway server in the primary MC system
of the MC users also shields the MC users and the PDN of the MC users from the
primary MC system of the group.
A reference point CSCM-y acts as the interface between gateway servers. This
may be identical to reference point CSCM-x between gateway server and group
management server.
### 6.5.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Group configuration data contained in the group management server which holds
the data relating to a particular group may need to also contain a filtered
version of the data which can be provided to a partner MC system.
The group management server will need to new reference point CSCM-x to
communicate with the gateway server.
### 6.5.3 Solution Evaluation
Editor\'s Note: Use this section for evaluation at solution level.
# 7 Overall Evaluation
Editor's Note: This clause will provide evaluation of different solutions.
# 8 Conclusions
Editor\'s Note: This clause is intended to list conclusions that have been
agreed during the course of the study item activities.
# Annex \: Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | **D |** TSG | **TSG | * | ** |** Su | ** | ** | | ate**| #** | D | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| bject | Old_ _| New_ _| | | | oc.__| | | /Comm | | | | | | | | | ent_ * | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | TR | | 0.0.0 | | 16-04 | | | | | Ske | | | | | | | | | leton | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | Draft | 0.0.0 | 0.0.1 | | 16-04 | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA6 | | | | | | | | | #10 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | U | 0.0.1 | 0.1.0 | | 16-06 | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA6 | | | | | | | | | #11, | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6‑1 | | | | | | | | | 60572 | | | | | | | | | , | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0573, | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0574, | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0575, | | | | | | | | | S6‑1 | | | | | | | | | 60576 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | C | 0.1.0 | 0.1.1 | | 16-06 | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | esign | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 3.781 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | temp | | | | | | | | | orary | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | esign | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 3.MIM | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | U | 0.1.1 | 0.2.0 | | 16-08 | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | 6#12 | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0635; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0650; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0652; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0653; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0654; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0658; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0834; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0835; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0841; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0842; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0843; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0844; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0846; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0847; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 8048; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0849; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0850; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0851; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0853; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0895; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0901; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0902; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0904; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0915; | | | | | | | | | S6‑1 | | | | | | | | | 60927 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | U | 0.2.0 | 0.3.0 | | 16-10 | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA6 | | | | | | | | | #13 | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0942; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0943; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0992; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 1185; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 1186; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 1192; | | | | | | | | | S6‑1 | | | | | | | | | 61270 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | U | 0.3.0 | 0.4.0 | | 16-11 | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA6 | | | | | | | | | #14 | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 1377; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | |