# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objective of this Technical Report is to identify and evaluate potential
architecture enhancements needed to operate LTE-based V2X (V2V, V2I, V2N, and
V2P), based on vehicular services requirements defined in SA WG1 V2XLTE (TS
22.185 [3] and TS 22.278 [2]) and determine which of the solutions can proceed
to normative specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.303: \"Proximity-based Services (ProSe); Stage 2\".
[6] IETF RFC 4862: \"IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and codecs\".
[10] 3GPP TR 23.829: \"Local IP Access and Selected IP Traffic Offload (LIPA-
SIPTO)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
Stage 2\".
> [12] IETF RFC 4786: \"Operation of Anycast Services\".
[13] IETF RFC 4291: \"IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture\".
[14] COmmunication Network VEhicle Road Global Extension (CONVERGE): \"Privacy
Augmented LTE\" (http://www.converge-
online.de/doc/download/Privacy_Augmented_LTE.pdf).
[15] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Architecture enhancements for V2X services\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
Editor\'s note: The Definitions are work in progress and may evolve and change
as we have clearer input from SA WG1 (normative).
**Road Side Unit** : A stationary infrastructure entity supporting V2X
applications that can exchange messages with other entities supporting V2X
applications.
**V2I Service:** a type of V2X Service, where one party is a UE equipped on a
vehicle and the other party is an RSU.
**V2N Service:** a type of V2X Service, where one party is a UE equipped on a
vehicle and the other party is an application server (e.g. traffic safety
server).
**V2P Service:** a type of V2X Service, where one party is a UE equipped on a
vehicle and the other party is a UE which is carried by an individual (e.g.
handheld terminal carried by a pedestrian, cyclist, driver or passenger).
**V2V Service:** a type of V2X Service, where both parties of the
communication are UEs equipped on different vehicles.
**V2X message:** message containing V2X application layer information. The V2X
message is safety-related V2X message or non-safety-related V2X message.
**V2X Service:** a type of communication service to exchange V2X messages that
involves a transmitting or receiving UE using V2X application via 3GPP
transport. V2X Service is further divivided into V2V Service, V2P Service, V2I
Service, and V2N Service.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DCN Dedicated Core Network
RSU Road Side Unit
USD User Service Description
V2I Vehicle-to-Infrastructure
V2N Vehicle-to-Network
V2P Vehicle-to-Pedestrian
V2V Vehicle-to-Vehicle
V2X Vehicle-to-Everything
# 4 Architectural Assumptions and Requirements
## 4.1 Architectural Assumptions
Editor\'s note: This clause will define the underlying architectural
assumptions for LTE support of V2X services.
\- Both LTE-Uu based architecture (e.g. eMBMS) and PC5 based architecture are
used for supporting V2X services.
\- The LTE-Uu and PC5 based architecture may be used by a UE independently for
transmission and reception, e.g. a UE can use eMBMS for reception without
using LTE-Uu for transmission.
NOTE 1: A UE using LTE-Uu based architecture for V2X communication may receive
V2X message via unicast downlink.
\- Within the context of this study, RSU is viewed as a V2X application
receiving V2X messages via SGi, PC5 or LTE-Uu interface.
\- V2X Application Servers e.g. in different domains can communicate with each
other for the exchange of V2X messages. The interface between V2X Application
Servers and the methods of the exchange of messages between V2X Application
Servers is out of scope of 3GPP.
\- ProSe discovery like feature is not required for V2X Services (TS 23.303
[5] clause 5.3 ProSe Direct Discovery).
NOTE 2: _ProSe discovery function can be used by a V2X supporting UE but that
is up to UE implementation_.
NOTE 3: In this TR, it is assumed that V2X application can handle the user
authenticity and message integrity. It is SA3 responsibility to determine if
such assumptions are correct.
\- Subject to regional regulations, lawful interception requirements may apply
to V2X Services.
### 4.1.1 PC5 and LTE-Uu based V2X architecture reference model
Figure 4.1.1-1: Reference architecture for V2X (PC5 and LTE-Uu based)
The new functions are defined as following:
V2X Control Function: The logical function that is used for network related
actions required for V2X.
Editor\'s note: Any requirements beyond provisioning and configuration from
V2X Control Function are FFS.
Editor\'s note: Whether V2X Control Function can be part of the ProSe Function
or the V2X Application Server is FFS.
The reference points are defined as following:
V1: The reference point between a V2X application and the V2X Application
Server.
Editor\'s note: V1 is out of scope of SA2 but is FFS whether it is out of
scope of 3GPP.
V2: This is the reference point between the V2X Application Server and the V2X
Control Function in the operator\'s network. The V2X Application Server may
connect to V2X Control Functions belonging to multiple PLMNs.
V3: This is the reference point between a V2X enabled UE and the V2X Control
Function in the operator\'s network. It is based on the service authorization
and provisioning part of the PC3 reference point defined in clause 5.2 of TS
23.303 [5]. It is applicable to both PC5 based V2X and optionally Uu based
V2X.
V4: The reference point between the HSS and V2X Control Function in the
operator\'s network.
V5: This is the reference point between the V2X Applications.
Editor\'s note: V5 is out of scope of SA2 but is FFS whether it is out of
scope of 3GPP.
V6: This is the reference point between V2X Control Functions.
LTE-Uu: This is the reference point between the V2X enabled UE and the
E-UTRAN.
PC5: This is the reference point between the V2X enabled UEs for V2V, V2I, and
V2P Services.
Editor\'s note: Enhancements to PC5 may be needed to support V2X.
### 4.1.2 eMBMS and LTE-Uu based V2X architecture reference model
Figure 4.1.2-1: Reference architecture for V2X (eMBMS and LTE-Uu based)
The new functions are defined as following:
V2X AS: The logical function that is used for network related actions required
for V2X. It is similar to the GCS AS.
The reference points are defined as following:
VC1: This is the reference point between the V2X AS and the application client
on the UE.
Editor\'s note: VC1 is out of scope of SA2 but is FFS whether it is out of
scope of 3GPP.
VMB2: This is the reference point between the V2X AS and the BM-SC.
Editor\'s note: Whether MB2 can be reused for V2X is FFS. In case of reuse,
whether all functionality of MB2 is necessary for V2X is FFS.
SGmb/SGi-mb/M1/M3: The SGmb/SGi-mb/M1/M3 reference points are internal to the
MBMS system and are defined in TS 23.246 [4].
LTE-Uu: This is the reference point between the V2X enabled UE and the
E-UTRAN.
## 4.2 Architectural Requirements
Editor\'s note: This clause will define the architectural requirements based
on the normative stage-1 requirements defined in TS 22.185 [3] and TS 22.278
[2].
# 5 Key Issues
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the key issues for LTE support of
V2X services.
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: Service authorization for V2X
### 5.1.1 General description
In order for the UE to use V2X Service, service authorization for V2X is
needed.
For this key issue the following aspects need to be studied at least:
\- Means for the MNO to authorize a UE to use V2X Service when the UE is
\"served by E-UTRAN\" and when the UE is \"not served by E-UTRAN\".
\- Means for the MNO to revoke authorization for a UE related to V2X Service.
## 5.2 Key Issue #2: V2X message transmission/reception for V2V Service and
V2P Service
### 5.2.1 General description
Transmission of a V2X message for V2V Service and V2P Service can be triggered
periodically or based on a certain event. The V2X message can be exchanged
when the UE is \"served by E-UTRAN\" and when the UE is \"not served by
E-UTRAN\". The V2X message can be exchanged when the UE is non-roaming and
roaming.
To support V2X message transmission/reception for V2V Service and V2P Service,
the following aspects need to be studied at least:
\- How to enable the exchange of the V2X messages between UEs for V2V Services
and V2P Services.
\- Addressing mechanism/identifiers to broadcast a V2X message for V2V Service
and V2P Service (see clause 5.6).
When studying the above aspects, the following needs to be considered:
\- when the UE is non-roaming and when the UE is roaming (also see clause
5.6.4).
\- when the UE is \"served by E-UTRAN\" and when the UE is \"not served by
E-UTRAN\".
\- transferring V2X messages between two UEs, directly or via an RSU.
Editor\'s note: RAN impacts need to be considered for \"via the RSU\" aspect.
## 5.3 Key Issue #3: Policy/Parameter provisioning for V2V Service, V2P
Service and V2I Service
### 5.3.1 General description
To support V2X message transmission/reception for V2V Service, V2P Service and
V2I Service, the following aspects need to be studied at least:
\- Means for provisioning authorization policy and parameters for V2X message
transmission/reception for V2V Service, V2P Service and V2I Service,
considering:
\- when the UE is non-roaming and when the UE is roaming.
\- when the UE is \"served by E-UTRAN\" and when the UE is \"not served by
E-UTRAN\".
## 5.4 Key Issue #4: V2X message prioritization for V2V Service and V2P
Service
### 5.4.1 General description
Prioritizing V2X message transmission for a UE supporting V2X Service and
serving specific purpose (e.g. ambulance or patrol car on duty) is required.
It is also required to support prioritizing V2X message transmission according
to the message type (e.g. whether road safety related message or not).
In order to support above, the following aspects need to be studied at least:
\- How does the 3GPP system provide means to prioritize V2X message
transmission for V2V Service and V2P Service for a UE serving specific purpose
(e.g. ambulance or patrol car on duty)?
\- How does the 3GPP system provide means to prioritize transmission of V2X
message for V2V Service and V2P Service according to its type (e.g. whether
road safety related message or not)?
## 5.5 Key Issue #5: V2X message transmission/reception between a vehicle and
an RSU for V2I
### 5.5.1 General description
A V2X message for V2I Service can be transmitted from a vehicle to an RSU. An
RSU can transmit a V2X message for V2I Service to a vehicle or distribute a
V2X message for V2I Service to vehicles. In these cases, the V2X message can
be forwarded from an RSU to other RSU(s).
To support V2X message transmission/reception between a vehicle and an RSU for
V2I, the following aspects need to be studied at least:
\- How to enable the exchange of the V2X messages between UE and RSU for V2I
Services.
\- Addressing mechanism/identifiers to broadcast a V2X message for V2I Service
(see clause 5.6).
\- Addressing mechanism/identifiers to transmit and receive a unicast V2X
message for V2I Service.
\- How does the 3GPP system provide the RSU with means to dynamically control
the area where V2X messages are distributed and transmitted by the RSU
depending on the type and contents of the V2X messages for V2I Service?
When studying the above aspects, the following needs to be considered:
\- When a UE is non-roaming and when a UE is roaming (also see clause 5.6.4).
\- When a UE is \"served by E-UTRAN\" and when a UE is \"not served by
E-UTRAN\".
\- When an RSU implemented as a UE is \"served by E-UTRAN\" and is \"not
served by E-UTRAN\".
## 5.6 Key Issue #6: V2X message transmission/reception with eMBMS
architecture for V2X
### 5.6.1 General description
This section captures the overall key issues related to V2X using eMBMS
architecture in clause 4.1.2.
### 5.6.2 Issue #6a: MBMS service area mapping
Geographical information is present at different protocol layers of car-to-car
communication systems in various forms. For examples, Geographical information
is present in Facility layer of ETSI ITS architecture, in DSRC messages over
WAVE, in GeoNetworking layer/protocol of ETSI ITS architecture, etc.
In GCSE model, GCS AS is responsible to map the broadcast area with MBMS
service area which is represented by MBMS SAI(s) or ECGI(s).
The only important issue which should be studied is which node (V2X AS or BM-
SC) is responsible for this function and this is linked to the translation of
geographical location into MBMS service areas and/or list of ECGIs. If the
translation is done by V2X application then also V2X application server can
manage the use of MBMS sessions. If the translation is done by BM-SC, then it
should be the function of BM-SC to manage and select MBMS sessions for a
geographical area given by V2X application server along with the associated
V2X data.
This KI is related to the broadcast area identifiers aspect of KI#2 and KI#5.
### 5.6.3 Issue #6b: Latency improvements for eMBMS for V2X Service
The eMBMS is a highly efficient way for V2X messages transmission even
considering the large number of vehicles and high speed of vehicles. It is
considered that the existing eMBMS architecture may benefit with some
improvements to make eMBMS better suited for V2X services where most V2X
messages are locally relevant and the transmission latency of core network
adds to the end-to-end latency of V2X message. In order to fulfil the latency
requirement for V2X Services, it is necessary to study CN latency improvements
for eMBMS at least including the following aspects:
\- Whether localising certain functional entities of the eMBMS architecture
could help reducing the latency?
\- Whether both the control plane and user plane of BM-SC/MBMS-GW need to be
localized, or only user plane needs to be localized?
\- How to establish the eMBMS session in localized eMBMS architecture?
\- How to inform the UE of eMBMS service description information (e.g. TMGI)?
\- Possible improvements on existing MBMS to AS interfaces where current
eMBMS/GCSE architecture is utilised.
### 5.6.4 Issue #6c: Local V2X server discovery
In V2X environment, this kind of pre-configuration info to UE is not
sufficient because the V2X server is associated in a geographical manner so
there needs to be a discovery mechanism for the UE(s) as they are arriving
into each geographical area.
The important issue which should be studied is how UE is able to discover the
local V2X server for V2X service. UE could belong to different PLMNs.
In addition, within a geographical area, there could be multiple V2X
Application Servers providing V2X services to the UE. The discovery mechanism
needs to cater for such cases.
These V2X Application Servers may be providing same or different services to
the UE, and may not communicate with each other. Examples of these cases are
shown in Figure 5.6.4-1 and Figure 5.6.4-2.
As shown in Figure 5.6.4-1, the different V2X servers (possibly from different
road authorities) may provide the same V2X service to the UE, e.g. when the UE
is at an overlapping area of different type of roads.
Figure 5.6.4-1: Different V2X server is used to manage different region
Figure 5.6.4-2 shows another case of different V2X Servers covering the same
area, but providing different type of V2X services to the UE. For example, V2X
Server #1 is from a parking service provider, and V2X Server #2 is from a
tolling service provider.
{width="6.4743055555555555in" height="2.7090277777777776in"}
Figure 5.6.4-2: Different V2X servers for different type of V2X services
This KI is also related to the following aspect of KI#2 and KI#5:
\- when a UE is non-roaming and when a UE is roaming.
### 5.6.5 Issue #6d: Distribution of V2X messages to V2X servers
As explained in Key Issue #6c, multiple V2X servers can be relevant to a
particular UE within a geographical region. Therefore there are cases, in
which the same V2X messages originating from this UE need to be distributed to
several V2X servers.
An example could be the Road and Safety V2X application, when UE detects
abnormalities on the highway or at a pedestrian section (with on-board sensor
or cameras etc.), such information in the V2X messages can be interesting for
different road authorities, so much so these messages must be distributed to
different V2X servers (the V2X servers of different authorities are not
supposed to communicate with each other).
NOTE: Depending on the actual cases, the UE could be made aware or unaware of
the exact V2X servers.
The important issue which should be studied is how messages from a UE are
distributed to the relevant local V2X servers for V2X service.
This KI is also related to the following aspect of KI#2 and KI#5:
\- when a UE is non-roaming and when a UE is roaming.
## 5.7 Key Issue #7: QoS for V2X Service
### 5.7.1 General description
To support the V2X service requirements including the maximum transmission
frequency, maximum latency and high reliability, the following aspects need to
be studied for both the PC5 and LTE-Uu based architecture at least:
\- Which QoS parameters need to be defined for V2X Service?
\- How does the 3GPP system provide means to support of transferring V2X
messages between two UEs supporting V2V/P Service (directly or via an RSU), or
between a UE supporting V2I Service and an RSU, with a maximum latency of
100ms (20ms for particular V2V Service)?
## 5.8 Key Issue #8: Inter-PLMN operation for V2X
### 5.8.1 General description
To support V2V/V2P communication among UEs served by different PLMNs, the
following aspects need to be studied at least:
\- Identify the system-level aspects and any enhancements, if needed, to ProSe
Direct Communication (e.g. authorization) to support inter-PLMN operation i.e.
to support ProSe Direct Communication for V2V/V2P service among UEs served by
different PLMNs.
\- Identify the system-level aspects and any enhancements, if needed, to eMBMS
to support inter-PLMN operation i.e. to support eMBMS reception in a UE where
the PLMN providing the eMBMS service is different from the UE\'s serving PLMN.
Editor\'s note: Some of the enhancements are in the domain of RAN WGs and will
be developed in cooperation with them.
## 5.9 Key Issue #9: Privacy for V2X communications
### 5.9.1 General description
For V2X Services, UE privacy is required based on security requirements in TS
22.185 [3]. For this key issue, at least the following aspects need to be
studied:
\- UE identity concealment from mobile operator;
\- Prevention of long term tracking of a UE when in using LTE-Uu for V2X
communications and is registered in EPC.
# 6 Solutions
Editor\'s note: This clause is intended to document the agreed architecture
solutions. Each solution should clearly describe which of the key issues it
covers and how.
## 6.1 Solution #1: V2X authorization
### 6.1.1 Functional Description
V2X Service Authorization shall be based on the following considerations:
\- Exchange of V2X related information using E-UTRA(N) **when permission and
authorisation are fulfilled**.
The basic principles of service authorization for V2X Direct Communication are
as follows:
\- The UE gets authorization to use V2X Direct Communication on a per PLMN
basis in the serving PLMN by the V2X Control Function in the HPLMN.
\- The V2X Control Function in the HPLMN requests authorization information
from the V2X Control Function of the serving PLMN.
\- The V2X Control Function in the HPLMN merges authorization information from
home and serving PLMNs.
\- Final authorization comes from the V2X Control Function in the Home PLMN.
\- The V2X Control Function in the VPLMN or HPLMN may revoke the authorization
at any time. The V2X Control Function in the HPLMN shall be notified when
authorization is revoked by the VPLMN.
### 6.1.2 Procedures
#### 6.1.2.1 Service authorization procedures
Figure 6.1.2.1-1: Pre-configuration for V2X Direct Communication
The HPLMN pre-configures the UE with the authorization information for a list
of PLMNs where the UE is authorized to perform V2X Direct Communication and in
addition information regarding out-of-coverage operation may be provided. If
there is no associated UE context, the V2X Control Function gets the
subscription information for V2X Direct Communication from HSS.
Figure 6.1.2.1-2: Service authorization for V2X Direct Communication
The UE gets the service authorization for V2X Direct Communication, with a
given validity time, from the V2X Control Function of the HPLMN.
The service authorization procedure is executed:
\- Before starting the setup of V2X Direct Communication if the UE has no
valid authorization information, or
\- when the UE already engaged in a V2X Direct Communication changes its
registered PLMN and has no valid authorization information for the new
registered PLMN, or
\- when the service authorization expires.
In this signalling flow, shown in Figure 6.1.2.1-2, the following steps are
performed:
Step 1: The UE requests authorization for Direct Communication for HPLMN or
for the VPLMN from the V2X Control Function in HPLMN.
Step 2: The V2X Control Function in HPLMN obtains authorization information
from VPLMN and merges with own policy.
Step 3: The V2X Control Function in HPLMN provides authorization information
to UE. The authorization information provided to the UE applies to the serving
PLMN. The UE stores the authorization information obtained from this V2X
Control Function in a secure way. If needed at any point the authorization can
be revoked by the V2X Control Function in VPLMN or V2X Control Function in the
HPLMN.
#### 6.1.2.2 Policy/Parameter provisioning
The following information is provisioned to the UE for one-to-all ProSe Direct
Communication for V2X:
1) Authorization policy:
\- Same to 1) Authorization policy described in clause 4.5.1.1.2.3.3 of TS
23.303 [5].
2) Radio parameters for when the UE is \"not served by E-UTRAN\":
\- Same to 3) Radio parameters for when the UE is \"not served by E-UTRAN\"
described in clause 4.5.1.1.2.3.3 of TS 23.303 [5].
Optionally, the following information may be provisioned to the UE for eMBMS
communication for V2X:
1) PLMNs in which the UE is authorized to use MBMS based V2X communication.
2) Corresponding USD for receiving MBMS based V2X traffic in the PLMN. The USD
may be obtained through the V2 reference point from the V2X Application
Server.
Optionally, the following information may be provisioned to the UE for the V2X
Application Server:
1) Server address information, e.g. FQDN, or list of server addresses
associated with location information.
#### 6.1.2.3 Service authorization update procedures
The service authorization update procedures as specified in clause 5.2.2 of TS
23.303 [5] are reused for the updating of service authorization information in
the UE.
### 6.1.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
> Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 6.1.4 Topics for further study
### 6.1.5 Conclusions
This solution is used as the basis for the normative work on service
authorization for V2X.
## 6.2 Solution #2: V2X message transmission/reception for V2V/P Services
using PC5
### 6.2.1 Functional Description
#### 6.2.1.1 General
This solution corresponds to the Key Issue #2 \"V2X message
transmission/reception for V2V Service and V2P Service\".
Transmission of a V2X message for V2V Service and V2P Service can be made
using PC5. Figure 6.2.1.1-1 (a) shows V2X message transmission/reception over
PC5 when the UEs are \"served by E-UTRAN\" and Figure 6.2.1.1-1 (b) shows V2X
message transmission/reception over PC5 when the UEs are \"not served by
E-UTRAN\".
Figure 6.2.1.1-1: Transmission of a V2X message for V2V Service and V2P
Service over PC5
V2X messages over PC5 need to be broadcasted so that all UEs supporting V2V
and/or V2P Service in proximity of the V2X message transmitting UE can receive
the messages regardless of roaming and serving PLMN. One-to-all ProSe Direct
Communication is applicable when the UE is \"served by E-UTRAN\" and when the
UE is \"not served by E‑UTRAN\". The transmitting UE as well as receiving UE
authorized for V2X Service as described in Solution #1 (clause 6.1) perform
one-to-all ProSe Direct Communication by using addressing/identifiers as
described in clause 6.2.1.2.
One-to-all ProSe Direct Communication for V2X has the following
characteristics:
\- One-to-all ProSe Direct Communication is connectionless. Thus there is no
signalling over PC5 control plane.
\- The radio layer provides a user plane communication service for
transmission of V2X messages between UEs engaged in direct communication.
\- IPv6 is used for transmission of IP packets of V2X message. IPv4 is not
supported in this release.
\- Non-IP based V2X messages are supported.
\- Authorization for one-to-all ProSe Direct Communication is configured in
the UE as described in Solution #1.
#### 6.2.1.2 Addressing/Identifiers
Each UE has a Layer-2 ID for one-to-all ProSe Direct Communication that is
included in the source Layer-2 ID field of every frame that it sends on the
layer-2 link. The UE self-assigns the Layer-2 ID for one-to-all ProSe Direct
Communication.
The UE auto-configures a link local IPv6 address following procedures defined
in RFC 4862 [6]. This address can be used as the source IP address for one-to-
all ProSe Direct Communication.
In order to ensure that a vehicle cannot be tracked or identified by any other
vehicle beyond a certain short time-period required by the application, the
source Layer-2 ID and the source IP address must be changed over time.
The UE is configured with the destination Layer-2 ID(s) to be used for V2X
services.V2X application selects the L2 ID for a V2X message based on the
configuration.
#### 6.2.1.3 User plane stacks
In this release, \"V2X-non-IP\" is only supported over PC5 link.
**Legend:**
\- **PC5-U:** The PDCP/RLC/MAC/PHY functionality is specified in TS 36.300
[8].
\- For PDCP SDU type \"V2X-non-IP\", stage 3 will define the next layer header
in order to support multiple V2X application formats.
NOTE: Stage 3 can decide if the \"V2X-non-IP\" SDU type is to be a new type,
or to be merged with any existing SDU types, e.g. PC5-SP, also whether it
should be generic for all \"non-IP\" data over PC5.
Figure 6.2.1.3-1: User Plane for PC5 interface supporting V2X
### 6.2.2 Procedures
To perform one-to-all ProSe Direct Communication, the UE is configured with
the related information for one-to-all ProSe Direct Communication as defined
in Solution #1.
The procedure for one-to-many ProSe Direct Communication transmission
described in clause 5.4.2 of TS 23.303 [5] is applied to one-to-all ProSe
Direct Communication for V2X message transmission for V2V/P Services using PC5
with following differences:
\- The source Layer-2 ID is set to the Layer-2 ID described in clause 6.2.1.2.
\- A UE shall be configured with a set of Layer-2 ID corresponding to
different type of services.
The procedure for one-to-many ProSe Direct Communication reception described
in clause 5.4.3 of TS 23.303 [5] is applied to one-to-all ProSe Direct
Communication for V2X message reception for V2V/P Services using PC5.
### 6.2.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
> Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 6.2.4 Topics for further study
It is FFS how to support QoS for V2X message transmission.
### 6.2.5 Conclusions
This solution is used as the basis for the normative work on PC5 based V2X
communication.
## 6.3 Solution #3: V2X message transmission/reception for V2V/P Services via
LTE-Uu
### 6.3.1 Functional Description
#### 6.3.1.1 General
This solution corresponds to the Key Issue #2 \"V2X message
transmission/reception for V2V Service and V2P Service\" and Key Issue #6b
\"Latency improvements for eMBMS\".
The proposed solution applies to the case where the UE sends the V2X message
via LTE-Uu and the V2X message is forwarded to multiple UEs over LTE-Uu as
shown in Figure 6.3.1.1-1.
Figure 6.3.1.1-1: V2X message transmission/reception for V2V/P Services via
LTE-Uu
In order to reduce the latency for transferring V2X messages for V2V/P Service
using LTE-Uu, localized routing of V2X messages for V2V/P Services is
proposed. For uplink/downlink unicast, SIPTO\@LN defined in TS 23.401 [7] can
be considered for localized routing of V2X messages originated by UEs. For
downlink broadcast, local MBMS can be considered for localized routing of V2X
messages destined to UEs.
Figure 6.3.1.1-2 depicts the proposed architecture for latency improvements
including SIPTO\@LN and local MBMS architecture for localized routing of V2X
messages for V2V/P Services via LTE-Uu. It is considered that the core network
entities and V2X Application Server in the proposed architecture are located
close to the access network for latency improvements.
Figure 6.3.1.1-2: Architecture model for localized routing of V2X messages for
V2V/P Services via LTE-Uu
NOTE 1: The MCE is not shown in the figure.
NOTE 2: For SIPTO\@LN in the figure, stand-alone GW architecture (with S-GW
and L-GW collocated) is illustrated. However, SIPTO\@LN with L-GW function
collocated with the eNB is not precluded.
NOTE 3: Not all relevant entities are shown in the figure.
NOTE 4: The V2X Application Server in the figure can be considered as a V2X
Service Layer.
#### 6.3.1.2 USD provisioning for eMBMS communication
USD per PLMN for V2X Services is configured in the UE.
To provide a new USD or updated USD to the UE, existing MBMS service
announcement mechanisms specified in TS 23.246 [4] and TS 26.346 [9] can be
used. Also, the UE can obtain a new USD or updated USD from the V2X
Application Server via V1 as described in TS 23.468 [11].
NOTE: The UE can receive the DL broadcast from the PLMN other than Serving
PLMN based on the USD obtained as described in this clause.
### 6.3.2 Procedures
#### 6.3.2.1 V2X message transmission/reception for V2V/P Services via LTE-Uu
Figure 6.3.2.1-1: V2X message transmission/reception for V2V/P Services via
LTE-Uu
1\. UE obtains necessary information for MBMS reception of V2X message for
V2V/P Services as described in clause 6.3.1.2. The User Service Description
(as in TS 26.346 [9]) containing the necessary information about the MBMS User
Service (e.g. TMGIs. MBMS Service Areas, Frequency bands) that is provided to
the UE by this BM-SC is valid in all areas (e.g. MBMS SAIs) indicated in the
related transport metadata, even when these areas fall under the control of
other BM-SCs serving the areas. The UE will use this USD until is informed by
the network to obtain a new USD.
NOTE 1: The UE is not expected to have to obtain a new USD very often e.g.
every time it moves to new \"localised\" MBMS network.
NOTE 2: The assumption is that there are no overlapping MBMS Service Areas.
2\. UE-1 sends a V2X message over LTE-Uu. UE-1 has already established a SIPTO
at the local network PDN connection to transmit the V2X message for V2V/P
Services over LTE-Uu as described in TS 23.401 [7].
The eNB receives the V2X message and the V2X message is routed to the V2X
Application Server via S-GW/L-GW.
3\. The V2X Application Server decides to forward the V2X message and the
target area of the message. The V2X Application Server sends the V2X message
to the target area of the message by MBMS delivery. The MBMS bearer used for
MBMS delivery can be pre-established.
NOTE 3: It is out of scope of 3GPP how the decision is made to forward the V2X
message in the V2X Application Server related to the local network.
### 6.3.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 6.3.4 Topics for further study
It is FFS how to support service continuity between local networks.
The definition of \"local MBMS architecture\" needs further study.
### 6.3.5 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: Conclusions will be collected for this particular
functionality.
## 6.4 Solution #4: V2X broadcast with Local MBMS Entity (LME)
### 6.4.1 Functional Description
Solution #4 targets Key Issue #6 (V2X message transmission/reception with
eMBMS architecture for V2X) and, in particular, Key Issue #6b (Latency
improvements for eMBMS for V2X Service).
The idea of this proposal is to move the user plane related MBMS functions
(i.e. user plane functions of BM-SC and MBMS-GW) closer to RAN, which allows
the V2X messages to be distributed to target eNBs without traversing the core
network nodes, i.e. BM-SC and MBMS-GW.
The control plane remains at the main MBMS nodes, i.e. BM-SC, MBMS-GW and MME
in the core network.
The possible localized MBMS architecture is shown as below:
Figure 6.4.1-1: Localized MBMS architecture
The Local MBMS Entity (LME) will host the necessary functions to transmit the
data received directly from V2X server to eNB via M1 reference point (e.g.,
SYNC function, IP multicast distribution function, etc.). An LME may serve 1
or more eNBs.
Since the user plane data (MB2-U as shown in Figure 6.4.1-1) is sent directly
to LME from V2X Server. The Sync- function from traditional BM-SC is also
carried out by LME. In addition, error resilient schemes e.g. specialized MBMS
codecs or Forward Error Correction schemes and charging will also need to
carry out by LME if needed. Security function is not expected because V2X
security is expected to be done at application layer. MBMS charging if needed
can be in LME but the overall charging for V2X is to be studied by SA5.
As compare to the current Rel-13 MBMS setup procedure (see TS 23.246 [4]/
Figure 8b: Session Start procedure for E-UTRAN and UTRAN for EPS), LME reuses
the MBMS session setup procedure (signalling path setup with downstream nodes)
with SAI list or ECGI list setup as shown in step 1 to 7 of Figure 8b in TS
23.246 [4].
### 6.4.2 Procedures
#### 6.4.2.1 V2X Server Initiated Procedure (option 1)
Figure 6.4.2.1-1: Local MBMS data delivery via LME initiated by V2X Server
1\. V2X Server requests a TMGI via MB2-C.
2\. V2X Sever is preconfigured with LME information (e.g. FQDN or IP address
for the LME). When there is a need to establish delivery path for V2X message,
the V2X Server initiates Local Distribution Request procedure with the LME.
This message includes TMGI as an identifier.
3\. The LME replies with the Local Distribution Response message including the
IP address/port in LME for receiving the data, and the associated information
of Local MBMS Distribution, e.g., IP Source Address, and IP Multicast Address
in LME for IP multicast distribution.
NOTE: In LME, it is 1:1 mapping between the IP address/port for receiving the
data, and the associated IP source address/IP Multicast address.
4\. V2X Server initiates Activation MBMS Bearer Request procedure. The message
includes the information of Local MBMS Distribution (IP Mutlicast address).
5\. BM-SC initiates MBMS Session Start procedure. The MBMS Session Start
Request message includes the information of Local MBMS Distribution. Upon the
reception of the information of Local MBMS Distribution, the MBMS-GW will skip
the normal processing for IP multicast distribution, e.g. allocate an IP
multicast address.
6\. The MBMS-GW uses the received Local MBMS Distribution information in the
MBMS Session Start Request message, and sends it to MME, which is forwarded to
eNB/MCE.
7\. The eNB joins the IP Multicast group, which is one in the LME.
8\. LME sends the V2X Data via the IP/port address received from step 3.
#### 6.4.2.2 Void
#### 6.4.2.3 Void
#### 6.4.2.4 BM-SC Initiated Procedure (option 4)
Figure 6.4.2.4-1 below depicts the signalling flow for this option.
Figure 6.4.2.4-1: Local MBMS data delivery via LME initiated by BM-SC. Green
indicates new messages/IEs, while red indicates user plane data.
The following steps are performed.
1\. V2X Server requests a TMGI via MB2-C.
2\. V2X Server initiates Activation MBMS Bearer Request procedure. The message
may include an indication of V2X Server preference for local delivery.
3\. The BM-SC initiates the MBMS Session Start procedure by indicating the
information about the MV termination point on the LME side.
4\. The MBMS-GW uses the received Mv termination point information in the MBMS
Session Start Request message to communicate with the LME. It may allocate the
IP Multimedia details (i.e., IP Multicast address, IP address of the multicast
source(SSM), C-TEID) and send them to the LME. The MBMS-GW initiates the Local
MBMS Distribution Request procedure, to ask LME to start the Local MBMS
distribution.
NOTE 1: No special consideration is required for the IP Multicast Address used
by LME. It is expected that network operator will take care the IP Multicast
Addressing scheme used by the network.
5\. The LME accepts the Local MBMS Distribution Request procedure. The LME
sends to the MBMS-GW the MB2-U termination details. If not provided by the
MBMS-GW, the LME allocates also the IP Multicast details.
6\. The MBMS-GW sends a Session Start Response message to the BM-SC including
the LME\'s MB2-U termination details.
7\. The MBMS-GW sends a Session Start Request message including the session
attributes (TMGI, Flow Identifier, IP Multicast details) to the E-UTRAN. The
E-UTRAN responds with a Session Start Response message.
8\. The eNB joins the IP Multicast group, which is one in the LME.
9\. The BM-SC provides the local MBMS information needed for transmission of
V2X message, i.e., the MB2-U termination details, to V2X Server in the
Activate MBMS Bearer Response message.
NOTE 2: Step 9 is triggered after step 6, nevertheless the MBMS Data (step 10)
should arrive at the LME only after Step 8 has been completed (see clause
8.3.0 of TS 23.246 [4]).
10/11. The V2X Server sends the V2X Data via the MB2-U termination point
received in step 9.
### 6.4.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
The LME based approach (option 4) requires:
\- A new entity (the LME) including the UP part of the MBMS-GW and of the BM-
SC. In particular, of those indicated in TS 23.246 [4], clauses 5.1.0 and
5.9.1, the LME implements only the following UP functionalities:
\- Receive User Data from V2X server over MB2-U.
\- IP multicast distribution of MBMS user plane data to E-UTRAN (M1 reference
point).
\- Data synchronization (as for the BM-SC in legacy eMBMS mechanisms).
\- If used, apply favourable error resilient schemes, e.g. specialized MBMS
codecs or Forward Error Correction schemes.
\- If used, MBMS data encryption.
\- Provision of MB2-U termination details (IP address and port number).
\- Provision of IP Multicast details (IP Multicast address, address of
multicast source (SSM) and C-TEID) if not received over Mv from the MBMS-GW.
\- A new interface (Mv between LME and MBMS-GW).
\- An upgrade of the MBMS-GW and BM-SC to support both the existing eMBMS
architecture and this variant with V2X.
\- When LME is used, the following user plane functions are NOT needed in the
BM-SC:
\- Receive user data from content provider and be able to send MBMS data
(function provided by Session and Transmission function). This includes sync
and applying favourable error resilient schemes to the MBMS data.
\- Sending MBMS data from the BM-SC Session and Transmission function to the
MBMS-GW (function provided by Proxy and Transport Function).
\- When LME is used, the following user plane functions are NOT needed in the
MBMS-GW:
\- function related to MBMS bearers through the SGi-mb (user plane) reference
point.
\- function related to IP multicast distribution of MBMS user plane data to
E-UTRAN (M1 reference point)
\- Additional parameters exchanged between BM-SC and MBMS-GW over SGmb and
between V2X AS and BM-SC over MB2-C.
### 6.4.4 Topics for further study
Void.
### 6.4.5 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: Conclusions will be collected for this particular
functionality.
## 6.5 Solution #5: RSU based on V2V/V2P Message Offload function in eNB or on
S1
### 6.5.1 Functional Description
#### 6.5.1.1 General
This solution corresponds to the Key Issue #2 \"V2X message
transmission/reception for V2V Service and V2P Service\" and Key Issue #6b
\"Latency improvements for eMBMS\".
The proposed solution applies to the case where the UE sends the V2X message
via LTE-Uu and the V2X message is re-broadcasted to surrounding UEs using MBMS
as shown in Figure 6.5.1.1-1.
Figure 6.5.1.1-1: V2X message transmission/reception for V2V/V2P Services via
LTE-Uu
The solution description focuses only on the uplink side of Uu. The downlink
side of Uu relies on eMBMS and can reuse the architecture proposed in other
solutions (e.g. Solution #3 described in clause 6.3).
In order to reduce the latency for transferring V2X messages for V2V/V2P
Service using LTE-Uu, localised routing of V2X messages for V2V/V2P Services
is proposed. However, contrary to Solution #3, this solution does not rely on
SIPTO\@LN defined in TS 23.401 [7] for localised routing of V2X messages
originated by UEs. Instead, this solution relies on a V2V/V2P Message Offload
(VMO) function residing in the eNB or on S1 that identifies the traffic
corresponding to V2V/V2P messages and steers it towards a local V2V/V2P
application server, as illustrated in Figure 6.5.1.1-2.
Figure 6.5.1.1-2: Uu-based RSU including a V2V/V2P Message Offload (VMO)
function
NOTE 1: The figure focuses only on the uplink side of Uu. The downlink side of
Uu relies on eMBMS and can reuse the architecture proposed in other solutions
(e.g. Solution #3 described in clause 6.3).
NOTE 2: The solution focuses on V2P/V2V messages only. The second V1 reference
point in Figure 6.5.1.1-2 towards a V2N/V2I application server in the network
is for illustrative purposes only.
In this architecture the Uu-based RSU includes a V2V/V2P Message Offload (VMO)
function for extracting traffic from a \"macro\" PDN connection established
with a PGW entity residing in the network. The VMO function operates on uplink
traffic only.
NOTE 3: The VMO operates on uplink traffic only and does not need require NAT
functionality for routing of downlink packets, in contrast to SIPTO/LIPA
solutions that have been studied in TR 23.829 [10].
NOTE 4: The VMO solution assumes that downlink delivery for V2V/V2P messages
is performed in broadcast mode using eMBMS. If unicast delivery is needed for
V2V/V2P messages (for whatever reason), the unicast downlink packet sent by
the local application server is routed via the PGW of the UE\'s macro PDN
connection. The application server knows UE\'s IP address as it has been
received in the Source IP address field of the uplink packet carrying the
V2V/V2P message.
It is assumed that the vehicle-mounted UE has a permanently established
\"macro\" PDN connection to enable V2X messaging for V2N/V2I services with an
application server residing in the packet data network, or to enable transport
of other IP-based (non-V2X) traffic.
At the same time, the UE uses the same PDN connection for sending V2V/V2P
messages to the RSU so that they can be re-broadcasted in the area around the
UE.
In this architecture there is no need to re-establish a new PDN connection as
the UE moves from one eNB to another, because the \"macro\" PDN connection is
anchored deep inside the mobile operator\'s network. However, the VMO function
needs to be able to identify V2V/V2P messages from the overall uplink traffic
flow, so that they can be offloaded and forwarded to a local V2P/V2V
application server.
There are several possibilities for identification of V2V/V2P messages:
\- Well-known destination transport address: Assuming that the V2P/V2V
messages use a well-known Destination transport address (i.e. Destination IP
address and/or Destination Port number), the VMO function can identify them by
only looking at the Destination transport address fields in the uplink IP
packet (\"shallow packet inspection\").
\- Dedicated EPS bearer: A dedicated EPS bearer on the \"macro\" PDN
connection is used for exchanging traffic between the UE and the RSU. Any data
packet sent on the dedicated EPS bearer is extracted at the VMO function
without deeper inspection. The dedicated EPS bearer is identified at the UE
and the eNB by using a special QCI value, or by using other explicit NAS and
S1-AP signalling.
\- An indication in the PDCP (or MAC) header: When sending a V2V/V2P message
(in contrast to a V2N/V2I message) the UE sets an indication in the
corresponding PDCP (or MAC) header. With this option the UE can sent the
message either as an IP packet or as a non-IP packet. The UE can \"hijack\"
any of the established EPS bearers e.g. depending on the QoS with which the
message needs to be handled. This option works only if the VMO is collocated
with the eNB.
Editor\'s note: Charging aspects for V2V/V2P messages offloaded by the VMO are
FFS.
NOTE 5: In any of the options listed above the identification of V2V/V2P
messages is performed on identifiers that are not part of the encrypted
V2V/V2P message payload.
NOTE 6: For the option with well-known transport address the VMO can be
located anywhere on the S1 interface. The choice of the VMO location is a
trade-off between limiting the impact on deployed eNBs on one hand, and
minimising the delay for message delivery.
### 6.5.2 Procedures
#### 6.5.2.1 V2X message transmission/reception in Uu-based RSU including a
VMO function
Figure 6.5.2.1-1: V2X message transmission/reception in Uu-based RSU including
a VMO function
1\. UE obtains necessary information for MBMS reception of V2X messages for
V2V/V2P Services.
2\. UE-1 sends a V2X message over LTE-Uu. UE-1 has already an established PDN
connection that it uses for exchange of V2N/V2I messages with a V2N/V2I
Application Server in the network or for other IP-based traffic.
The eNB receives the V2X message. The VMO function in the eNB or on S1
identifies the message as being a V2V/V2P message. The VMO function extracts
the V2X message and forwards it to a local V2V/V2P Application Server over an
unspecified interface.
3\. The V2V/V2P Application Server decides to broadcast the V2X message and
determines the target area of the message. The V2V/V2P Application Server
sends the V2X message to the target area of the message using MBMS delivery.
4\. UE-1 sends a new V2X message over LTE-Uu.
The eNB receives the V2X message. This time the VMO function in the eNB
identifies the message as being a V2N/V2I message. The VMO function lets the
message through towards the SGW/PGW. The message is forwarded to a V2N/V2I
Application Server residing in the packet data network.
### 6.5.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
A V2V/V2P Message Offload (VMO) function in the radio access network. To
enable VMO-based implementations the mobile network operator (MNO) needs to
define a \"well-known\" transport address to which uplink V2V/V2P messages are
sent.
The \"well-known\" transport address is unique within the MNO\'s network and
needs to be configured in all VMOs in the MNO\'s network.
The \"well-known\" transport address can be obtained by the UE using
application-layer signalling over the macro PDN connection.
The solution assumes that the optional GTP-U sequence numbering is not used on
S1-U.
### 6.5.4 Topics for further study
It is FFS which option for V2V/V2P traffic identification at the VMO function
is the most appropriate.
Resolution: It is proposed in this release to focus on the option based on
well-known transport address for identification of V2V/V2P messages.
### 6.5.5 Conclusions
It is concluded that the \"RSU based on V2V/V2P Message Offload function in
eNB or on S1\" solution does not add any performance improvements compared to
use of existing SIPTO\@LN functionality. It can be seen that the SIPTO\@LN
compared to the VMO solution will have some more signalling related to the
activation and release of the local PDN Connection but this effects can be
reduced by proper deployment of the localised V2X application servers.
As such, it is concluded not to go forward with the \"RSU based on V2V/V2P
Message Offload function in eNB or on S1\" solution.
In more detail the conclusion builds also on the following:
\- No support for charging of uplink unicast data
\- No support for LI on uplink unicast data
## 6.6 Solution #6: QoS handling for PC5 based message
### 6.6.1 Functional Description
#### 6.6.1.1 General
This solution corresponds to the Key Issue #4 \"V2X message prioritization for
V2V Service and V2P Service\" and Key Issue #7 \"QoS for V2X Service\".
When PC5 is used for the transmission of V2X messages, the following
principles are followed:
\- ProSe Per-Packet Priority (PPPP) defined in clause 5.4.6.1 of TS 23.303 [5]
applies to the V2X communication using PC5.
\- The application layer sets the PPPP of the V2X message when passing it to
lower layer for transmission.
\- The mapping of application layer V2X message priority to PPPP is based on
pre-configuration on the UE. The configuration of such mapping on the UE is
out of scope of 3GPP.
\- Core Network, i.e. MME, provides the UE-PC5-AMBR based on subscription
information to the eNB as part of the UE context information.
\- When network scheduled operation mode is used, following additional
principles apply:
\- UE provides priority information reflecting PPPP to the eNB for resources
request.
\- When the eNB receives a request for PC5 resource from a UE, the eNB can
deduce the packet delay budget and reliability from the priority information
from the UE.
\- eNB can use the priority information for priority handling and UE-PC5-AMBR
for capping the UE PC5 transmission in the resources management.
Editor\'s note: The use of the UE-PC5-AMBR, packet delay budget and
reliability for the PC5 scheduling and resources management needs to be
investigated and verified by RAN WG2.
Editor\'s note: It\'s FFS whether and how can the eNB deduce the packet delay
budget and reliability of a V2X message, e.g. based on the O&M configuration
or defined in specification.
Editor\'s note: When V2X communication uses dedicated radio resources, the
principles are considered sufficient to satisfy QoS requirements. However, in
case of V2X communication is sharing the same radio resources with other
applications using PC5 transmission, e.g. MCPTT, additional considerations may
apply. It should be confirmed with RAN WGs whether such cases need to be
addressed, and if additional mechanisms are required to satisfy V2X QoS
requirements.
#### 6.6.1.2 Void
### 6.6.2 Procedure
During the Attach procedure, MME obtains the UE-PC5-AMBR according to UE
subscription from the HSS and the operator\'s policy. This UE-PC5-AMBR is sent
to eNB during the initial context setup procedure for the UE. eNB makes use of
the UE-PC5-AMBR to cap the PC5 transmission from a particular UE.
Figure 6.6.2-1: Delivery of PC5 related QoS parameters during Attach procedure
The procedure is identical to the attach procedure defined in clause 5.3.2.1
of TS 23.401 [7], with the following addition:
1\. V2X capability is added as part of the \"UE Network Capability\", which
indicates whether the UE is capable of supporting V2X communication.
17\. MME obtains the UE-PC5-AMBR and includes it in the Initial Context Setup
Request message sent to eNB.
18\. The eNodeB stores the received UE-PC5-AMBR and uses that for controlling
the scheduling of resources for the UE\'s sidelink communication in network
scheduled mode.
27\. If the UE is in network scheduled mode, when the UE receives V2X messages
from the application, the UE requests radio resources from E-UTRAN to send the
V2X messages over PC5. For autonomous transmission mode, the UE autonomously
selects PC5 related radio resources to send the V2X messages.
The UE-PC5-AMBR would be also included in the Initial Context Setup Request
message triggered by the Service Request procedure. In addition, during
handover, the UE-PC5-AMBR should be also transfer as part of the UE context if
the target cell supports V2X.
### 6.6.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 6.6.4 Topics for further study
### 6.6.5 Conclusions
This solution should be used as the basis for normative work.
## 6.7 Solution #7: New QCI values for LTE-Uu based V2X message
transmission/reception
### 6.7.1 Functional Description
The V2X messages for V2V/P Services can be transmitted periodically or based
on a certain event. LTE-Uu based V2X message transmission for V2V/P Services
has to fulfil the following latency requirement:
\- 100 ms for V2X message delivery from the transmitting UE and to the
receiving UEs
The V2X message can be delivered via Non-GBR bearer as well as GBR bearer.
However, there is neither existing standardized Non-GBR QCI nor existing
standardized GBR QCI which meets the latency requirement for V2X message
delivery for V2V/P Services. Therefore, this solution proposes to define a new
Non-GBR QCI value and a new GBR QCI value for V2X messages for QoS support.
The rationale of setting performance characteristics for newly defined GBR QCI
value is as below:
\- Resource Type is GBR.
\- Packet Delay Budget (PDB) is set to 50 ms (= 100 ms/2).
\- Priority Level is set to be higher value than QCI for Public Safety (i.e. >
0.7) and lower value than QCIs for non-Public Safety (i.e. \
5.5) and lower value than QCIs for non-Public Safety (i.e. \ Editor\'s note: Describes the high-level operation, procedures and
> information flows for the solution.
### 6.7.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
> Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 6.7.4 Topics for further study
Editor\'s note: Topics for FFS will be collected for this particular
functionality.
### 6.7.5 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: Conclusions will be collected for this particular
functionality.
## 6.8 Solution #8: V2X message transmission/reception for V2I Service
### 6.8.1 Functional Description
#### 6.8.1.1 General
This solution corresponds to the Key Issue #5 \"V2X message
transmission/reception between a vehicle and an RSU for V2I\" and addresses
V2X message transmission for V2I Service by using PC5 as well as LTE-Uu.
The V2X application logic in the stationary infrastructure entity supporting
V2X applications can transmit V2X messages for V2I Service to one or more UEs
via PC5 or via LTE-Uu. A V2X message for V2I Service can be transmitted from a
vehicle to the stationary infrastructure entity supporting V2X applications.
The V2X message can be forwarded from a stationary infrastructure entity
supporting V2X applications to other stationary infrastructure entity(s)
supporting V2X applications based on decision at the V2X application logic.
Figure 6.8.1.1-1 (a) shows V2X message transmission/reception over PC5 when
the UEs and the stationary infrastructure entity supporting V2X applications
are \"served by E-UTRAN\" and Figure 6.8.1.1-1 (b) shows V2X message
transmission/reception over PC5 when the UEs and stationary infrastructure
entity supporting V2X applications are \"not served by E-UTRAN\".
Figure 6.8.1.1-1: Transmission of a V2X message for V2I Service over PC5
Transmission of a V2X message for V2I Service can be made using LTE-Uu as
shown in Figure 6.8.1.1-2.
Figure 6.8.1.1-2: Transmission of a V2X message for V2I Service over LTE-Uu
Solution for V2X message transmission/reception for V2V/P Services using PC5
can be applied for V2X message transmission/reception for V2I Service over
PC5.
Solution for V2X message transmission/reception for V2V/P Services using LTE-
Uu can be applied for V2X message transmission/reception for V2I Service over
LTE-Uu.
### 6.8.2 Procedures
Editor\'s note: Describes the high-level operation, procedures and information
flows for the solution.
### 6.8.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
> Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 6.8.4 Topics for further study
Editor\'s note: Topics for FFS will be collected for this particular
functionality.
### 6.8.5 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: Conclusions will be collected for this particular
functionality.
## 6.9 Solution #9: MBMS service area mapping using MB2-C procedures
### 6.9.0 General
The following assumptions are made for V2X
1\. MBMS service area for V2X does not change frequently. It is semi-
statically defined. The current MB2 setup procedure (pre-established MBMS
Session) using SAIs or ECGI(s) is sufficient.
2\. Based on #1, V2X Server knows which TMGI/Flow-ID (i.e., MBMS session) is
serving the designated geographical area. Hence, V2X Server has all the
information needed to forward the V2X message to the correct MBMS session.
3\. If V2X message is broadcast to an area larger than needed, the V2X
application in the UE will discard the messages that are not relevant, based
on internal application processing.
4\. The V2X Server uses the geographical location or ECGI information provided
by the UE, when broadcast is triggered by input from an UE, to map into
appropriate broadcast area (e.g. Cell ID(s) and/or MBMS SAI(s)) for the
targetted V2X delivery.
### 6.9.1 Functional Description
This solution allows for mapping of UE location from outside of 3GPP defined
form to a 3GPP defined form in V2X Server.
Two options possible if UE provides only geo location for V2X Server towards
BMSC:
\- V2X Server configured to map from geo location to appropriate target MBMS
SAI(s) for the broadcast.
\- V2X Server configured to map from geo location to appropriate target 3GPP
Cell IDs (ECGI) for the broadcast.
If the UE can provide in addition to geo location also the 3GPP Cell ID (ECGI)
then the V2X Server may use it for deciding the MBMS SAI(s) or the Cell ID(s)
for downlink MBMS operation as well such that :
\- Provide the appropriate target Cell ID(s) and MBMS SAI(s) to BMSC, where
the V2X Server takes into account the ECGI to map to appropriate target MBMS
SAI(s).
\- Provide the appropriate target Cell ID(s) to BMSC and BMSC does the mapping
from Cell ID(s) to MBMS SAI(s).
As per existing procedures defined by GCSE, the BMSC provides both MBMS SAI(s)
and Cell ID(s) towards the downlink path towards the RAN.
### 6.9.2 Procedure
Same as today from BMSC downwards.
### 6.9.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
None identified.
### 6.9.4 Topics for further study
None.
### 6.9.5 Conclusions
It is proposed to take Solution # 9 for normative way forward.
## 6.10 Solution #10: BM-SC based solution for MBMS service area mapping
### 6.10.1 Functional Description
In this solution, it is assumed that V2X application message includes the
geographical location information. The V2X Application Server sends the V2X
message, geographical location to the BM-SC. BM-SC is responsible for the
translation of the V2X geographical location information into the MBMS SAI(s),
or ECGI(s), or both. If the V2X UE provides the Cell-ID to the V2X Application
Server, the Cell-ID is sent to BM-SC as well to help BM-SC to make decision.
In addition to geographical location, the V2X Application Server may send the
range information to BM-SC. The V2X Application Server may deduce the
broadcast range by the aid of pre-configured mapping between the type of V2X
service and the broadcast range.
Editor\'s note: What is the broadcast range is FFS.
The solution assumes the BM-SC has pre-established the MBMS sessions for
corresponding areas of the region.
### 6.10.2 Procedures
#### 6.10.2.1 V2X message MBMS service area mapping
Figure 6.10.2.1-1: V2X message MBMS service area mapping
1\. UE sends a V2X message to V2X Application Server over LTE-Uu. The UE may
provide the Cell-ID to V2X Application Server.
2\. The V2X Application Server gets the geographical location from the V2X
message. The V2X AS may deduce the broadcast range by the aid of pre-
configured mapping between the type of V2X service and the broadcast range.
3\. The V2X Application Server sends MBMS session Update Request to indicate
BM-SC to map the MBMS service area. This request carries geographical location
and/or broadcast range to BM-SC. The Cell-ID is sent to BM-SC if the V2X
Application Server receives the Cell-ID from UE.
Editor\'s note: In addition to Geographical information and Cell-ID, which
information should be sent by V2X AS to BM-SC is FFS.
4\. The BM-SC maps the geographical location information with MBMS service
area i.e. MBMS SAI(s) or ECGI(s) according to received information.
5\. The V2X Application Server sends the V2X message to BM-SC.
### 6.10.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 6.10.4 Topics for further study
In addition to Geographical information and Cell-ID, which information should
be sent by V2X AS to BM-SC is FFS.
### 6.10.5 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: Conclusions will be collected for this particular
functionality.
## 6.11 Solution #11: Local V2X server discovery using Anycast
### 6.11.1 Functional Description
#### 6.11.1.1 General
This solution addresses Key Issue #6c regarding local V2X server discovery.
The solution is based on the RFC 4786/BCP 126 [12], \"Operation of Anycast
Services\", using Anycast addresses by routing the messages to the local V2X
server(s) identified by this IP address.
As Anycast is a well-known addressing mechanism already supported by IETF
protocols such as IGP, BGP etc. Routing and addressing of Anycast for IPv6 is
defined in RFC 4291 [13].
The solution uses the following concepts as defined by RFC 4786/BCP 126 [12]
and for RFC 4291 [13]:
**[Service Address:]{.underline}** an IP address associated with a particular
service (e.g., the destination address used by DNS resolvers to reach a
particular authority server).
**[Anycast:]{.underline}** the practice of making a particular Service Address
available in multiple, discrete, autonomous locations, such that datagrams
sent are routed to one of several available locations.
**[Anycast Node:]{.underline}** an internally-connected collection of hosts
and routers that together provide service for an anycast Service Address. An
Anycast Node might be as simple as a single host participating in a routing
system with adjacent routers, or it might include a number of hosts connected
in some more elaborate fashion; in either case, to the routing system across
which the service is being anycast, each Anycast Node presents a unique path
to the Service Address. The entire anycast system for the service consists of
two or more separate Anycast Nodes.
**[IPv6 Anycast address:]{.underline}** An identifier for a set of interfaces
(typically belonging to different nodes). A packet sent to an anycast address
is delivered to one of the interfaces identified by that address (the
\"nearest\" one, according to the routing protocols\' measure of distance).
NOTE: It is expected that if this approach is selected, then it is up to GSMA
to define Service Address(es) for V2X servers.
Example architecture deployment diagram can be as described in Figure
6.3.1.1-2: Architecture model for localized routing of V2X messages for V2V/P
Services via LTE-Uu. Use of Anycast is one possible approach to allow the UE
to access different local V2X Servers using a consistent addressing
configuration.
Other mechanisms may also exist.
### 6.11.2 Procedures
Editor\'s note: Describes the high-level operation, procedures and information
flows for the solution.
### 6.11.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
UE: Configured with Server information (e.g. FQDN) which then is resolved to
Anycast address.
PDN GW/LGW: Route Anycast address(es) as configured. Support RFC 4786/BCP 126
[12], in addition to IPv6 RFC 4291 [13] defining Anycast handling.
### 6.11.4 Topics for further study
The routing to the closest server is based upon the location of the GW and not
based upon the UE\'s location. Whether enhancement in the DNS to take into
account of UE\'s actual location is feasible or the GW selection of local
server based on its own location is sufficient is FFS.
If the V2X Application Server requires connection oriented service then how/if
it can be guaranteed that the messages get delivered to the same server when
Anycast is used is FFS. In addition, in this context, if there is a change of
the V2X Server, how the UE is informed to re-establish connection/context with
the new server is FFS.
### 6.11.5 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: Conclusions will be collected for this particular
functionality.
## 6.12 Solution #12: V2X Server Discovery using broadcast mechanism
### 6.12.0 General
This proposal addresses the Key Issue #6c.
The local V2X Server Discovery can be used to provide the needed V2X
configuration for the UE within the V2X serving location for V2X service. The
overall illustration is shown in Figure 6.12.0-1 below.
Figure 6.12.0-1: UE usage for local V2X server
For inter-PLMN operation, UE can be in MBMS receive only mode. As long as MBMS
data is not encrypted, UE should be able to acquire the MBMS data via the MBMS
configuration information within the USD.
For authorization, local V2X AS can be used to determine if a UE is allowed to
access this service based on Application level signalling between the server
and UE.
### 6.12.1 Functional Description
This feature can broadcast the local V2X server information (e.g., FQDN of the
server) using MBMS broadcast (similar to MBMS service announcement).
Once UE receives the local V2X server information from the network, it can
register to V2X server via VC1/V1 and receives the necessary information
(e.g., V2X configuration such as USD) to receive the V2X message via eMBMS
broadcast.
### 6.12.2 Procedures
Figure 6.12.2-1: Local V2X server discovery
1\. UE attaches to the network if it has not done so.
2\. UE receives information via broadcast traffic channel on how to reach V2X
server. This information can be e.g., FQDN of the server address.
NOTE: If UE is in limited service state under LTE (or roaming restriction), it
may still be able to reach the V2X server via GPRS/3G or WiFi to get the USD
info in order to receive the MBMS broadcast.
3\. Based on the information received from step 2, UE may request V2X service
over application signalling (VC1) interface. Local service info may include
e.g., UE location, application identity that server needs to obtain in order
to allow the UE to access the V2X service in that region.
4\. V2X server responds with information (e.g., USD) to allow UE to receive
V2X message over eMBMS.
### 6.12.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
How UE is connected to V2X server via V1 or VC1 is out of scope of SA WG2.
The UE needs to be provisioned with a well-known TMGI(s) as described in
Solution #1 (clause 6.1). The well-known TMGI may be PLMN specific or country-
wide (in which case the MNC part of the TMGI will be wild-carded).
### 6.12.4 Configuration example
An example of configuration requirement for this solution is as follow:
1\. UE is provisioned with a well-known TMGI(s).
2\. If UE detects this TMGI in the area, then it goes to the corresponding
session to retrieve more information on how to discover the V2X server.
3\. UE goes to V2X server to retrieve V2X specific configuration info (e.g.,
USD that describes the MBMS Session where V2I/V2N/V2V services are used) and
the V2X server where UE sends UL info.
4\. UE repeats step 2 when necessary (application logic).
### 6.12.5 Conclusions
This solution is used as the basis for the normative work on **local V2X
server discovery**.
It is noted that this solution works in the network where MBMS is deployed and
would cause some delay for the UE to get the local V2X server information via
broadcast traffic channel.
This solution is complementary to Solution #1.
## 6.13 Solution #13: Privacy protection of UE in V2X communications
### 6.13.1 Functional Description
#### 6.13.1.1 General
This solution addresses Key Issue #9 \"Privacy for V2X communications\". The
two aspects of the key issue are addressed separately.
The solution documented different system architecture options for supporting
different level of privacy protection.
Editor\'s note: What identities need to be privacy protected is FFS.
### 6.13.2 Procedures
#### 6.13.2.1 UE identity concealment from mobile operators
There are three different approaches in protecting the UE identity:
1\. Delegating the identifier allocation to a third party server, as specified
in CONVERGE [14], i.e. mobile operators allocate bulk encrypted identifiers,
e.g. IMSI or IMEI, to the third party server who would in turn allocates some
of them to individual UEs. The mobile operators would not know the binding of
UEs\' identity and these identifiers, and the third party server would also
not know such binding since the identifiers are encrypted. Charging for an
individual UE is not expected to be required. However, it may be achieved if
mobile operator and third party server collaborates.
2\. Alternatively, a regional third party agency could serve as the HPLMN for
the UE, i.e. the third party server acts as the HSS. In this case, a UE
obtains an identifier, e.g. in the form of IMSI, from the third party agency.
Any mobile network providing the V2X services is a VPLMN to the UE, i.e. UE is
always roaming with local breakout. In this case, the mobile operator does not
know the actual identity of the UE. No architecture change is needed, but the
third party agency needs to have roaming relationship with all the mobile
operators (even with those out of the region, since the UE may go across
broader).
3\. Another alternative is to have a dedicated core network for V2X operated
by an authorized agency. The mobile operators share the RAN with the V2X
operator. No architecture impact is expected, except that the UE may need to
enhance the PLMN selection procedure (i.e. to prevent reselecting to another
PLMN when there is no coverage to the PLMN that offers access to this specific
DCN) and potentially make use of DECOR/eDECOR features so that it can be
directed to the appropriate Dedicated Core Network (DCN). Alternatively, in
some deployment, the V2X operator can operate the DCN as a separate PLMN, and
it becomes a RAN sharing case.
Figure 6.13.2.1-1 summarizes the different options described above.
{width="6.680555555555555in" height="2.8in"}
Figure 6.13.2.1-1: Options for identity concealment from MNO
#### 6.13.2.2 Avoid long term tracking of UE
When an option is decided for the UE ID concealment, additional considerations
for long term tracking of UE should be also considered.
Two options are possible for avoiding long term tracking of the UE in V2X
communications:
\- The UE performs re-attach with a new identifier to the mobile network each
time the higher layer identifier, needs to change. This will force all the
transport layer identifiers, e.g. IMSI, GUTI, IP addresses, to change at the
same time. The potential issue is the additional signalling load created for
the network.
\- An alternative is to perform encryption of the application layer traffic
between the UE and the V2X Application Server, such that the mobile network
has no visibility to the vehicular information carried in the V2X messages.
However, this requires UE to have a security relationship with the V2X
Application Server. In addition, UE could still be tracked since some of the
transport layer identifiers are not changed, e.g. IP addresses.
Editor\'s note: SA WG3 would analyse the threats and impacts of UE tracking
issue, i.e. if frequent change of transport layer identifiers is needed, or
encryption of application layer data is sufficient.
### 6.13.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
No new interface is required. The identity provisioning aspects of clause
6.13.2.1 could be either handled with mechanism out of scope of 3GPP.
Enhancement of the MME or HSS may be necessary to handle different UE
identifiers, depending on the options chosen.
### 6.13.4 Topics for further study
Further clarification on the privacy/concealment requirements and impacts are
expected from SA WG1/SA WG3, and the solution will be further updated.
When the UE is used simultaneously for V2X and other services, additional
privacy considerations may apply. It is up to SA WG3 to evaluate the potential
threats and decide if such use is allowed.
Charging support, if needed, of the V2X communication will be also considered
in case the user identity is hidden from the MNO, e.g. which entities will be
involved in charging.
### 6.13.5 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: Conclusions will be collected for this particular
functionality.
## 6.14 Solution #14: Path selection for Uplink V2V message transmission
### 6.14.1 Functional Description
A V2X capable UE may have following options for V2X message transmission (one
or both):
\- Over PC5, or/and
\- Over LTE-Uu
The V2X application selects the data path to transfer the V2V message
according to different application layer criteria, e.g. V2V message types,
data size, priority, or vehicle density, etc. It is implementation specific
and out of scope of 3GPP.
### 6.14.2 Procedures
> Editor\'s Note: Describes the high-level operation, procedures and
> information flows for the solution.
### 6.14.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
None identified
### 6.14.4 Topics for further study
> Editor\'s Note: Topics for FFS will be collected for this particular
> functionality.
### 6.14.5 Conclusions
This solution addresses Key issue #2 \"V2X message transmission/reception for
V2V Service and V2P Service\" in terms of data path selection when both PC5
and LTE-Uu are available to the UE. It is UE implementation specific, hence no
normative work is required.
## 6.15 Solution #15: Latency improvements for eMBMS with L.MBMS based on
implementation
### 6.15.1 Functional Description
In this solution, the V2X Application Server can provide the BM-SC with L.MBMS
(Local MBMS) information, e.g. IP Source Address and IP Multicast Address for
IP multicast, C-TEID. It is assumed this L.MBMS information is preconfigured
in the V2X Application Server.
Within the context of MBMS architecture, this L.MBMS supports the user plane
processing function of the BM-SC and MBMS-GW. It is implementation option on
how BM-SC which receives the L.MBMS information from the V2X Application
Server works in a holistic manner as described in Annex D, clause D.3 in this
release.
The standardization requirement in this solution is to enhance MB2-C and SGmb
to carry the L.MBMS information optionally to allow this implementation to be
possible. This solution requires neither new functional entity nor new
reference point.
Figure 6.15.1-1: L.MBMS based MBMS data delivery
Standardization requirements for MB2-C and SGmb are as below in Figure
6.15.1-1:
\- In steps 2 and 4, L.MBMS info corresponds to the IP multicast address,
multicast source (SSM), C-TEID.
\- In step 3, if BM-SC uses the L.MBMS info from V2X Application Server then
it does not return the \"BM-SC IP address and port number for the user-plane\"
to V2X AS. V2X AS is preconfigured with the L.MBMS\'s IP address and port
number for the user-plane to send MBMS traffic to L.MBMS via MB2-U. If BM-SC
does not use L.MBMS info from V2X Application Server then it returns the \"BM-
SC IP address and port number for the user-plane\" to V2X Application Server
as it does in Rel-13.
\- In step 4, if MBMS-GW uses the L.MBMS info from BM-SC then it skips the
normal processing for IP multicast distribution, e.g. allocate an IP multicast
address.
### 6.15.2 Procedures
Editor\'s note: Describes the high-level operation, procedures and information
flows for the solution.
### 6.15.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
V2X Application Server:
\- The V2X Application Sever needs to be preconfigured with L.MBMS
information**,** e.g. IP Source Address and IP Multicast Address for IP
multicast distribution, C-TEID.
\- The V2X Application Server sends L.MBMS information to the BM-SC.
BM-SC:
\- The BM-SC sends the received L.MBMS information to the MBMS-GW.
MBMS-GW:
\- The MBMS-GW uses the received L.MBMS information while skipping the normal
processing for IP multicast distribution, e.g. allocate an IP multicast
address.
MB2-C:
\- L.MBMS information is provided from the V2X AS to the BM-SC over MB2-C.
SGmb:
\- L.MBMS information is provided from the BM-SC to the MBMS-GW over SGmb.
### 6.15.4 Topics for further study
Editor\'s Note: Topics for FFS will be collected for this particular
functionality.
### 6.15.5 Conclusions
This solution is used as the basis for the normative work for MBMS data
delivery for V2X Service.
# 7 Conclusions
Solution #2 in clause 6.2 is considered as the basis for the normative work
for PC5 based V2X communication.
For Key Issue #8: Inter-PLMN operation for V2X:
\- Depending on regulatory rules, in regions where no dedicated or common
spectrum for V2X communication is assigned, and different PLMNs are configured
to operate V2X over different radio resources, a V2X UE may need to receive
V2X messages from different PLMNs simultaneously. UE\'s reception of V2X
messages from other PLMNs is a supported feature. For LTE-Uu based V2X,
however, such requirements could be mitigated by configuring V2X Application
Server exchange of V2X messages across PLMNs. Such configuration/arrangement
is out of scope of 3GPP.
Solution #1 in clause 6.1 is considered as the basis for the normative work on
service authorization and policy/parameter provisioning for V2X.
Solution #6 in clause 6.6 is considered as the basis for the normative work on
QoS handling for PC5 based V2X communication.
Solution #7 in clause 6.7 is considered as the basis for the normative work on
QoS handling for LTE-Uu based V2X communication.
Editor\'s Note: For Solution #6 and Solution #7, feedbacks from RAN WG2 should
be taken into account during normative work.
Solution #9 in clause 6.9 is considered as the basis for the normative work on
MBMS service area mapping for V2X.
Solution #12 in clause 6.12 is considered for the normative work as a solution
complementing Solution #1 on local V2X server discovery.
Solution #15 in clause 6.15 is considered as the basis for the normative work
on latency improvements for eMBMS for V2X. It is agreed to capture Annex D
\"Localized MBMS deployment options\" as Informative Annex in TS 23.285 [15].
UE may receive non-relevant V2X messages since the V2X message may be
broadcasted to larger area than relevant area. To address this issue,
optimization would be needed, however, it is concluded that this issue is not
addressed in this release.
###### ### Annex A: Enhancements to ProSe architectures for PC5 based V2X
# A.1 General Description
For PC5 based V2X communication, the architecture and functionalities defined
in TS 23.303 [5] can be reused with enhancements and extensions as concluded
from the other key issues outcome. The following aspects are identified so
far:
\- Definition and abbreviation for a Vehicular UE (a UE supporting V2X)
\- Adding V-UE support in all existing Public Safety UE (i.e. First
Responders) procedures required for one-to-many ProSe Direct communication
\- Service authorisation/revocation procedures for V-UE
\- Authorisation and provisioning with potential new parameters for V2X
\- New subscription parameters for ProSe Direct Communication for V2X use
\- PC5 one-to-many/one-to-all direct communication procedures (when served and
not served by E-UTRAN) to support V2X use
\- ProSe per packet priority enhancements to support use for V2X
The solutions for PC5 based V2X need to address the above aspects.
###### ### Annex B: Road Side Unit (RSU) considerations
With the reference architecture in clause 4.1, Road Side Unit (RSU) is an
implementation option which includes at least a stationary UE or an eNB
instead of a new functional entity. Following are the possible examples of RSU
implementations.
Figure B-1: RSU includes a UE and terminates the V2X application logic
Figure B-2: RSU includes a eNB and terminates the V2X application logic
Figure B-3: RSU includes eNB with V2V/V2P Message Offload (VMO) function and
terminates the V2V/V2P application logic
Based on the above diagrams, the RSU contain at least either a UE or an eNB.
The reference points that need to be studied are PC5 and LTE-Uu.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS on how a V2X message from RSU is transmitted to
other RSU(s) or to UE(s) or to the application server.
###### ### Annex C: Example hybrid deployment options using LTE-Uu based
architecture and PC5 based architecture
# C.1 PC5 based V2X communication with eMBMS reception
In this operation mode, a V2X capable UE always transmits the V2V/V2P or V2I
messages via PC5. The V2X capable UE receives V2V/V2P or V2I messages via PC5
and optionally (if configured) via eMBMS.
A stationary infrastructure entity acting as a UE, e.g. an RSU, receives V2X
messages via PC5, and forwards the application layer processed V2X messages to
a V2X Application Server via V1 interface, e.g. using a PDN connection over
LTE-Uu or other type of connection (for example fixed). The V2X messages
processed by the V2X Application Server can be distributed to V2X capable UEs
via the eMBMS system as required.
In this manner, a V2X capable UE can directly receive V2V messages from other
UEs in close proximity. Additionally, in this mode the mobile network provides
information from an extended range and satisfies the needs of soft safety
(e.g. situational awareness at range) or will enable more advanced driving
assistance applications. This combined sources of information are especially
useful in high density use cases, where the UE may not be able to reliably
receive direct V2X messages from distant vehicles over PC5.
# C.2 Simultaneous LTE-Uu based and PC5 based V2X communication without eMBMS
In this operation mode V2X capable UEs communicate with other V2X UEs that are
in proximity, including with UE type RSUs, via PC5 for both the transmission
and reception of V2V/V2P or V2I messages. The UE type RSUs can communicate
with each other over local network or with the V2X Application Server in the
mobile network over a SIPTO\@LN PDN connection via LTE-Uu, as needed, for
managing the communication of V2X messages beyond the direct PC5 communication
range of V2X UEs. With such hybrid use of PC5 and LTE-Uu based communication,
eMBMS broadcast on the downlink is not needed.
Figure C.2-1: V2X message transmission and reception using UE type RSU via
LTE-Uu and PC5
Figure C.2-1 is a high level illustration of this operation mode. This
operation mode consists of three components:
• RSUs implemented as stationary UEs are deployed to provide adequate coverage
to vehicular traffic infrastructure. The UEs and the UE type RSUs are
configured with information for one-to-all ProSe Direct Communication or
obtain such information via authorization mechanisms as proposed in Solution
#1 of this TR. In order to reduce latency, the RSUs maintain SIPTO\@LN
connections with L-GWs in operator network.
• The RSUs receive V2X messages from V2X UEs via PC5. V2X messages that cannot
be processed by the V2X Application(s) locally in the RSU(s) for downlink
distribution are routed to the V2X Application Server in the operator network
over SIPTO\@LN connection via LTE-Uu. The V2X Application Server in operator
network processes the message to determine the target area and the size of the
area where the V2X message needs to be distributed. V2X Application Server may
coordinate and communicate with other V2X Application Servers for the
determination of the target area and distribution of V2X messages in the
target area.
• V2X Application Server(s) send V2X messages downlink to the RSUs in the
target distribution area by routing over SIPTO\@LN connections via LTE-Uu. The
RSUs broadcast the received V2X messages via PC5 using one-to-all ProSe Direct
Communication. UEs listening for V2X communication in the target distribution
area receive V2X messages sent by the V2X Application Server(s) via the RSUs.
In this manner, a normal V2X capable UE always receives V2V/V2P messages from
other UEs that are in close proximity via PC5. Additionally, the UEs
implemented as RSU make use of LTE-Uu for communicating with the V2X
Application Server in local mobile network for providing V2X services over an
extended range. Information from the vehicular environment e.g. information
from other vehicles, sensor & surveillance equipment etc. can also be
provided. Such combination of PC5 based and LTE-Uu based communication is
especially useful in high density use cases where the UE may not be able to
reliably receive direct V2X messages from distant vehicles via PC5.
###### ### Annex D: Localized MBMS deployment options
# D.1 General Description
In current MBMS system, the BM-SC, MBMS-GW and MME are located in the Core
Network. The backhaul delay between the BM-SC and the eNB is non-negligible
when calculating the end-to-end delay, especially when MBMS is used to
delivery downlink V2X messages in the V2X system. To minimize the latency, it
may be necessary to consider the following options:
\- To move the MBMS CN functions (e.g. BM-SC, MBMS-GW) close to the eNB.
\- To move the user plane of MBMS CN functions (BM-SC, MBMS-GW) close to the
eNB.
In order to minimize V2X latency, different deployment options can be
considered as described in clause D.2 and clause D.3. The list of options is
not exhaustive and that they are for illustration purposes only.
# D.2 Option of localized MBMS CN functions
In this case BM-SC, and MBMS-GW are located close to the eNB. This option is
shown in Figure D.2-1.
Figure D.2-1: Localized MBMS CN functions
# D.3 Option of localized user plane of MBMS CN functions
In this case user plane of MBMS CN functions (BM-SC and MBMS-GW) is located
close to the eNB. This option is shown in Figure D.3-1.
Figure D.3-1: Localized user plane of MBMS CN functions
The procedure for L.MBMS based MBMS data delivery described in clause 6.15.1
makes this deployment option possible to improve V2X latency.
#