# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies potential enhancements to the \"Isolated E-UTRAN
Operation for Public Safety\" feature specified in TS 23.401.
Whereas this feature assumes a complete absence of backhaul, the present study
considers following cases:
\- the backhaul is not completely lost but suffers from a limited bandwidth,
which does not suffice for normal operation; or
\- the backhaul is completely lost and a backup link is set up (by means
outside the scope of this study) to provide backhaul with a limited bandwidth
as above.
Under such scenario it is desirable to use the available backhaul for
signalling between an E-UTRAN site and other PLMN entities, for local mission
critical communications. The present document studies enhancements to realize
this in an optimal manner.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Clause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**IOPS network:** see TS 23.401.
**IOPS network with Limited Backhaul:** A network consisting of one or more
eNBs and a Local EPC with a sub-set of the functional entities, having limited
backhaul to the Macro EPC to connect to the rest of the EPC functional
entities.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 Architectural considerations
## 4.1 Architectural assumptions and requirements
> Editor's Note: This clause will document architectural assumptions and
> requirements.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue 1: Optimizing the use of the limited backhaul for local
communications
This Key Issue aims at developing solutions to:
\- limit the signalling exchanges between an IOPS network and other PLMN
entities to provide local mission-critial communications, when the E-UTRAN
experiences backhaul limitations
\- make use of the limited backhaul to allow Public Safety UEs not known in
the IOPS network but having a subscription in a PLMN, to be served by this
IOPS network operating with a limited backhaul.
## 5.2 Key issue 2: Transition of an IOPS network between full isolation and
limited backhaul
When the Rel-13 IOPS feature described in Annex K of TS 23.401 is deployed, an
IOPS network can maintain a level of communications in the absence of
backhaul, i.e. without communicating with other PLMN entities. From this
situation, it may be possible to setup a backup or temporary connection to
provide a backhaul with limited bandwidth, thus transitioning to a \"limited
backhaul\" configuration. Reversely, an IOPS network with limited backhaul
(IOPS LB) can later transition to a full isolation configuration, e.g. because
a backup or temporary connection goes down or because the incident that caused
a degradation of the backhaul further developped and led to complete loss of
the backhaul.
This key issue will develop solutions for handling these transitions. In
particular, this key issue will determine the handling of the UEs that were
using the IOPS network before the transition occurs (in either direction).
## 5.x Key issue x: Title
> Editor\'s Note: This clause will identify key architectural issues to be
> solved during the architecture design.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution 1: IOPS network using the backhaul for authentication only
### 6.1.1 Description
#### 6.1.1.1 Introduction and high-level architecture
This is a solution to Key Issue 1.
This solution consists in making use of the backhaul for authentication only,
in order to limit the traffic on the limited backhaul, while allowing real-
time management of the users by the network operator.
For the user plane, SIPTO\@LN is re-used, with a L-GW in the Isolated Network
Node.
For the control plane, most functionalities of the MME are provided in the
Isolated Network Node in order to avoid that signalling traffic related to
Service Requests traverses the backhaul. Interaction with the HSS is kept in
the central part of network in order to avoid direct access to the HSS from a
multitude of radio sites, that could cause security and resilience issues.
Based on these principles, the following architecture is proposed:
Figure 6.1.1: High-level architecture for IOPS network using the backhaul for
authentication only
The IOPS network comprises an L-MME (Local MME), which locally assumes the
functions of an MME (authentication, bearer management, etc.) and interacts
with the rest of the PLMN via a \"Proxy MME\" (P-MME), for authentication and
mobility procedures (when moving in/out of the area covered by the IOPS
network). The P-MME is meant to be a \"central\" element in the PLMN used by
potentially all isolated network sites and is seen by other network entities
as a normal MME (serving all the users attaches through an IOPS network
connected to it). It also enables roaming by interacting with the HSS in the
HPLMN.
Editor\'s Note: The nature of the P-MME is FFS as e.g. not inter CN mobility
will exist.
#### 6.1.1.1 MME functional split
+-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | MME function | L-MME | P-MME | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | NAS signalling | X | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | NAS signalling security | X | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Inter CN node signalling | | N/A | | for mobility between 3GPP | | | | access networks | | | | (terminating S3) | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | UE Reachability in ECM-IDLE | X | | | state (including control, | | | | execution of paging | | | | retransmission and | | | | optionally Paging Policy | | | | Differentiation) | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Tracking Area list | | N/A | | management | | | | | | NOTE: The TA List contains | | | | only 1 TA corresponding to | | | | the IOPS network. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Mapping from UE location | | N/A | | (e.g. TAI) to time zone, | | | | and signalling a UE time | | | | zone change associated with | | | | mobility, | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | PDN GW and Serving GW | X | | | selection | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | MME selection for handovers | N/A | N/A | | with MME change | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | SGSN selection for | N/A | N/A | | handovers to 2G or 3G 3GPP | | | | access networks | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Roaming (S6a towards home | | X | | HSS) | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Authentication | X | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Authorization | X | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Bearer management functions | X | | | including dedicated bearer | | | | establishment | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Lawful Interception of | X | | | signalling traffic | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Warning message transfer | X | | | function (including | | | | selection of appropriate | | | | eNodeB) | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | UE Reachability procedures | X | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
#### 6.1.1.2 Information flows
##### 6.1.1.2.1 Initial Attach procedure
The following diagram describes the information flow for the Initial Attach
procedure. Differences from the current E-UTRAN Initial Attach procedure are
shown in red.
Figure 6.1.1.2.1-1: Initial Attach procedure
1-2. Attach Request from UE to L-MME as specified in TS 23.401 to MME.
3\. The L-MME requests the user context to the P-MME.
4-5. The P-MME performs one or more of the procedures Identification
Request/Response, Identity Request/Response, Authentication Request Response,
as required, as specified in TS 23.401 for the MME, except that the Identity
Request/Response goes via the L-MME.
7\. The P-MME provides the L-MME with context information for the UE,
including IMSI and security information.
8\. The L-MME authenticates the UE using the information received at step 7,
performs security association and obtains the IMEI.
9\. The L-MME queries the EIR via the P-MME.
10\. The L-MME may obtain ciphered options from the UE.
11\. The L-MME deletes any active bearer for the UE.
12\. The L-MME requests the UE\'s subscription data to the P-MME and confirms
to the P-MME that authentication was performed succesfully.
13\. The P-MME sends an Update Location Request message to the HSS, unless the
UE was already registered in this P-MME. HSS responds and provides the
subscription data.
14\. The P-MME sends the UE\'s subscription data to the L-MME.
15\. The L-MME sends a Create Session request to the L-GW located in the same
IOPS network. The L-GW performs the operations of both S-GW and P-GW for
creating the default bearer and returns a Create Session Reponse to the L-MME.
16\. Attach Accept from L-MME to UE, as specified in in TS 23.401 from MME to
UE.
17\. Steps 18 to 26 of E-UTRAN Initial Attach procedure from TS 23.401.
#### 6.1.1.2.2 UE triggered Service Request
Figure 6.1.1.2.2-1: UE triggered Service Request procedure
### 6.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
New functional entities L-MME and P-MME based on current MME.
New reference point S6a\' between L-MME and P-MME, based on S6a.
### 6.1.3 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s Note: The security aspects of this solution need to be investigated
by SA3.
## 6.x Solution x: Title
> Editor\'s Note: This clause will describe a candidate solution.
### 6.x.1 Description
### 6.x.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
### 6.x.3 Solution evaluation
# 7 Overall evaluation
> Editor\'s Note: This clause will contain the evaluation of the identified
> solutions for every key issue.
# 8 Conclusions
> Editor\'s Note: This clause is intended to list conclusions, which are
> agreed during the course of the study item activities.
#