# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a descriptive recommendation to be helpful in cell
planning.
## 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[3] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Radio transmission and reception\".
[4] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Radio subsystem link control\".
[5] CCIR Recommendation 370‑5: \"VHF and UHF propagation curves for the
frequency range from 30 MHz to 1000 MHz\".
[6] CCIR Report 567‑3: \"Methods and statistics for estimating field strength
values in the land mobile services using the frequency range 30 MHz to 1
GHz\".
[7] CCIR Report 842: \"Spectrum‑conserving terrestrial frequency assignments
for given frequency‑distance seperations\".
[8] CCIR Report 740: \"General aspects of cellular systems\".
## 1.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are given clause 6 (
# 2 Traffic distributions
## 2.1 Uniform
A uniform traffic distribution can be considered to start with in large cells
as an average over the cell area, especially in the country side.
## 2.2 Non‑uniform
A non‑uniform traffic distribution is the usual case, especially for urban
areas. The traffic peak is usually in the city centre with local peaks in the
suburban centres and motorway junctions.
A bell‑shaped area traffic distribution is a good traffic density macro model
for cities like London and Stockholm. The exponential decay constant is on
average 15 km and 7,5 km respectively. However, the exponent varies in
different directions depending on how the city is built up. Increasing
handheld traffic will sharpen the peak.
Line coverage along communication routes as motorways and streets is a good
micro model for car mobile traffic. For a maturing system an efficient way to
increase capacity and quality is to build cells especially for covering these
line concentrations with the old area covering cells working as umbrella
cells.
Point coverage of shopping centres and traffic terminals is a good micro model
for personal handheld traffic. For a maturing system an efficient way to
increase capacity and quality is to build cells on these points as a
complement to the old umbrella cells and the new line covering cells for car
mobile traffic.
# 3 Cell coverage
## 3.1 Location probability
Location probability is a quality criterion for cell coverage. Due to
shadowing and fading a cell edge is defined by adding margins so that the
minimum service quality is fulfilled with a certain probability.
For car mobile traffic a usual measure is 90 % area coverage per cell, taking
into account the minimum signal‑to‑noise ratio Ec/No under multipath fading
conditions. For lognormal shadowing an area coverage can be translated into a
location probability on cell edge (Jakes, 1974).
For the normal case of urban propagation with a standard deviation of 7 dB and
a distance exponential of 3.5, 90 % area coverage corresponds to about 75 %
location probability at the cell edge. Furthermore, the lognormal shadow
margin in this case will be 5 dB, as described in CEPT Recommendation T/R
25‑03 and CCIR Report 740.
## 3.2 Ec/No threshold
The mobile radio channel is characterized by wideband multipath propagation
effects such as delay spread and Doppler shift as defined in 3GPP TS 45.005
annex C. The reference signal‑to‑noise ratio in the modulating bit rate
bandwidth (271 kHz) is Ec/No = 8 dB including 2 dB implementation margin for
the GSM system at the minimum service quality without interference. The Ec/No
quality threshold is different for various logical channels and propagation
conditions as described in 3GPP TS 45.005.
## 3.3 RF‑budgets
The RF‑link between a Base Transceiver Station (BTS) and a Mobile Station (MS)
including handheld is best described by an RF‑budget. Annex A consists of 7
such budgets; A.1 for GSM 900 MS class 4; A.2 for GSM 900 MS class 2, A.3 for
DCS 1800 MS classes 1 and 2, A.4 for GSM 900 class 4 in small cells, A.5 for
GSM 400 class 4 in small cells, A.6 for GSM 700 class 4 and A.7 for DCS 1800
MS class 1. GSM 900 RF-budgets should be used for 850 band.
The Mean Effective Gain (MEG) of handheld MS in scattered field representing
the cell range taking into consideration absorption, detuning and mismatch of
the handheld antenna by the human body (MEG = -antenna/body loss) of -13 dBi
for GSM 400, -10dBi for GSM 700, -9 dBi for GSM 900 and -6 dBi for DCS 1800 is
incorporated in annex A.1, A.3, A.4 and A.5 as shown from measurements in Tdoc
SMG2 1075/99.
At 900 MHz, the indoor loss is the field strength decrease when moving into a
house on the bottom floor on 1.5 m height from the street. The indoor loss
near windows ( \ 20 m
Path loss in dB (DCS 1800) = 107,7 + 26log(d/km) d > 20 m
The propagation loss in microcells increases sharply as the receiver moves out
of line of sight, for example, around a street corner. This can be taken into
account by adding 20 dB to the propagation loss per corner, up to two or three
corners (the propagation being more of a guided type in this case). Beyond,
the complete COST231‑Walfish‑Ikegami model as presented in annex B should be
used.
Microcells have a radius in the region of 200 to 300 metres and therefore
exhibit different usage patterns from large and small cells. They can be
supported by generally smaller and cheaper BTS's. Since there will be many
different microcell environments, a number of microcell BTS classes are
defined in 3GPP TS 45.005. This allows the most appropriate microcell BTS to
be chosen based upon the Minimum Coupling Loss expected between MS and the
microcell BTS. The MCL dictates the close proximity working in a microcell
environment and depends on the relative BTS/MS antenna heights, gains and the
positioning of the BTS antenna.
In order to aid cell planning, the micro‑BTS class for a particular
installation should be chosen by matching the measured or predicted MCL at the
chosen site with the following table.
The microcell specifications have been based on a frequency spacing of 6 MHz
between the microcell channels and the channels used by any other cell in the
vicinity. However, for smaller frequency spacings (down to 1.8 MHz) a larger
MCL must be maintained in order to guarantee successful close proximity
operation. This is due to an increase in wideband noise and a decrease in the
MS blocking requirement from mobiles closer to the carrier.
* * *
**Micro‑BTS class** **Recommended MCL (GSM 900)** **Recommended MCL (DCS
1800)**  
**Normal** **Small freq. spacing** **Normal** **Small freq. spacing** M1 60 64
60 68 M2 55 59 55 63 M3 50 54 50 58
* * *
Operators should note that when using the smaller frequency spacing and hence
larger MCL the blocking and wideband noise performance of the micro‑BTS will
be better than necessary.
Operators should exercise caution in choosing the microcell BTS class and
transmit power. If they depart from the recommended parameters in 45.005 they
risk compromising the performance of the networks operating in the same
frequency band and same geographical area.
# 4 Channel re‑use
## 4.1 C/Ic threshold
The C/Ic threshold is the minimum co‑channel carrier‑to‑interference ratio in
the active part of the timeslot at the minimum service quality when
interference limited. The reference threshold C/Ic = 9 dB includes 2 dB
implementation margin on the simulated residual BER threshold The threshold
quality varies with logical channels and propagation conditions, see 3GPP TS
45.005.
## 4.2 Trade‑off between Ec/No and C/Ic
For planning large cells the service range can be noise limited as defined by
Ec/No plus a degradation margin of 3 dB protected by 3 dB increase of C/Ic,
see annex A.
For planning small cells it can be more feasible to increase Ec/No by 6 dB
corresponding to an increase of C/Ic by 1 dB to cover shadowed areas better.
C/(I+N) = 9 dB represents the GSM limit performance.
To permit handheld coverage with 10 dB indoor loss, the Ec/No has to be
increased by 10 dB outdoors corresponding to a negligible increase of C/Ic
outdoors permitting about the same interference limited coverage for MS
including handhelds. The range outdoors can also be noise limited like the
range indoors as shown in section 3.4 and annex A.1.
## 4.3 Adjacent channel suppressions
Adjacent channel suppression (ACS) is the gain (Ia/Ic) in C/I when wanted and
unwanted GSM RF‑signals co‑exist on adjacent RF channels whilst maintaining
the same quality as in the co‑channel case, i.e. ACS = C/Ic ‑ C/Ia. Taking
into account frequency errors and fading conditions in the product of spectrum
and filter of wanted and unwanted GSM RF‑signals, ACS = 18 dB is typical as
can be found in 3GPP TS 45.005.
1^st^ ACS >= 18 dB, i.e. C/Ia1 \= 18 dB gives an acceptable handover‑ margin of >= 6
dB for signalling back to the old BTS as shown in 3GPP TS 45.008. An exception
might be adjacent cells using the same site due to uplink interference risks.
2^nd^ ACS >= 50 dB, i.e. C/Ia2 \ 25 dB, backscattering from the
main lobe must be suppressed by using an antenna height of at least 10 m above
forward obstacles in ca 0.5 km. In order to achieve an omni‑directional
pattern with as few nulls as possible, the ideal non‑directional antenna must
be isolated from the mast by a suitable reflector. The nulls from mast
scattering are usually in different angles for the duplex frequencies and
should be avoided because of creating path loss imbalance.
The main lobe antenna gains are typically 12‑18 dBi for BTS, and 2‑5 dBi for
MS. Note that a dipole has the gain 0 dBd = 2 dBi.
## 4.5 Antenna heights
The height gain under Rayleigh fading conditions is approximately 6 dB by
doubling the BTS antenna height. The same height gain for MS and handheld from
reference height 1.5 m to 10 m is about 9 dB, which is the correction needed
for using CCIR Recommendation 370.
## 4.6 Path loss balance
Path loss balance on uplink and downlink is important for two‑way
communication near the cell edge. Speech as well as data transmission is
dimensioned for equal quality in both directions. Balance is only achieved for
a certain power class (section 3.4).
Path loss imbalance is taken care of in cell selection in idle mode and in the
handover decision algorithms as found in 3GPP TS 45.008. However, a cell
dimensioned for 8 W MS (GSM 900 class 2) can more or less gain balance for 2 W
MS handheld (GSM 900 class 4) by implementing antenna diversity reception on
the BTS.
## 4.7 Cell dimensioning
Cell dimensioning for uniform traffic distribution is optimized by at any time
using the same number of channels and the same coverage area per cell.
Cell dimensioning for non‑uniform traffic distribution is optimized by at any
time using the same number of channels but changing the cell coverage area so
that the traffic carried per cell is kept constant with the traffic density.
Keeping the path loss balance by directional antennas pointing outwards from
the traffic peaks the effective radiated power (ERP) per BTS can be increased
rapidly out‑wards. In order to make the inner cells really small the height
gain can be decreased and the antenna gain can be made smaller or even
negative in dB by increasing the feeder loss but keeping the antenna
front‑to‑back ratio constant (section 4.4).
## 4.8 Channel allocation
Channel allocation is normally made on an FDMA basis. However, in synchronized
networks channel allocation can be made on a TDMA basis. Note that a BCCH RF
channel must always be fully allocated to one cell. In case of EGPRS Compact,
CPBCCH must be allocated to one cell.
Channel allocation for uniform traffic distribution preferably follows one of
the well known re‑use clusters depending on C/I‑distribution, e.g. a 9‑cell
cluster (3‑cell 3‑site repeat pattern) using 9 RF channel groups or cell
allocations (CAs), (Stjernvall, 1985).
Channel allocation for non‑uniform traffic distribution preferably follows a
vortex from a BTS concentration on the traffic centre, if a bell‑shaped area
traffic model holds. In real life the traffic distribution is more complicated
with also line and point traffic. In this case the cell areas will be rather
different for various BTS locations from city centre. The channel allocation
can be optimized by using graph colouring heuristics as described in CCIR
Report 842.
Base transceiver station identity code (BSIC) allocation is done so that
maximum re‑use distance per carrier is achieved in order to exclude co‑channel
ambiguity.
Frequency co‑ordination between countries is a matter of negotiations between
countries as described in CEPT Recommendation T/R 25‑04. Co‑channel and 200
kHz adjacent channels need to be considered between PLMNs and other services
as stated in 3GPP TS 45.005.
Frequency sharing between GSM countries is regulated in CEPT Recommendation
T/R 20‑08 concerning frequency planning and frequency co‑ordination for the
GSM service.
## 4.9 Frequency hopping
Frequency hopping (FH) can easily be implemented if the re‑use is based on RF
channel groups (CAs). It is also possible to change allocation by demand as
described in 3GPP TS 45.002.
In synchronized networks the synchronization bursts (SB) on the BCCH will
occur at the same time on different BTS. This will increase the time to decode
the BSIC of adjacent BTS, see 3GPP TS 45.008. The SACCH on the TCH or SDCCH
will also occur at the same time on different BTS. This will decrease the
advantage of discontinuous transmission (DTX). In order to avoid this an
offset in the time base (FN) between BTS may be used.
If channel allocation is made on a TDMA basis and frequency hopping is used,
the same hop sequence must be used on all BTS. Therefore the same time base
and the same hopping sequence number (HSN) shall be used.
## 4.10 Cells with extra long propagation delay
Cells with anticipated traffic with ranges more than 35 km corresponding to
maximum MS timing advance of 63 can work properly if the timeslot after the
CCCH and the timeslot after the allocated timeslot are not used by the BTS
corresponding to a maximum total range of 120 km.
GSM 400 MSs support extended timing advance with a maximum value of 219
corresponding to a maximum total range of 120 km.
GSM 400 cells with anticipated traffic with ranges more than 35 km may
implement extended timing advance. This works properly if timeslots following
the transmission of access bursts are not used for transmission by other MSs.
This applies both for circuit switched (random access and handover access) and
packet switched (random access, polling response and PTCCH) services.
# 5 Propagation models
## 5.1 Terrain obstacles
Terrain obstacles introduce diffraction loss, which can be estimated from the
path profile between transmitter and receiver antennas. The profile can
preferably be derived from a digital topographic data bank delivered from the
national map survey or from a land resource satellite system, e.g. Spot. The
resolution is usually 500*500 m2 down to 50*50 m2 in side and 20 m down to 5 m
in height. This resolution is not sufficient to describe the situation in
cities for microcells, where streets and buildings must be recognized.
## 5.2 Environment factors
Environment factors for the nearest 200 m radius from the mobile play an
important role in both the 900 MHz and 1800 MHz bands. For the Nordic cellular
planning for NMT there is taken into account 10 categories for land, urban and
wood. Further studies are done within COST 231.
Coarse estimations of cell coverage can be done on pocket computers with
programs adding these environment factors to propagation curves of CCIR
Recommendation 370‑5 figure 9 and CCIR Report 567‑3 figure 2 (Okumura, 1968).
## 5.3 Field strength measurements
Field strength measurements of the local mean of the lognormal distribution
are preferably done by digital averaging over the typical Rayleigh fading. It
can be shown that the local average power can be estimated over 20 to 40
wavelengths with at least 36 uncorrelated samples within 1 dB error for 90 %
confidence (Lee, 1985).
## 5.4 Cell adjustments
Cell adjustments from field strength measurements of coverage and re‑use are
recommended after coarse predictions have been done. Field strength
measurements of rms values can be performed with an uncertainty of 3.5 dB due
to sampling and different propagation between Rayleigh fading and
line‑of‑sight. Predictions can reasonably be done with an uncertainty of about
10 dB. Therefore cell adjustments are preferably done from field strength
measurements by changing BTS output power, ERP, and antenna pattern in
direction and shape.
6
ACS Adjacent Channel Suppression (section 4.3)
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel (section 4.8)
BTS Base Transceiver Station (section 3.3)
BSIC Base Transceiver Station Identity Code (section 4.8)
CA Cell Allocation of radio frequency channels (section 4.8)
CCCH Common Control Channel (section 4.10)
COST European Co‑operation in the field of Scientific and Technical Research
DTX Discontinuous Transmission (section 4.9)
Ec/No Signal‑to‑Noise ratio in modulating bit rate bandwidth (section3.2)
FH Frequency Hopping (section 4.9)
FN TDMA Frame Number (section 4.9)
F/B Front‑to‑Back ratio (section 4.4)
HSN Hopping Sequence Number (section 4.9)
MS Mobile Station (section 3.3)
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
Ps Location (site) Probability (section 3.1)
SACCH Slow Associated Control Channel (section 4.9)
SB Synchronization Burst (section 4.9)
SDCCH Stand‑alone Dedicated Control Channel (section 4.9)
TCH Traffic Channel (section 4.9)
# 7 Bibliography
CEPT Recommendation T/R 20‑08 Frequency planning and frequency co‑ordination
for the GSM service;
CEPT Recommendation T/R 25‑03 Co‑ordination of frequencies for the land mobile
service in the 80, 160 and 460 MHz bands and the methods to be used for
assessing interference;
CEPT Recommendation T/R 25‑04 Co‑ordination in frontier regions of frequencies
for the land mobile service in the bands between 862 and 960 MHz;
CEPT Liaison office, P.O. Box 1283, CH‑3001 Berne.
1 Jakes, W.C., Jr.(Ed.) (1974) Microwave mobile communications. John Wiley,
New York, NY, USA.
2 Kajamaa, Timo (1985) 900 MHz propagation measurements in Finland in 1983‑85
(PTT Report 27.8.1985.) Proc NRS 86, Nordic Radio Symposium, ISBN
91‑7056‑072‑2.
3 Lee, W.C.Y. (Feb., 1985) Estimate of local average power of a mobile radio
signal. IEEE Trans. Vehic. Tech., Vol. VT‑34, 1.
4 Okumura, Y. et al (Sep.‑Oct., 1968) Field strength and its variability in
VHF and UHF land‑mobile radio service. Rev. Elec. Comm. Lab., NTT, Vol. 16,
9‑10.
5 Stjernvall, J‑E (Feb. 1985) Calculation of capacity and co‑channel
interference in a cellular system. Nordic Seminar on Digital Land Mobile Radio
Communication (DMR I), Espoo, Finland.
6 A.M.D. Turkmani, J.D. Parsons and A.F. de Toledo \"Radio Propagation into
Buildings at 1.8 GHz\". COST 231 TD (90) 117
7 COST 231 \"Urban transmission loss models for mobile radio in the 900‑ and
1800‑ MHz bands (Revision 2)\" COST 231 TD (90) 119 Rev 2.
8 Hata, M. (1980) Empirical Formula for Propagation Loss in Land Mobile Radio
Services, IEEE Trans. on Vehicular Technology VT‑29.
###### ### Annex A.1: (GSM 900 class 4) Example of RF‑budget for GSM 900 MS
handheld RF‑output peak power 2 W
* * *
Propagation over land in urban and rural areas  
Receiving end: BTS MS Eq. TX: MS BTS (dB) Noise figure (multicoupl.input) dB 8
10 A Multipath profile 1) TU50 TU50 (no FH) Ec/No min. fading 1) dB 8 8 B RX
RF‑input sensitivity dBm ‑104 ‑102 C=A+B+W‑174 Interference degrad. margin dB
3 3 D RX‑antenna cable type 1‑5/8\" 0  
Specific cable loss dB/100m 2 0  
Antenna cable length m 120 0  
Cable loss + connector dB 4 0 E RX‑antenna gain dBi 12 0 F Isotropic power, 50
% Ps dBm ‑109 ‑99 G=C+D+E‑F Lognormal margin 50 % ‑> 75 % Ps dB 5 5 H
Isotropic power, 75 % Ps dBm ‑104 ‑94 I=G+H Field strength, 75 % Ps dBuV/m 33
43 J=I+137 C/Ic min.fading, 50 % Ps 1) dB 9 9  
C/Ic prot. at 3 dB degrad. dB 12 12  
C/Ic protection, 75 % Ps 2) dB 19 19  
Transmitting end: MS BTS Eq. RX: BTS MS (dB) TX RF‑output peak power W 2 6  
(mean power over burst) dBm 33 38 K Isolator + combiner + filter dB 0 3 L RF
peak power, combiner output dBm 33 35 M=K‑L TX‑antenna cable type 0 1‑5/8\"  
Specific cable loss dB/100m 0 2  
Antenna cable length m 0 120  
Cable loss + connector dB 0 4 N TX‑antenna gain dBi 0 12 O
* * *
continued
* * *
Peak EIRP W 2 20  
(EIRP = ERP + 2 dB) dBm 33 43 P=M‑N+O Isotropic path loss, 50 % Ps 3) dB 133
133 Q=P‑G‑9 Isotropic path loss, 75 % Ps dB 128 128 R=P‑I‑9 Range, outdoor, 75
% Ps 4) km 1.3 1.3  
Range, indoor, 75 % Ps 4) km 0.5 0.5
* * *
1) Ec/No and C/Ic for residual BER = 0.4 %, TCH/FS (class Ib) and multi‑path
profiles as defined in 3GPP TS 45.005 annex 3. Bandwidth W = 54 dBHz.
2) Uncorrelated C and I with 75 % location probability (Ps). lognormal
distribution of shadowing with standard deviation 7 dB. Ps = 75 % corresponds
to ca 90 % area coverage, see Jakes, pp.126‑127.
3) 9 dB of path loss is assumed to be due to the handheld MEG (-antenna/body
loss) of --9 dBi.
4) Max. range based on Hata. Antenna heights for BTS = 50 m and MS = 1.5 m.
Indoor loss = 15 dB.
###### ### Annex A.2: (class 2) Example of RF‑budget for GSM MS RF‑output peak
power 8 W
* * *
Propagation over land in urban and rural areas  
Receiving end: BTS MS Eq. TX: MS BTS (dB) Noise figure (multicoupl.input) dB 8
8 A Multipath profile 1) RA250 RA250 (no FH) Ec/No min. fading 1) dB 8 8 B RX
RF‑input sensitivity dBm ‑104 ‑104 C=A+B+W‑174 Interference degrad. margin dB
3 3 D RX‑antenna cable type 1‑5/8\" RG‑58  
Specific cable loss dB/100m 2 50  
Antenna cable length m 120 4  
Cable loss + connector dB 4 2 E RX‑antenna gain dBi 12 2 F Isotropic power, 50
% Ps dBm ‑109 ‑101 G=C+D+E‑F Lognormal margin 50 % ‑> 75 % Ps dB 5 5 H
Isotropic power, 75 % Ps dBm ‑104 ‑96 I=G+H Field strength, 75 % Ps dBuV/m 33
41 J=I+137 C/Ic min.fading, 50 % Ps 1) dB 9 9  
C/Ic prot. at 3 dB degrad. dB 12 12  
C/Ic protection, 75 % Ps 2) dB 19 19  
Transmitting end: MS BTS Eq. RX: BTS MS (dB) TX RF‑output peak power W 8 16  
(mean power over burst) dBm 39 42 K Isolator + combiner + filter dB 0 3 L RF
peak power, combiner output dBm 39 39 M=K‑L TX‑antenna cable type RG‑58
1‑5/8\"  
Specific cable loss dB/100m 50 2  
Antenna cable length m 4 120  
Cable loss + connector dB 2 4 N TX‑antenna gain dBi 2 12 O Peak EIRP W 20 50  
(EIRP = ERP + 2 dB) dBm 39 47 P=M‑N+O Isotropic path loss, 50 % Ps dB 148 148
Q=P‑G Isotropic path loss, 75 % Ps dB 143 143 R=P‑I Range, outdoor, 75 % Ps 3)
km 30.7 30.7
* * *
1) Ec/No and C/Ic for residual BER = 0.2 %, TCH/FS (class Ib) and multi‑path
profiles as defined in 3GPP TS 45.005 annex 3. Bandwidth W = 54 dBHz.
2) Uncorrelated C and I with 75 % location probability (Ps). Lognormal
distribution of shadowing with standard deviation 7 dB. Ps = 75 % corresponds
to ca 90 % area coverage, see Jakes, pp.126‑127.
3) Max. range in quasi‑open areas based on Hata. Antenna heights for BTS = 100
m and MS = 1.5 m.
###### ### Annex A.3: (DCS1800 classes 1&2) Example of RF‑budget for DCS 1800
MS RF‑output peak power 1 W & 250 mW
* * *
Propagation over land in urban and rural areas  
Receiving end: BTS MS Eq. TX: MS BTS (dB) Noise figure(multicoupl.input) dB 8
12 A Multipath profile TU50 or RA130  
Ec/No min. fading dB 8 8 B RX RF‑input sensitivity dBm ‑104 ‑100 C=A+B+W‑174
Interference degrad. margin dB 3 3 D (W=54.3 dBHz) Cable loss + connector dB 2
0 E RX‑antenna gain dBi 18 0 F Diversity gain dB 5 0 F1 Isotropic power, 50 %
Ps dBm ‑122 ‑97 G=C+D+E‑F‑F1 Lognormal margin 50 % ‑>75 % Ps dB 6 6 H
Isotropic power, 75 % Ps dBm ‑116 ‑91 I=G+H Field Strength 75 % Ps 27 51
J=I+142.4 at 1.8 GHz Transmitting end: MS BTS Eq. RX: BTS MS (dB) TX PA output
peak power W ‑ 15.8/3.98  
(mean power over burst) dBm ‑ 42/36 K Isolator + combiner + filter dB ‑ 3 L RF
Peak power,(ant.connector) dBm 30/24 39/33 M=K‑L 1) W 1.0/0.25 7.9/2.0  
Cable loss + connector dB 0 2 N TX‑antenna gain dBi 0 18 O Peak EIRP W
1.0/0.25 316/79.4  
dBm 30/24 55/49 P=M‑N+O Isotropic path loss,50 % Ps 2) dB 146/140 146/140
Q=P‑G‑6 Isotropic path loss, 75 % Ps dB 140/134 140/134 R=P‑I‑6 Range km ‑ 75
% Ps  
Urban, out of doors 1.6/1.0  
Urban, indoors 0.56/0.37  
Rural (Open area), out of doors 15.0/10.0  
Rural (Open area), indoors 7.7/5.1
* * *
1) The MS peak power is defined as:
a) If the radio has an antenna connector, it shall be measured into a 50 Ohm
resistive load.
b) If the radio has an integral antenna, a reference antenna with 0 dBi gain
shall be assumed.
2) 6 dB of the path loss is assumed to be due to the handheld MEG
(-antenna/body loss) of --6 dBi.
###### ### Annex A.4: Example of RF‑budget for GSM 900 Class4 (peak power 2 W)
in a small cell
* * *
Propagation over land in urban and rural areas  
Receiving end: BTS MS Eq. TX: MS BTS (dB) Noise figure(multicoupl.input) dB 8
10 A Multipath profile TU50 TU50  
Ec/No min. fading dB 8 8 B RX RF‑input sensitivity dBm ‑104 ‑102 C=A+B+W‑174
Interference degrad. margin dB 3 3 D (W=54.3 dBHz) Cable loss + connector dB 2
0 E RX‑antenna gain dBi 16 0 F Diversity gain dB 3 0 F1 Isotropic power, 50 %
Ps dBm ‑118 ‑99 G=C+D+E‑F‑F1 Lognormal margin 50 % ‑>75 % Ps dB 5 5 H
Isotropic power, 75 % Ps dBm ‑113 ‑94 I=G+H Field Strength 75 % Ps 24 43
J=I+137 at 900 MHz Transmitting end: MS BTS Eq. RX: BTS MS (dB) TX PA output
peak power W ‑ 12.6  
(mean power over burst) dBm ‑ 41 K Isolator + combiner + filter dB ‑ 3 L RF
Peak power,(ant.connector) dBm 33 38 M=K‑L 1) W 2 6.3  
Cable loss + connector dB 0 2 N TX‑antenna gain dBi 0 16 O Peak EIRP W 2 158  
dBm 33 52 P=M‑N+O Isotropic path loss,50 % Ps 2) dB 142 142 Q=P‑G‑9 Isotropic
path loss, 75 % Ps dB 137 137 R=P‑I‑9 Range km ‑ 75 % Ps  
Urban, out of doors 1.3  
Urban, indoors 0.52
* * *
1) The MS peak power is defined as:
a) If the radio has an antenna connector, it shall be measured into a 50 Ohm
resistive load.
b) If the radio has an integral antenna, a reference antenna with 0 dBi gain
shall be assumed.
2) 9 dB of the path loss is assumed to be due to the handheld MEG
(-antenna/body loss) of --9 dBi.
###### ### Annex A.5: Example of RF‑budget for GSM 400 Class4 (peak power 2 W)
in a (small) cell
* * *
Propagation over land in urban and rural areas  
Receiving end: BTS MS Eq. TX: MS BTS (dB) Noise figure(multicoupl.input) dB 8
8 A Multipath profile TU100 TU100  
Ec/No min. fading dB 8 8 B RX RF‑input sensitivity dBm ‑104 ‑102 C=A+B+W‑174
Interference degrad. margin dB 3 3 D (W=54.3 dBHz) Cable loss + connector dB 4
0 E RX‑antenna gain dBi 12 0 F Diversity gain dB - 0 F1 Isotropic power, 50 %
Ps dBm ‑109 ‑99 G=C+D+E‑F‑F1 Lognormal margin 50 % ‑>75 % Ps dB 5 5 H
Isotropic power, 75 % Ps dBm ‑104 ‑94 I=G+H Field Strength 75 % Ps 27 37
J=I+131 at 450 MHz Transmitting end: MS BTS Eq. RX: BTS MS (dB) TX PA output
peak power W 2 6.32  
(mean power over burst) dBm 33.01 38.01 K Isolator + combiner + filter dB 0 3
L RF Peak power,(ant.connector) dBm 33.01 35.01 M=K‑L 1) W 2 6.3  
Cable loss + connector dB 0 4 N TX‑antenna gain dBi 0 12 O Peak EIRP W 2 20  
dBm 33.01 43.01 P=M‑N+O Isotropic path loss,50 % Ps 2) dB 129.01 129.01
Q=P‑G‑13 Isotropic path loss, 75 % Ps dB 124.01 124.01 R=P‑I‑13 Range km ‑ 75
% Ps  
Urban, out of doors 1.9  
Urban, indoors
* * *
1) The MS peak power is defined as:
a) If the radio has an antenna connector, it shall be measured into a 50 Ohm
resistive load.
b) If the radio has an integral antenna, a reference antenna with 0 dBi gain
shall be assumed.
2) 13 dB of the path loss is assumed to be due to the handheld MEG
(-antenna/body loss) of --13 dBi.
###### ### Annex A.6: Example of RF‑budget for GSM 700 Class4 MS handheld
(peak power 2 W)
* * *
Propagation over land in urban and rural areas  
Receiving end: BTS MS Eq. TX: MS BTS (dB) Noise figure(multicoupl.input) dB 8
10 A Multipath profile TU60 TU60  
Ec/No min. fading dB 8 8 B RX RF‑input sensitivity dBm ‑104 ‑102 C=A+B+W‑174
Interference degrad. margin dB 3 3 D (W=54.3 DBHz) Cable loss + connector dB 2
0 E RX‑antenna gain dBi 16 0 F Diversity gain DB 3 0 F1 Isotropic power, 50 %
Ps DBm -118 ‑99 G=C+D+E‑F‑F1 Lognormal margin 50 % ‑>75 % Ps DB 5 5 H
Isotropic power, 75 % Ps DBm -113 ‑94 I=G+H Field Strength 75 % Ps 22 41
J=I+135 at 770 MHz Transmitting end: MS BTS Eq. RX: BTS MS (dB) TX PA output
peak power W 2 12.6  
(mean power over burst) dBm 33 41 K Isolator + combiner + filter dB 0 3 L RF
Peak power,(ant.connector) dBm 33 38 M=K‑L 1) W 2 6.3  
Cable loss + connector dB 0 2 N TX‑antenna gain dBi 0 16 O Peak EIRP W 2 158.5  
dBm 33 52 P=M‑N+O Isotropic path loss,50 % Ps 2) dB 141 141 Q=P‑G‑10 Isotropic
path loss, 75 % Ps dB 136 136 R=P‑I‑10 Range km ‑ 75 % Ps  
Urban, out of doors 1.37  
Urban, indoors 0.55
* * *
1) The MS peak power is defined as:
a) If the radio has an antenna connector, it shall be measured into a 50 Ohm
resistive load.
b) If the radio has an integral antenna, a reference antenna with 0 dBi gain
shall be assumed.
> 2) 10 dB of the path loss is assumed to be due to the handheld MEG
> (-antenna/body loss) of --10dBi.
###### ### Annex A.7: (DCS1800 class 1) Example of RF link budget for DCS 1800
MS RF‑output peak power 1 W Handheld with External Low Noise Amplifier (LNA)
connected to BTS
* * *
Propagation over land in urban and rural areas  
Receiving end: BTS MS Eq. TX: MS BTS (dB) Noise figure (multicoupler input) dB
5 7 A Low Noise Amplifier - noise figure dB 2 - X Low Noise Amplifier - gain
dB 12 - Y Multipath profile TU50 or RA130 Noise bandwidth kHz 200 200 [TR
45.050 Annex X] C/N = C/I min. at fading dB 9 9 B Noise figure at antenna dB 4
7 Z = Friis(A, X, Y, E) RX RF-input sensitivity at antenna dBm -108 -105
C=Z+B+10log(200 kHz)-174 Interference degradation margin dB 3 3 D Cable loss +
connector dB 3 0 E RX-antenna gain dBi 18 0 F Diversity gain dB 3 0 F1
Isotropic power, 50 % Ps dBm -126 -102 G=C+D-F-F1 Lognormal margin, 50 % ->75
% Ps dB 6 6 H Isotropic power, 75 % Ps dBm -120 -96 I=G+H Field Strength, 75 %
Ps dBuV/m 22 46 J=I+142 at 1.8 GHz Transmitting end: MS BTS Eq. RX: BTS MS
(dB) TX PA output peak power W - 30 (mean power over burst) dBm - 45 K
Isolator + combiner + filter dB - 5 L RF Peak power, TOC (top of cabinet) dBm
31 40 M=K-L 1) W 1.2 10 Cable loss + connector dB 0 3 N TX-antenna gain dBi 0
18 O Peak EIRP W 1.2 300 dBm 31 55 P=M-N+O Isotropic path loss, 50 % Ps 2) dB
151 151 Q=P-G-6 Isotropic path loss, 75 % Ps dB 145 145 R=P-I-6
Friis(A,X,Y,E) =
10*LOG10(10\^(X/10)+(10\^(E/10)-1)/10\^(Y/10)+(10\^(A/10)-1)/10\^((Y-E)/10))
* * *
1) The MS peak power is defined as:
a) If the radio has an antenna connector, it shall be measured into a 50 Ohm
resistive load.
b) If the radio has an integral antenna, a reference antenna with 0 dBi gain
shall be assumed.
2) 6 dB of the path loss is assumed to be due to the handheld MEG
(-antenna/body loss) of --6 dBi.
###### ### Annex B: Propagation loss formulas for mobile radiocommunications
# B.1 Hata Model [4], [8]
Frequency f: 150 ‑ 1000 MHz
Base station height Hb: 30 ‑ 200 m
Mobile height Hm: 1 ‑ 10 m
Distance d: 1 ‑ 20 km
Large and small cells (i.e. base station antenna heights above roof‑top levels
of buildings adjacent to the base station)
## B.1.1 Urban
Lu (dB) = 69.55 + 26.16*log(f) ‑ 13.82*log(Hb) ‑ a(Hm) + [44.9 ‑
6.55*log(Hb)]*log(d)
a(Hm) correction factor for vehicular station antenna height.
For a medium‑small city:
a (Hm) = [1.1*log(f) ‑ 0.7]*Hm ‑ [1.56*log(f) ‑ 0.8]
For a large city:
a (Hm) = 8.29*[log(1.54*Hm)]2 ‑ 1.1 for f \= 400 MHz
## B.1.2 Suburban
Lsu (dB) = Lu ‑ 2*[log(f/28)]2 ‑ 5.4
## B.1.3 Rural (Quasi‑open)
Lrqo (dB) = Lu ‑ 4.78*[log(f)]2 + 18.33*log(f) ‑ 35.94
## B.1.4 Rural (Open Area)
Lro (dB) = Lu ‑ 4.78*[log(f)]2 + 18.33*log(f) ‑ 40.94
# B.2 COST 231‑Hata Model [7]
Frequency f: 1500 ‑ 2000 MHz
Base station height Hb: 30 ‑ 200 m
Mobile height Hm: 1 ‑ 10 m
Distance d: 1 ‑ 20 km
Large and small cells (i.e. base station antenna heights above roof‑top levels
of buildings adjacent to the base station).
Urban areas (for rural areas the correction factors given in subparagraph 1.3
and 1.4 can be used up to 2000 MHz).
Lu (dB) = 46.3 + 33.9*log(f) ‑ 13.82*log(Hb) ‑ a(Hm) + [44.9 ‑
6.55*log(Hb)]*log(d) + Cm
with:
a(Hm) = [1.1*log(f) ‑ 0.7]*Hm ‑ [1.56*log(f) ‑ 0.8]
Cm = 0 dB for medium sized city and suburban centres with moderate tree
density
Cm = 3 dB for metropolitan centres
# B.3 COST 231 Walfish‑Ikegami Model [7]
Frequency f: 800 ‑ 2000 MHz
Base station height Hb: 4 ‑ 50 m
Mobile height Hm: 1 ‑ 3 m
Distance d: 0.02 ‑ 5 km
Height of buildings Hroof (m)
Width of road w (m)
Building separation b (m)
Road orientation with respect to the direct radio path Phi (°)
Urban areas
## B.3.1 Without free line‑of‑sight between base and mobile (small cells)
Lb = Lo + Lrts + Lmsd (or Lb = Lo for Lrts + Lmsd \ Hroof
= 0 for Hb \ Hroof
= 54 ‑ 0.8*(Hb ‑ Hroof) for d >= 0.5 and Hb \ Hroof
= 18 ‑ 15*(Hb ‑ Hroof)/Hroof for Hb \= 0.020 km
###### ### Annex C: Path Loss vs Cell Radius
Figure1: Path loss vs Cell Radius, BS height = 50 m, MS height = 1.5 m (GSM
900)
Figure 2: Path loss vs Cell Radius, BS height = 100 m, MS height = 1.5 m (GSM
900)
{width="9.6in" height="5.531944444444444in"}
Figure 3: Path loss vs Cell Radius, Urban BS height = 50 m, Rural BS height =
60 m, MS height = 1.5 m (DCS 1800)
Figure 4: Path loss vs Cell Radius for small cells (see section 3.4.2)
###### ### Annex D: Planning Guidelines for Repeaters
# D.1 Introduction
Repeaters can be used to enhance network coverage in certain locations. This
annex provides guidelines for the design and installation of repeaters as
network infrastructure elements. It covers both in building and outdoor
applications. The principles within it may also form a basis for the design of
repeaters for other applications within the system.
# D.2 Definition of Terms
The situation where two BTSs and two MSs are in the vicinity of a repeater is
shown in figure 5 below. BTSA and MSA belong to operator A and BTSB and MSB
belong to a different operator, operator B.
When planning repeaters, operators should consider the effects of the
installation on both co‑ordinated and uncoordinated operators. In the
following sections, it is assumed that in the uncoordinated scenario, the
repeater is planned and installed only for the benefit of operator A. Operator
A is therefore, co‑ordinated and operator B uncoordinated.
In certain situations, operators may agree to share repeaters. Under these
conditions, the repeater is planned and installed to provide benefit to all
co‑ordinated operators. If all operators within the GSM or DCS bands share a
repeater, only the co‑ordinated scenario exists.
Figure 5: Repeater Scenario for two BTSs and two MSs
The following abbreviations are used in this annex:
G Repeater Gain
PBTS BTS Output Power (in dBm)
PMS MS Output Power (in dBm)
PmaxDL Maximum Repeater Downlink Output Power (in dBm)
PmaxUL Maximum Repeater Uplink Output Power (in dBm)
NDL Repeater Downlink Noise Output in RX bandwidth (in dBm)
NUL Repeater Uplink Noise Output in RX bandwidth (in dBm)
SMS MS Reference Sensitivity (in dBm)
SBTS BTS Reference Sensitivity (in dBm)
C/Ic Carrier to Interference ratio for cochannel interference
CL1 BTS to Repeater Coupling Loss (terminal to terminal)
CL2 Repeater to MS Coupling Loss (terminal to terminal)
CL3 The measured or estimated out of band coupling loss between a close
coupled communication system and the repeater (terminal to terminal)
M Number of carriers amplified by repeater
Gsys The out of band repeater gain plus the gain of the external repeater
antenna less the cable loss to that antenna.
Gcom_3 The antenna gain of a close coupled communications system.
Ms A safety margin for equipment used inside public buildings which should
include the height gain of the external repeater antenna plus, if appropriate,
the out of band building penetration loss.
# D.3 Gain Requirements
The uplink and downlink gains should be such as to maintain a balanced link.
The loss of diversity gain in the uplink direction may need to be considered.
The gain of the repeater within its operating band should be as flat as
possible to ensure that calls set up on a BCCH at one frequency can be
maintained when the TCH is on a different frequency.
The gain should be at least 15 dB smaller than the isolation between the
antenna directed towards the BTS and the antenna directed towards the MSs, in
order to prevent self oscillation. It is recommended to measure the isolation
before installation of the repeater.
Within the GSM/DCS1800 bands, but outside of the repeater operating range of
frequencies, the installation of the repeater should not significantly alter
the cellular design of uncoordinated operators. In the uncoordinated scenario,
the repeater should not:
i) amplify downlink signals from another operator such that MSs of that
operator within a reasonable distance of the repeater select a remote cell
amplified by the repeater as opposed to the local cell of that operator.
ii) amplify uplink signals from other operators' MSs within a reasonable
distance of that repeater and transmit them in such a direction as to cause
more interference to other BTSs of that operator than other MSs in the area.
For equipment used in public buildings where other communications systems
could operate in very close vicinity (less than [5]m) of the repeater
antennas, special care must be taken such that out of band signals are not
re‑radiated from within the building to the outside via the repeater system
and vice versa. When using repeaters with an antenna mounted on the outside of
the building, the effect of any additional height should be considered. If the
close coupled communication system is usually constrained within the building,
it may be necessary to consider the negation of building penetration loss when
planning the installation. It is the operators responsibility to ensure that
the out of band gain of the repeater does not cause disruption to other
existing and future co‑located radio communication equipment. This can be done
by careful choice of the repeater antennas and siting or if necessary, the
inclusion of in‑line filters to attenuate the out of band signals from other
systems operating in the close vicinity of the repeater.
The following equation can be used to ensure an adequate safety margin in
these cases:
Gsys \= C/Ic + BTS power control range (D.4.1)
IM3 attenuationUL >= PmaxUL ‑ SBTS + C/Ic ‑ CL1 (D.4.2)
These limits apply in all cases except for initial random access bursts
amplified by a repeater.
# D.5 Output Power/Automatic Level Control (ALC)
The maximum repeater output power per carrier will be limited by the number of
carriers to be enhanced and the third order intermodulation performance of the
repeater. Operators should ensure that the requirements of section D.4 are met
for the planned number of active carriers, the output power per carrier, and
the repeater implementation.
The number of simultaneously active carriers to be enhanced may be different
in the uplink and downlink directions.
When designing ALC systems, the following should be considered:
i) When the ALC is active because of the close proximity of a particular MS,
the gain is reduced for all MSs being served by the repeater, thereby leading
to a possible loss of service for some of them. The operating region of the
ALC needs to be minimized to reduce the probability of this occurrence.
ii) The response of the ALC loop needs careful design. The ALC should not
result in a significant distortion of the power/time profile of multiple
bursts.
iii) The ALC design should handle the TDMA nature of GSM signal so that it
shall be effective for SDCCH and TCH transmissions with and without DTX.
iv) The ALC may not operate quickly enough to cover the initial random access
bursts sent by MSs. The intermodulation product requirement listed in section
D.4 need not apply for these transient bursts.
v) The ALC must have sufficient dynamic range to ensure that it maintains an
undistorted output at the specified maximum power level when a fully
powered‑up MS is at the CL2min coupling loss.
vi) In a non‑channelized repeater the ALC will limit the total output power
(i.e. peak of the sum of powers in each carrier). In most cases, the maximum
ALC limit should be 3 dB above the power per carrier for two carriers whose
third order intermodulation products just meet the requirements of section 4.
When more than two carriers are simultaneously amplified, a higher limit may
be employed provided the operator ensures that worst case intermodulation
products meet the requirements of section D.4.
# D.6 Local oscillator sideband noise attenuation
A local oscillator of a heterodyne type repeater with high sideband noise can
cause a problem in uncoordinated scenarios. If the receive level from an
uncoordinated MS is significantly higher than the receive level from the
co‑ordinated MS, both signals can be mixed with approximately the same level
into the same IF, degrading the performance of the wanted signal.
To avoid this, an IF type repeater equipped with a local oscillator should
have a sideband noise attenuation at an offset of 600 kHz from the local
oscillator frequency given by the equation:
Sideband noise attenuation = CL2max ‑ CL2min + C/Ic (D.6.1)
# D.7 Delay Requirements
The ability of the MS to handle step changes in the time of arrival of the
wanted signal is specified in 3GPP TS 45.005. When planning repeaters for
contiguous coverage with other infrastructure elements, it is recommended that
the additional delay through the repeater does not exceed the performance of
the MS.
The additional delay through the repeater should not cause a problem except in
extreme multipath propagation conditions.
The delay of the repeater will reduce the range of the cell in the area
enhanced by the repeater. A delay of 8 microseconds is equivalent to a range
reduction of 2.4 km.
# D.8 Wideband Noise
Wideband noise is a problem for uncoordinated scenarios. The noise level at
the uncoordinated operators' frequencies needs to be such that an
uncoordinated MS or BTS in the vicinity of the repeater is not desensitized as
a result. The following equations provide the maximum noise output by the
repeater in the receiver bandwidth for the downlink and uplink:
NDL \RU) Coupling loss between master unit and remote unit
PRUmax(DL) Maximum output power of the remote unit in the downlink
Mn Margin between repeater system output noise level at the BTS and equivalent
input noise level of the BTS. This is a positive value if the repeater noise
is lower.
NTOT Noise level of repeater system at BTS input.
As an example for the leveling of a repeater system using frequency shift see
figure 8.
Downlink levelling:
In the downlink path it is intended to have a certain signal level
retransmitted from the remote unit for coverage purposes. Thus the leveling of
the repeater system is determined by the formula:
GRU(DL) = PRUmax(DL) + CL(MU\RU) + CL1 - PBTS - GMU(DL)
In an installation the values for the coupling losses have to be measured. The
remaining variable GMU(DL) has to be adjusted such, that the output power of
the downlink signals of the master unit is as low as possible without danger
of being interfered at the remote unit location.
Uplink levelling:
The adjustment of the uplink path gain is determined by the two demands: first
the downlink and uplink path have to be balanced. Second, the receiver input
shall not be desensitised by the repeater noise. The uplink gain between
remote unit input and BTS input is
GTOT(UL) = SBTS - PMS + CL2max = GRU(UL) + GMU(UL) - CL(MU\RU) - CL1,
which can be transformed to
GRU(UL) = SBTS + CL1 + CL(MU\RU) + CL2max - PMS - GMU(UL).
This gives a relation for the gain setting of the remote unit with respect to
the gain setting of the master unit when all coupling losses are determined. A
further criteria for the leveling of the uplink is the total noise figure of
the repeater system. In order to obtain a value close to the remote unit noise
figure, the gain setting of the single repeater unit shall not be much lower
than the path loss its output signal has to bridge.
A desensitization of the BTS will be prevented by keeping the uplink gain of
the single repeater units close to the value of the path loss to be bridged.
The noise at the BTS receiver input can be calculated from the total noise
figure of the repeater system:
FTOT(lin) = FRU(UL,lin) + ( FMU(UL,lin) - 1 ) / ( GRU(UL,lin) * CL(MU\RU,
lin) ).
The variables marked by lin are linear and thus not logarithmic values. The
noise at the BTS receiver input at room temperature for a given bandwidth of a
GSM channel results in:
NTOT = FTOT + GTOT(UL) + kT + B = FTOT + GTOT(UL) + (-174) + 53
This noise level has to be smaller than the equivalent noise at the receiver
input:
NTOT \<= SBTS - C/Ic - Mn = SBTS - 9dB - 3dB
A noise margin Mn equal to 3 dB is assumed. With a sensitivity of SBTS = -104
dBm the noise level of NTOT = - 116 dBm should not be exceeded.
### D.11.1.2 Wideband noise
The repeater system using frequency shift is supposed to operate with
dedicated channelised amplifiers. Therefore the uncoordinated scenario does
not apply.
### D.11.1.3 Multipath environment
Regions with strong multipath signals of direct signals from the BTS and
delayed signals from the repeater system of nearly equal level should be
avoided. One method to achieve this can be a coupling of the master unit of
the repeater system to the BTS sector directed to the counterside of the area
to be covered by the repeater system. Furthermore the geographic situation may
prevent as well the occurrence of such strong multipath areas, so that as well
onmidirectional cells as donor cells can be possible.
# D.12 Repeaters and Location Services (LCS)
## D.12.1 Uplink−TOA positioning method
Figure 9 illustrates the potential problem which can occur when a MS near the
service area of a wireless repeater should be located with the Uplink−TOA
positioning method (see GSM 03.71 for details about the Uplink−TOA positioning
method). It is assumed that a TOA Location Measurement Unit (LMU) is deployed
at each BTS site. The LMUs colocated at BTS 1 and 2 will report TOA
measurements _τ~1~_ and _τ~2~_ , which correspond to the propagation path
length between the MS and BTS 1 and 2, respectively. An ambiguity will exist,
when the RF path between the MS and BTS 3 can either be a direct path (_τ~3~_)
or a path via the repeater (_τ~R~+τ~d~+τ~RB~_), where _τ~d~_ is the delay of
the repeater.
Figure 9: Repeater Scenario for Uplink-TOA.
An ambiguity free location solution can be obtained, if a TOA LMU is deployed
at the repeater site. The LMUs which should participate in the position
measurement procedure are selected by the Serving Mobile Location Centre
(SMLC) (GSM 03.71). If a BTS has an associated repeater, then the SMLC should
select the LMU colocated at the BTS site as well as the LMU colocated at its
repeater site for TOA measurements. When a RF path exists between the MS and
the repeater, the LMU R will report the TOA measurement _τ~R~_ , which
corresponds to the propagation path length between the MS and the repeater. If
LMU 3 and LMU R are reporting TOA measurements, then the SMLC should neglect
the TOA measurement from LMU 3, since this TOA measurement can be based on
(_τ~R~+τ~d~+τ~RB~_) and will therefore result in a wrong location estimate. If
the TOA LMU co-located at the repeater will not report a TOA measurement, it
is obvious that no RF path between the MS and repeater exists. In that case,
the TOA measurement from BTS 3 should be used. Other more intelligent
processing can also be performed at the SMLC.
To guarantee, that the Uplink−TOA positioning method works properly in radio
environments with repeaters, a TOA LMU needs to be co located at the repeater
site.
If no LMU is co located at the repeater site, the SMLC should avoid selecting
LMUs co located at a BTS which has an associated repeater. This requires that
enough BTSs (LMUs) without repeaters are available in the vicinity of the MS
and may therefore depend on the network.
## D.12.2 Enhanced Observed Time Difference positioning method
Figure 10 illustrates the potential problem which can occur when a MS near the
service area of a wireless repeater should be located with the Enhanced
Observed Time Difference (E-OTD) positioning method (see GSM 03.71 for details
about the E-OTD positioning method).
Assuming for simplicity that BTSs transmit at the moment 0, the MS will
receive signals from BTSs 1, 2 and 4 at moments _τ~1~_ , _τ~2~_ , and _τ~4~_ ,
which correspond to the delays due to propagation paths between the MS and
BTSs 1, 2 and 4, respectively. An ambiguity will exist, when the RF path
between the BTS 3 and MS can either be a direct path (_τ~3~_) or a path via
the repeater (_τ~RB~ +τ~d~+τ~R~_), where _τ~d~_ is the delay of the repeater.
Figure 10: Repeater Scenario for E-OTD.
An ambiguity free location solution can be obtained, if the MS measures
sufficient number of BTSs so that the measurements concerning the BTS 3 (which
can be direct measurements or via the repeater) can be dropped off. In the
situation in Fig. 10, there are three other BTSs received by the MS, and the
measurements from the BTS 3 can be omitted. Another possibility for ambiquity
free location solution is to use other avilable information to judge whether
the signal from the repeater or the direct signal from the BTS has been
measured. For example the initial location estimate based on CI and TA
information can be used to estimate whether the BTS or the repeater is more
likely to be received by the MS. There can be also other implementation
specific solutions in the SMLC.
## D.12.3 Radio Interface Timing measurements
Figure 11 illustrates the potential problem which can occur when a LMU near
the service area of a wireless repeater performs Radio Interface Timing (RIT)
measurements (see GSM 03.71 for details about the RIT measurements).
Figure 11: Repeater Scenario for RIT measurements.
The ambiguity problem applies also to LMUs that measure RIT information for
E-OTD and Uplink-TOA methods, as well as for certain assisted GPS variants. In
Figure 11 the LMU measures directly signals from BTSs 1 and 2 (BTS serving the
LMU). However the RF path between the BTS 3 and LMU can either be a direct
path (_τ~3~_) or a path via the repeater (_τ~RB~ +τ~d~+τ~R~_). The solution is
that the operator selects such LMU sites that can only hear only the BTS or
the repeater (e.g. based on network planning information). This can be
enhanced by using directional antenna for the LMU, so that the antenna points
towards e.g. the repeater, not the BTS, or vice versa.
#