# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 1 of a multi-part conformance test specification
for UE.
**3GPP TS 34.123-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 1:
Protocol conformance specification\". (the present document)**
3GPP TS 34.123-2 [11]: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part
2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma specification\".\
Containing as well the TCs applicability.
3GPP TS 34.123-3 [12]: \"Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\".\ Containing _TTCN-2
(Tree and Tabular Combined Notation version 2) and TTCN-3 (Testing and Test
Control Notation version 3) design frame work, test model, Implementation
eXtra Information for Testing (IXIT) proforma, and Test Suites (the detailed
test specifications in TTCN2 and TTCN-3). Note that there may be tests
described in the present document which do not have a matching test case
implementation in TTCN._
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocol conformance testing for the 3^rd^
Generation User Equipment (UE).
This is the first part of a multi-part test specification. The following
information can be found in this part:
\- the overall test structure;
\- the test configurations;
\- the conformance requirement and reference to the core specifications;
\- the test purposes; and
\- the description of the tests' procedures, the specific test requirements
and the messages exchanged.
The following information relevant to the tests described in the present
document can be found in accompanying specifications:
\- the default setting of the test parameters [9];
\- the applicability of each test case and the Implementation Conformance
Statement (ICS) pro-forma [11].
_Note: The present document does not contain any tests on the USIM, or the
interface between the UE and the USIM. These tests are documented elsewhere._
The present document is valid for UE implemented according to 3GPP releases
starting from Release 1999 up to the Release indicated on the cover page of
the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document > unless the context in which the reference is made suggests a > different Release is relevant (information on the applicable > release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case > title, description or applicability, message description or > content).
> [1] to [65] (void)
[66] 3GPP TS 34.123-1 Release 14: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Part 1: Protocol conformance specification\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Test Methodology
### 4.1.1 Testing of optional functions and procedures
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 34.123-1
Release 14 [66].
# 5 to 18 Void
###### ## Annex A to D: Void
#