# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the management aspects of edge computing
including concepts, use cases, requirements and procedural flows that covers
lifecycle management, provisioning, performance assurance and fault
supervision for edge computing.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.558: \"Architecture for enabling Edge Applications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
> [6] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 V3.4.1 \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV)
> Release 3; Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo reference point
> -Interface and Information Model Specification\".
>
> [7] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 (V3.3.1): \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV)
> Release 3; Management and Orchestration; VNF Descriptor and Packaging
> Specification\".
>
> [8] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.658: \"Telecommunications management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[14] GSMA OPG: \"Operator Platform Telco Edge Requirements; Version 2.0\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Edge Computing:** A concept, as described in 3GPP TS 23.501 [4], that
enables operator and 3^rd^ party services to be hosted close to the UE\'s
access point of attachment, to achieve an efficient service delivery through
the reduced end-to-end latency and load on the transport network.
**Edge Computing Service Provider:** A mobile network operator offering Edge
Computing service.
**Edge Data Network:** A local Data Network that supports the architecture for
enabling edge applications.
**ECSP Management System** : is a part of 3GPP management system that utilizes
3GPP defined management services to enable consumers (e.g., ASP. ECSP) to
orchestrate and manage the EDN.
**PLMN Management System** : is a part of 3GPP Management System that utilizes
3GPP defined management services to enable consumers (e.g., PLMN operator) to
orchestrate and manage the mobile networks.
**Availability Zone:** Refer to GSMA Operator Platform Telco Edge Requirements
[14].
**Leading Operator** : The Leading Operator is the operator which consumes EDN
shared by the PO.
**Participating Operator** : The Participating Operator is the operator who
provides its EDN to be shared with Leading Operator.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ASP Application Service Provider
DN Data Network
DNAI Data Network Access Identifier
DNN Data Network Name
EAS Edge Application Server
ECS Edge Configuration Server
ECSP Edge Computing Service Provider
EDN Edge Data Network
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
GSMA GSM AssociationLO Leading Operator
PO Participating Operator
# 4 Concepts and overview
## 4.1 Concept of edge computing management
The edge computing services are provided by edge computing service providers
(ECSP), application service providers (ASP), and PLMN operators (see annex B
in TS 23.558 [1]), where ASP is responsible for the creation of edge
application servers (EAS) and application clients (AC), ECSP is responsible
for the deployment of edge data networks (EDN) that contain EAS and EES, and
PLMN operator is responsible for the deployment of 5G network functions, such
as 5GC and 5G NR.
Figure 4.1-1 describes the edge computing management framework that contains
PLMN management system and ECSP management system. ECSP management system, as
the producer, provides management services enabling ASP and ECSP consumers to
orchestrate and manage EDN NFs (e.g., EAS, EES, and ECS). PLMN management
system, as the producer, provides management services enabling ECSP management
system to interconnect EDN NFs with 5GC NFs (e.g., PCF, UPF, NEF). Both ECSP
management system and PLMN management system communicate with ETSI NFV MANO to
perform lifecycle management functions.
Figure 4.1-1: Edge computing management framework
# 5 Edge Computing Management (ECM) capabilities
## 5.1 Lifecycle management
### 5.1.1 Description
The lifecycle management of the edge components is to be enabled by the 3GPP
Management System. The lifecycle management includes instantiation,
termination, modification and query of the edge components.
### 5.1.2 EAS deployment
The goal of this use case is to enable ASP to deploy the EAS in the EDN, by
requesting the provisioning MnS producer with the deployment requirements
(e.g. the topological or geographical service areas, software image
information, QoS, affinity/anti-affinity with other EAS, etc.) to deploy the
EAS. The provisioning MnS producer returns a response indicating the operation
is in progress to prevent the consumer from waiting, as the deployment in the
edge cloud may take a while. Since, there can be multiple Edge Data Network
(EDN) present/serving a particular edge location. This makes it critical for
application service provider to have their EAS deployed at appropriate EDN(s)
to provide high performance services for the UE. Therefore, provisioning MnS
producer analyses the deployment requirements to determine where (i.e. on
which EDN) and how many EAS VNF instance(s) should be instantiated, and
requests the NFVO in ETSI NFV MANO to instantiate the EAS VNF instance(s). The
provisioning MnS producer sends a notification to ASP indicating the result of
instantiation (e.g. success, failure) when a notification is received from
NFVO indicating the result of instantiation operation.
### 5.1.3 EAS termination
The goal of this use case is to enable ASP to terminate the EAS in the EDN, by
requesting the provisioning MnS producer to terminate the EAS VNF instance.
The provisioning MnS producer requests the NFVO in ETSI NFV MANO to terminate
the EAS VNF instances. The provisioning MnS producer sends a notification to
ASP indicating the termination is in progress when a notification is received
from NFVO indicating the start of termination operation. The provisioning MnS
producer sends another notification to ASP indicating the result of
termination (e.g. success, failure) when a notification is received from NFVO
indicating the result of termination operation.
### 5.1.4 Query EAS information
The goal of this use case is to enable ASP to query the EAS information in the
EDN, by requesting the provisioning MnS producer to query the EAS instance.
Upon receiving the query request, the provisioning MnS producer sends the EAS
instance information to ASP.
### 5.1.5 EAS modification
The goal of this use case is to enable ASP to modify the EAS in the EDN, by
requesting the provisioning MnS producer to modify the EAS instance. If the
modification requires the change (e.g. scale) for the virtualized resource of
the EAS VNF instance, the provisioning MnS producer requests the NFVO in ETSI
NFV MANO for the appropriate operation of the EAS VNF instances. The
provisioning MnS producer sends a notification to ASP indicating the
attribute(s) change of the EAS instance.
### 5.1.6 EES Deployment
The provisioning MnS producer is requested to instantiate the EES, as 3GPP
network functions, aiming to server the particular location. The instantiated
EES may serve one or multiple EAS.
A consumer request for EES(s) instantiation providing EES deployment
requirements. The provisioning MnS producer determines the EDN where the
EES(s) will be instantiated, instantiate the EES VNF and establish the
connection with 5GC network functions. The provisioning MnS producer will
accept the request and notify the consumer about the instantiation in-
progress. Thereafter, the notification will be sent to indicate the successful
EES instantiation.
### 5.1.7 EES Termination
The goal is to enable the termination of one or more EES(s) on the EDN. A
consumer consumes the provisioning MnS to terminate the EES with the EES
identifier. The provisioning MnS producer terminates the EES VNF based on the
EES identifier, and disconnects the EES from the 5GC network functions. The
provisioning MnS producer will accept the request and notify the consumer
about the termination in-progress. Thereafter, the notification will be sent
to indicate that the EES has been terminated successfully.
### 5.1.8 Query EES information
The goal of this use case is to enable a consumer to query the EES information
in the EDN, by requesting the provisioning MnS producer to query the EES
instance. Upon receiving the query request, the provisioning MnS producer
sends the EES instance information to the consumer.
### 5.1.9 EES Modification
The goal of this use case is to enable a consumer to modify the EES in the
EDN, by requesting the provisioning MnS producer to modify the EES instance.
If the modification requires the change (e.g. scale) for the virtualized
resource of the EES VNF instance, the provisioning MnS producer requests the
NFVO in ETSI NFV MANO for the appropriate operation of the EES VNF instances.
The provisioning MnS producer sends a notification to the consumer indicating
the attribute(s) change of the EES instance.
### 5.1.10 ECS Deployment
_The goal is to_ enable the instantiation of one or more ECS. To support
deployed EDN, operator will deploy ECS serving one or multiple EES. A consumer
request for ECS(s) instantiation providing ECS deployment requirements. The
provisioning MnS producer instantiate the ECS VNF and establish the required
connection with 5GC network functions. The notifications will be sent to
indicate that the ECS has been instantiated successfully.
### 5.1.11 ECS Termination
_The goal is to_ enable the termination of one or more ECS. A consumer
consumes the provisioning service to terminate the ECS with the ECS
identifier. The provisioning MnS producer terminates the ECS VNF based on the
ECS identifier, and disconnects the ECS from the 5GC network functions. The
notification will be sent to indicate that the ECS has been terminated
successfully.
### 5.1.12 Query ECS information
The goal of this use case is to enable a consumer to query the ECS instance
information, by requesting the provisioning MnS producer to query the ECS
instance. Upon receiving the query request, the provisioning MnS producer
sends the ECS instance information to the consumer.
### 5.1.13 ECS Modification
The goal of this use case is to enable a consumer to modify the ECS instance,
by requesting the provisioning MnS producer to modify the ECS instance. If the
modification requires the change (e.g. scale) for the virtualized resource of
the ECS VNF instance, the provisioning MnS producer requests the NFVO in ETSI
NFV MANO for the appropriate operation of the ECS VNF instances. The
provisioning MnS producer sends a notification to the consumer indicating the
attribute(s) change of the ECS instance.
### 5.1.13a Instantiation triggered by EAS discovery failure
EES may need to trigger dynamic EAS instantiation when EES fails to discover
and select the EAS that matches the UE location and the requesting application
characteristics EAS (see table 8.5.3.2-2 in TS 23.558 [2]) due to no available
EAS during the EAS discovery (see clause 8.5 in TS 23.558 [2]).
A consumer would consume performance assurance MnS to request the ECSP
management system to collect EAS discovery failure measurement that will be
used to determine whether an EAS needs to be initiated, based on performance
information, such as UE locations, application characteristics, and number of
UEs that have failed in the EAS discovery.
### 5.1.14 Requirements
Requirement label Description Related use case(s)
* * *
**REQ-EAS-INST-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to request the deployment of EAS
based on the given deployment requirements. EAS Deployment **REQ-EAS-INST-
FUN-2** Generic Provisioning MnS Producer should have the capability to deploy
EAS at a suitable EDN which can support the EAS requirements e.g. serving
location, required latency, affinity/anti-affinity with other EAS, service
continuity**.** EAS Deployment **REQ-EAS-INST-FUN-3** Generic provisioning MnS
producer should have a capability to inform the authorized consumer about the
progress of instantiation as the response to the deployment request. EAS
Deployment **REQ-EAS-INST-FUN-4** Generic provisioning MnS producer should
have a capability to notify the authorized consumer the result (e.g. success,
failure) of instantiation operation. EAS Deployment **REQ-EAS-TERM-FUN-1**
Generic provisioning MnS producer should have a capability allowing an
authorized consumer to request the termination of the EAS VNF instance. EAS
Termination **REQ-EAS-TERM-FUN-2** Generic provisioning MnS producer should
have a capability to inform the authorized consumer about the progress of
termination as the response to the termination request. EAS Termination **REQ-
EAS-TERM-FUN-3** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have a capability to
notify the authorized consumer the result (e.g. success, failure) of
termination operation. EAS Termination **REQ-EAS-QUERY-FUN-1** Generic
provisioning MnS producer should have a capability allowing an authorized
consumer to obtain the EAS instance information. Query EAS information **REQ-
EAS-MOD-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to request the modification of the EAS
instance. EAS Modification **REQ-EES-INST-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS
producer should have the capability to instantiate the EES, as per request
from authorized consumers. EES Deployment **REQ-EES-INST-FUN-2** Generic
provisioning MnS producer should have the capability to **send the
notification indicating the status of EES instantiation** EES Deployment
**REQ-EES-INST-FUN-3** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have the
capability to relate instantiated EES with one or multiple served EAS(s). EES
Deployment **REQ-EES-TERM-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS producer should
have the capability to terminate the EES with the EES identifier, as per
request from authorized consumers EES Termination **REQ-EES-TERM-FUN-2**
Generic provisioning MnS producer should have the capability to **send the
notification indicating the status of EES termination** EES Termination **REQ-
EES-QUERY-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to obtain the EES instance information. Query
EES information **REQ-EES-MOD-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS producer should
have a capability allowing an authorized consumer to request the modification
of the EES instance. EES Modification **REQ-EES-TERM-FUN-3** Generic
provisioning MnS producer should have a capability to inform the authorized
consumer about the progress of EES instantiation as the response to the
deployment request. EES Deployment **REQ-EES-TERM-FUN-4** Generic provisioning
MnS producer should have a capability to inform the authorized consumer about
the progress of EES termination as the response to the termination request.
EES Termination **REQ-ECS-INST-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS producer
should have the capability to instantiate the ECS, as per request from
authorized consumers. ECS Deployment **REQ-ECS-INST-FUN-2** Generic
provisioning MnS producer should have the capability **to send the
notification indicating the status of ECS Instantiation**. ECS Deployment
**REQ-ECS-INST-FUN-3** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have the
capability to relate instantiated ECS with one or multiple served EES(s). ECS
Deployment **REQ-ECS-TERM-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS producer should
have the capability to terminate the ECS with the ECS identifier, as per
request from authorized consumers. ECS Termination **REQ-ECS-TERM-FUN-2**
Generic provisioning MnS producer should have the capability **to send the
notification indicating the status of ECS termination**. ECS Termination
**REQ-ECS-TERM-FUN-3** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have a
capability to inform the authorized consumer about the progress of ECS
instantiation as the response to the deployment request. ECS Termination
**REQ-ECS-TERM-FUN-4** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have a
capability to inform the authorized consumer about the progress of ECS
termination as the response to the termination request. ECS Termination **REQ-
ECS-QUERY-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to obtain the ECS instance information. Query
ECS information **REQ-ECS-MOD-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS producer should
have a capability allowing an authorized consumer to request the modification
of the ECS instance. ECS Modification **REQ-EAS-DF-FUN-1** Performance
assurance MnS producer should have a capability allowing an authorized
consumer to request the collection of EAS discovery failure measurements that
contain UE location and the requesting application characteristics
information. Instantiation triggered by EAS discovery failure **REQ-EAS-DF-
FUN-2** 3GPP Management system should have a capability allowing an EES to
trigger or request for an EAS deployment. Instantiation triggered by EAS
discovery failure **REQ-EAS-REL-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS producer
shall have a capability allowing EAS to declare its mobility policies
indicating whether EAS can be moved within EDN or from one EDN to another with
or without prior notification. EAS Relocation **REQ-EAS-REL-FUN-4** Generic
provisioning MnS producer shall have a capability allowing ASP to reject the
EAS relocation on receiving the relocation notification. EAS Relocation **REQ-
EAS-REL-FUN-5** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have a capability
allowing scheduling of an EAS relocation. EAS Relocation
### 5.1.15 EAS Relocation
The ESCP Management System may decide that a different EDN can better host the
EAS. The EAS relocation trigger from ESCP Management System are related with
lifecycle management of its edge compute resources. The ASP provides its
policy indication regarding change of the edge compute resource hosting the
Edge Application. There ESCP Management System considers these policy while
relocating EAS within the ED or from one EDN to another.
The ASP indicates the following policies:
\- Its Edge Application cannot be moved from one edge compute resource to
another;
\- Its Edge Application can be moved from one edge compute resource to
another, without any notification;
\- Its Edge Application can be moved from one edge compute resource to another
with prior notification.
When the policy is that a change of edge compute resource can be done with
prior notification, the ESCP Management System decides that a change of edge
compute resource is needed and selects the new edge compute resource. In this
case, the ASP chooses the exact timing of the move. If the ASP indicates that
the EAS is not able to handle relocation, the ESCP Management System shall not
initiate relocation procedure.
## 5.2 Performance assurance
### 5.2.1 Description
The clause contains use cases associated with performance assurance.
### 5.2.2 EAS performance assurance
_The goal of this use case is to provide a mechanism for EAS to publish KPIs
or measurements, as per requirements shown in Table 5.2.2-1 (see clause
5.2.10.2_ in TS 23.558 [2]).
Table 5.2.2-1: Edge Application Server Service KPIs
* * *
Information element Status Description Maximum Request rate O Maximum request
rate from the Application Client supported by the server. Maximum Response
time O The maximum response time advertised for the Application Client\'s
service requests. Availability O Advertised percentage of time the server is
available for the Application Client\'s use. Available Compute O The maximum
compute resource available for the Application Client. Available Graphical
Compute O The maximum graphical compute resource available for the Application
Client. Available Memory O The maximum memory resource available for the
Application Client. Available Storage O The maximum storage resource available
for the Application Client. Connection Bandwidth O The connection bandwidth in
Kbit/s advertised for the Application Client\'s use. NOTE: The maximum
response time includes the round-trip time of the request and response packet,
the processing time at the server and the time required by the server to
consume 3GPP Core Network capabilities, if any.
* * *
A consumer, such as ASP, would consume performance assurance MnS to request
the ECSP management system to collect EAS KPIs and measurements. The
performance assurance MnS producer at ECSP management system will report the
measurements to the consumer.
### 5.2.3 5GC NF measurements to evaluate EAS performance
_The goal is to_ enable ECSP management system to collect the measurements of
5GC NFs (e.g. UPF, PCF, ...) that are needed to evaluate the EAS performance.
For example, the ECSP management system can correlate the 5GC NF and EAS
measurements to determine the root cause of poor EAS performance. ECSP
management system, as the consumer would consume performance assurance MnS to
request the PLMN management system to collect 5GC NF measurements that are
related to EAS performance. The performance assurance MnS producer at PLMN
management system will report the measurements to the consumer.
Since an PLMN operator may not want to expose certain measurements (e.g.
measurements for 5GC NF(s) not relevant to EAS) to 3^rd^ party operators, like
ECSP, the PLMN management system should be able to select specific
measurements to be reported to the consumer.
### 5.2.4 ECS performance assurance
_The goal of this use case is to provide a mechanism for ECS performance
assurance. ECS performance can be based on various functionalities defined for
ECS in (see clause 6.3.4 of [2])._ The measurement/KPI should be defined for
each functionality, that can be collected as and when required.
A consumer, such as ECSP Management system, would consume performance
assurance MnS to request the PLMN management system to collect ECS KPIs and
measurements. The performance assurance MnS producer at PLMN management system
will report the measurements to the consumer.
### 5.2.5 EES performance assurance
_The goal of this use case is to provide a mechanism for EES performance
assurance. EES performance can be based on various functionalities defined for
EES in (see clause 6.3.4 of [2])._ The measurement/KPI should be defined for
each functionality, that can be collected as and when required.
A consumer, such as ECSP Management system, would consume performance
assurance MnS to request the PLMN management system to collect EES KPIs and
measurements. The performance assurance MnS producer at PLMN management system
will report the measurements to the consumer.
### 5.2.6 Requirements
Requirement label Description Related use case(s)
* * *
**REQ-EAS-PA-FUN-1** Performance assurance MnS producer should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to request the collection of EAS
KPIs and measurements. EAS performance assurance **REQ-EAS-PA-FUN-2**
Performance assurance MnS producer should have a capability to report EAS KPIs
and measurements to authorized consumer(s). EAS performance assurance
**REQ-5GCNF-PA-FUN-1** Performance assurance MnS producer should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to request the collection of 5GC
NF(s) (e.g. UPF, PCF, ...) measurements that may affect the EAS performance.
5GC NF measurements to evaluate EAS performance **REQ-EAS-5GCNF -FUN-2**
Performance assurance MnS producer should have a capability allowing the
selection of specific 5GC NF(s) (e.g. UPF, PCF, ...) measurements to be
reported to authorized consumer(s). 5GC NF measurements to evaluate EAS
performance **REQ-ECS-PA-FUN-2** Performance assurance MnS producer should
have a capability to report ECS KPIs and measurements to authorized
consumer(s). ECS performance assurance **REQ-EES-PA-FUN-2** Performance
assurance MnS producer should have a capability to report EES KPIs and
measurements to authorized consumer(s). EES performance assurance
## 5.3 Fault supervision
### 5.3.1 Description
The clause contains use cases associated with fault supervision.
### 5.3.2 EDN NF performance impacted by 5GC NF alarms
_The goal is to_ enable ECSP management system to receive 5GC NFs (e.g. UPF,
PCF, NEF, SCEF, ...) alarms that may impact the EDN NFs (e.g. EAS, EES)
performance from PLMN management system. ECSP management system can correlate
the 5GC NF alarms to determine the root causes for poor EDN NF performance.
ECSP management system subscribes to receive 5GC NF alarms from PLMN
management system. PLMN management system sends the NF alarm notification to
ECSP management system when it detects 5GC NF alarms.
### 5.3.3 5GC NF issues resulted from EDN NF alarms
_The goal is to_ enable PLMN management system to receive EDN NFs (e.g. EAS,
EES, ECS) alarms that may generate issues in 5GC NFs (e.g. UPF, PCF, NEF,
SCEF, ...) that are supporting EDN from ECSP management system. PLMN
management system can correlate the EDN NF alarms to determine the root causes
for 5GC NF issues. PLMN management system subscribes to receive EDN NF alarms
from ECSP management system. ECSP management system sends the NF alarm
notification to PLMN management system when it detects EDN NF alarms.
### 5.3.4 Requirements
Requirement label Description Related use case(s)
* * *
**REQ-EDNNF-FS-FUN-1** Fault supervision MnS producer should have a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to subscribe to receive alarms of 5GC NFs that
are supporting edge computing applications. EDN NF performance impacted by 5GC
NF alarms **REQ-EDNNF-FS-FUN-2** Fault supervision MnS producer should have a
capability to send the 5GC NF alarm notification to authorized consumer(s).
EDN NF performance impacted by 5GC NF alarms **REQ-5GCNF-FS-FUN-1** Fault
supervision MnS producer should have a capability allowing an authorized
consumer to subscribe to receive alarms of EDN NFs that may generate issues in
5GC NFs. 5GC NF issues resulted from EDN NF alarms **REQ-5GCNF-FS-FUN-2**
Fault supervision MnS producer should have a capability to send the EDN NF
alarm notification to authorized consumer(s). 5GC NF issues resulted from EDN
NF alarms
## 5.4 5GC NF Provisioning
### 5.4.1 Description
The clause contains use cases associated with provisioning.
### 5.4.2 EDN NF 5GC connection provisioning
_The goal is to_ enable ECSP management system to request PLMN management
system to query the connection information of EDN NFs (i.e., EAS, EES, ECS) to
5GC NFs, as specified in c _lauses 6.3.2, 6.3.4, 6.4.6 in TS 23.558 [2],_
where EES, ECS, and EAS are interacting with 3GPP Core Network for accessing
the capabilities of network functions either directly (e.g. via PCF) or
indirectly (e.g. via SCEF/NEF/SCEF+NEF).
Figure 5.4.2-1 shows an example of edge computing networks. EDN #1 is trusted
by PLMN operators; therefore, EAS #1 and EES #1 are acting as the trusted AF,
and are authorized to interfaces to PCF directly in via the N5 reference point
(see clause 4.2.3 in TS 23.501 [11]), or via Edge-7 and Edge-2 interfaces (see
clause 6.2 in TS 23.558). EDN #2 is not trusted by PLMN operators; therefore,
EAS #2 and EES #2 are acting as the untrusted AF, and are not authorized to
interfaces to PCF directly (See clause 5.6.7.1 TS 23.501 [11]), and need to
interface to NEF / SCEF via the N33 reference point (see Figure 4.2.3-5 in TS
23.501), or via Edge-7 and Edge-2 interfaces. ECS should be able to connect to
NEF / SCEF via the edge-8 interface (see clause 6.3.4 in TS 23.558 [2]).
Figure 5.4.2-1: Edge computing networks
ECSP management system requests PLMN management system to identify the PCF,
NEF, or SCEF to which the EDN NFs need to interface. The request should
include the EDN identifier and the service area requirements (i.e., EDN
service area, EES service area, and EAS service area (see clause 7.3.3 in TS
23.558 [2])). PLMN management system finds and returns the connection
information (i.e., the IP addresses and DN of PCF, NEF, SCEF) to ECSP
management system, based on the requirements. ECSP management system then
connects EAS, ECS, and EES to 5GC NFs via the connection information given by
PLMN management system, according to Figure 5.4.2-1.
### 5.4.3 Configuration needed for EAS registration
_The goal is to_ enable a consumer to configure EASID and EES address for the
EAS that are required as the pre-conditions of EAS registration procedure (see
clause 8.4.3.2.1 in TS 23.558 [2]). A consumer (e.g. ASP, ECSP) requests ECSP
management system to configure the EASID and EES address attributes in
EASFunction IOC. ECSP management system configures the EASID and EES address
attributes in EASFunction MOI, and returns the attribute change notification
to the consumer.
### 5.4.4 EAS to connect with UPF
_The goal is to_ enable ECSP management system to connect a newly deployed EAS
to a UPF. Figure 5.4.4-1 shows that EASs are deployed in the local part of the
Data Network (DN) that are connected to UPF to carry the user traffic via the
N6 interface (see clause 6.3.3 in TS 23.501 [11]). ECSP management system
requests PLMN management system to connect a newly deployed EAS to a UPF with
_EAS IP address,_ EAS service area requirements (see clause 7.3.3.6 in TS
23.558 [2])), and list of DNAI and N6 traffic routing requirements ((see Table
8.2.4.1 in TS 23.558 [2])). PLMN management system finds a UPF among the
UPF(s) being deployed that meets the service area requirements (e.g. UPF #2 is
found to connect to EAS #2). In the case that no UPF can be found (e.g. EAS
#3), PLMN management system will deploy a new UPF (e.g. UPF #3) and then
configure the SMF to add the UPF to the list of available UPF(s) (see clause
6.3.3.2 in TS 23.501 [11]). PLMN management system connects the UPF to the
EAS, and return the UPF information (e.g. IP addresses and DN of the UPF) to
the ECSP management system.
Figure 5.4.4-1: EASs to connect with UPFs
### 5.4.5 Requirements
Requirement label Description Related use case(s)
* * *
**REQ-PROV-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have the
capability allowing authorized consumer to query the connection information of
5GC functions, such as the IP addresses and DN of _PCF, NEF, SCEF, by
providing EDN identifier and service area requirements_. EDN NF to access 5GC
NF **REQ-PROV-FUN-2** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have the
capability to return to the authorized consumer with the connection
information of 5GC functions, such as the IP addresses and DN of PCF, NEF,
SCEF, based on the requirements. EDN NF to access 5GC NF **REQ-PROV-FUN-3**
Generic provisioning MnS producer should have the capability to establish the
connection relationship between EAS, EES, and ECS and 5GC NFs via PCF, NEF, or
SCEF. EDN NF to access 5GC NF **REQ-PROV-FUN-4** Generic provisioning MnS
producer should have the capability allowing authorized consumer to configure
the EASID and EES address attributes for EAS. Configuration needed for EAS
registration **REQ-PROV-FUN-5** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have
the capability to send a notification to the consumer, indicating that the
attributes have been changed. Configuration needed for EAS registration **REQ-
PROV-FUN-6** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have the capability
allowing authorized consumer to provide information for connecting the EAS to
UPF _by providing EAS IP address, EAS service area requirements and list of
DNAI and_ N6 traffic routing requirements. EAS to connect with UPF **REQ-PROV-
FUN-7** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have the capability to return
to the authorized consumer with the UPF connection information of 5GC
functions, such as the IP addresses and DN of UPF, based on the requirements.
EAS to connect with UPF **REQ-PROV-FUN-8** Generic provisioning MnS producer
should have the capability to connect the EAS to UPF. EAS to connect with UPF
## 5.5 Edge Federation Management
### 5.5.1 Description
This clause contains use cases associated with federation management.
### 5.5.2 Federated EAS deployment and termination
Federation enables operator to control the launch and termination of
applications on a PO. This will be used by a LO to instantiate an application
on EDN of PO as requested by ASP over NBI. A LO makes the application
instantiation result available on the NBI interface. PO also provide the
application instance status to LO which LO may expose to application providers
on NBI.
### 5.5.3 Requirements
Table 5.5.3-1
Requirement label Description Related use case(s)
* * *
**REQ-FEAS-INST-FUN-1** The generic provisioning MnS producer shall have a
capability to deploy the EAS on the EDN owned by PO. Federated EAS deployment
and termination **REQ-FEAS-TERM-FUN-2** The generic provisioning MnS producer
shall have a capability to terminate the EAS on the EDN owned by PO. Federated
EAS deployment and termination
## 5.6 Edge Federation Management
### 5.6.1 Description
This clause contains use cases associated with federation management.
### 5.6.2 Federation Management
The federation management functionality within the operator enables it to
interact with other operator instances, often in different geographies,
thereby providing access for the ASP to a larger footprint of EDN, a more
extensive set of subscribers and multiple Operator capabilities. An operator
initiates the establishment of federation relationship with another operator
sharing available location(s) at which the edge services are provided,
resource available at each location, federation expiry etc. The operator which
initiates federation relationship is called Leading Operator (LO). The
operator which receives federation relationship request is called Partner
Operator (PO).
The federation relationship enables the following functionalities.
\- Federated EAS resource reservation management: This is intended for an LO
to reserve resources for an application provider, with the PO, when the
application provider initiate the reservation using NBI.
\- Federated EAS deployment and termination: This will be used by an LO to
instantiate an EAS deployment on EDN of LO as requested by application
provider over NBI.
\- EDN sharing: This is intended for operator to share EDN among each other.
### 5.6.3 Requirements
Table 5.6.3-1
Requirement label Description Related use case(s)
* * *
**REQ-FED-FUN-1** Generic Provisioning MnS shall have a capability to
establishing federation relationship with the MnS consumer (e.g. partner
operator platforms). _Federation Management_ **REQ-FED-FUN-2** Generic
Provisioning MnS shall enable federation relationship to include appropriate
information including (not limited to) location(s) at which the edge services
are provided, resource available at each location, federation expiry.
_Federation Management_ **REQ-FED-FUN-3** Generic Provisioning MnS shall have
a capability to remove existing federation relationship with the MnS
consumer(e.g. partner operator platforms). _Federation Management_
# 6 Edge NRM
## 6.1 Information Model definitions for Edge NRM
### 6.1.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Label reference Local label
* * *
TS 28.622 [4], IOC, Top Top TS 28.622 [4], IOC, SubNetwork SubNetwork TS
28.622 [4], IOC, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction TS 28.541 [3], IOC,
PCFFunction PCFFunction TS 28.541 [3], IOC, NEFFunction NEFFunction TS 28.541
[3], IOC, UPFunction UPFFunction TS 28.541 [3], IOC, EP_N5 EP_N5 TS 28.541
[3], IOC, EP_N33 EP_N33 TS 28.541 [3], IOC, EP_N6 EP_N6 TS 28.541 [3],
dataType, tAI tAI TS 28.658 [12], dataType, PLMNId PLMNId TS 28.541 [3],
dataType, mCC mCC
## 6.2 Class diagram
### 6.2.1 Relationships
Figure 6.2.1-1: Edge NRM relationship diagram
Figure 6.2.1-3: Transport view of EES NRM
Figure 6.2.1-4: Transport view of ECS NRM
Figure 6.2.1-5: Transport view of EAS NRM
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
Figure 6.2.2-1: Edge Inheritance Relationship
Figure 6.2.2-2: EASProfile Inheritance
## 6.3 Class definition
### 6.3.1 EASFunction
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represent the properties of a EAS in a 3GPP network. For more
information about EAS, see 3GPP TS 23.558.
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
The EASFunction IOC includes attributes inherited from ManagedFunction IOC
(defined in TS 28.622 [4]) and the following attributes:
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
eASIdentifier M T T F T eASAddress M T T F T eESAddress M T T F T
registrationInfo M T T F T **Attribute related to role**  
eASRequirementsRef M T T F T
#### 6.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 5.5 of TS 28.541 [3] are valid for
this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.2 EASRequirements
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This represent the requirements needed to deploy EAS(s).
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
The EASRequirements IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in
TS 28.622[4]) and the following attributes:
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
requiredEASservingLocation M T T F T softwareImageInfo M T T F T
affinityAntiAffinity M T T F T serviceContinuity M T T F T virtualResource M T
T F T eASSchedule O T T F T eASFeature O T T F T
Editor\'s note: which entity is responsible for creating VNFD based on the
deployment requirement as shown in the above figure (e.g., softwareImageInfo
and virtualResource) is FFS.
#### 6.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 5.5 of TS 28.541 [3] are valid for
this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.3 ServingLocation \>
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
This datatype represents the location which is to be served by the node.
#### 6.3.3.2 Attributes
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
geographicalLocation CM T T F T topologicalLocation CM T T F T
#### 6.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
Name Definition
* * *
geographicalLocation Support Qualifier Condition: If the serving location is
defined as Geographical Service Area [2]. topologicalLocation Support
Qualifier Condition: If the serving location is defined as Topological Service
Area [2].
NOTE: Only one of the attributes is needed.
#### 6.3.3.4 Notifications
The clause 5.5, in TS 28.541[3], of the \> using this \> as
one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
### 6.3.4 GeoLoc \>
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
This datatype represent the geographical location.
#### 6.3.4.2 Attributes
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
geographicalCoordinates CM T T F T civicLocations CM T T F T
#### 6.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
Name Definition
* * *
geographicalCoordinates Support Qualifier Condition: If the serving location
is defined as geographical coordinates [2]. civicLocationsSupport Qualifier
Condition: If the serving location is defined as civic locations [2].
NOTE: Only one of the attributes is needed.
#### 6.3.4.4 Notifications
The clause 5.5, in TS 28.541[3], of the \> using this \> as
one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
### 6.3.5 ECSFunction
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents the ECS functionality for supporting Edge Computing. For
more information about the ECS, see 3GPP TS 23.558 [2].
#### 6.3.5.2 Attributes
The ECSFunction IOC includes attributes inherited from ManagedFunction IOC
(defined in TS 28.622 [4]) and the following attributes:
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable
* * *
ecsAddress M T T F T providerIdentifier O T T F T softwareImageInfo M T T F T
trackingAreaIdList O T T F T mCC O T T F T geographicalLocation O T T F T
**Attribute related to role**  
edgeDataNetworkRef M T T F T eESFunctionRef M T T F T
#### 6.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.5.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 5.5 of TS 28.541 [3] are valid for
this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.6 EDNConnectionInfo \>
#### 6.3.6.1 Definition
This datatype represent the EDN connection information.
#### 6.3.6.2 Attributes
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadable** **isWritable**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable**
* * *
dNN M T T F T eDNServiceArea M T T F T
#### 6.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.6.4 Notifications
The clause 5.5, in TS 28.541[3], of the \> using this \> as
one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
### 6.3.7 TopologicalServiceArea \>
#### 6.3.7.1 Definition
This datatype represents the topological service area.
#### 6.3.7.2 Attributes
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
cellIDList CM T T F T trackingAreaIdList CM T T F T servingPLMN CM T T F T
#### 6.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
Name Definition
* * *
cellIDList Support Qualifier Condition: If the serving location is defined as
cell IDs [2]. trackingAreaIdList Support Qualifier Condition: If the serving
location is defined as tracking area IDs [2]. servingPLMN Support Qualifier
Condition: If the serving location is defined as PLMN ID [2].
NOTE: Only one of the attributes is needed.
#### 6.3.7.4 Notifications
The clause 5.5, in TS 28.541[3], of the \> using this \> as
one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
### 6.3.8 GeographicalCoordinates \>
#### 6.3.8.1 Definition
This datatype represents the geographical coordinates.
#### 6.3.8.2 Attributes
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
latitude M T T F T longitude M T T F T
#### 6.3.8.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.8.4 Notifications
The clause 5.5, in TS 28.541[3], of the \> using this \> as
one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
### 6.3.9 SoftwareImageInfo \>
#### 6.3.9.1 Definition
This datatype represents the software image information.
#### 6.3.9.2 Attributes
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
minimumDisk M T T F T minimumRAM M T T F T diskFormat M T T F T
operatingSystem M T T F T **Attribute related to role**  
swImageRef M T T F T
#### 6.3.9.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.9.4 Notifications
The clause 5.5, in TS 28.541[3], of the \> using this \> as
one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
### 6.3.10 EdgeDataNetwork
#### 6.3.10.1 Definition
This IOC represent the EDN information for supporting Edge Computing. For more
information about EDN, see 3GPP TS 23.558 [2].
#### 6.3.10.2 Attributes
The EdgeDataNetwork IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in
TS 28.622[4]) and the following attributes:
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadable** **isWritable**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable**
* * *
ednIdentifier M T T F T eDNConnectionInfo M T T F T
#### 6.3.10.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.10.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 5.5 of TS 28.541 [3] are valid
for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.11 AffinityAntiAffinity \>
#### 6.3.11.1 Definition
This datatype represent the affinity and anti-affinity requirements of the EAS
with other EAS on the same EDN.
#### 6.3.11.2 Attributes
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
affinityEAS M T T F T antiAffinityEAS M T T F T
#### 6.3.11.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.11.4 Notifications
The clause 5.5, in TS 28.541[3], of the \> using this \> as
one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
### 6.3.12 VirtualResource \>
#### 6.3.12.1 Definition
This datatype represent the virtual resource requirements of an EAS.
#### 6.3.12.2 Attributes
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
virtualMemory M T T F T virtualDisk M T T F T virtualCPU M T T F T
#### 6.3.12.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.12.4 Notifications
The clause 5.5, in TS 28.541[3], of the \> using this \> as
one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
### 6.3.13 EESFunction
#### 6.3.13.1 Definition
This IOC represent the properties of a EES in a 3GPP network. For more
information about EES, see 3GPP TS 23.558.
#### 6.3.13.2 Attributes
The EESFunction IOC includes attributes inherited from ManagedFunction IOC
(defined in TS 28.622 [4]) and the following attributes:
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
eESIdentifier M T T F T eESServingLocation M T T F T eESAddress M T T F T
softwareImageInfo M T T F T serviceContinuitySupport M T T F T
registrationInfo M T T F T **Attribute related to role**  
eASFunctonRef M T T F T
#### 6.3.13.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.13.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 5.5 of TS 28.541 [3] are valid for
this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.14 RegistrationInfo \>
#### 6.3.14.1 Definition
This datatype represents the EAS registration infomration.
#### 6.3.14.2 Attributes
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
registrationExpiry M T F F T registrationID M T F F T secCredential M T T F T
#### 6.3.14.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 6.3.14.4 Notifications
The subclause 5.5, in 3GPP TS 28.541[3], of the \> using this
\> as one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
### 6.3.15 EASProfile
#### 6.3.15.1 Definition
This IOC represent an EASProfile, see TS 23.558[2]. This IOC will be
instantiated with the instantiation of every EASFunction IOC.
#### 6.3.15.2 Attributes
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
eASIdentifier M T F F T eEASEndpoint M T F F T aCID O T F F T eASProvider O T
F F T eASdescription O T F F T eASSchedule O T F F T
eASGeographicalServiceArea O T F F T eASTopologicalServiceArea O T F F T
eAServiceKPIs O T F F T eASServicePermissionLevel O T F F T eASFeature O T F F
T eASServiceContinuitySupport O T F F T eASDNAI O T F F T
eASAvailabilityReportingPeriod O T F F T eASStatus O T F F T
#### 6.3.15.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.15.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 5.5 of TS 28.541 [3] are valid
for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.16 Duration \>
#### 6.3.16.1 Definition
This data type defines a time duration.
#### 6.3.16.2 Attributes
**Attribute name** **S** **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable**
* * *
startTime M T T T T endTime M T T T T
#### 6.3.16.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.16.4 Notifications
The clause 5.5, in TS 28.541[3], of the \> using this \> as
one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
## 6.4 Attribute definition
### 6.4.1 Attribute Properties
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +======================+======================+======================+ | eASIdentifier | It refers to EASID | type: String | | | that identifies a | | | | particular | multiplicity: 1 | | | application (e.g. | | | | SA6Video, SA6Game, | isOrdered: N/A | | | ... etc.) (see | | | | clause 7.2.4 in TS | isUnique: True | | | 23.558 [2]). | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASAddress | One or more URLs | type: String | | | and/or IP | | | | Address(es) of | multiplicity: 1..* | | | EAS(s) (See TS | | | | 23.558 [2]). | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASREquirementsRef | This is the DN of | type: DN | | | EASRequirements. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: Not | | | | applicable | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eESFunctionRef | This is the DN of | type: DN | | | EESFunction. | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | allowedValues: DN of | | | | the EESFunction MOI. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | registrationInfo | This refers to the | type: | | | registration | RregistrationInfo | | | information (e.g. | | | | registrationExpiry, | multiplicity: 1 | | | registrationID and | | | | secCredential) (see | isOrdered: N/A | | | clause see clause | | | | 8.4.3 and 8.4.4 in | isUnique: True | | | TS 23.558[2]). It | | | | is defined as a | defaultValue: None | | | datatype (see clause | | | | 6.3.14). | isNullable: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | registrationExpiry | This specifies the | type: DateTimeString | | | expiration time of | | | | the EAS and EES | multiplicity: 1 | | | Registration (see | | | | clause 8.4.3 and | isOrdered: N/A | | | 8.4.4 in TS | | | | 23.558[2]). | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | registrationID | This identifies | type: String | | | particular EAS and | | | | EES registration. | multiplicity: 1 | | | (see clause 8.4.3 | | | | and 8.4.4 in TS | isOrdered: N/A | | | 23.558[2]). | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | secCredential | This specifies the | type: String | | | security credentials | | | | of the EAS and EES | multiplicity: 1 | | | Registration (see | | | | clause 8.4.3 and | isOrdered: N/A | | | 8.4.4 in TS | | | | 23.558[2]). | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | edgeDataNetworkRef | This holds a list of | type: DN | | | DN of | | | | EdgeDataNetwork. | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | requir | It defines the | type: | | edEASservingLocation | location where the | ServingLocation | | | EAS service should | | | | be available (see | multiplicity: 1 | | | clause 7.3.3.6 in TS | | | | 23.558 [2]). | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | geographicalLocation | This refers to the | type: GeoLoc | | | Geographical Service | | | | Area, (see clause | multiplicity: 1 | | | 7.3.3.3 in TS 23.558 | | | | [2] that is | isOrdered: N/A | | | defined as a | | | | datatype (see clause | isUnique: True | | | 6.3.4). | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | latitude | This defines the | type: Float | | | single latitude | | | | coordinate. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | longitude | This defines the | type: Float | | | single longitude | | | | coordinate. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | civicLocation | This defines the | type: String | | | civic locations, | | | | such as: a | multiplicity: 1 | | | well-known | | | | buildings, parks, | isOrdered: N/A | | | arenas, civic | | | | addresses, or ZIP | isUnique: True | | | code etc (see clause | | | | 7.3.3.3 in TS 23.558 | defaultValue: None | | | [2]). | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | topologicalLocation | This refers to the | type: | | | Topological Service | To | | | Area, (see clause | pologicalServiceArea | | | 7.3.3.2 in TS 23.558 | | | | [2]) that is | multiplicity: 1 | | | defined as a | | | | datatype (see clause | isOrdered: N/A | | | 6.3.7). | | | | | isUnique: True | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | geo | This refers to the | type: | | graphicalCoordinates | Topological Service | Geo | | | Area, (see clause | graphicalCoordinates | | | 7.3.3.2 in TS 23.558 | | | | [2]) that is | multiplicity: 1 | | | defined as a | | | | datatype (see clause | isOrdered: N/A | | | 6.3.8). | | | | | isUnique: True | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | softwareImageInfo | This refers to the | type: | | | software image | SoftwareImageInfo | | | information (e.g. | | | | software image | multiplicity: 1 | | | location, minimum | | | | RAM, disk | isOrdered: N/A | | | requirements) (see | | | | clause 7.1.6.5 in | isUnique: True | | | ETSI NFV IFA-011 | | | | [7]). It is | defaultValue: None | | | defined as a | | | | datatype (see clause | isNullable: False | | | 6.3.9). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swImageRef | It indicates the | type: String | | | reference to the | | | | actual software | multiplicity: 1 | | | image that is | | | | represented by URL | isOrdered: N/A | | | (see clause 7.1.6.5 | | | | in ETSI NFV IFA-011 | isUnique: True | | | [7]). | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | minimumDisk | It indicates the | type: Integer | | | minimum disk size | | | | requirement for the | multiplicity: 1 | | | EAS software (see | | | | clause 7.1.6.5 in | isOrdered: N/A | | | ETSI NFV IFA-011 | | | | [7]). | isUnique: True | | | | | | | The unit is | defaultValue: None | | | Megabyte. | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | minimumRAM | It indicates the | type: Integer | | | minimum RAM size | | | | requirement for the | multiplicity: 1 | | | EAS software (see | | | | clause 7.1.6.5 in | isOrdered: N/A | | | ETSI NFV IFA-011 | | | | [7]). | isUnique: True | | | | | | | The unit is | defaultValue: None | | | Megabyte. | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | diskFormat | It indicates the | type: String | | | disk format | | | | requirement for the | multiplicity: 1 | | | EAS software (see | | | | clause 7.1.6.5 in | isOrdered: N/A | | | ETSI NFV IFA-011 | | | | [7]). | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | operatingSystem | It indicates the | type: String | | | operating system | | | | requirement for the | multiplicity: 1 | | | EAS software (see | | | | clause 7.1.6.5 in | isOrdered: N/A | | | ETSI NFV IFA-011 | | | | [7]). | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellIDList | It represents the | type: Integer | | | list of NR cells. | | | | | multiplicity: * | | | The cell ID, | | | | together with the | isOrdered: N/A | | | gNB Identifier | | | | (using gNBId of the | isUnique: Yes | | | parent | | | | GNBCUCPFunction or | defaultValue: None | | | GNBDUFunction or | | | | Ex | isNullable: True | | | ternalCUCPFunction), | | | | identifies a NR cell | | | | within a PLMN. This | | | | is the NR Cell | | | | Identity (NCI). See | | | | subclause 8.2 of TS | | | | 38.300 [13]. | | | | | | | | AllowedValues: Not | | | | applicable | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | trackingAreaIdList | It represents the | type: TAI | | | list of tracking | | | | areas within a PLMN. | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | servingPLMN | It specifies the | type: PLMNId | | | PLMN to be served. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isOrdered: F | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ecsAddress | One or more URLs | type: String | | | and/or IP | | | | Address(es) of | multiplicity: 1..* | | | ECS(s) (See TS | | | | 23.558 [2]). | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | providerIdentifier | The identifier of | type: string | | | the ECSP that | | | | provides the ECS | multiplicity: 1 | | | (See TS 23.558 | | | | [2]). | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eDNConnectionInfo | It defines the set | type: | | | of information | EDNConnectionInfo | | | needed to connect to | | | | an EDN. | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eDNServiceArea | This parameter | type: | | | defines the service | ServingLocation | | | location for the EDN | | | | (see clause 7.3.3.4 | multiplicity: 1 | | | in TS 23.558 [2]). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ednIdentifier | The identifier of | type: string | | | the edge data | | | | network (See TS | multiplicity: 1 | | | 23.558 [2]). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | affinityAntiAffinity | This parameter | type: | | | defines the affinity | AffinityAntiAffinity | | | and | | | | anti-requirements of | multiplicity: 1 | | | the EAS with other | | | | EAS on the same EDN. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | affinityEAS | This parameter | type: String | | | defines the EAS | | | | identifier with | multiplicity: | | | which the affinity | 1...* | | | is required. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | antiAffinityEAS | This parameter | type: String | | | defines the EAS | | | | identifier with | multiplicity: 1 | | | which the | | | | anti-affinity is | isOrdered: N/A | | | required. | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | serviceContinuity | This parameter | type: Boolean | | | defines if the | | | | service continuity | multiplicity: | | | is required by the | 1...* | | | EAS. If the value is | | | | TRUE, the EAS will | isOrdered: N/A | | | be deployed with an | | | | EES supporting | isUnique: True | | | service continuity. | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | virtualResource | This parameter | type: | | | defines the virtual | VirtualResource | | | resource | | | | requirements of an | multiplicity: 1 | | | EAS. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | virtualMemory | It indicates the | type: Integer | | | minimum virtual | | | | memory size | multiplicity: 1 | | | requirements for EAS | | | | in megabytes. (see | isOrdered: N/A | | | clause 7.1.9.3.2.2 | | | | in ETSI NFV IFA-011 | isUnique: True | | | [7]). | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | virtualDisk | It indicates the | type: Integer | | | minimum virtual disk | | | | storage requirement | multiplicity: 1 | | | for the EAS (see | | | | clause 7.1.9.4.3.2 | isOrdered: N/A | | | in ETSI NFV IFA-011 | | | | [7]). | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | virtualCPU | It indicates the | type: String | | | virtual CPU | | | | requirement for the | multiplicity: 1 | | | EAS (see clause | | | | 7.1.9.2.3.2 in ETSI | isOrdered: N/A | | | NFV IFA-011 [7]). | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **eESAddress** | One or more URLs | type: String | | | and/or IP | | | | Address(es) of | multiplicity: 1..* | | | EES(s) (See TS | | | | 23.558 [2]). | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eESIdentifier | It identifies the | type: String | | | EES, see 3GPP TS | | | | 23.558. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASFunctionRef | This is the DN of | type: DN | | | EASFunction. | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | allowedValues: DN of | | | | the EASFunction MOI. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | serv | This parameter | type: Boolen | | iceContinuitySupport | defines whether the | | | | EES supports service | multiplicity: 1 | | | continuity, see 3GPP | | | | TS 23.558 | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eESservingLocation | It defines the | type: | | | serving location for | ServingLocation | | | an EES. | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **eESAddress** | One or more URLs | type: String | | | and/or IP | | | | Address(es) of | multiplicity: 1..* | | | EES(s) (See TS | | | | 23.558 [2]). | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eESFunctionRef | This is the DN of | type: DN | | | EESFunction. | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | allowedValues: DN of | | | | the EESFunction MOI. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aCID | Identifies the AC(s) | type: String | | | that can be served | | | | by the EAS (See TS | multiplicity: 1...* | | | 23.558 [2]). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASProvider | The identifier of | type: String | | | the ASP that | | | | provides the EAS | multiplicity: 1 | | | (See TS 23.558 | | | | [2]). | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASdescription | Human-readable | type: String | | | description of the | | | | EAS (See TS 23.558 | multiplicity: 1 | | | [2]). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASSchedule | The availability | type: Duration | | | schedule of the EAS | | | | (e.g. time windows) | multiplicity: 1 | | | (See TS 23.558 | | | | [2]). | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | startTime | It defines the start | type: DateTime | | | time of the duration | | | | for which the EAS is | multiplicity: 1 | | | available. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | endTime | It defines the send | type: DateTime | | | time of the duration | | | | for which the EAS is | multiplicity: 1 | | | available. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASGeo | The geographical | type: GeoLoc | | graphicalServiceArea | service area that | | | | the EAS serves. ACs | multiplicity: 1..* | | | in UEs that are | | | | located outside that | isOrdered: N/A | | | area shall not be | | | | served (See TS | isUnique: True | | | 23.558 [2]). | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASTo | The EAS serves UEs | type: | | pologicalServiceArea | that are connected | To | | | to the Core Network | pologicalServiceArea | | | from one of the | | | | cells included in | multiplicity: 1..* | | | this service area. | | | | ACs in UEs that are | isOrdered: N/A | | | located outside this | | | | area shall not be | isUnique: True | | | served. (See TS | | | | 23.558 [2]). | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASSe | Level of service | type: StringENUM | | rvicePermissionLevel | permissions e.g. | | | | trial, gold-class | multiplicity: 1 | | | supported by the EAS | | | | (See TS 23.558 | isOrdered: N/A | | | [2]). | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | Allowed Values: | | | | TRIAL, SILVER, GOLD | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASFeature | Service features | type: StringENUM | | | e.g. single vs. | | | | multi-player gaming | multiplicity: 1 | | | service supported by | | | | the EAS (See TS | isOrdered: N/A | | | 23.558 [2]). | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | Allowed Value: | | | | SINGLE, MULTIPLE | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASServ | Indicates if the EAS | type: StringBoolean | | iceContinuitySupport | supports service | | | | continuity or not. | multiplicity: 1 | | | This IE also | | | | indicates which ACR | isOrdered: N/A | | | scenarios are | | | | supported by the EAS | isUnique: N/A | | | (See TS 23.558 | | | | [2]). | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | Default value: FALSE | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASDNAI | DNAI(s) associated | type: String | | | with the EAS. This | | | | IE is used as | multiplicity: 1 | | | Potential Locations | | | | of Applications. It | isOrdered: N/A | | | is a subset of the | | | | DNAI(s) associated | isUnique: N/A | | | with the EDN where | | | | the EAS resides. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASAvailab | The availability | type: Integer | | ilityReportingPeriod | reporting period | | | | (i.e. heartbeat | multiplicity: 1 | | | period) that | | | | indicates to the EES | isOrdered: N/A | | | how often it needs | | | | to check the EAS\'s | isUnique: N/A | | | availability after a | | | | successful | defaultValue: None | | | registration (See TS | | | | 23.558 [2]). | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eASStatus | The status of the | type: ENUM | | | EAS (e.g. enabled, | | | | disabled, etc.) (See | multiplicity: 1 | | | TS 23.558 [2]). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | Allowed values: | | | | ENABLED, DISABLED | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 7 Procedural Flows
## 7.1 Lifecycle management
### 7.1.1 Description
The clause contains procedures associated with lifecycle management.
### 7.1.2 EAS lifecycle management
#### 7.1.2.1 EAS deployment
Figure 7.1.2.1-1 depicts a procedure that describes how an ASP can consume
provisioning MnS to instantiate the EAS. It is assumed that both ASP and ECSP
consumers have subscribed to the producer of provisioning MnS to receive
notifications.
Figure 7.1.2.1-1: EAS deployment
1\. ASP consumes the provisioning MnS with _createMOI_ operation (see clause
11.1.1.1. in TS 28.532 [w]) for EASRequirements IOC to request ECSP
provisioning MnS producer to start the EAS VNF instantiation, where the
EASRequirements IOC contains the deployment requirements, including (but not
limited to) the following attributes:
\- the service areas (i.e., geographical, or topological) where the UEs can
access the edge computing service (see clause 7.3.3 in TS 28.558 [2]).
\- Software image information and virtual resource information (e.g. software
image location, minimum RAM, disk requirements) (see clause 7.1.6.5 and 7.1.9
in ETSI NFV IFA-011 [7]).
\- QoS requirements (e.g. bandwidth, end-to-end latency).
\- service continuity requirements (e.g. whether service continuity is
required).
\- Affinity/Anti-affinity: The affinity and ant-affinity requirements for the
EAS with other existing EAS on the target EDN.
2\. ECSP provisioning MnS producer sends a response to the ASP indicating that
the instantiation operation is in progress.
3\. ECSP provisioning MnS producer analyses the deployment requirements to
determine which EDN and how many EAS instance(s) should be instantiated to
satisfy the deployment requirements, and downloads the EAS VNF software image
from the software image location. The EDN can be selected either by
considering the individual requirement or by grouping the multiple
requirements as single selection criteria.
4\. ECSP provisioning MnS producer invokes the _InstantiateNsRequest_ or
UpdateNsRequest operation (see clause 7.3.3 and 7.3.5 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[6]) to request NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface to instantiate a NS instance
including the EAS VNF instance.
Editor\'s note: which entity is responsible for creating VNFD based on the
deployment requirement (e.g., softwareImageInfo and virtualResource) is FFS.
5\. NFVO sends **a** notification to ECSP provisioning MnS producer indicating
the result of instantiation procedure (see clause 7.3.3.4 and 7.3.5.4 of ETSI
GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]).
6\. If the VNF instantiation has been successful, ECSP provisioning MnS
producer creates the MOI for EASFunction IOC.
7\. If all VNF instance(s) have been successfully instantiated, then:
7.1. ECSP provisioning MnS producer creates the MOI for EASRequirements IOC.
7.2. ECSP provisioning MnS producer notifies ASP about the successful
instantiation of EAS with the creation of MOIs for the EASRequirement IOC and
EASFunction(s) IOC.
> Otherwise:
7.3 ECSP provisioning MnS producer notifies ASP about the un-successful
instantiation of the EAS.
#### 7.1.2.2 EAS termination
Figure 7.1.2.2-1 depicts a procedure that describes how an ASP can consume
provisioning MnS to terminate the EAS VNF. It is assumed that both ASP and
ECSP consumers have subscribed to the producer of provisioning MnS to receive
notifications.
Figure 7.1.2.2-1: EAS termination
1\. ASP consumes the provisioning MnS with _deleteMOI_ (see clause 11.1.1.4.
in TS 28.532 [5]) operation for EASFunction MOI to request ECSP provisioning
MnS producer to start the EAS VNF termination.
2\. ECSP provisioning MnS producer sends a response to the ASP indicating that
the termination operation is in progress.
3\. ECSP provisioning MnS producer invokes the _TerminateNsRequest_ or
UpdateNsRequest operation (see clauses 7.3.7 and 7.3.5 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[6]) to request NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface to terminate EAS VNF
instance.
4\. NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to ECSP provisioning
MnS producer indicating the result of termination procedure (see clause 7.3.12
of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]).
5\. If the VNF termination has been successful then:
> 5.1. ECSP provisioning MnS producer deletes the MOI for EASFunction IOC ,if
> all the related EASFunction MOIs have been deleted, the EASRequirement IOC
> shall also be deleted.
>
> 5.2. ECSP provisioning MnS producer notifies ASP about the successful
> termination of the EAS.
>
> Otherwise :
>
> 5.3. ECSP provisioning MnS producer notifies ASP about the un-successful
> termination of the EAS.
#### 7.1.2.3 EAS VNF modification
Figure 7.1.2.3 -1 depicts a procedure that describes how an ASP can consume
provisioning MnS to modify the EAS. It is assumed that both ASP and ECSP
consumers have subscribed to the producer of provisioning MnS to receive
notifications.
Figure 7.1.2.3-1: EAS modification procedure
1\. ASP consumes the provisioning MnS with modifyMOIAttributes operation (see
clause 11.1.1.3. in TS 28.532 [5]) for EASFunction MOI to request ECSP
management system provisioning MnS producer to modify the EAS VNF instance.
2\. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer sends a response to the
consumer indicating that the modification operation is in progress.
3\. If EAS instance to be modification contains virtualized part, checks
whether corresponding VNF instance needs to be modified to satisfy the
modification related requirements.
4\. If corresponding VNF instance needs to be modified, ECSP provisioning MnS
producer invokes theUpdateNsRequest operation (see clause 7.3.5 in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 013 [6]) to request NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface to modify the
virtualized resource of the EAS VNF instance.
5\. NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to ECSP provisioning
MnS producer indicating the result of modification procedure (see clause
7.3.12 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]).
6\. ECSP provisioning MnS producer modifies the MOI for EASFunction IOC.
7\. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer response the consumer
about the modification of the EAS.
#### 7.1.2.4 EAS VNF query
Figure 7.1.2.4-1 depicts a procedure that describes how an ASP can consume
provisioning MnS query the EAS. It is assumed that both ASP and ECSP consumers
have subscribed to the producer of provisioning MnS to receive notifications.
Figure 7.1.2.4-1: EAS query procedure
1\. ECSP provisioning MnS Producer receives a query request (this will use
getMOIAttributes operation defined in 3GPP TS 28.532[5]) with objectInstance
of the existing EASFunction MOI, scope, and list of attributes of EASFunction
IOC. The list of attributes identifies the attributes to be returned by this
operation.
2\. Based on the request, ECSP provisioning MnS producer queries the concrete
EASFunction MOI
3\. MnS Producer sends a response to the MnS consumer with objectClass,
objectInstance, status (e.g. succeed or failed), and list of [Attribute,
Value] related to EAS instance as defined in clause 6.4 (e.g. eASAddress).
#### 7.1.2.5 EAS instantiation triggered by measurement data
Figure 7.1.2.5-1 depicts a procedure to support the use case described in
clause 5.2.6 EAS discovery failure that utilized measurement data to trigger
EAS instantiation.
Figure 7.1.2.5-1: EAS instantiation triggered by measurement data
1\. The consumer utilizes the procedure described in clause 7.2.2 to request
MnF for performance assurance for EES to request MnF for performance assurance
for EES to collect EAS discovery failure measurements from the EES (see clause
5.15.1.3 in TS 28.552 [10], containing subcounters of UE location and EAS
type.
2\. The consumer determines whether an EAS VNF needs to be instantiated, based
on the information in the measurement data, including UE locations (i.e., cell
ID), EAS types, and the number of UEs in a cell.
3\. If a new EAS VNF should be instantiated, then
3.a The consumer utilizes the procedure described in clause 7.1.2.1 to
instantiate the new VNF instance.
4\. The consumer utilizes the procedure described in clause 7.4.2 to configure
the EAS with the information needed for EAS to register to EES.
5\. ECSP MnF of provisioning, acting as the consumer, utilizes the procedures
described in clause 7.4.3 and 7.4.4 to request PLMN MnF of provisioning,
acting as the producer, to connect the EAS to 5GC NFs.
### 7.1.3 ECS lifecycle management
#### 7.1.3.1 ECS deployment
Figure 7.1.3.1-1 shows that the PLMN operator or ECSP as the consumer requests
the ECS instantiation via the provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.1.3.1-1: ECS deployment procedure
1\. Provisioning MnS Producer receives a request (this will use createMOI
operation defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [5]) with ECS related requirements. The
following are the list of requirements, which can be provided with the request
as part of attributeListIn parameter of createMOI operation.
a. ecsAddress: the URLs and/or IP Address(es) of ECS.
b. providerIdentifier: Identifying the ECSP that provides the ECS.
2\. Provisioning MnS Producer returns a response indicating that the
instantiation operation is in progress.
3\. The NF instance creation procedure as described in clause 7.10 of [5] is
reused to instantiate the ECS VNF instance with the requirements captured in
the ECSFunction IOC.
4\. In case of ECS VNF instantiation failure, a Notification to indicate the
creation of ECSFunction instance has failed.
5\. In case of ECS VNF instantiation success, the producer creates the MOI
(Managed Object Instance) for ECSFunction IOC. The MOI shall contain
attributes as defined in ECSFunction IOC. The Provisioning MnS Producer sends
a Notification to indicate the ECSFunction instance has been created.
#### 7.1.3.2 ECS termination
Figure 7.1.3.2-1 shows that the PLMN operator or ECSP as the consumer requests
the ECS termination via the provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.1.3.2-1: ECS termination procedure
1\. PLMN operator or ECSP consumes the provisioning MnS with deleteMOI
operation (see clause 11.1.1.4. in TS 28.532 [5]) for ECSFunction MOI to
request ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer to terminate the ECS
VNF instance.
2\. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer sends a response to the
consumer indicating that the termination operation is in progress.
3\. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer invokes the
TerminateNsRequest or UpdateNsRequest operation (see clause 7.3.7 and 7.3.5 in
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]) to request NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface to
terminate ECS VNF instance.
4\. NFVO sends the NS Lifecycle Change notification to ECSP provisioning MnS
producer indicating the result of termination procedure (see clause 7.3.12 of
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]).
5\. If the VNF termination has been successful then:
5.1. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer deletes the MOI for
ECSFunction IOC.
5.2. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer notifies the consumer
about the successful termination of the ECS.
Otherwise :
5.3. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer notifies the consumer
about the un-successful termination of the ECS.
#### 7.1.3.3 ECS modification
Figure 7.1.3.3-1 shows that the PLMN operator or ECSP as the consumer requests
the ECS modification via the provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.1.3.3-1: ECS modification procedure
1\. PLMN operator or ECSP consumes the provisioning MnS with
modifyMOIAttributes operation (see clause 11.1.1.3. in TS 28.532 [5]) for
ECSFunction MOI to request ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer to
modify the ECS VNF instance.
2\. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer sends a response to the
consumer indicating that the modification operation is in progress.
3\. If ECS instance to be modification contains virtualized part, checks
whether corresponding VNF instance needs to be modified to satisfy the
modification related requirements.
4\. If corresponding VNF instance needs to be modified, ECSP management system
provisioning MnS producer invokes the updateNsRequest operation (see clause
7.3.5 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]) to request NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface
to modify the virtualized resource of ECS VNF instance.
5\. NFVO sends the NS Lifecycle Change notification to ECSP provisioning MnS
producer indicating the result of modification procedure (see clause 7.3.12 of
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]).
6\. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer modifies the MOI for
ECSFunction IOC.
7\. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer response to consumer
about the modification of the ECS instance.
#### 7.1.3.4 ECS query
Figure 7.1.3.4-1 shows that the PLMN operator or ECSP as the consumer requests
the ECS query via the provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.1.3.4-1: ECS query procedure
1\. ECSP provisioning MnS Producer receives a query request (this will use
getMOIAttributes operation defined in 3GPP TS 28.532[5]) with objectInstance
of the existing ECSFunction MOI, scope, and list of attributes of ECSFunction
IOC. The list of attributes identifies the attributes to be returned by this
operation.
2\. Based on the request, ECSP provisioning MnS producer queries the concrete
ECSFunction MOI
3\. MnS Producer sends a response to the MnS consumer with objectClass,
objectInstance, status (e.g. succeed or failed), and list of [Attribute,
Value] related to ECS instance which is defined in clause 6.4(e.g.
providerIdentifier).
### 7.1.4 EES lifecycle management
#### 7.1.4.1 EES deployment
Figure 7.1.4.1-1 shows that the PLMN operator or ECSP as the consumer requests
the EES instantiation via the provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.1.4.1-1: EES deployment procedure
1\. Provisioning MnS Producer receives a request (this will use createMOI
operation defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [5]) with EES related requirements. The
following are the list of requirements, which can be provided with the request
as part of attributeListIn parameter of createMOI operation.
a. EDN identifier: Identifying the EDN to contain the EES in.
b. EAS identifier: Identifying the list of EAS registered with the EES. This
is optional depending on the availability of the EAS.
2\. Provisioning MnS Producer returns a response indicating that the
instantiation operation is in progress
3\. The NF instance creation procedure as described in clause 7.10 of [5] is
reused to instantiate the EES VNF instance with the requirements provided in
the instantiation request.
4\. In case of EES VNF instantiation failure, a Notification to indicate the
creation of EESFunction instance has failed.
5\. In case of EES VNF instantiation success, the producer creates the MOI
(Managed Object Instance) for EESFunction IOC. The MOI shall contain
attributes as defined in EESFunction IOC. The Provisioning MnS Producer sends
a Notification to indicate the EESFunction instance has been created.
#### 7.1.4.2 EES termination
Figure 7.1.4.2-1 shows that the PLMN operator or ECSP as the consumer requests
the EES termination via the provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.1.4.2-1: EES termination procedure
1\. PLMN operator or ECSP consumes the provisioning MnS with deleteMOI
operation (see clause 11.1.1.4. in TS 28.532 [5]) for EESFunction MOI to
request ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer to terminate the EES
VNF instance.
2\. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer sends a response to the
consumer indicating that the termination operation is in progress.
3\. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer invokes the
TerminateNsRequest or UpdateNsRequest operation (see clauses 7.3.7 and 7.3.5
in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]) to request NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface to
terminate EES VNF instance.
4\. NFVO sends the NS Lifecycle Change notification to ECSP provisioning MnS
producer indicating the result of termination procedure (see clause 7.3.12 of
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]).
5\. If the VNF termination has been successful then:
5.1. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer deletes the MOI for
EESFunction IOC.
5.2. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer notifies the consumer
about the successful termination of the EES.
Otherwise :
5.3. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer notifies the consumer
about the un-successful termination of the EES.
#### 7.1.4.3 EES modification
Figure 7.1.4.3-1 shows that the PLMN operator or ECSP as the consumer requests
the EES modification via the provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.1.4.3-1: EES modification procedure
1\. PLMN operator or ECSP consumes the provisioning MnS with
modifyMOIAttributes operation (see clause 11.1.1.3. in TS 28.532 [5]) for
EESFunction MOI to request ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer to
modify the EES VNF instance.
2\. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer sends a response to the
consumer indicating that the modification operation is in progress.
3\. If EES instance to be modification contains virtualized part, checks
whether corresponding VNF instance needs to be modified to satisfy the
modification related requirements.
4\. If corresponding VNF instance needs to be modified, ECSP management system
provisioning MnS producer invokes the updateNsRequest operation (see clause
7.3.5 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]) to request NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface
to modify the virtualized resource of EES VNF instance.
5\. NFVO sends the NS Lifecycle Change notification to ECSP provisioning MnS
producer indicating the result of modification procedure (see clause 7.3.12 of
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]).
6\. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer modifies the MOI for
EESFunction IOC.
7\. ECSP management system provisioning MnS producer response to consumer
about the modification of the EES instance.
#### 7.1.4.4 EES query
Figure 7.1.4.4-1 shows that the PLMN operator or ECSP as the consumer requests
the EES query via the provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.1.4.4-1: EES query procedure
1\. ECSP provisioning MnS Producer receives a query request (this will use
getMOIAttributes operation defined in 3GPP TS 28.532[5]) with objectInstance
of the existing EESFunction MOI, scope, and list of attributes of EESFunction
IOC. The list of attributes identifies the attributes to be returned by this
operation.
2\. Based on the request, ECSP provisioning MnS producer queries the concrete
EESFunction MOI
3\. MnS Producer sends a response to the MnS consumer with objectClass,
objectInstance, status (e.g. succeed or failed), and list of [Attribute,
Value] related to EES instance which is defined in clause 6.4(e.g.
eESservingLocation).
## 7.2 Performance assurance
### 7.2.1 Description
The clause contains procedures associated with performance assurance.
### 7.2.2 EAS performance assurance
#### 7.2.2.1 Measurement collection via performance job control
Figure 7.2.2.1-1 depicts a procedure that describes how an ASP can consume
performance assurance MnS to collect the EAS measurements via performance job
control.
Figure 7.2.2.1-1: Measurement collection via performance job control
1\. ASP, as the consumer of performance assurance MnS, consumes the
measurement job control MnS with createMeasurementJob operation (see TS 28.550
[8]) to request ECSP management system, as the producer of performance
assurance MnS, to collect EAS measurements. The createMeasurementJob operation
also includes a reportingMethod attribute to indicating the report method
(i.e., performance data file or by performance data streaming).
2\. ECSP management system returns the output parameter with jobId to indicate
the PM job been created.
3\. If this PM job is based on performance file reporting service, then
3.1. ASP invokes the subscribe operation (see clause 12.6.1.1.1 in TS 28.532
[5]) to subscribe to receive notifications from the ECSP management system.
3.2. ECSP management system sends a notifyFileReady notification (see clause
11.6.1.1 in TS 28.532 [5]) to ASP to indicate the performance data file is
ready.
3.3. ASP fetches the EAS measurement data from the MnS producer.
Otherwise (performance data streaming service)
3.4. ECSP management system invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation
(see clause 11.5.1.1 in TS 28.532 [5]) to establish a streaming connection
with ASP for sending the streaming data.
3.5 ECSP management system collects the EAS measurement data and invokes the
reportStreamData operation (see clause 11.5.1.3 in TS 28.532 [5]) to send the
streaming data to ASP.
#### 7.2.2.2 Measurement collection via configurable measurement control
Figure 7.2.2.2-1 depicts a procedure that describes how an ASP can consume
performance assurance MnS to collect the EAS measurements via configurable
measurement control.
Figure 7.2.2.2-1: Measurements collection via configurable measurement control
1\. ASP, as the consumer of provisioning MnS, consumes the provisioning MnS
with createMOI operation for PerfMetricJob IOC to request ECSP management
system, as the producer of provisioning MnS, to collect EAS measurements. The
PerfMetricJob MOI includes a ReportingCtrl attribute (See clause 4.3.33 in TS
28.622 [4]) to indicating the report method (i.e., performance data file or by
performance data streaming).
2\. ECSP management system returns the output parameter with jobId to indicate
the PM job been created.
3\. If this PM job is based on performance file reporting service, then:
3.1. ASP invokes the subscribe operation (see clause 12.6.1.1.1 in TS 28.532
[5]) to subscribe to receive notifications from the ECSP management system.
3.2. ECSP management system sends a notifyFileReady notification to ASP to
indicate the performance data file is ready.
3.3. ASP fetches the EAS measurement data from the MnS producer.
Otherwise (performance data streaming service)
3.4. ECSP management system invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation
to establish a streaming connection with ASP for sending the streaming data.
3.5. ECSP management system collects the EAS measurement data and invokes the
reportStreamData operation to send the streaming data to ASP.
### 7.2.3 5GC NF measurements to evaluate EAS performance
#### 7.2.3.1 Measurement collection via performance job control
Figure 7.2.3.1-1 depicts a procedure that describes how an ECSP management
system can consume performance assurance MnS to collect the 5GC NF
measurements from PLMN management system via performance job control.
Figure 7.2.3.1-1: Measurements collection via performance job control
1\. ECSP management system, as the consumer of performance assurance MnS,
consumes the measurement job control MnS with createMeasurementJob operation
(see TS 28.550 [8]) to request ECSP management system, as the producer of
performance assurance MnS, to collect 5GC NF measurements that may impact EAS
performance. The createMeasurementJob operation also includes a
reportingMethod attribute to indicating the report method (i.e., performance
data file or by performance data streaming).
2\. PLMN management system returns the output parameter with jobId to indicate
the PM job been created.
3\. If this PM job is based on performance file reporting service, then
3.1. ECSP management system invokes the subscribe operation (see clause
12.6.1.1.1 in TS 28.532 [5]) to subscribe to receive notifications from the
PLMN management system.
3.2. PLMN management system sends a notifyFileReady notification to ECSP
management system to indicate the performance data file is ready.
3.3. ECSP management system fetches the 5GC NF measurement data from the MnS
producer.
> Otherwise (performance data streaming service)
3.4. PLMN management system invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation
to establish a streaming connection with ECSP management system for sending
the streaming data.
3.5 PLMN management system collects the measurement data and invokes the
reportStreamData operation to send the 5GC NF streaming data to ECSP
management system.
#### 7.2.3.2 Measurement collection via configurable measurement control
Figure 7.2.3.2-1 depicts a procedure that describes how an ECSP management
system can consume performance assurance MnS to collect the 5GC NF
measurements from PLMN management system via configurable measurement control.
Figure 7.2.3.2-1: Measurement collection via configurable measurement control
1\. ECSP management system, as the consumer of provisioning MnS, consumes the
provisioning MnS with createMOI operation for PerfMetricJob IOC to request
ECSP management system, as the producer of provisioning MnS, to collect 5GC NF
measurements that may impact EAS performance. The PerfMetricJob MOI includes a
ReportingCtrl attribute (See clause 4.3.33 in TS 28.622 [4]) to indicating the
report method (i.e., performance data file or by performance data streaming).
2\. PLMN management system returns the output parameter with jobId to indicate
the PM job been created.
3\. If this PM job is based on performance file reporting service, then
3.1. ECSP management system invokes the subscribe operation (see clause
12.6.1.1.1 in TS 28.532 [5]) to subscribe to receive notifications from the
PLMN management system.
3.2. PLMN management system sends a notifyFileReady notification to ECSP
management system to indicate the performance data file is ready.
3.3. ECSP management system fetches the 5GC NF measurement data from the MnS
producer.
Otherwise (performance data streaming service)
3.4. PLMN management system invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation
to establish a streaming connection with ECSP management system for sending
the streaming data.
3.5. PLMN management system collects the measurement data and invokes the
reportStreamData operation to send the 5GC NF streaming data to ECSP
management system.
### 7.2.4 ECS performance assurance
#### 7.2.4.1 Measurement collection via performance job control
The mechanism used for collecting EAS measurements, as defined in clause
7.2.2.1, via performance job control are used for collecting ECS measurements
too. ECSP consumer can request ECSP management system for collecting ECS
measurements using measurement job control MnS with createMeasurementJob
operation (see TS 28.550 [8]). The measurements are delivered to the consumer
either using File data reporting service or Streaming data reporting service
as defined in [5].
#### 7.2.4.2 Measurement collection via configurable measurement control
The mechanism used for collecting EAS measurements, as defined in clause
7.2.2.2, via configurable measurement control are used for collecting ECS
measurements too. ECSP consumer can request ECSP management system for
collecting ECS measurements using createMOI operation for PerfMetricJob IOC
[4]. The measurements are delivered to the consumer either using File data
reporting service or Streaming data reporting service as defined in [5].
### 7.2.5 EES performance assurance
#### 7.2.5.1 Measurement collection via performance job control
The mechanism used for collecting EAS measurements, as defined in clause
7.2.2.1, via performance job control are used for collecting EES measurements
too. Any management consumer can request for collecting EES measurements using
measurement job control MnS with createMeasurementJob operation (see TS 28.550
[8]). The measurements are delivered to the consumer either using File data
reporting service or Streaming data reporting service as defined in [5].
#### 7.2.5.2 Measurement collection via configurable measurement control
The mechanism used for collecting EAS measurements, as defined in clause
7.2.2.2, via configurable measurement control are used for collecting EES
measurements too. Any management consumer can request for collecting EES
measurements using createMOI operation for PerfMetricJob IOC [4]. The
measurements are delivered to the consumer either using File data reporting
service or Streaming data reporting service as defined in [5].
## 7.3 Fault supervision
### 7.3.1 Description
The clause contains procedures associated with Fault supervision.
### 7.3.2 EDN NF performance impacted by 5GC NF alarm
Figure 7.3.2-1 depicts a procedure to describe how an ECSP management system
can consume fault supervision MnS to receive 5GC NF alarms.
Figure 7.3.2-1: EDN NF performance impacted by 5GC NF alarm
1\. ECSP, as the consumer of fault supervision MnS, consumes the generic fault
supervision MnS with subscribe operation (see TS 28.532 [5]) to subscribe to
receive 5GC NFs (i.e., UPF, PCF, NEF, SCEF) alarms.
2\. PLMN management system detects the 5GC NF alarms.
3\. PLMN management system detects sends notifyNewAlarm notification to
indicate the 5GC NF alarms being detected.
### 7.3.3 5GC NF issues resulted from EDN NF alarms
Figure 7.3.3-1 depicts a procedure to describe how a PLMN management system
can consume fault supervision MnS to receive EDN NF alarms.
Figure 7.3.3-1: 5GC NF issues resulted from EDN NF alarms
1\. ECSP, as the consumer of fault supervision MnS, consumes the generic fault
supervision MnS with subscribe operation (see TS 28.532 [5]) to subscribe to
receive EDN NFs (i.e., EAS, EES, ECS) alarms.
2\. PLMN management system detects the EDN NF alarms.
3\. PLMN management system detects sends notifyNewAlarm notification to
indicate the EDN NF alarms being detected.
## 7.4 Provisioning
### 7.4.1 Description
The clause contains procedures associated with provisioning.
### 7.4.2 Configuration needed for EAS registration
Figure 7.4.2-1 depicts a procedure to describe how a consumer can consume
provisioning MnS to request ECSP management system to configure the EASID and
EES address that are required for EAS registration procedure (see clause
8.4.3.2.1 in TS 23.558 [2]). It is assumed that the EASFunction MOI has been
created.
Figure 7.4.2-1: Configuration needed for EAS registration
1\. A consumer (i.e., ASP or ECSP) consumes the provisioning MnS with
modifyMOIAttributes operation (see TS 28.532 [5]) to configure the EASID
(clause 7.2.4 in TS 23.558 [2]) and EES address (e.g. URI).
2\. ECSP management system returns notifyMOIAttributes to notify the consumer
that attributes have been changed.
### 7.4.3 EDN NF 5GC connection provisioning
Figure 7.4.3-1 depicts a procedure to describe how ECSP management system can
consume provisioning MnS to request PLMN management system to query the
connection information of EDN NFs (i.e., EAS, EES, ECS) to 5GC NFs, as
specified in c _lauses 6.3.2, 6.3.4, 6.4.6 in TS 23.558 [2]. To support the
connection of EDN NFs to 5GC NFs,_ EcmConnectionInfo IOC should contain the
following attributes:
\- EDN identifier: used to determine whether the EDN is trusted by PLMN
operators.
\- EAS, EES, and ECS IP address: indicate the EAS, EES, and ECS IP address.
\- Service area requirements: including EDN service area, EES service area,
and EAS service area (see clause 7.3.3 in TS 23.558 [2]) representing the
service areas for ECS, EES, and EAS, respectively.
\- ECM connection type: indicate the control plane connection.
\- 5GC NF Connection information list: each entry in the list should contain
the following attributes:
\- Accessing NF type: the NF (i.e., PCF, NEF, or SCEF) where the EDN NFs
should interface to access the 5GC NFs.
\- IP address: the IP address of the accessing NF.
\- 5GC NF DN: the DN of the accessing NF that needs to be configured in
EASFunction IOC, EESFunction IOC, and ECSFunction IOC to indicate where the
EDN NFs are connected.
Figure 7.4.3-1: EDN NF to access 5GC NF
1\. ECSP management system consumes the provisioning MnS with _createMOI_
operation (see clause 11.1.1.1. in TS 28.532 [5]) for EcmConnectionInfo IOC to
request PLMN management system to provide the connection information.
EcmConnectionInfo IOC includes EDN identifier, and service area requirements
(i.e., EDN service area, EES service area, and EAS service area).
2\. PLMN management system determines whether the EAS and EES are trusted by
PLMN operators, based on the EDN identifier ednIdentifier.
> If the EDN NFs are trusted by PLMN operators, then performs the following
> steps.
3\. PLMN management system found the PCF(s) based on EES service area
eESServiceArea, and EAS service area requiredEASservingLocation, and NEF(s)
based on EDN service area eDNServiceArea, and then creates the
EcmConnectionInfo MOI with connection information for PCF and NEF, including
the IP address and DN.
4\. PLMN management system returns the connection information in the
attributeListOut of the output parameter in _createMOI_ operation to ECSP
management system.
5\. Connects EDN NFs to 5GC NFs via PCF and NEF.
5.1 ECSP management system executes the following actions to connect EAS / EES
to PCF and ECS to NEF:
\- create EP_N5 MOI with EAS IP address in localAddress, and PCF IP address in
remoteAddress to connect EAS to PCF.
\- create EP_N5 MOI with EES IP address in localAddress, and PCF IP address in
remoteAddress to connect EES to PCF.
\- create EP_N33 MOI with ECS IP address in localAddress, and NEF IP address
in remoteAddress to connect ECS to NEF.
5.2 PLMN management system executes the following actions to add the EAS and
EES connections to PCF and the ECS connection to NEF:
\- create EP_N5 MOI with PCF IP address in localAddress, and EAS IP address
easAddress in remoteAddress.
\- create EP_N5 MOI with PCF IP address in localAddress, and EES IP address
eecsAddress in remoteAddress.
\- create EP_N33 MOI with NEF IP address in localAddress, and ECS IP address
ecsAddress in remoteAddress.
Note: There is no sequence dependency between steps 5.1 and 5.2.
5.3 ECSP management system performs the following configuration operations:
\- configure the farEndEntity in EP_N5 MOI with the PCF DN.
\- configure the farEndEntity in EP_N5 MOI with the PCF DN.
\- configure the farEndEntity in EP_N33 MOI with the NEF DN.
> If the EDN NFs are untrusted by PLMN operators, then performs the following
> steps:
6\. PLMN management system found the NEF(s) based on EES service area, EAS
service area, EDN service area, and then creates the EcmConnectionInfo MOI
with connection information for NEF, including the IP address and DN.
7\. PLMN management system returns the connection information in the
attributeListOut of the output parameter in _createMOI_ operation to ECSP
management system.
8\. Connects EDN NFs to 5GC NFs via NEF.
8.1 ECSP management system executes the following actions to connect EAS, EES,
and ECS to NEF:
\- create EP_N33 MOI with EAS IP address in localAddress, and NEF IP address
in remoteAddress to connect EAS to PCF.
\- create EP_N33 MOI with EES IP address in localAddress, and NEF IP address
in remoteAddress to connect EES to PCF.
\- create EP_N33 MOI with ECS IP address in localAddress, and NEF IP address
in remoteAddress to connect ECS to NEF.
8.2 PLMN management system executes the following actions to add the EAS, EES,
and ECS connections to NEF:
\- create EP_N33 MOI with NEF IP address in localAddress, and EAS IP address
easAddress in remoteAddress.
\- create EP_N33 MOI with NEF IP address in localAddress, and EES IP address
eesAddress in remoteAddress.
\- create EP_N33 MOI with NEF IP address in localAddress, and ECS IP address
ecsAddress in remoteAddress.
8.3 ECSP management system performs the following configuration operations:
\- configure the farEndEntity in EP_N33 MOI with the NEF DN.
\- configure the farEndEntity in EP_N33 MOI with the NEF DN.
\- configure the farEndEntity in EP_N33 with the NEF DN.
### 7.4.4 EAS to connect to UPF
Figure 7.4.4-1 depicts a procedure to describe how ECSP management system can
consume provisioning MnS to request PLMN management system to connect EAS to
UPF for transporting the user traffic via the N6 interface (see clause (see c
_lause 4.2.3 in TS 23.501 [11]). To support the connection of EAS NF to UPF
NF,_ EcmConnectionInfo IOC should include the following attributes:
\- EAS IP address: indicate the UPF IP address.
\- EAS and EDN service area requirements: EAS service area (see clause 7.3.3
in TS 23.558 [2]).
\- ECM connection type: indicate the user plane connection
\- N6 traffic routing list: each entry in the list should contain the
following attributes (see clause 8.2.4 in TS 23.558 [2]):
\- DNAI: DNAI(s) associated with the EAS.
\- N6 traffic routing requirements: N6 traffic routing information
corresponding to each EAS DNAI.
\- UPF Connection information: contains the following attributes:
\- UPF IP address: the IP address of the accessing NF.
\- UPF DN: the UPF DN to be configured in EASFunction IOC to indicate where
the UPF is connected.
Figure 7.4.4-1: EAS to connect to UPF
1\. ECSP management system consumes the provisioning MnS with _createMOI_
operation (see clause 11.1.1.1. in TS 28.532 [5]) for EcmConnectionInfo IOC to
request PLMN management system to connect the EAS to an UPF. EcmConnectionInfo
includes EAS IP address, EAS service area , EDN service area, N6 traffic
routing requiremments and ecmConnectionType with value USERPLANE.
2\. PLMN management system finds a UPF based on the EAS and EDN service
areas.and N6 traffic routing requirements.
> If an UPF can be found, then performs the following steps:
3\. PLMN management system creates the EcmConnectionInfo MOI with
uPFConnectionInfo, including UPF IP address and UPF DN.
4\. PLMN management system create EP_N6 MOI with UPF IP address in
localAddress, and EAS IP address in remoteAddress to connect UPF to EAS.
5\. PLMN management system returns the UPF connection information in the
attributeListOut of the output parameter in _createMOI_ operation to ECSP
management system.
6\. ECSP management system create EP_N6 MOI with EAS IP address in
localAddress, and UPF IP address in remoteAddress.
> If an UPF cannot be found, then performs the following steps:
7\. PLMN management system returns the output parameters for _createMOI_
operation to indicate the UPF instantiation is in progress.
8\. PLMN management system invokes the _InstantiateNsRequest_ operation (see
clause 7.3.3 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]) to request NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo
interface to instantiate a NS instance including the UPF VNF instance.
9\. NFVO sends **a** notification to PLMN management system indicating the
result of instantiation procedure (see clause 7.3.3.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[6]).
10\. If the UPF has been instantiated, then performs the following steps:
10.1. PLMN management system creates the EcmConnectionInfo MOI with UPF
connection information, including UPF IP address and UPF DN.
10.2. PLMN management system create EP_N6 MOI with UPF IP address in
localAddress, and EAS IP address in remoteAddress to connect UPF to EAS.
10.3 PLMN management system sends _notifyMOICreation_ with UPF connection
information in attributeList.
10.4. ECSP management system create EP_N6 MOI with EAS IP address in
localAddress, and UPF IP address in remoteAddress.
11\. If the UPF has not been instantiated, then performs the following step:
11.1 PLMN management system sends _notifyMOICreation_ to ECSP management
system to indicate no UPF can be found.
# 8 Management Service for Edge Computing
## 8.1 Provisioning
### 8.1.1 Lifecycle management
The management services for Edge Computing lifecycle management are listed in
table 8.1.1-1.
Table 8.1.1-1: Management services for Edge Computing lifecycle management
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MnS Component Type | MnS Component Type | Note | | A\ | B\ | | | (operations and | (information model) | | | notifications) | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | Operations and | Edge Computing | This management | | Notifications | information model | service enables its | | defined in clause | defined in clause | consumer to request | | 11.1.1 of TS 28.532 | 6.3. | lifecycle management | | [5]: | | of EAS, EES and ECS. | | | | | | - createMOI | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - deleteMOI | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - | | | | modifyMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | Notification | | | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | Notification | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 8.2 Performance assurance
### 8.2.1 EAS performance assurance
#### 8.2.1.1 MnS component type A
Table 8.2.1.1-1: EAS performance assurance type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 11.1.1.1 of TS | MnSto create PerfMetricJob IOC, | | 28.532 [5]: | as defined in TS 28.531 [9]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | It is supported by Performance | | 11.5 and 11.6 in TS 28.532 [3] | Assurance MnS for EAS, as | | and clause 6.1 of TS 28.550 | defined in TS 28.550 [8]. | | [8]: | | | | | | - createMeasurementJob | | | | | | - stopMeasurementJob | | | | | | - listMeasurementJobs | | | | | | - establishStreamingConnection | | | | | | - notifyFileReady notification | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 8.2.1.2 MnS Component Type C definition
Performance measurements related EAS are captured in Table 8.2.1.2.-1:
Table 8.2.1.2-1. EAS related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Related targets
* * *
Mean virtual CPU usage Includes the mean usage of the underlying virtualized
CPUs for a virtualized 3GPP NF (see clause 5.7.1.1.1 in TS 28.552 [10]).  
Mean virtual memory usage Includes the mean usage of the underlying
virtualized memories for a virtualized 3GPP NF (see clause 5.7.1.2.1 in TS
28.552 [10]).  
Mean virtual disk usage Includes the mean usage of the underlying virtualized
disks for a virtualized 3GPP NF (see clause 5.7.1.3.1 in TS 28.552 [10]).  
Data volume of incoming bytes to EAS Includes the number of incoming bytes
received by the EAS (see clause 5.7.2.1 in TS 28.552 [10]).  
Data volume of outgoing bytes to EAS Includes the number of outgoing bytes
received by the EAS (see clause 5.7.2.2 in TS 28.552 [10]).  
Data volume of incoming packets to EAS Includes the number of incoming packets
received by the EAS (see clause 5.7.2.3 in TS 28.552 [10]).  
Data volume of outgoing packets to EAS Includes the number of outgoing packets
received by the EAS (see clause 5.7.2.4 in TS 28.552 [10]).
### 8.2.2 ECS performance assurance
#### 8.2.2.1 MnS component type A
Table 8.2.2.1-1: ECS performance assurance type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 11.1.1.1 of TS | MnS to create PerfMetricJob IOC, | | 28.532 [5]: | as defined in TS 28.531 [9]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | It is supported by Performance | | 11.5 and 11.6 in TS 28.532 [3] | Assurance MnS for ECS, as | | and clause 6.1 of TS 28.550 | defined in TS 28.550 [8]. | | [8]: | | | | | | - createMeasurementJob | | | | | | - stopMeasurementJob | | | | | | - listMeasurementJobs | | | | | | - establishStreamingConnection | | | | | | - notifyFileReady notification | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 8.2.2.2 MnS Component Type C definition
Performance measurements related ECS are captured in Table 8.2.1.2.-1:
Table 8.2.2.2-1. ECS related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Related targets
* * *
Mean virtual CPU usage Includes the mean usage of the underlying virtualized
CPUs for a virtualized 3GPP NF (see clause 5.7.1.1.1 in TS 28.552 [10]).  
Mean virtual memory usage Includes the mean usage of the underlying
virtualized memories for a virtualized 3GPP NF (see clause 5.7.1.2.1 in TS
28.552 [10]).  
Mean virtual disk usage Includes the mean usage of the underlying virtualized
disks for a virtualized 3GPP NF (see clause 5.7.1.3.1 in TS 28.552 [10]).  
EES Registration Includes the total, mean and successful number of EES
Registration request processed by ECS (see clause 5.14.1 in TS 28.552 [10]).  
Service Provisioning Includes the total, mean and successful number of service
provisioning request processed by ECS (see clause 5.17.1 in TS 28.552 [10]).
### 8.2.3 EES performance assurance
#### 8.2.3.1 MnS component type A
Table 8.2.3.1-1: EES performance assurance type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 11.1.1.1 of TS | MnS to create PerfMetricJob IOC, | | 28.532 [5]: | as defined in TS 28.531 [9]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | It is supported by Performance | | 11.5 and 11.6 in TS 28.532 [3] | Assurance MnS for EES, as | | and clause 6.1 of TS 28.550 | defined in TS 28.550 [8]. | | [8]: | | | | | | - createMeasurementJob | | | | | | - stopMeasurementJob | | | | | | - listMeasurementJobs | | | | | | - establishStreamingConnection | | | | | | - notifyFileReady notification | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 8.2.3.2 MnS Component Type C definition
Performance measurements related EES are captured in Table 8.2.3.2.-1:
Table 8.2.3.2-1. EES related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Related targets
* * *
Mean virtual CPU usage Includes the mean usage of the underlying virtualized
CPUs for a virtualized 3GPP NF (see clause 5.7.1.1.1 in TS 28.552 [10]).  
Mean virtual memory usage Includes the mean usage of the underlying
virtualized memories for a virtualized 3GPP NF (see clause 5.7.1.2.1 in TS
28.552 [10]).  
Mean virtual disk usage Includes the mean usage of the underlying virtualized
disks for a virtualized 3GPP NF (see clause 5.7.1.3.1 in TS 28.552 [10]).  
EAS Registration Includes the total, mean and successful number of EAS
Registration request processed by ECS (see clause 5.15.3 in TS 28.552 [10]).  
EAS Discovery Includes the total, mean and successful number of EAS discovery
request processed by ECS (see clause 5.15.1 in TS 28.552 [10]).  
EEC Registration Includes the total, mean and successful number of EEC
Registration request processed by ECS (see clause 5.15.2 in TS 28.552 [10]).
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI definition of edge NRM
## A.1 General
This annex contains the OpenAPI definition of the Edge NRM in YAML format.
The Information Service (IS) of the Edge NRM is defined in clause 6.
Mapping rules to produce the OpenAPI definition based on the IS are defined in
TS 32.160 [10].
## A.2 Solution Set (SS) definitions
### A.2.1 OpenAPI document \"TS28538_EdgeNrm.yaml\"
openapi: 3.0.1
info:
title: 3GPP Edge NRM
version: 18.3.0
description: >-
OAS 3.0.1 specification of the Edge NRM
© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 28.538; Edge NRM
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/28_series/28.538/
paths: {}
components:
schemas:
#-------- Definition of
types-----------------------------------------------------
ServingLocation:
type: object
properties:
geographicalLocation:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GeoLoc\'
topologicalLocation:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/TopologicalServiceArea\'
TopologicalServiceArea:
type: object
properties:
cellIdList:
type: array
items:
type: integer
trackingAreaIdList:
\$ref: \'TS28541_NrNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/TaiList\'
servingPLMN:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
GeoLoc:
type: object
properties:
geographicalCoordinates:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GeographicalCoordinates\'
civicLocation:
type: string
GeographicalCoordinates:
type: object
properties:
lattitude:
type: integer
longitude:
type: integer
EDNConnectionInfo:
type: object
properties:
dNN:
type: string
eDNServiceArea:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ServingLocation\'
AffinityAntiAffinity:
type: object
properties:
affinityEAS:
type: array
items:
type: string
antiAffinityEAS:
type: array
items:
type: string
VirtualResource:
type: object
properties:
virtualMemory:
type: integer
virtualDisk:
type: integer
virutalCPU:
type: string
SoftwareImageInfo:
type: object
properties:
minimumDisk:
type: integer
minimumRAM:
type: integer
discFormat:
type: string
operatingSystem:
type: string
swImageRef:
type: string
Duration:
type: object
properties:
startTime:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
endTime:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
EASServicePermission:
type: string
description: any of enumrated value
enum:
\- TRIAL
\- SILVER
\- GOLD
EASFeature:
type: string
description: any of enumrated value
enum:
\- SINGLE
\- MULTIPLE
EASStatus:
type: string
description: any of enumrated value
enum:
\- ENABLED
\- DISABLED
#-------- Definition of concrete IOCs
\--------------------------------------------
MnS:
oneOf:
\- type: object
properties:
SubNetwork:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Multiple\'
SubNetwork-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Attr\'
\- type: object
properties:
Subnetwork:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Multiple\'
ECSFunction:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ECSFunction-Multiple\'
EdgeDataNetwork:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EdgeDataNetwork-Multiple\'
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-ncO\'
EdgeDataNetwork-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
ednIdentifier:
type: string
eDNConnectionInfo:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EDNConnectionInfo\'
\- type: object
properties:
EASFunction:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EASFunction-Multiple\'
EESFunction:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EESFunction-Multiple\'
EASFunction-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedFunction-Attr\'
\- type: object
properties:
eASIdentifier:
type: string
eESAddress:
type: array
items:
type: string
eASRequirementsRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\'
eASAddress:
type: array
items:
type: string
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedFunction-ncO\'
EASProfile-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
aCID:
type: string
eASProvider:
type: string
eASdescription:
type: string
eASSchedule:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Duration\'
eASGeographicalServiceArea:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GeoLoc\'
eASTopologicalServiceArea:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/TopologicalServiceArea\'
eASServicePermissionLevel:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EASServicePermission\'
eASFeature:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EASFeature\'
eASServiceContinuitySupport:
type: boolean
eASDNAI:
type: string
eASAvailabilityReportingPeriod:
type: integer
eASStatus:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EASStatus\'
EESFunction-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedFunction-Attr\'
\- type: object
properties:
eESIdentifier:
type: string
eESServingLocation:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ServingLocation\'
eESAddress:
type: array
items:
type: string
softwareImageInfo:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SoftwareImageInfo\'
serviceContinuitySupport:
type: boolean
eASFunctonRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/DnList\'
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedFunction-ncO\'
ECSFunction-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedFunction-Attr\'
\- type: object
properties:
eCSAddress:
type: string
providerIdentifier:
type: string
edgeDataNetworkRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/DnList\'
eESFuncitonRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/DnList\'
softwareImageInfo:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SoftwareImageInfo\'
trackingAreaIdList:
\$ref: \'TS28541_NrNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/TaiList\'
geographicalLocation:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GeoLoc\'
mcc:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Mcc\'
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedFunction-ncO\'
EASRequirements-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
requiredEASservingLocation:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ServingLocation\'
affinityAntiAffinity:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AffinityAntiAffinity\'
serviceContinuity:
type: boolean
virtualResource:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/VirtualResource\'
softwareImageInfo:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SoftwareImageInfo\'
eASSchedule:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Duration\'
eASFeature:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EASFeature\'
#-------- Definition of JSON arrays for name-contained IOCs
\----------------------
SubNetwork-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Single\'
EASFunction-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EASFunction-Single\'
ECSFunction-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ECSFunction-Single\'
EESFunction-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EESFunction-Single\'
EdgeDataNetwork-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EdgeDataNetwork-Single\'
EASProfile-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EASProfile-Single\'
#--------------------------------- Definition
\------------------------------------
resources-edgeNrm:
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MnS\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EASFunction-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ECSFunction-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EESFunction-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EdgeDataNetwork-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EASRequirements-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EASProfile-Single\'
###### ## Annex B (normative): Availability Zone
# B.1 General
An Availability Zone [14] is the lowest level of abstraction exposed to a
developer who wants to deploy an application on the edge network. It is
defined in terms of a geographical area. A Cloudlet [14] is a point of
presence for the edge cloud. It is the point where edge applications are
deployed. The ECSP do not expose physical location of the cloudlets to the
application service providers. The application service provider is not allowed
to request deployment of its application on a specific edge cloud. There can
be multiple Cloudlet in an Availability Zone. The application service provider
can query for the QoS (latency, jitter etc.) available in a particular
Availability Zone. The OP requires application service provider to specify
target Availability Zone, when requesting for an Application deployment. The
virtual resources can be reserved in a particular Availability Zone on request
from the application service provider.
As ASP queries the available Availability Zones. The ECSP respond with all the
available zone and their characteristics including the QoS supported in each
of them. The ASP choose one of the Availability Zone to deploy an application
on. ASP request ECSP to deploy an application in the selected Availability
Zone. ECSP deploy the given application as part of the AZ.
# B.2 Example of Availability Zone implementation
The following figure shows the relation between AZ and EDN.
Figure B.2-1 Example of Availability Zone
###### ## Annex C (Informative): GSMA OP introduction and concept mapping
The Operator Platform (OP) is defined by GSMA OPG [2], it facilitates access
to the Edge Cloud capability of an Operator or federation of operators and
their partners.
The architecture scope under definition is shown below,
Figure C-1: OP Roles and Interfaces Reference Architecture
The NBI is the interface between the application provider and the Capabilities
Exposure Role in the Operator Platform, it allows an OP to advertise the above
cloud capabilities that it can provide to application providers. In addition,
the NBI allows an application provider to reserve a set of resources or
request an Edge Cloud service with the resources and features that they
require and for the OP to accept or reject the request.
The following table provides the mapping of concepts (not exhaustive) defined
in TS 28.538[6] with the concepts defined in GSMA OPG [14].
Table C-1: Mapping of concepts of TS 28.538 [6] with GSMA [14]
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSMA[14] | ECM(TS 28.538) | Comment/Observations | +======================+======================+======================+ | Application Instance | EAS VNF Instance | Application Instance | | | | and EAS VNF Instance | | Edge Application | EAS | are both referring | | | | to the application | | | | instances running in | | | | the edge. | | | | | | | | Edge Application and | | | | EAS are both | | | | referring to the | | | | application running | | | | in the edge. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Application Provider | Application Service | Application Provider | | | Provider | and Application | | | | Service Provider | | | | both referring to | | | | the application | | | | providers producing | | | | and requesting for | | | | the deployment of | | | | the applications. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Region | FFS | The higher construct | | | | in the hierarchy | | | | exposed to a | | | | developer who wishes | | | | to deploy an | | | | Application on the | | | | Edge Cloud and | | | | broadly represents a | | | | geography. A Region | | | | typically contains | | | | one or multiple | | | | Availability Zones. | | | | | | | | An OP Region is | | | | equivalent to a | | | | Region on a public | | | | cloud | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Availability Zone | FFS | An Availability Zone | | | | is the lowest level | | | | of abstraction | | | | exposed to a | | | | developer who wants | | | | to deploy an | | | | Application on the | | | | edge network. The | | | | capability to create | | | | Cloudlets within an | | | | Availability Zone is | | | | to be provide by the | | | | OP. | | | | | | | | An OP Availability | | | | Zone is the | | | | equivalent of an | | | | Availability Zone on | | | | Public Cloud | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cloudlet | FFS | A cloudlet is a | | | | point of presence | | | | for the Edge Cloud. | | | | It is the point | | | | where Edge | | | | Applications are | | | | deployed. | | | | | | | | While EAS | | | | deployment, | | | | appropriate EDN is | | | | selected to deploy | | | | the EAS on. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Capabilities | ECSP Management | Both Capabilities | | Exposure Role in OP | System | Exposure Role in | | | | Operator Platform | | | | and the ECSP | | | | Management System | | | | are the entities | | | | which exposes | | | | interface and | | | | management service | | | | towards ASP. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Northbound Interface | Management services | NBI maps to | | | for Edge Computing | management service, | | | lifecycle management | enabling LCM for | | | | EAS, exposed towards | | | | ASP. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#