# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies use cases, requirements, management services
and procedures for provisioning of 5G networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.525: \"Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management
(LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[3] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 (V4.3.1) (2022-06): \"Network Function Virtualisation
(NFV); Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo reference point -
Interface and Information Model Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.261 \"Service requirements for next generation new services and
markets\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.526: \"Life Cycle Management (LCM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Procedures\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[9] GSMA NG.116 Generic Network Slice Template v9.0 (2023-04-27) -
NG.116-v9.0.pdf (gsma.com).
[10] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects;System Architecture for the 5G System;Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;NR;
NR and NG-RAN Overall Description;Stage 2\".
[12] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 (V4.2.1) (2021-05): \"Network Function Virtualisation
(NFV); Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Network Service Templates
Specification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[14] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 (V4.3.1) (2022-06): \"Network Function Virtualisation
(NFV); Release 4; Management and Orchestration; VNF Descriptor and Packaging
Specification\".
[15] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 (V4.3.1) (2022-05): \"Network Function Virtualisation
(NFV); Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm reference point -
Interface and Information Model Specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 28.530 [4] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1] and TS 28.530 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], TS 28.530 [4] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
5GAA 5G Automative Association
5G-ACIA 5G Association for Connected Industries and Automation
5GC 5G Core Network
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
CSC Communication Service Customer
CSP Communication Service Provider
CP Control Plane
GST Generic Slice Template
IOC Information Object Class
MANO Management and Orchestration
MnS Management Service
NEST Network Slice Type
NF Network Function
NFV Network Functions Virtualisation
NRM Network Resource Model
NSaaS Network Slice as a Service
NSC Network Slice Customer
NSI Network Slice Instance
NSP Network Slice Provider
NSSI Network Slice Subnet Instance
P-NEST Private NEST
S-NEST Standardized NEST
TN Transport Network
VNF Virtualized Network Function
UP User Plane
# 4 General
## 4.1 Overview
A 5G system consists of a 5G Access Network (AN), and a 5G Core Network (5GC).
Network slicing is one of the key 5G features.
The management aspects of a Network Slice Instance (NSI) are described by the
four phases shown in Figure 4.3.1.1 of TS 28.530 [4].
The provisioning of network slicing includes the four phases which are
preparation, commissioning, operation and decommissioning:
\- In the preparation phase the NSI does not exist. The preparation phase
includes network slice design, on-boarding, evaluation of the network slice
requirements, preparing the network environment and other necessary
preparations required to be done before the creation of an NSI.
\- During the NSI lifecycle stage which include commissioning phase, operation
phase and decommissioning phase, the NSI provisioning operations include:
\- Create an NSI;
\- Activate an NSI;
\- Deactivate an NSI;
\- Modify an NSI;
\- Terminate an NSI.
The operations of the provisioning of an NSI occurs during different phases of
a NSI:
a) During the commissioning phase:
\- Create an NSI.
> During NSI creation all resources to the NSI have been created and
> configured to satisfy the network slice requirements. NSI creation may
> trigger NSSI(s) creation or using existing NSSI(s) and setting up the
> corresponding associations.
b) During the operation phase:
\- Activate an NSI;
\- Modify an NSI;
\- Deactivate an NSI.
NSI activation includes any actions that make the NSI active to provide
communication services. NSI activation may trigger NSSI activation.
NSI modification in operation phase could map to several workflows, e.g.
changes of NSI capacity, changes of NSI topology, NSI reconfiguration. NSI
modification can be triggered by receiving new network slice related
requirements, new communication service requirements, or the result of NSI
supervision automatically. NSI modification may trigger NSSI modification.
The NSI deactivation operation may be needed before NSI modification operation
and the NSI activation operation may be needed after the NSI modification
operation. NSI deactivation includes any actions that make the NSI inactive
and not providing any communication services. NSI deactivation trigger NSSI
deactivation to deactivate constituent NSSI(s) which is not used by other
NSI(s). Operator may decide to keep the NSI without termination after
deactivation and reactivate it when receives new communication service
request.
c) During the decommissioning phase:
\- Terminate an NSI.
> NSI termination step includes any action that make the NSI does not exist
> anymore and release resources that are not used by other NSI(s). NSI
> termination may trigger NSSI termination to terminate constituent NSSI(s)
> which is not used by other NSI(s).
Similarly, provisioning for network slice subnet instance includes the
following operations:
\- Create an NSSI;
\- Activate an NSSI and associate it with certain NSI to be used by the NSI;
\- Disassociate the NSSI with certain NSI and deactivate the NSSI if it's not
associated with any NSI;
\- Modify an NSSI;
\- Terminate an NSSI.
## 4.2 Configuration information for the constituents of an NSI
To use network slice to support communication service or deliver a network
slice as a service, the 3GPP defined constituents of the NSI should be
configured by 3GPP management system according to the types and requirements
of the network slice so that the NSI can be operated and maintained.
The configuration information of these components may include:
_\- Information on the requirements to be applied to every NSI constituent to
satisfy the requirements of multiple NSIs_ if the constituent is shared by
multiple NSIs;
_\- Network function selection information:_ Information on the selection of
the NFs (e.g., AMF) according to the requirements of this NSI;
_\- Connection information_ : _The information of the logical links to carry
the NSI's CP and UP data between the component and other NFs and NSSIs
belonging to the NSI._
NOTE 1: The list of information above is not exhaustive.
NOTE 2: The list of information above is not all necessary for an NSI.
## 4.3 General information for network slice instance
The general information used to describe a network slice instance may include:
\- Resource model information, which describes the static parameters and
functional components of network slice, includes service profile, network
slice type (e.g. eMBB), additional system feature (e.g. multicast, Edge
Computing), priority.
\- Management model information, which describes the information model that is
used for network slice lifecycle management, includes configuration profile
(e.g. application configuration parameters).
\- Capability model information, which describes the capability including
supported communication service characteristic information (e.g. service type,
UE mobility level, density of users, traffic density), QoS attributes (e.g.
bandwidth, latency, throughput and so on) and capacity (e.g. maximum number of
UEs), can be exposed to CSC .
## 4.4 General information for network slice subnet instance
The general information used to describe a network slice subnet instance may
include:
\- Resource model information, which describes the static parameters and
functional component of network slice subnet, includes slice profile, network
slice subnet type (e.g. RAN eMBB, CN eMBB), additional system feature (e.g.
multicast, Edge Computing), priority, QoS attributes (e.g. bandwidth, latency,
number of subscribers and so on), NSD ID.
\- Management model information, which describes the information model that is
used for network slice subnet lifecycle management, includes configuration
profile (e.g. application configuration parameters).
\- Capability model information, which describes the capability including
supported communication service characteristic information (e.g. service type,
UE mobility level, density of users, traffic density), QoS attributes (e.g.
bandwidth, latency, throughput and so on) and capacity (e.g. maximum number of
UEs).
## 4.5 Void
## 4.6 Void
# 5 Specification level requirements
## 5.1 Use cases
### 5.1.1 Network slice instance allocation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To satisfy request | | | | for allocation of a | | | | network slice | | | | instance with | | | | certain | | | | characteristics, by | | | | creating a new or | | | | using an existing | | | | network slice | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | Network slice | | | resources** | instance\ | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | instance\ | | | | Transport network\ | | | | A network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider.\ | | | | A network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | the request for | | | | allocation of the | | | | network slice | | | | instance with | | | | network slice | | | | related | | | | requirements. | | | | | | | | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider has the | | | | capability to | | | | process the network | | | | slice related | | | | requirements (e.g. , | | | | SLA information from | | | | GSMA GST) which are | | | | represented by | | | | service profile | | | | parameters [6]. | | | | The service profile | | | | can be translated to | | | | the corresponding | | | | requirements for | | | | dedicated domains | | | | and NSSIs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | If the requested NSI | | | | can be shared and if | | | | an existing NSI can | | | | be used, the network | | | | slice provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider decides to | | | | use the existing | | | | NSI.\ | | | | Modification of the | | | | existing NSI may be | | | | needed to satisfy | | | | the network slice | | | | instance related | | | | requirements. Use | | | | case is completed go | | | | to \"Step 8\".\ | | | | Otherwise, the | | | | network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider triggers to | | | | create a new NSI, | | | | for which the | | | | following steps 2 -- | | | | 8 are needed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider decides on | | | | the constituent | | | | NSSIs and the | | | | topology of the NSI | | | | to be created using | | | | the information from | | | | service profile | | | | [6]. For the | | | | constituent NSSIs, | | | | the network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider derives | | | | network slice subnet | | | | related requirements | | | | from the network | | | | slice related | | | | requirements. If | | | | reconfiguration of | | | | the transport | | | | network is needed, | | | | the network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider derives | | | | transport network | | | | related requirements | | | | (e.g. , latency, | | | | bandwidth) from the | | | | network slice | | | | related | | | | requirements. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | For the required | Network slice subnet | | | NSSI(s), the network | instance allocation | | | slice provisioning | use case | | | management service | | | | provider sends | | | | network slice subnet | | | | related requirements | | | | to the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider to request | | | | allocation of the | | | | required NSSI(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | the information of | | | | the allocated | | | | NSSI(s) (e.g. , the | | | | management | | | | identifier of NSSI, | | | | service access point | | | | information of NSSI, | | | | external connection | | | | point information of | | | | NSSI) from NSSMF. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider, via the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider, sends the | | | | transport network | | | | related requirements | | | | (e.g. , external | | | | connection point, | | | | latency and | | | | bandwidth) to the TN | | | | Manager. The TN | | | | manager reconfigures | | | | the TN accordingly | | | | and responds to the | | | | network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider via the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 6 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | the response from TN | | | | Manager via the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 7 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider associates | | | | the NSSI(s) with the | | | | corresponding NSI | | | | (e.g. ,allocation of | | | | the management | | | | identifier of NSI | | | | and mapping the | | | | management | | | | identifier of NSI | | | | with the received | | | | management | | | | Identifier of | | | | NSSI(s)) and | | | | triggers to | | | | establish the links | | | | between the service | | | | access points of the | | | | NSSI(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 8 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider notifies | | | | the network slice | | | | instance information | | | | of NSI (e.g., the | | | | management | | | | identifier of NSI). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | An NSI is ready to | | | | satisfy the network | | | | slice related | | | | requirements. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-3. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.2 Network slice subnet instance allocation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | Create a new network | | | | slice subnet | | | | instance or use an | | | | existing network | | | | slice subnet | | | | instance to satisfy | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet related | | | | requirements; | | | | provide the | | | | provisioning service | | | | consumer with | | | | identity of the NFVO | | | | which the consumer | | | | can use for further | | | | access to the | | | | information of the | | | | involved VNFs, PNFs | | | | and NSs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | Network Slice Subnet | | | resources** | instance\ | | | | Network Service | | | | instance\ | | | | A network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider.\ | | | | The operator | | | | deployed NFVO to | | | | manage the lifecycle | | | | of VNFs and | | | | interconnection | | | | between the VNFs and | | | | PNFs in terms of the | | | | NS instances. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | Network slice subnet | | | | instance may include | | | | network functions | | | | which are | | | | virtualized. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | VNF Packages for | | | | virtualized network | | | | functions to be | | | | included in the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | instance have been | | | | already on-boarded. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer sends to | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider a request | | | | for an NSSI to be | | | | associated with the | | | | NSI; the request | | | | contains network | | | | slice subnet related | | | | in TS 28.541 [6]. | | | | | | | | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | request for a | | | | network slice subnet | | | | instance. The | | | | request contains | | | | network slice subnet | | | | related | | | | requirements. The | | | | request may also | | | | include query of the | | | | identity of the NFVO | | | | to be used. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Based on the network | | | | slice subnet related | | | | requirements | | | | received, the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider decides to | | | | create a new NSSI or | | | | use an existing | | | | NSSI. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | If an existing | | | | network slice subnet | | | | instance is decided | | | | to be used, the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider may trigger | | | | to modify the | | | | existing network | | | | slice subnet | | | | instance to satisfy | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet related | | | | requirements. Go to | | | | "Step 8".\ | | | | Otherwise, the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider triggers to | | | | create a new NSSI, | | | | the following steps | | | | are needed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (O)** | If the required NSSI | | | | contains constituent | | | | NSSI(s) managed by | | | | other network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider (s), the | | | | first network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider derives the | | | | requirements for the | | | | constituent NSSI(s) | | | | and sends those | | | | requirements to the | | | | corresponding | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider (s) which | | | | manages the | | | | constituent NSSI(s). | | | | | | | | The first network | | | | slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | the constituent NSSI | | | | information from the | | | | other network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider (s) and | | | | associates the | | | | constituent NSSI(s) | | | | with the required | | | | NSSI. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | Based on the network | | | | slice subnet related | | | | requirements | | | | received and | | | | SliceProfile [6], | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider decides | | | | that to satisfy the | | | | NSSI requirements, | | | | the part of the | | | | network controlled | | | | by certain NFVO | | | | should be involved. | | | | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider determines | | | | the NS related | | | | requirements (i.e. , | | | | information about | | | | the target NSD and | | | | additional | | | | parameterization for | | | | the specific NS to | | | | instantiate, see | | | | clause 7.3.3 in ETSI | | | | GS NFV-IFA013 | | | | [3]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | Based on the NS | TS 28.525 [2] | | | related | Clause 6.4.3 NS | | | requirements, the | instance use cases | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider triggers | | | | corresponding NS | | | | instantiation | | | | request to NFVO via | | | | Os-Ma-nfvo interface | | | | as described in | | | | clause 6.4.3 in TS | | | | 28.525 [2], and | | | | the NFVO performs NS | | | | instantiation. (see | | | | note) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 6 (M)** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider associates | | | | the NS instance with | | | | corresponding | | | | network slice subnet | | | | instance (e.g. , | | | | allocation of the | | | | management | | | | identifier of NSSI | | | | and mapping with the | | | | corresponding | | | | identifiers). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 7 (M)** | The network slice | NF provisioning | | | subnet provisioning | service | | | management service | | | | provider is using | | | | the NF provisioning | | | | service to configure | | | | the NSSI | | | | constituents. | | | | | | | | In case of RAN NSSI, | | | | the configuration | | | | contains RRM policy | | | | information for | | | | individual Radio | | | | cells. In the cells | | | | shared by multiple | | | | NSSIs such policy | | | | includes guidance | | | | for split of Radio | | | | resources between | | | | the NSSIs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 8 (M)** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider notifies | | | | the provisioning | | | | service consumer | | | | with the NSSI | | | | information (e.g. , | | | | the management | | | | identifier of NSSI). | | | | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider associates | | | | the NSSI with the | | | | NSI. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | A NSSI is ready to | | | | satisfy the network | | | | slice subnet related | | | | requirements. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-4, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-5, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-6, | | | | R | | | | EQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-14. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: According to | | | | the TS 28.525 [2], | | | | for the PNFs, NS | | | | instantiation | | | | includes only | | | | establishment of | | | | interconnection with | | | | other NFs. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.3 Network slice instance deallocation
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To deallocate a network slice instance..
**Actors and Roles** A network slice provisioning management service consumer.
**Telecom resources** Network slice instance\  
Network slice subnet instances\  
A network slice provisioning management service provider.\  
A network slice subnet provisioning management service provider.
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** N/A
**Begins when** The network slice provisioning management service provider
receives the request indicating that an existing NSI is no longer needed to
support a particular service. (identified by service profile Id) The NSI
identification is included in the request.
**Step 1 (M)** Based on the request, the network slice provisioning management
service provider deletes the corresponding slice profile and checks if there
are other services to be supported by the NSI. If there are none the network
slice provisioning management service provider may decide to terminate the
NSI; then proceed to Step 2.\ NSI modification use case Otherwise, the network
slice provisioning management service provider may decide to trigger to modify
the NSI or to do nothing.\  
The use case is completed; go to step 5.
**Step 2 (M)** If the NSI to be terminated is active, the network slice
provisioning management service provider de-activates the NSI. Then, the NSI
to be terminated is inactive. NSI de-activation use case
**Step 3 (M)** The network slice provisioning management service provider
identifies the network slice subnet instances used by the NSI, and for every
such NSSI sends the request to the corresponding network slice subnet
provisioning management service provider (s) indicating that the NSSI(s) are
no longer needed for the NSI. The network slice subnet provisioning management
service provider (s) may decide to terminate or modify the NSSI(s) based on
the request and disassociates them with the NSI.
**Step 4 (M)** The network slice provisioning management service provider
receives the response from the network slice subnet provisioning management
service provider (s) and terminates the NSI.
**Step 5 (M)** The network slice provisioning management service provider
notifies its consumer of the NSI deallocation.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed or
skipped per condition in the Step 1.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The NSI has been deallocated.
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-3
* * *
### 5.1.4 Network slice subnet instance deallocation
+-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To deallocate a network | | | | slice subnet instance. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service consumer. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | Network slice subnet | | | | instance\ | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service provider. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | N/A | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | network slice subnet | | | | related request from | | | | its authorized consumer | | | | indicating that an | | | | existing NSSI is no | | | | longer needed to | | | | support a particular | | | | set of network slice | | | | subnet requirements | | | | identified by a slice | | | | profile id). The NSSI | | | | identification is | | | | included in the | | | | request. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Based on the request, | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider decides | | | | whether the NSSI should | | | | be terminated. | | | | | | | | If the decision is the | | | | NSSI should be | | | | terminated, go to the | | | | Step 2. | | | | | | | | If the decision is that | | | | the NSSI should not be | | | | terminated (e.g., the | | | | NSSI is shared or the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service provider | | | | decides to keep the | | | | NSSI for later use), | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider disassociates | | | | the NSSI from its | | | | consumer and provides | | | | feedback to the | | | | authorized consumer, | | | | maybe with removing its | | | | consumer's | | | | configuration or not. | | | | Go to Step 5. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | If the NSSI consists of | | | | constituent NSSIs that | | | | are not managed | | | | directly by the network | | | | slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service provider, the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service provider sends | | | | a request to other | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service provider(s) | | | | indicating that the | | | | constituent NSSIs are | | | | no longer needed for | | | | the NSSI. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | If the NSSI is | | | | associated with NSI, | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider disassociates | | | | the NSI from the NSSI | | | | to be terminated, and | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider may trigger | | | | request to NFVO for | | | | terminating or updating | | | | (e.g. scaling-in) the | | | | NS instance. (see | | | | note). | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | If there exists a | | | | transport network | | | | segment used by the | | | | NSSI, the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider may indicate | | | | that the transport | | | | network segment is no | | | | longer needed to | | | | support the NSSI. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider sends response | | | | to its consumer. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The NSSI has been | | | | deallocated. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO\\_NSSI-FUN-8, | | | | REQ-PRO\\_NSSI-FUN-11 | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | > NOTE: In case where | | | | > the NS instance is | | | | > not dedicated for the | | | | > NSSI, the network | | | | > slice subnet | | | | > provisioning | | | | > management service | | | | > provider does not | | | | > terminate the NS | | | | > instance. | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.5 Obtaining network slice subnet instance information
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable the network | | | | slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service consumer to | | | | obtain network slice | | | | subnet instance | | | | information (e.g. | | | | Slice/Service type). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | Network slice subnet | | | | instance\ | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service provider. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer is authorized | | | | to obtain the network | | | | slice subnet instance | | | | information from the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service provider. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | NSSI is created. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer wants to | | | | obtain the network | | | | slice subnet instance | | | | information. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer sends a | | | | request to the network | | | | slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service provider to | | | | obtain the network | | | | slice subnet instance | | | | information. | | | | | | | | The indication on which | | | | information needs to be | | | | obtained may be | | | | included in the | | | | request. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider processes this | | | | request. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider sends the | | | | result of network slice | | | | subnet instance | | | | information to the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer has obtained | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet instance | | | | information. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-7. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.6 Network slice feasibility check
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To check the | | | | feasibility of | | | | provisioning a | | | | network slice to | | | | determine whether | | | | the network slice | | | | requirements can be | | | | satisfied at a | | | | particular point in | | | | time (e.g., in terms | | | | of resources), and | | | | optionally reserve | | | | resources to satisfy | | | | the network slice | | | | requirements. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. For | | | | example, CSP | | | | providing NSaaS | | | | plays the role of | | | | network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | Network slice | | | resources** | management service | | | | provider. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer has decided | | | | to check the | | | | feasibility of | | | | provisioning a | | | | network slice based | | | | on, for example, | | | | internal decision or | | | | to facilitate an | | | | external service | | | | requests. | | | | | | | | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer has | | | | optionally decided | | | | to request | | | | reservation of the | | | | resources to satisfy | | | | the network slice | | | | requirements. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | Network slice | | | | requirements have | | | | been derived or | | | | received by network | | | | slice management | | | | service consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | the request to | | | | evaluate the | | | | feasibility of | | | | provisioning a | | | | network slice and | | | | optionally reserve | | | | resources, according | | | | to the network slice | | | | requirements at a | | | | particular point in | | | | time. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider identifies | | | | the network slice | | | | subnets according to | | | | the requirements. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider obtains the | | | | information | | | | necessary to | | | | evaluate the | | | | feasibility of | | | | provisioning a | | | | network slice by | | | | requesting the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | service provider(s) | | | | to evaluate the | | | | availability of | | | | resources under | | | | their control. | | | | | | | | If the Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer has | | | | requested | | | | reservation of | | | | resources, then | | | | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider requests | | | | network slice subnet | | | | service provider(s) | | | | to reserve | | | | resources. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | Network slice subnet | 5.1.21 Network slice | | | management service | subnet feasibility | | | provider(s) checks | check | | | the feasibility of | | | | provisioning a slice | | | | subnet(s) by | | | | analysing network | | | | constituents to | | | | ensure that their | | | | capabilities, e.g., | | | | resources, | | | | management services, | | | | etc. are (or will | | | | be) adequate to | | | | provision network | | | | slice subnet | | | | instance, satisfying | | | | all requirements | | | | without impacting | | | | existing services. | | | | For the purpose of | | | | checking the | | | | feasibility of | | | | provisioning a | | | | network slice | | | | subnet(s) of the | | | | network slice, | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider(s) may | | | | obtain information | | | | from the network | | | | (e.g., current or | | | | predicted load level | | | | information from the | | | | NWDAF). | | | | | | | | If the Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider has | | | | requested | | | | reservation of | | | | resources, then | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider(s) reserves | | | | the resources | | | | necessary to | | | | provision the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | Feasibility check | | | | results have been | | | | provided to network | | | | slice management | | | | service consumer. | | | | | | | | If the Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer has | | | | requested | | | | reservation of | | | | resources, then | | | | resources to satisfy | | | | the network slice | | | | requirements are | | | | reserved. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the mandatory | | | | steps fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | R | | | | EQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-12, | | | | R | | | | EQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-13, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-8. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.7 Network slice instance activation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Use case stage** | **Evolu |** \>\ | | | tion/Specification**| Related use** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To activate an | | | | existing network | | | | slice instance which | | | | is inactive | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer. For | | | | example, CSP | | | | providing NSaaS | | | | plays the role of | | | | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | Network slice | | | resources** | instance\ | | | | Network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | | | | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | An NSI has already | | | | been created and it | | | | is inactive. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider decides to | | | | activate an NSI | | | | based on the | | | | received network | | | | slice related | | | | request from its | | | | authorized consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The network slice | Network slice subnet | | | provisioning | instance activation | | | management service | use case | | | provider checks | | | | whether NSSIs | | | | associated with the | | | | NSI are all active, | | | | if there is an | | | | inactive NSSI, the | | | | network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider requests | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider to activate | | | | the corresponding | | | | NSSI. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | response from the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider indicating | | | | that the NSSI is | | | | active. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider activates | | | | the NSI and sends | | | | response to the | | | | requesting consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | An NSI has been | | | | activated. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSI--FUN-4 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.8 Network slice instance deactivation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Use case stage** | **Evolu |** \>\ | | | tion/Specification**| Related use** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To deactivate an | | | | existing network | | | | slice instance which | | | | is active. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer. For | | | | example, CSP | | | | providing NSaaS | | | | plays the role of | | | | network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | Network slice | | | resources** | instance\ | | | | Network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | | | | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | NSI has already been | | | | created and it is | | | | active. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider decides to | | | | deactivate an NSI | | | | based on the | | | | received network | | | | slice related | | | | request from its | | | | authorized consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider stops the | | | | NSI serving its | | | | subscribers. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The network slice | Network slice subnet | | | provisioning | instance | | | management service | deactivation use | | | provider checks | case | | | whether NSSIs | | | | associated with the | | | | NSI are all | | | | inactive. If there | | | | is an active NSSI, | | | | the network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider requests | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider to | | | | deactivate the | | | | corresponding NSSI.\ | | | | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | the request and | | | | decides if the NSSI | | | | will be | | | | disassociated and | | | | deactivated. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | response from the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider that the | | | | NSSI deactivation | | | | request has been | | | | processed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider deactivates | | | | the NSI and sends | | | | response to its | | | | authorized consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | An NSI has been | | | | deactivated. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSI--FUN-5 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.9 Network slice instance modification
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To modify an | | | | existing network | | | | slice instance | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer. See NOTE. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | Network slice | | | resources** | instance\ | | | | Network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | N/A. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | request from its | | | | authorized customer | | | | with new set of | | | | network slice | | | | related requirements | | | | and decides to | | | | modify an existing | | | | NSI. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider identifies | | | | the NSSI(s) | | | | associated with the | | | | NSI to be modified | | | | and generates | | | | network slice subnet | | | | related requirements | | | | for the NSSI(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The network slice | Network slice subnet | | | provisioning | instance | | | management service | modification use | | | provider sends | case | | | requests to the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider with new | | | | sets of network | | | | slice subnet related | | | | requirements. | | | | | | | | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | request and decides | | | | whether the NSSI | | | | needs to be | | | | modified. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | the response from | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider. If the | | | | NSSI modification | | | | request cannot be | | | | satisfied by the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider, the | | | | network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider may | | | | re-generate the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | related requirements | | | | for the NSSI and go | | | | to step 2, or the | | | | network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider may decide | | | | the modification | | | | request cannot be | | | | satisfied. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider sends | | | | response to its | | | | authorized consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The NSI is modified. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-6 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: Examples of | | | | roles and actors for | | | | this use case can be | | | | found in TS 28.530 | | | | [4]. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.10 Network slice subnet instance activation
* * *
**Use case stage** **Evolution/Specification** **\ >\ Related use**
**Goal** To activate an existing network slice subnet instance which is
inactive.
**Actors and Roles** Network slice subnet provisioning management service
consumer.
**Telecom resources** Network slice subnet instance\  
Network slice subnet provisioning management service provider.
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** An NSSI has already been created and it is inactive.
**Begins when** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider decides to activate an NSSI based on the received network slice
subnet related request from its authorized consumer.
**Step 1 (M)** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider identifies inactive constituents (e.g. NSSI, NF) of the NSSI and
decides to activate those constituents.
**Step 2 (M)** If the constituent of NSSI is managed directly by the network
slice subnet provisioning management service provider, the network slice
subnet provisioning management service provider activates the NSSI constituent
directly.
**Step 3 (M)** If an NSSI constituent is managed by other network slice subnet
provisioning management service provider, the network slice subnet
provisioning management service provider requests other network slice subnet
provisioning management service provider to activate the constituent NSSI.
**Step 4 (M)** If an NSSI constituent is an NF managed by NF related
provisioning management service provider, the network slice subnet
provisioning management service provider request the NF related provisioning
management service provider to activate the NF (e.g., activate the NF in sleep
mode, turn on the ports).
**Step 5 (M)** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider receives response indicating that NSSI constituents are all
activated.
**Step 6 (M)** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider activates the network slice subnet instance and sends response to its
authorized consumer.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** An NSSI has been activated.
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSSI--FUN-9
* * *
### 5.1.11 Network slice subnet instance deactivation
* * *
**Use case stage** **Evolution/Specification** **\ >\ Related use**
**Goal** To deactivate an existing network slice subnet instance which is
active.
**Actors and Roles** Network slice subnet provisioning management service
consumer.
**Telecom resources** Network slice subnet instance.\  
Network slice subnet provisioning management service provider.
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** An NSSI has already been created and is active.
**Begins when** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider decides to deactivate an NSSI based on the received network slice
subnet related request from its authorized customer.
**Step 1 (M)** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider identifies the NSSI constituents that need to be deactivated.
**Step 2 (M)** If the constituent of NSSI is managed directly by the network
slice subnet provisioning management service provider, the network slice
subnet provisioning management service provider deactivates the NSSI
constituent directly.
**Step 3 (M)** If an NSSI constituent is managed by other network slice subnet
provisioning management service provider, the network slice subnet
provisioning management service provider requests other network slice subnet
provisioning management service provider to deactivate the constituent NSSI.
**Step 4 (M)** If an NSSI constituent is managed by the NF related
provisioning management service provider, the network slice subnet
provisioning management service provider requests the NF related provisioning
management service provider to either deactivate the NF (if it is dedicated
for this NSSI and not being used by any other NSSI) or to modify the NF (if it
is shared by other NSSI).
**Step 5 (M)** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider receives response indicating that corresponding NSSI constituents are
deactivated or not deactivated (e.g., shared constituents cannot be
deactivated).
**Step 6 (M)** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider deactivates the network slice subnet instance and send response to
its authorized consumer.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** A network slice subnet instance has been deactivated.
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSSI--FUN-10
* * *
### 5.1.12 Network slice subnet instance modification
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To modify an existing network slice subnet instance
**Actors and Roles** Network slice subnet provisioning management service
consumer.
**Telecom resources** Network slice subnet instance\  
Network SliceSubnet slice subnet provisioning management service provider.
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** N/A
**Begins when** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider receives request from its authorized consumer with new sets of
network slice subnet related requirements and decides to modify an existing
NSSI.
**Step 1 (M)** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider identifies the NSSI constituents as well as the transport network
(TN) part within the NSSI that needs to be modified, and generates new sets of
requirements for the NSSI constituents and transport network if needed.
**Step 2 (M)** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider checks whether the requirements for the identified NSSI constituents
managed by itself could be satisfied, and then triggers the modification of
the corresponding NSSI constituents if needed.
**Step 3 (M)** If the NSSI consists of constituent NSSI managed by other
network slice subnet provisioning management service provider, and the
constituent NSSI is identified to be modified, the network slice subnet
provisioning management service provider sends modification request to other
network slice subnet provisioning management service provider which manages
the constituent NSSI with new sets of constituent NSSI requirements. Network
slice subnet instance modification use case
**Step 4 (M)** If the NS instance associated with the NSSI needs to be
modified, the network slice subnet provisioning management service provider
derives the new sets of NS related requirements and triggers corresponding NS
instance request to NFVO with Os-Ma-nfvo interface as described in clause
6.4.3 in TS 28.525 [2]. TS 28.525 [2] Clause 6.4.3 NS instance use cases
**Step 5 (M)** If the related TN part of the NSSI is identified to be
modified, the network slice subnet provisioning management service provider
derives new sets of requirements for the TN part and coordinates with the
corresponding TN management system.
**Step 6 (M)** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider generates the modification result based on the received response and
send response to its authorized consumer.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The NSSI is modified.
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-11
* * *
### 5.1.13 Network slice subnet configuration
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To provide service for | | | | slice-specific | | | | (re)configuration of | | | | NSSI. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service consumer (e.g., | | | | the operator) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | Network slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service provider (e.g., | | | | NSSMF) | | | | | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | instance | | | | | | | | NF(s) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Authorized network | | | | slice subnet | | | | provisioning management | | | | service consumer | | | | provide slice operation | | | | information (see 4.2) | | | | for (re-)configuring | | | | NSSI constituents. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | NSSI exists. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer wants to | | | | (re-)configure the | | | | constituents of a NSSI. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer sends requests | | | | to the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning NSS | | | | management service | | | | provider with slice | | | | operation information | | | | for (re-)configuring a | | | | network slice subnet. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider (derives and) | | | | decomposes the received | | | | slice operation | | | | information, and then | | | | makes them as separate | | | | CM requests for each | | | | constituent if | | | | necessary and | | | | applicable. These | | | | (decomposed) requests | | | | may be delegated to | | | | other provisioning | | | | management service | | | | providers (e.g., other | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning service | | | | providers, NF | | | | provisioning management | | | | service providers) with | | | | corresponding slice | | | | operation information. | | | | | | | | These requests may | | | | contain configuration | | | | for specific NFs such | | | | as 1) _Configuration of | | | | dedicated NFs_ (e.g., | | | | configure the SMF with | | | | the information of new | | | | instantiated UPFs, see | | | | 5.3.2, 5.3.3 in [6]) | | | | and 2) _Configuration | | | | of shared NFs_ (see 4.2 | | | | so that this | | | | information can be | | | | accessed by other | | | | constituents of the NSS | | | | (e.g., NSSF, AMF, SMF). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider sends the | | | | processing result to | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer (might be | | | | based on applicable | | | | processing results from | | | | other CM service | | | | providers). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The required | | | | (re)configuration is | | | | configured at the | | | | corresponding | | | | constituent(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-16 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.14 Obtaining network slice management data
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer to obtain | | | | network slice | | | | management data (e.g. | | | | PM data, FM data). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | | | | | | | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | Network slice instance | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | The network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer is authorized | | | | to obtain the network | | | | slice management data | | | | from the network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | NSI is created. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer wants to | | | | obtain the network | | | | slice management data. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer sends a | | | | request to the network | | | | slice management | | | | service provider to | | | | obtain the network | | | | slice management data. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider provides the | | | | network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer with the | | | | network slice | | | | management data . | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer obtained the | | | | network slice | | | | management data. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-7 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.15 Void
### 5.1.16 Void
### 5.1.17 Creation of a 3GPP NF
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To enable the | | | | authorized consumer to | | | | request creation of an | | | | instance of 3GPP NF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized consumer | | | | of the NF creation | | | | provisioning management | | | | service. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | VNF package(s) of the | | | | virtualized part of | | | | 3GPP NF; | | | | | | | | ETSI NFV MANO system; | | | | | | | | NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The VNF package(s) of | | | | the virtualized part of | | | | 3GPP NF have been | | | | on-boarded to ETSI NFV | | | | MANO system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The authorized consumer | | | | needs to create a new | | | | instance of 3GPP NF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The authorized consumer | | | | requests the NF | | | | provisioning management | | | | service producer to | | | | create a new instance | | | | of 3GPP NF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer checks the | | | | subject 3GPP NF | | | | contains virtualized | | | | part and/or | | | | non-virtualized part. | | | | If it contains | | | | virtualized part, then | | | | the NF instantiation | | | | service producer | | | | performs the step 3 and | | | | 4 to instantiate the | | | | virtualized part of the | | | | subject 3GPP NF. | | | | | | | | How to instantiate the | | | | non-virtualized part of | | | | the subject 3GPP NF is | | | | out of scope of present | | | | specification. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer interacts, or | | | | requests another NF | | | | provisioning management | | | | service producer to | | | | interact, with ETSI NFV | | | | MANO system to | | | | instantiate the VNF(s) | | | | that are realizing the | | | | virtualized part of | | | | subject 3GPP NF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | If all of the contained | | | | parts (i.e., | | | | virtualized part and | | | | non-virtualized part if | | | | any) of the 3GPP NF | | | | have been successfully | | | | instantiated, the NF | | | | provisioning management | | | | service producer | | | | informs the consumer(s) | | | | (who have subscribed to | | | | the notifications for | | | | NF creation) that the | | | | instance of 3GPP NF has | | | | been created, and | | | | creates the MOI(s) for | | | | the subject 3GPP NF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | Created MOI(s) may be | | | | maintained by a | | | | Management Function | | | | which has the NF | | | | provisioning management | | | | service or the 3GPP NF. | | | | When the MOI(s) is | | | | maintained by the 3GPP | | | | NF, the NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer sends a | | | | request of creating the | | | | MOI(s) to the | | | | corresponding NF | | | | provisioning management | | | | service producers in | | | | the created NF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The instance of 3GPP NF | | | | has been created, and | | | | the MOI(s) of the 3GPP | | | | NF have been created. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-7 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.18 Configuration of a 3GPP NF instance
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To enable the | | | | authorized consumer to | | | | request configuration | | | | of a 3GPP NF instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized consumer | | | | of the NF provisioning | | | | management service. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | ETSI NFV MANO system; | | | | | | | | NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The NF to be configured | | | | has been instantiated; | | | | | | | | The MOI of the NF has | | | | been created. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The authorized consumer | | | | needs to configure a | | | | 3GPP NF instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | | | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The consumer requests | | | | the NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer to modify the | | | | attribute(s) of the MOI | | | | of the 3GPP NF | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (O)** | If the 3GPP NF contains | | | | virtualized part and | | | | the corresponding VNF | | | | instance(s) need to be | | | | updated, the NF | | | | provisioning management | | | | service producer | | | | interacts, or requests | | | | another NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer to interact, | | | | with ETSI NFV MANO | | | | system to update the | | | | corresponding VNF | | | | instance(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer configures the | | | | 3GPP NF instance, per | | | | the MOI attribute | | | | modification request | | | | received from the | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer modifies the | | | | attributes of the MOI | | | | and informs the | | | | consumer that the 3GPP | | | | NF instance has been | | | | configured | | | | successfully. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The 3GPP NF instance | | | | has been configured. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-4, | | | | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-5, | | | | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-6, | | | | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-3 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.19 Creation of a 3GPP sub-network
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To enable the | | | | authorized consumer | | | | to request creation | | | | of a 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized | | | | consumer of the | | | | sub-network | | | | provisioning | | | | management service. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | VNF package(s) of | | | resources** | the virtualized part | | | | of 3GPP NF(s); | | | | | | | | NSD(s) of the NS(s); | | | | | | | | ETSI NFV MANO | | | | system; | | | | | | | | Network provisioning | | | | service producer; | | | | | | | | NF provisioning | | | | service producer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The non-virtualized | | | | part of the NFs | | | | (including | | | | completely | | | | non-virtualized NFs) | | | | constituting the | | | | 3GPP sub-network | | | | have been deployed; | | | | | | | | The VNF package(s) | | | | of the virtualized | | | | part of 3GPP NF(s) | | | | have been on-boarded | | | | to ETSI NFV MANO | | | | system; | | | | | | | | The NSD(s) of the NS | | | | realizing the 3GPP | | | | sub-network have | | | | been on-boarded to | | | | ETSI NFV MANO | | | | system. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The authorized | | | | consumer needs to | | | | create a 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The authorized | | | | consumer requests | | | | the sub-network | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer to create a | | | | 3GPP sub-network. | | | | The request needs to | | | | indicate the network | | | | capacity (e.g., the | | | | number of instances | | | | of each kind of NFs, | | | | and the capacity of | | | | each NF instance, | | | | for example, number | | | | of flows with | | | | certain QoS | | | | attributes to be | | | | supported), network | | | | topology information | | | | (e.g., the | | | | connections between | | | | NF instances), and | | | | the network QoS | | | | requirements (e.g., | | | | bandwidth and | | | | latency requirements | | | | of the interface | | | | between two NF | | | | instances). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The network | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer interacts, | | | | or requests another | | | | network provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer to | | | | interact, with ETSI | | | | NFV MANO system to | | | | instantiate the | | | | NS(s) realizing the | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | ETSI NFV MANO system | | | | informs the NF | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer about the | | | | instantiation of the | | | | NSs and the new | | | | VNFs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The NF provisioning | | | | management | | | | configuration | | | | service producer | | | | creates the MOI(s) | | | | of the 3GPP NFs that | | | | are realized by the | | | | newly instantiated | | | | VNF(s); there may be | | | | MOI(s) that specify | | | | the topology of the | | | | instantiated NSs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | The sub-network | NF configuration | | | provisioning | service | | | management service | | | | producer is using | | | | the NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | to configure the | | | | 3GPP NF instance(s) | | | | that are | | | | constituting the | | | | subject 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The 3GPP sub-network | | | | has been created. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-2 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.20 Configuration of a 3GPP sub-network
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To enable the | | | | authorized consumer | | | | to request | | | | configuration of a | | | | 3GPP sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized | | | | consumer of the | | | | network provisioning | | | | management service. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | 3GPP network; | | | resources** | | | | | 3GPP NFs; | | | | | | | | ETSI NFG MANO | | | | system; | | | | | | | | Network provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The 3GPP sub-network | | | | has been created; | | | | | | | | The MOI(s) related | | | | to the sub-network | | | | has been created. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The authorized | | | | consumer needs to | | | | configure a 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The authorized | | | | consumer requests to | | | | configure a 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The consumer | | | | requests the network | | | | provisioning | | | | management | | | | management service | | | | producer to modify | | | | the attribute of the | | | | MOI(s) related to | | | | the 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (O)** | If the 3GPP network | | | | is realized by NS(s) | | | | (ETSI ISG NFV | | | | concept), the | | | | network provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer requests | | | | (directly or | | | | indirectly via | | | | another) ETSI NFV | | | | MANO system to | | | | update the NS(s) | | | | realizing the 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4 (O)** | If there are new | | | | VNFs instantiated by | | | | the NS update, ETSI | | | | NFV MANO system | | | | informs the NF | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer about the | | | | instantiation of | | | | VNFs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 5 (O)** | The NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer creates the | | | | MOI(s) of the 3GPP | | | | NFs that are | | | | realized by the | | | | newly instantiated | | | | VNF(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 6 (M)** | The network | NF configuration | | | provisioning | service | | | management service | | | | producer consumes | | | | the NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | to configure the | | | | impacted 3GPP NF | | | | instance(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 7 (M)** | The network | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer configures | | | | the 3GPP | | | | sub-network, per the | | | | MOI attribute | | | | modification request | | | | received from the | | | | consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 8 (M)** | The NF provisioning | | | | management service | | | | producer modifies | | | | the attributes of | | | | the MOI(s) of the | | | | 3GPP network and | | | | informs the consumer | | | | that the 3GPP | | | | sub-network has been | | | | configured | | | | successfully. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The 3GPP network has | | | | been configured. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-4 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.21 Network slice subnet feasibility check
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To check the feasibility of provisioning a network slice subnet to
determine whether network slice subnet requirements can be satisfied at a
particular point of time (e.g., in terms of resources)
**Actors and Roles** Network slice subnet management service consumer. For
example, when a network slice subnet instance is to be provided as a
constituent of a network slice instance.
**Telecom resources** Network slice subnet instance\  
Network slice management service provider. For example, a management function
that plays the role of network slice management service provider.
**Assumptions** Network slice subnet management service consumer has decided
to check the feasibility of provisioning a network slice subnet based on, for
example, internal decision or to facilitate an external service requests.
**Pre-conditions** Network slice subnet requirements have been derived or
received by network slice subnet management service consumer.
**Begins when** Network slice subnet management service provider receives the
request to evaluate the feasibility of provisioning a network slice subnet
according to the network slice requirements at a particular point in time.
**Step 1 (M)** Network slice subnet management service provider identifies the
network slice subnets constituents according to the requirements, e.g.,
network services to be requested from MANO.
**Step 2 (O)** For the purpose of checking the feasibility of provisioning a
network slice subnet(s) of the network slice instance, network slice subnet
management service provider(s) may obtain information from the network (e.g.,
current or predicted load level information, current or predicted resource
usage information from management data analytics services).
**Step 3 (M)** Network slice subnet management service provider sends
enquiries with reservation requests to other management providers (e.g., MANO)
to determine availability of network constituents, e.g., network services,
network functions. If some of the responses are negative, network slice subnet
management service provider may send enquiries to different management
providers.
**Ends when** Feasibility check results have been provided to network slice
subnet management service consumer.
**Exceptions** One of the mandatory steps fails.
**Post-conditions** N/A
**Traceability**
* * *
### 5.1.22 Void
### 5.1.23 Network slice subnet management with assigned priority
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To assign priority | | | | on existing network | | | | slice subnet | | | | instance(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | | | | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider (e.g. | | | | NSSMF) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | Network slice subnet | | | resources** | instance (i.e. | | | | NSSI)\ | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | Network slice subnet | | | | instance is deployed | | | | to support a | | | | communication | | | | service with | | | | priority, set by the | | | | operator. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | This use case is | | | | based on the | | | | condition that | | | | operator requires a | | | | priority assigned to | | | | network slice | | | | subnet. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The NSSI(s) should | | | | have been assigned | | | | with priority set by | | | | the operator. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The network slice | Network slice subnet | | | provisioning | instance | | | management service | modification use | | | provider identifies | case | | | the NSSI(s) that | | | | needs to be | | | | associated with the | | | | priority, requested | | | | by authorized | | | | network slice subnet | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | | | | | | | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider assigns | | | | priority to the | | | | identified NSSI(s) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The network slice | | | | provisioning | | | | management service | | | | provider sends | | | | response to its | | | | authorized consumer | | | | about assigned | | | | priority on | | | | identified NSSI(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. Network | | | | slice subnet | | | | priority was | | | | assigned by the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-x | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.24 Management interaction with NFV MANO for network service priority
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To enable the | | | | authorized consumer to | | | | request creation of a | | | | 3GPP sub-network, | | | | management interactions | | | | with NFV MANO is | | | | needed. This management | | | | interaction will assign | | | | priority on NFV NS(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized consumer | | | | of 3GPP sub-network | | | | creation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | VNF package(s) of the | | | | virtualized part of | | | | 3GPP NF(s); | | | | | | | | NSD(s) of the NS(s); | | | | | | | | ETSI NFV MANO system; | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ETSI NFV VNF | | | | package(s) of the | | | | virtualized part of | | | | 3GPP NF(s) have been | | | | on-boarded to ETSI NFV | | | | MANO system; | | | | | | | | The ETSI NFV NSD(s) | | | | used to instantiate | | | | NS(s) for realizing the | | | | 3GPP sub-network have | | | | been on-boarded to ETSI | | | | NFV MANO system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The authorized consumer | | | | needs to create a 3GPP | | | | sub-network. This | | | | creation operation also | | | | needs to assign | | | | priority on 3GPP | | | | sub-network and on | | | | related ETSI NFV NS(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The authorized consumer | | | | requests the 3GPP | | | | sub-network creation | | | | service producer to | | | | create a 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The sub-network | | | | creation service | | | | producer interacts, or | | | | requests another | | | | sub-network creation | | | | service producer to | | | | interact, with ETSI NFV | | | | MANO system to | | | | instantiate the NS(s) | | | | realizing the 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | ETSI NFV MANO is | | | | informed about NS | | | | priority. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The 3GPP sub-network | | | | has been created. | | | | Network service | | | | priority is identified | | | | by NFVO to support the | | | | 3GPP sub-network. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-2 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.25 Void
### 5.1.26 Obtaining network slice subnet provider capability information
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To satisfy the query for obtaining network slice subnet provider
capability information.
**Actors and Roles** Network slice subnet provisioning management service
consumer.
**Telecom resources** Network slice subnet provider capabilities
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** N/A
**Begins when** A network slice subnet provisioning management service
consumer wants to obtain the network slice subnet provider capability
information
**Step 1 (M)** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider receives the request from its authorized consumer querying as to what
the network slice subnet provisioning management service provider is capable
of supporting.
**Step 2 (M)** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider processes the request.
**Step 3 (M)** The network slice subnet provisioning management service
provider sends the result of network slice subnet provider capability
information request to the network slice subnet provisioning management
service consumer.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The query for obtaining network slice subnet capability
information has been satisfied.
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-x
* * *
## 5.2 Requirements
### 5.2.1 Requirements for network slice provisioning service
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-1** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request a network
slice instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-2** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to send the network slice
related requirements.
NOTE 1: The network slice related requirements include requirements such as
area traffic capacity, coverage area, isolation/sharing, end-to-end latency,
mobility, overall user density, priority, service availability, service
reliability, UE speed; see TS 22.261 [5] where these parameters are defined
for end user services.
NOTE 2: The network slice related requirements also include requirements
derived from the Generic network Slice Template (GST) defined by GSMA in [9].
NOTE 3: The SLA requirements can be translated to service profile which can be
used to decides on the constituent NSSIs and the topology of the NSI.
NOTE 4: Void
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-3** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request the
deallocation of a network slice instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSI--FUN-4** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request activation of
a network slice instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSI--FUN-5** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request deactivation
of a network slice instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-6** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request the
modification of a network slice instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-7** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its consumer to obtain the network slice
management data.
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-8** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the feasibility
of provisioning the requested network slice instance at a particular point of
time.
### 5.2.2 Requirements for network slice subnet provisioning service
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-1** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request a
network slice subnet instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-2** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability of interaction with NFVO via the NS lifecycle
management interface.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-3** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to send network
slice subnet related requirements.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-4** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request to
create a new NSSI or use an existing NSSI based on the network slice subnet
related requirements.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-5** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request to
associate the NS instance with corresponding NSSI.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-6** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request the
configuration of the RAN NSSI constituents with the RRM policy information for
simultaneous support of multiple NSIs.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-7** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain network
slice subnet instance information.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-8** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability of allowing its authorized consumer to request the
deallocation of a network slice subnet instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-9** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request
activation of a network slice subnet instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-10** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request
deactivation of a network slice subnet instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-11** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request
modification of a network slice subnet instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-12** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its consumer to obtain information
regarding available network slice subnet resources.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-13** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the
feasibility of provisioning a network slice subnet instance at a particular
point of time.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-14** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability to satisfy the request to consume the NF
provisioning service.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-16** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its consumer to provide slice specific
operation information for the (re)configuration to a NSSI.
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-17** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to assign priority
of a network slice subnet.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-18** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain network
slice subnet provider capability information.
### 5.2.3 Requirements for NF provisioning service
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-1** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to request creation of an instance
of 3GPP NF.
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-2** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability to fulfill the consumer's request to create an instance of 3GPP NF.
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-3** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability to provide the VNF and VNFC related information of the NF instance
to its authorized consumer.
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-4** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to request configuration of a 3GPP
NF instance.
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-5** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability to request updating the VNF(s) that are realizing the virtualized
part of a 3GPP NF.
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-6** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability to fulfill the consumer's request to configure a 3GPP NF instance.
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-7** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability to request NF management service producers working in the concerned
NF instance to create and maintain the MOI(s) for it.
### 5.2.4 Requirements for sub-network provisioning service
**REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-1** The sub-network provisioning service producer shall have
the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request creation of a 3GPP
sub-network.
**REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-2** The sub-network provisioning service producer shall have
the capability to fulfil the consumer's request to create a 3GPP sub-network.
**REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-3** The sub-network provisioning service producer shall have
the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request configuration of a
3GPP sub-network.
**REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-4** The sub-network provisioning service producer shall have
the capability to fulfil the consumer's request to configure a 3GPP sub-
network.
# 6 Management services for provisioning of networks and network slicing
## 6.1 Management services for network slice provisioning
The management services for network slice provisioning are listed in table
6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: Management services for network slice provisioning
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MnS Name | MnS Component | MnS Component | Note | | | Type A\ | Type B\ | | | | (operations | (information | | | | and | model) | | | | notifications) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Network Slice | Operations | Network Slice | This | | Provisioning | defined in | NRM related | management | | | clause 11 of | information | service | | | TS 28.532 | models defined | enables its | | | [8]: | in clause 6.3 | consumer to | | | | of TS 28.541 | request | | | - createMOI | [6] | allocating, | | | operation | | deallocating, | | | | | or modifying | | | - deleteMOI | | an NSI.\ | | | operation | | \ | | | | | The typical | | | - | | scenario is | | | ge | | \"Network | | | tMOIAttributes | | Slices as NOP | | | operation | | internals\" | | | | | model where | | | - | | this MnS is | | | modif | | consumed by | | | yMOIAttributes | | operators. | | | operation | | | | | | | | | | Operations | | | | | defined in | | | | | clause 6.5: | | | | | | | | | | - allocateNsi | | | | | operation | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | deallocateNsi | | | | | operation | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Network Slice | Operations | NtfSubsc | This | | Provisioning | defined in TS | riptionControl | management | | data reporting | 28.532 [8]: | defined in TS | service | | | | 28.622 [13]. | enables its | | | - createMOI | | consumer to | | | operation | Network Slice | obtain | | | | NRM related | notifications | | | - deleteMOI | information | about Network | | | operation | models defined | Slice NRM | | | | in clause 6.3 | related | | | - | of TS 28.541 | information | | | ge | [6] | Information | | | tMOIAttributes | | model data. | | | operation | | | | | | | The typical | | | - | | scenario is | | | modif | | \"Network | | | yMOIAttributes | | Slices as NOP | | | operation | | internals\" | | | | | model where | | | Notifications | | this MnS is | | | defined in | | consumed by | | | clause 11 of | | operators | | | TS 28.532 | | | | | [8]: | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | not | | | | | ifyMOICreation | | | | | notification | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | not | | | | | ifyMOIDeletion | | | | | notification | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | no | | | | | tifyMOIAttribu | | | | | teValueChanges | | | | | notification | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.2 Management services for network slice subnet provisioning
The management services for network slice subnet provisioning are listed in
table 6.2-1.
Table 6.2-1: Management services for NSS provisioning
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MnS Name | MnS Component of | MnS Component of | | | type A (Operations | type B (information | | | and notifications) | model) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network Slice Subnet | Operations defined | Network slice subnet | | Provisioning | in clause 11 of TS | NRM related | | | 28.532 [8]: | information models | | | | defined in clause | | | - createMOI | 6.3 of TS 28.541 | | | operation | [6] | | | | | | | - | | | | modifyMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - deleteMOI | | | | operation | | | | | | | | Operations defined | | | | in clause 6.5: | | | | | | | | - allocateNssi | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - deallocateNssi | | | | operation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network Slice Subnet | Operations defined | Nt | | Provisioning data | in TS 28.532 [8]: | fSubscriptionControl | | reporting | | defined in TS 28.622 | | | - createMOI | [13]. | | | operation | | | | | Network slice subnet | | | - deleteMOI | NRM related | | | operation | information models | | | | defined in clause | | | - getMOIAttributes | 6.3 of TS 28.541 | | | operation | [6] | | | | | | | - | | | | modifyMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | Notifications | | | | defined in clause 11 | | | | of TS 28.532 [8]: | | | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | notification | | | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | notification | | | | | | | | - | | | | notifyMOIA | | | | ttributeValueChanges | | | | notification | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.3 Management services for network function provisioning
The management services for network function provisioning are listed in table
6.3-1.
Table 6.3-1: Management services for NF provisioning
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MnS Name | MnS Component of | MnS Component of | | | type A (Operations | type B (information | | | and notifications) | model) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network Function | Operations defined | NF(s)/ME(s) | | Provisioning | in clause 11 of TS | information model | | | 28.532 [8]: | defined in TS 28.541 | | | | [6] | | | - createMOI | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - | | | | modifyMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - deleteMOI | | | | operation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network Function | Operations defined | Nt | | Provisioning data | in TS 28.532 [8]: | fSubscriptionControl | | reporting | | defined in clause | | | - createMOI | 4.3.22 of TS 28.622 | | | operation | [13x]. | | | | | | | - deleteMOI | NF(s)/ME(s) | | | operation | information model | | | | defined in TS 28.541 | | | - getMOIAttributes | [6] | | | operation | | | | | | | | - | | | | modifyMOIAttributes | | | | op | | | | erationNotifications | | | | defined in clause 11 | | | | of TS 28.532 [8]: | | | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | notification | | | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | notification | | | | | | | | - | | | | notifyMOIA | | | | ttributeValueChanges | | | | notification | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.4 Void
## 6.5. Operations of provisioning
### 6.5.1 AllocateNsi operation
#### 6.5.1.1 Description
This operation is invoked by network slice provisioning MnS consumer to
request the provider to allocate a network slice instance to satisfy network
slice related requirements. The provider may create a new NSI or using
existing NSI to satisfy the request. _The requirements in the request are
compared/matched against the actual capabilitites of all candidate NSIs by the
provider. If an existing NSI can be found it is eligible for allocation, or
else a new NSI is created, provided that required NSSIs can be created._
#### 6.5.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment
attributeListIn M LIST OF SEQUENCE\ This
parameter specifies the network slice related requirements defined in
ServiceProfile in Clause 6.3.3 in TS 28.541 [6].
* * *
#### 6.5.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter name Support Qualifier Matching Information / Legal Values Comment
attributeListOut M LIST OF SEQUENCE\ This
list of name/value pairs contains the attributes of the ServiceProfile [6]
which has been allocated and the actual value assigned to each. status M ENUM
(OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) An operation may fail because of a
specified or unspecified reason. networkSliceDN M The DN of NetworkSlice MOI
uniquely identifying the network slice instance.
* * *
### 6.5.2 AllocateNssi operation
#### 6.5.2.1 Description
This operation is invoked by network slice subnet provisioning MnS consumer to
request the provider to allocate a network slice subnet instance to satisfy
the network slice subnet related requirements. The provider may create a new
NSSI or using existing NSSI to satisfy the request. _The requirements in the
request are compared/matched against the actual capabilitites of all candidate
NSSIs by the provider. If an existing NSSI can be found_ _then it is eligible
for allocation, or else a new NSSI is created, provided that resoures are
available._
#### 6.5.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment
attributeListIn M LIST OF SEQUENCE\ This
parameter specifies the network slice subnet related requirements defined in
SliceProfile in Clause 6.3.4 in TS 28.541 [6].
* * *
#### 6.5.2.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter name Support Qualifier Matching Information / Legal Values Comment
attributeListOut M LIST OF SEQUENCE\ This
list of name/value pairs contains the attributes of the SliceProfile [6] which
has been allocated and the actual value assigned to each. status M ENUM
(OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) An operation may fail because of a
specified or unspecified reason. networkSliceSubnetDN M The DN of
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI uniquely identifying the network slice subnet instance.
* * *
### 6.5.3 DeallocateNsi operation
#### 6.5.3.1 Description
This operation is invoked by network slice provisioning MnS consumer to
request the provider to deallocate a service profile in an NSI. The provider
may terminate the requested NSI or modify the requested NSI without
termination to satisfy the request.
#### 6.5.3.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment
networkSliceDN M The DN of NetworkSlice MOI uniquely identifying the network
slice instance.  
serviceProfileId M An attribute that globally uniquely identifies the service
profile in an NSI. It specifies the global unifique identifier of the service
profile in the NSI which is to be deallocated.
* * *
#### 6.5.3.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter name Support Qualifier Matching Information / Legal Values Comment
status M ENUM (OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) An operation may fail
because of a specified or unspecified reason.
* * *
### 6.5.4 DeallocateNssi operation
#### 6.5.4.1 Description
This operation is invoked by network slice subnet provisioning MnS consumer to
request the provider to deallocate a slice profile in an NSSI. The provider
may terminate the requested NSSI or modify the requested NSSI without
termination to satisfy the request.
#### 6.5.4.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment
networkSliceSubnetDN M The DN of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI identifying the
network slice subnet instance.  
sliceProfileId M An attribute uniquely identifies the slice profile in an
NSSI. It specifies the unifique identifier of the slice profile in the NSSI
which is to be deallocated.
* * *
#### 6.5.4.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter name Support Qualifier Matching Information / Legal Values Comment
status M ENUM (OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) An operation may fail
because of a specified or unspecified reason.
* * *
### 6.5.5 Void
# 7 Provisioning procedures of networks and network slicing
## 7.1 General
The procedures of provisioning of 5G networks are listed in this following
subclauses.
## 7.2 Procedure of Network Slice Instance Allocation
The Figure 7.2-1 illustrates the procedure of creating a new NSI or using an
existing NSI to satisfy the required network slice related requirements.
{width="6.242361111111111in" height="9.92361111111111in"}
Figure 7.2-1: Network Slice Instance Allocation Request procedure
1a-1) Network Slice Management Service Provider (NSMS_P) receives an
AllocateNsi request (see AllocateNsi operation defined in clause 6.5.1) from
Network Slice Management Service Consumer (NSMS_C) with network slice related
requirements (the network slice related requirements are defined as the
attributes in the ServiceProfile see clause 6.3.3 in TS 28.541 [6]).
1a-2) The NSMS_P creates an NetworkSliceController MOI and configures
attribute serviceProfileId to control and monitor network slice allocation
process. NSMS_P starts to perform the network slice allocation process.
1a-3) The NSMS_P sends AllocateNsi response to the NSMS_C. The
serviceProfileId is included in the AllocateNsi response.
1a-4) NSMS_P sends notification (see notfyMOICreation defined in TS 28.532
[8]) to NSMS_C to notify the DN of the created NetworkSliceController
instance.
1b-1) NSMS_P receives a createMOI request (see createMOI operation defined in
TS 28.532 [8]) from NSMS_C with network slice controller (see
NetworkSliceController IOC and its attribute defined in TS 28.541[6])
including the network slice related requirements in attribute
inputServiceProfile.
1b-2) The NSMS_P creates an MOI of NetworkSliceController.
1b-3) The NSMS_P sends the response to NSMS_C for the createMOI request.
NOTE: Network slice allocation may be initiated using AllocateNsi operation as
described in steps 1a or createMOI operation as described in 1b.
2) Based on the network slice related requirements and the knowledge of the
capabilities of existing deployed network slices, the NSMS_P may compare/match
_the provided requirements against all the candidate_ NetworkSlice _MOIs, and_
then decides whether to use an existing NetworkSlice _MOI_ or create a new
NetworkSlice _MOI_. If the network slice related requirements allow the
requested NetworkSlice _MOI_ to be shared and if an existing suitable
NetworkSlice _MOI_ can be reused, the NSMS_P may decide to use the existing
NetworkSlice _MOI_.
3a-1) If using an existing NetworkSlice MOI, _the NSMS__ P _identifies the_
NetworkSlice MOI _to be re-used._
3a-2) The NSMS_P configures NetworkSlice MOI with the DN of
NetworkSliceController MOI.
3a-3) NSMS_P configures the NetworkSliceController MOI attribute
networkSliceRef with DN of NetworkSlice MOI (identified in step 3a-1).
3a-4) If the existing NetworkSlice MOI needs to be modified to satisfy the
network slice related requirements, the NSMS_P invokes the procedure of
network slice instance modification as described in clause 7.6.
3b-1) If creating a new NetworkSlice MOI, the NSMS_P derives the network slice
subnet related requirements from the received network slice related
requirements. Before NSMS_P derives the network slice subnet related
requirements, NSMS_P may invoke corresponding network slice subnet capability
information querying procedure as described in clause 7.8.
3b-2) The NSMS_P invokes the procedure of network slice subnet instance
allocation as described in clause 7.3. Before NSMS_P invokes the procedure,
NSMS_P may invoke corresponding procedure of feasibility check and reservation
of network slice subnet as described in clause 7.14.
3b-3) The NSMS_P creates the NetworkSlice MOI and configures the DN of
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI and DN of NetworkSliceController MOI, other
configuration information may be configured for the created NetworkSlice MOI.
Note: The detailed configuration information is described in network slice NRM
(see NetworkSlice IOC defined in clause 6.3.1 in TS 28.541 [6]).
3a-5) NSMS_P configures the NetworkSliceController MOI attribute
networkSliceRef with DN of NetworkSlice MOI (created in step 5b-1).
4) NSMS_P configures NetworkSliceController MOI attributes operationalState,
administrativeState, availabilityStatus and processMonitor to indicate
completion of the procedure.
The NSMS_C may check the status and completion of the network slice allocation
procedure any time by monitoring the values of NetworkSliceController MOI
attributes operationalState, administrativeState, availabilityStatus and
processMonitor by querying the values or by subscribing to notifications.
The following step 5 describes the procedures for NSMS_C to monitor network
slice allocation progress and result. These steps can happen anytime after the
NetworkSliceController MOI is created and its DN is notified to the NSMS_C
(step 1a-1 or step 1b-3).
5a) The NSMS_P sends notification (see notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges defined
in TS 28.532 [8]) to NSMS_C to notify the progress and result for network
slice allocation process (see attributes in NetworkSliceController IOC).
5b) The NSMS_P sends query request to NSMS_P to query the attribute values of
NetworkSliceController MOI (see getMOIAttributes operation defined in TS
28.532 [8]) to obtain the progress and result (including DN of the
NetworkSlice MOI) for network slice allocation process.
## 7.3 Procedure of Network Slice Subnet Instance Allocation
The Figure 7.3-1 illustrates the procedure of creating a new network slice
subnet instance or using an existing network slice subnet instance to satisfy
the required network slice subnet related requirements.
{width="5.340277777777778in" height="9.915972222222223in"}
Figure 7.3-1: Network Slice Subnet Instance Allocation Request procedure
1a-1) Network Slice Subnet Management Service Provider (NSSMS_P) receives an
AllocateNssi request (see AllocateNssi operation defined in clause 6.5.2) from
Network Slice Subnet Management Service Consumer NSSMS_C with network slice
subnet related requirements (network slice subnet related requirements defined
in SliceProfile see clause 6.3.4 in TS 28.541 [6]).
1a-2) The NSSMS_P creates an MOI of NetworkSliceSubnetController and
configures attribute sliceProfileId to control and monitor network slice
subnetallocation process. NSSMS_P starts to perform the network slice subnet
allocation process.
1a-3) The NSSMS_P sends AllocateNssi response to the NSSMS_C. The
sliceProfileId is included in the AllocateNssi response.
1a-4) NSSMS_P sends notification (see notfyMOICreation defined in TS 28.532
[8]) to NSSMS_C to notify the DN of the created NetworkSliceSubnetController
instance.
1b-1) NSSMS_P receives a createMOI request (see createMOI operation defined in
TS 28.532 [8]) from NSSMS_C with network slice subnet controller (see
NetworkSliceSubnetController IOC and its attribute defined in TS 28.541[6]))
including the network slice subnet related requirements in attribute
inputSliceProfile.
1b-2) The NSSMS_P creates an MOI of NetworkSliceSubnetController.
1b-3) The NSSMS_P sends the response to NSSMS_C for the createMOI request.
NOTE: Network slice subnet allocation may be initiated using AllocateNssi
operation as described in steps 1a or createMOI operation as described in 1b.
2) NSSMS_P may invoke corresponding procedure of feasibility check and
reservation of network slice subnet as described in clause 7.14. If the
network slice subnet related requirements can be satisfied, the following step
3) to step 5) are needed, else go to step 6).
3) Based on the network slice subnet related requirements and the existing
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI capabilities, NSSMS_P decides whether to use an
existing NetworkSliceSubnet MOI or create a new NetworkSliceSubnet MOI. If the
network slice subnet related requirements allow the requested
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI to be shared and if an existing suitable
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI can be reused, the NSSMS_P decides to use the existing
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI.
4a-1) If using an existing NetworkSliceSubnet MOI, _the NSSMS__ P _identifies
the_ NetworkSliceSubnet MOI _to be re-used._
4a-2) The _NSSMS_ _P configures NetworkSliceSubnet MOI (attribute
networkSliceSubnetControllerRef) with the DN of NetworkSliceSubnetController
MOI.
4a-3) NSSMS_P configures the NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI (attribute
networkSliceSubnetRef) with DN of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI (identified in step
4a-1).
4a-4) If the existing NetworkSliceSubnet MOI needs to be modified to satisfy
the network slice subnet related requirements, the NSSMS_P invokes the
procedure of network slice subnet instance modification as described in clause
7.7.
4b-1) If using a new NetworkSliceSubnet MOI, the _NSSMS_ _P creates an MOI of
NetworkSliceSubnet. The _NSSMS_ _P configures NetworkSlice MOI (attribute
networkSliceSubnetControllerRef) with DN of NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI.
4b-2) NSSMS_P configures the NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI (attribute
networkSliceSubnetRef) with DN of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI (identified in step
4b-1).
4b-3) NSSMS_P derives the corresponding network slice subnet constituent
(i.e., NF constituent NetworkSliceSubnet) related requirements and transport
network related requirements (e.g., 3GPP endpoint information, latency
requirements, bandwidth requirements and isolation requirements) from the
received network slice subnet related requirements. Part of these requirements
may be referenced by attribute epTransportRef as defined in clause 6.3.2.2 in
TS 28.541[6]. Before NSSMS_P derives the constituent network slice subnet
related requirements, NSSMS_Provider may invoke corresponding network slice
subnet capability information querying procedure as described in clause 7.8.2.
4b-4) If the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI contains virtualisation part (i.e. VNF or
VL), NSSMS_P derives the NS instance instantiation information (the NS
instance instantiation information is described in clause 7.3.2.2 and clause
7.3.3.2 [3]) based on network slice subnet related requirements. NSSMS_P
determines new VNF instance(s) that need to be deployed and the existing VNF
instance(s) that need to be reused according to the necessary network
function(s) and then derives the profile of virtual link(s) according to the
connection requirements between the network functions. NSSMS_P chooses a
proper NSD deployment flavour and creates data concerning the SAPs of the NS
instance. NSSMS_P invokes the NS instantiation procedures to create a NS
instance.
Note: NS instantiation procedure is described in TS 28.526 [7].
4b-5) NSSMS_P configures NetworkSliceSubnet MOI attribute nsInfo with NS
instance information.
4b-6) For each required constituent network slice subnet (NetworkSliceSubnet
MOIs), the following step 4b-6a) and 4b-6b) are needed:
4b-6a) NSSMS_P invokes procedure of network slice subnet instance allocation.
4b-6b) NSSMS_P configures NetworkSliceSubnet MOI attribute
networkSliceSubnetRef with DN of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI.
4b-7) For each required constituent NF instance (ManagedFunction MOI), the
following step 4b-7a) and 4b-7b) are needed:
4b-7a) NSSMS_P invokes procedure of NF instance creation described in clause
7.10 or procedure of NF instance modification described in clause 7.11.
4b-7b) NSSMS_P configures NetworkSliceSubnet MOI attribute managedFunctionRef
with DN of ManagedFunction MOI.
4b-8) For each required transport network related requirements, NSSMS_P
invokes corresponding procedure of coordination with relevant TN Manager to
handle the TN part as described in clause 7.9.
5) NSSMS_P configures NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI attributes
operationalState, administrativeState, availabilityStatus and processMonitor
to indicate completion of the procedure.
The NSSMS_C may check the status and completion of the network slice subnet
allocation procedure any time by monitoring the values of
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI attributes operationalState,
administrativeState, availabilityStatus and processMonitor by querying the
values or by subscribing to notifications.
Following step 6) describes the procedures for NSSMS_C to monitor network
slice allocation progress and result. These steps can happen anytime after the
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI is created and its DN is notified to the
NSSMS_C (step 1a-4 or step 1b-3).
6a) The NSMS_P sends notification (see notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges defined
in TS 28.532 [8]) to NSMS_C to notify the progress and result for network
slice allocation process (see attributes in NetworkSliceController IOC).
6b) The NSMS_Provider sends query request to NSMS_Provider to query the
attribute value of NetworkSliceController instance to obtain the progress and
result (including DN of the NetworkSlice instance) for network slice
allocation process.
## 7.4 Procedure of Network Slice Instance Deallocation
Figure 7.4-1 depicts the procedure of deallocating a network slice instance by
the network slice management service provider to satisfy the NSI deallocation
request received from an authorized consumer.
{width="6.697916666666667in" height="7.011805555555555in"}
Figure 7.4-1: Network slice instance deallocation procedure
1a-1) Network Slice Management Service Provider (NSMS_P) receives a
DeallocateNsi request (see DeallocateNsi operation defined in clause 6.5.3)
from Network Slice Management Service Consumer (NSMS_C) indicating that the
NetworkSlice MOI is no longer needed for the given requirements i.e
ServiceProfile.
1a-2) NSMS_P identifies the DN of NetworkSlice MOI from the attribute
networkSliceRef and value of attribute serviceProfileId of the
NetworkSliceController MOI to be deleted.
1a-3) NSMS_P updates attribute networkSliceControllerRef of NetworkSlice MOI
(identified in step 1b-2) attribute to remove the DN of NetworkSliceController
MOI to be deleted.
1a-4) NSMS_P deletes NetworkSliceController MOI.
1a-5) The NSMS_P sends the DeallocateNsi response (see DeallocateNsi operation
defined in clause 6.5.3) to NSMS_C.
1b-1) If CRUD operations are visible to the NSMS_C, then NSMS_P receives a
deleteMOI request (see deleteMOI operation defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from
NSMS_C with network slice controller (see NetworkSliceController IOC and its
attribute defined in TS 28.541[6])).
1b-2) NSMS_P identifies the DN of NetworkSlice MOI from the attribute
networkSliceRef and value of attribute serviceProfileId of the
NetworkSliceController MOI to be deleted.
1b-3) NSMS_P updates attribute networkSliceControllerRef of NetworkSlice MOI
(identified in step 1b-2) attribute to remove the DN of NetworkSliceController
MOI to be deleted.
1b-4) NSMS_P deletes NetworkSliceController MOI.
1b-5) NSMS_P sends the response to NSMS_C for the deleteMOI request.
2) The NSMS_P may decide to delete or modify the NetworkSlice MOI (identified
in step 1b-2).
3a-1) If NSMS_P decides to delete the NetworkSlice MOI, then it deletes the
NetworkSlice MOI.
3a-2) NSMS_P invokes the procedure of network slice subnet instance
deallocation as described in clause 7.5.
3b-1) If NSMS_P decides to modify the NetworkSlice MOI, procedure of network
slice subnet instance modification procedure as described in clause 7.6.
3b-2) NSMS_P modifies the NetworkSlice MOI to update the serviceProfileList
(using the serviceProfileId identified in step 1a-2) or 1b-2) and may update
other attributes.
If the NSMS_C has subscribed for the notification, then NSMS_P sends
notification for deletion (see notifyMOIDeletion operation defined in TS
28.532 [8]) and notification for the attribute value changes (see
notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges operation defined in TS 28.532 [8]) of
NetworkSliceController MOI and NetworkSlice MOI.
## 7.5 Procedure of network slice subnet instance deallocation
Figure 7.5-1 depicts the procedure of deallocating a network slice subnet
instance by the network slice subnet management service provider to satisfy
the NSSI deallocation request received from an authorized consumer.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="8.73611111111111in"}
Figure 7.5-1: Network slice subnet instance deallocation procedure
1a-1) The network slice subnet management service provider (NSSMS_P) receives
DeallocateNssi request (see DeallocateNssi operation defined in clause 6.5.4)
from network slice subnet management service consumer (NSSMS_C) indicating
that the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI is no longer needed for the given requirements
i.e SliceProfile.
1a-2) NSSMS_P identifies the DN of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI from the attribute
networkSliceSubnetRef and value of attribute sliceProfileId from the
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI to be deleted.
1a-3) NSSMS_P updates NetworkSliceSubnet MOI (identified in step 1b-2)
attribute networkSliceSubnetControllerRef to remove the DN of
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI to be deleted.
1a-4) NSSMS_P deletes NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI.
1a-5) NSSMS_P sends response (see DeallocateNssi operation defined in clause
6.5.4) of NSSI deallocation service to NSSMS_C.
1b-1) If CRUD operations are visible to the NSSMS_C, then NSSMS_P receives a
deleteMOI request (see deleteMOI operation defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from
NSSMS_C with network slice controller (see NetworkSliceSubnetController IOC
and its attribute defined in TS 28.541[6])).
1b-2) NSSMS_P identifies the DN of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI from the attribute
networkSliceSubnetRef and value of attribute sliceProfileId from the
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI to be deleted.
1b-3) NSSMS_P updates NetworkSliceSubnet MOI (identified in step 1b-2)
attribute networkSliceSubnetControllerRef to remove the DN of
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI to be deleted.
1b-4) NSSMS_P deletes NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI.
1b-5) NSSMS_P sends the response to NSSMS_C for the deleteMOI request.
2) The NSSMS_P may decide to delete or modify the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
(identified in step 1b-2).
3a) If NSSMS_P decides to delete the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI, then it performs
the following steps:
3a-1) NSSMS_P invokes procedure of network slice subnet instance deallocation
as described in clause 7.5 for each constituent NetworkSliceSubnet MOI(s) that
is configured in attribute networkSliceSubnetRef of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
(identified in step 1b-2).
3a-2) For each constituent NF instance (ManagedFunction MOI DN that is
configured in attribute of managedFunctionRef of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
identified in step 1b-2), NSSMS_P invokes procedure of NF instance deletion as
described in clause 7.12 only if the NF is dedicated for the
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI (identified in step 1b-2) and not being used by any
other NetworkSliceSubnet MOIs in the network, otherwise, NSSMS_P procedure of
NF instance modification as described in clause 7.11.
3a-3) NSSMS_P invokes TN related coordination procedure with responsible
manager as described in clause 7.9 if the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI consists of
TN part.
3a-4) NSSMS_P invokes NS termination procedure if the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
contains virtualized part.
Note: NS termination procedure is described in TS 28.526 [7].
3a-5) NSSMS_P deletes the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI.
3b) If NSSMS_P decides to modify the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI, then it performs
the following sub steps:
3b-1) For each constituent NetworkSliceSubnet MOI, NSSMS_P invokes the
procedure of network slice subnet instance modificationas described in clause
7.6.
3b-2) NSSMS_P modifies the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI to update the
sliceProfileList (using the sliceProfileId identified in step 1b-2) and may
update other attributes.
If the NSSMS_C has subscribed for the notification, then NSSMS_P sends
notification for deletion (see notifyMOIDeletion operation defined in TS
28.532 [8]) and notification for the attribute value changes (see
notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges operation defined in TS 28.532 [8]) of
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI and NetworkSliceSubnet MOI.
## 7.6 Procedure of Network Slice Instance Modification
The Figure 7.6-1 illustrates the procedure of modifying an existing NSI.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="5.788194444444445in"}
Figure 7.6-1: Network Slice Instance Modification Request procedure
1a) Network Slice Management Service Provider (NSMS_P) receives a
modifyMOIAttributes request (defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from Network Slice
Management Service Consumer (NSMS_C) with the DN of NetworkSlice MOI and the
new network slice related requirements (see ServiceProfile defined in clause
6.3.3 in TS 28.541[6]).
1b-1) Network Slice Management Service Provider (NSMS_P) receives a
modifyMOIAttributes request (defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from Network Slice
Management Service Consumer (NSMS_C) with the DN of NetworkSliceController MOI
(see NetworkSliceController IOC and its attribute defined in TS 28.541[6]) and
the new requirements for the network slice in attribute inputServiceProfile.
The NSMS_C may check the status and completion of the network slice instance
modification procedure any time by monitoring the values of
NetworkSliceController MOI attributes operationalState, administrativeState,
availabilityStatus and processMonitor by querying the values or by subscribing
to notifications.
1b-2) The NSMS_P updates NetworkSliceController MOI attributes
inputServiceProfile, and may update attributes operationalState,
availabilityStatus and processMonitor to indicate progress.
1b-3) The NSMS_P sends the response to NSMS_C for the modifyMOIAttributes
request.
2) Based on the new network slice related requirements, NSMS_P invokes the
procedure of feasibility check and reservation of network slice as described
in clause 7.13. If the modification requirements can be satisfied, go to step
3), else go to step 6).
3) NSMS_P decomposes the modification request into the new requirements for
the network slice subnet related.
4) NSMS_P, as the role of Network Slice Subnet Management Service Consumer
(NSSMS_C), invokes the procedure of network slice subnet instance modification
as described in clause 7.7.
5) NSMS_P updates NetworkSlice MOI attributes.
6a) If NSMS_C sent new network slice related requirements in NetworkSlice MOI
(in step 1a), then NSMS_P sends response for modifyMOIAttributes.
6b) If NSMS_C sent the new network slice related requirements in
NetworkSliceController MOI (in step 1b-1), then NSMS_P updates
NetworkSliceController MOI attributes operationalState, administrativeState,
availabilityStatus and processMonitor to indicate completion of the procedure.
## 7.7 Procedure of Network Slice Subnet Instance Modification
The Figure 7.7-1 illustrates the procedure of modifying an existing NSSI.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="8.822222222222223in"}
Figure 7.7-1: Network Slice Subnet Instance Modification Request procedure
1a) Network Slice Subnet Management Service Provider (NSSMS_P) receives a
modifyMOIAttributes request (defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from Network Slice
Subnet Management Service Consumer (NSSMS_C) with the DN of NetworkSliceSubnet
MOI and the new network slice subnet related requirements (see SliceProfile
defined in clause 6.3.3 in TS 28.541[6]).
1b-1) Network Slice Subnet Management Service Provider (NSSMS_P) receives a
modifyMOIAttributes request (defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from Network Slice
Subnet Management Service Consumer (NSSMS_C) with the DN of
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI (see NetworkSliceSubnetController IOC and its
attribute defined in TS 28.541[6]) and the new network slice subnet related
requirements in attribute inputSliceProfile. The NSSMS_C may check the status
and completion of the network slice instance modification procedure any time
by monitoring the values of NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI attributes
operationalState, administrativeState, availabilityStatus and processMonitor
by querying the values or by subscribing to notifications.
1b-2) The NSSMS_P updates NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI attributes
inputSliceProfile, and may update attributes operationalState,
availabilityStatus and processMonitor to indicate progress.
1b-3) The NSSMS_P sends the response to NSSMS_C for the modifyMOIAttributes
request.
2) Based on the new network slice subnet related requirements, NSSMS_P invokes
the procedure of feasibility check and reservation of network slice subnet as
described in clause 7.14. If the modification requirements can be satisfied,
go to step 3), else go to step 6).
3) NSSMS_P decomposes the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI modification request into
modification requests for each constituent MOIs.
4a) NSSMS_P invokes procedure of network slice subnet instance modification
for each constituent NetworkSliceSubnet MOI(s) that is configured in attribute
networkSliceSubnetRef of the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI.
4b) For each constituent NF instance (ManagedFunction MOI DN that is
configured in attribute of managedFunctionRef of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI),
NSSMS_P invokes procedure of NF instance creation as described in clause 7.10
or procedure of NF instance modification as described in clause 7.11.
4c) If the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI contains the virtualized part, NSSMS_P
invokes the NS instance scaling and/or NS instance updating and/or NS instance
instantiation procedure as described in TS 28.526 [7].
4d) If the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI contains the TN part, NSSMS_P invokes the
corresponding procedure of coordination with relevant TN Manager to handle the
TN part as described in clause 7.9.
5) NSSMS_P updates NetworkSliceSubnet MOI attributes.
6a) If NSSMS_P sent new network slice subnet related requirements in
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI (in step 1a), then NSMS_P sends response for
modifyMOIAttributes.
6b) If NSSMS_C sent the new network slice subnet related requirements in
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI (in step 1b-1), then NSSMS_P updates
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI attributes operationalState,
administrativeState, availabilityStatus and processMonitor to indicate
completion of the procedure.
## 7.8 Procedure of Obtaining Network Slice Subnet Management Service Producer
Capability
### 7.8.1 Introduction
The clause illustrates possible procedures of obtaining network slice subnet
capability information (e.g. supported maximum latency, supported capacity
(e.g. maximum user number)) of network slice subnet instance(s) which can be
provided by network slice subnet management service provider.
### 7.8.2 Querying Network Slice Subnet Capability Information
{width="5.76875in" height="2.216666666666667in"}
Figure 7.8-2: Procedure of querying network slice subnet capability
information
1) Network Slice Subnet Management Service Consumer (NSSMS_C) wants to query
the NSS capability information of the NSSI(s) which can be provided by
corresponding Network Slice Subnet Management Service Producer (NSSMS_P)
NSSMS_C sends getMOIAttributes operation (defined in TS 28.532 [8]) , for
NetworkSliceSubnetProviderCapabilities IOC, to NSSMS_P to obtain the NSS
capability information of the NSSI(s) which can be provided by corresponding
NSSMS_P.
2) NSSMS_P processes the NSS capability information querying request.
3) NSSMS_P sends the NSS capability information (e.g. supported maximum
latency, supported capacity (e.g. user number)) of NSSI(s) that can be
provided by itself, as a response to getMOIAttributes operation (as defined in
TS 28.532 [8]), to NSSMS_C.
### 7.8.3 Void
## 7.9 Procedure of TN coordination supporting network slicing
## 7.9.1 Introduction
This clause describes procedures of coordination with TN Manager to handle TN
part supporting network slicing.
NOTE: The present document: addresses interactions with NFVO as TN manager,.
interactions with other types of TN Manager (e.g. Optical, IP bearer transport
network, etc.) have not been addressed.
## 7.9.2 Interaction with NFVO as TN Manager
This clause considers the procedure of interaction between the 3GPP management
system and the NFVO, which behaves as TN Manager, to satisfy the TN related
requirements for the virtual links used in NSSI. The procedure is applicable
to creation and modification of the NSSI.
{width="3.59375in" height="2.0833333333333335in"}
Figure 7.9.2-1: Interaction with NFVO as TN manager to support network slicing
1) Network Slice Subnet Management Service Provider (NSSMS_P) derives the TN
related requirements (e.g. 3GPP endpoint information, latency requirements,
bandwidth requirements, isolation requirements) for the TN part to be used in
the NSSI.
2) To satisfy the TN related requirements NSSMS_P invokes the corresponding NS
instance lifecycle management procedures as described in TS 28.526 [7].
3) After the NFVO executes the requested operation, it sends the corresponding
notification to the NSSMS_P as described in TS 28.526 [7].
## 7.10 Procedure of NF instance creation
The Figure 7.10-1 illustrates the procedure of creating a new network function
instance to satisfy the required network function related requirements.
{width="5.290972222222222in" height="4.749305555555556in"}
Figure 7.10-1: Network Function Instance Creation procedure
1) Network Function Management Service Provider (NFMS_P) receives a createMOI,
for ManagedFunction IOC, request from Network Function Management Service
Consumer (NFMS_C) with network function related requirements.
Note: The network function related requirements see information model
definition for NR NRM in clause 4 and information model definition for 5GC NRM
in clause 5 in TS 28.541[6].
2) If NF instance to be created contains virtualized part, NFMS_P derives the
requirements for VNF instance based on the network function related
requirements.
3) If corresponding VNF Package needs to be on-boarded or changed, the NFMS_P
invoke corresponding VNF Package management. For the interaction with ETSI NFV
MANO, the procedure is described in clause 7.7 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA013 [3]. The
VNF package which supports designing a VNFD for a containerized VNF is
compliesd with ETSI GS NFV-IFA011 [14].
4) The NFMS_P invokes VNF lifecycle management. For the interaction with ETSI
NFV MANO, the procedure is as described in clause 7.3.5 (Update NS operation)
in ETSI GS NFV-IFA013 [3] or clause 7.2.2 (Create VNF Identifier operation)
and clause 7.2.3 (Instantiate VNF operation) in ETSI GS NFV-IFA008 [15]..
5) The NFMS_P creates the MOI for the ManagedFunction to be created. If the
ManagedFunction contains virtualized part, the NFMS_P may send the request of
creating the MOI to the NFMS_P in the ManagedFunction.
6) The NFMS_P configures the new created MOI with corresponding configuration
information (see information model definition for NR NRM in clause 4 and
information model definition for 5GC NRM in clause 5 in TS 28.541[6]).
7) The NFMS_P sends the createMOI response to NFMS_C with DN of MOI for
ManagedFunction.
## 7.11 Procedure of NF instance modification
The Figure 7.11-1 illustrates the procedure of modify NF instance.
{width="5.801388888888889in" height="3.988888888888889in"}
Figure 7.11-1: Network Function Instance Modify procedure
1) Network Function Management Service Provider (NFMS_P) receives a
modifyMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532 [8] from Network Function
Management Service Consumer (NFMS_C) with DN of MOI for ManagedFunction and
network function related requirements.
Note: The network funcation related requirements see information model
definition for NR NRM in clause 4 and information model definition for 5GC NRM
in clause 5 in TS 28.541[6].
2) If ManagedFunction instance contains virtualized part, NFMS_P checks
whether corresponding VNF instance needs to be scaled to satisfy the network
function related requirements.
3) If corresponding VNF instance needs to be scaled, NFMS_P invokes
corresponding VNF instance scaling procedure as described in clause 4.2.3 in
TS 28.526 [7].
4) NFMS_P reconfigures corresponding ManagedFunction MOI.
5) The NFMS_P sends the response (see modifyMOIAttributes operation defined in
TS 28.532 [8]) to NFMS_C.
## 7.12 Procedure of NF instance deletion
The Figure 7.12-1 illustrates the procedure of deleting NF instance.
{width="4.645138888888889in" height="2.9993055555555554in"}
Figure 7.12-1: Network Function Instance Deletion procedure
1) Network Function Management Service Provider (NFMS_P) receives deletetMOI
from Network Function Management Service Consumer (NFMS_C) with DN of
ManagedFunction MOI.
2) If the ManagedFunction instance contains virtualized part, NFMS_P invokes
VNF instance termination procedure. For the interaction with ETSI NFV MANO,
the procedure is with ETSI NFV MANO as described in clause 7.2.7 (Terminate
VNF operation) and clause 7.2.8 (Delete VNF Identifier operation) in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA008 [15] or clause 7.3.5 (Update NS operation) in ETSI GS NFV-IFA013
[3].
3) NFMS_P deletes the ManagedFunction MOI.
4) NFMS_P sends the response (see deleteMOI operation defined in TS 28.532
[8]) to NFMS_C.
## 7.13 Procedure of feasibility check and reservation of NSI
{width="6.697916666666667in" height="9.343055555555555in"}
Figure 7.13-1 Network slice feasibility check and reservation procedure
1) Network Slice Management Service Provider (NS MnS Provider) receives a
feasibility check with or without reservation job creation request (see
createMOI operation defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from Network Slice Management
Service Consumer (NS MnS Consumer) with feasibility check and reservation
requirements (including serviceProfile, resourceReservation and
requestedReservationExpiration of FeasibilityCheckAndReservationJob IOC
defined in TS 28.541 [6]). The request is to check whether the network slice
related requirements (i.e., ServiceProfile) can be satisfied and optionally be
requested to be reserved. The resourceReservation attribute in the request may
indicate whether reservation is also requested or not.
2) NS MnS Provider creates the FeasibilityCheckAndReservationJob instance and
configures the attribute \"ServiceProfile\" and other attributes received from
the request and NS MnS Provider starts executing the feasibility check
process.
3) NS MnS Provider sends the feasibility check and reservation job creation
response with the DN of the FeasibilityCheckAndReservationJob instance (see
createMOI operation defined in TS 28.532 [8]) to NS MnS Consumer.
4) NS MnS Provider performs feasibility check locally on whether the resources
are available.
NS MnS Provider may invoke the feasibility check and reservation procedure for
the constituent network slice subnet as described in clause 7.14
5) NS MnS Provider performs resource reservation process when
resourceReservation is True and feasibilityResult is feasible.
6) The NS MnS Consumer may subscribe for the attribute value change
notifications for this specific job or for any of the job(s) created by it to
receive any asynchronous job progress notifications for those job(s). NS MnS
Provider then sends the asynchronous job progress notification for feasibility
check and reservation process with processMonitor attributes.
7) NS MnS Provider sends the final notification with the feasibility check and
reservation status (including feasibilityResult, inFeasibleReason,
resourceReservationStatus, reservationFailureReason, reservationExpiration and
recommendedRequirements of FeasibilityCheckAndReservationJob IOC in TS 28.541
[6]).
8-10) Once after step 3, NS MnS Consumer can send query request to NS MnS
Provider any time, to know the feasibility check and reservation job status
and receive the feasibility check and reservation job status.
11-13) NS MnS consumer can request to delete the feasibility check and
reservation job any time and the NS MnS Provider deletes the Job and sends the
Job deletion response. NS MnS Provider will cancel the resource reservation
when the feasibility check and reservation job is deleted.
## 7.14 Procedure of feasibility check and reservation of network slice subnet
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="8.590972222222222in"}
Figure 7.14-2 Network slice subnet feasibility check and reservation procedure
1) Network Slice Subnet Management Service Provider (NSS MnS Provider)
receives a feasibility check with or without reservation job creation request
(see createMOI operation defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from Network Slice Subnet
Management Service Consumer (NSS MnS Consumer) with feasibility check and
reservation requirements (including sliceProfile, resourceReservation and
requestedReservationExpiration defined in FeasibilityCheckAndReservationJob
IOC defined in TS 28.541 [6]). The request is to check whether the network
slice subnet related requirements (i.e. SliceProfile) can be satisfied and
optionally be requested to be reserved. The resourceReservation attribute in
the request may indicate whether reservation is also requested or not.
2) NSS MnS Provider creates the FeasibilityCheckAndReservationJob instance and
configures the attribute \"SliceProfile\" and other attributes received from
the request and NSS MnS Provider starts executing the feasibility check
process.
3) NSS MnS Provider sends the feasibility check and reservation job creation
response for the received DN of theFeasibilityCheckAndReservationJob (see
createMOI operation defined in TS 28.532 [8]) requests to NSS MnS Consumer.
4) NSS MnS Provider performs feasibility check locally (e.g 3GPP MnFs) on
whether the resources are available.
NSS MnS Provider may optionally perform feasibility check with other entities
in control of the network slice subnet constituents (e.g., MANO, TN Manager)
of the network slice subnet.
5) NSS MnS Provider performs resource reservation process when
resourceReservation is True and feasibilityResult is feasible.
6) The NSS MnS Consumer may subscribe for the attribute value change
notifications for this specific job or for any of the job(s) created by it to
receive any asynchronous job progress notifications for those job(s). NSS MnS
Provider then sends the asynchronous job progress notification for feasibility
check and reservation process with processMonitor attributes.
7) NSS MnS Provider sends the final notification with the feasibility check
and reservation status (including feasibilityResult, inFeasibleReason,
resourceReservationStatus, reservationFailureReason, reservationExpiration and
recommendedRequirements defined in FeasibilityCheckAndReservationJob IOC in TS
28.541 [6]).
8-10) Once after step 3, NSS MnS Consumer can send query request to NSS MnS
Provider any time, to know the feasibility check and reservation job status
and receive the feasibility check and reservation job status.
11-13) NSS MnS consumer can request to delete the feasibility check and
reservation job any time and the NSS MnS Provider deletes the Job and sends
the Job deletion response. NSS MnS Provider will cancel the resource
reservation when the feasibility check and reservation job is deleted.
## 7.15 Void
## 7.16 Void
## 7.17 Procedure of management interaction with NFV MANO for network service
priority
The Figure 7.17-1 illustrates the procedure of management interaction with NFV
MANO for network service priority.
Figure 17.1-1: Management interaction with NFV MANO
1\. Network provisioning management service provider receives a CreateMOI
requrest for SubNetwork IOC from a consumer. In the request, the priority is
assigned by providing the value to the priorityLabel attribute.
2\. If the sub-network to be created contains virtualisation part (i.e. VNF or
VL), Network provisioning management service provider chooses a proper NSD
deployment flavour with appropriate priority (see clause 6.3.2.2 in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 014 [12] ) according to the value of priorityLabel attribute in the
CreateMOI requrest. Network provisioning management service provider invokes
the NS instantiation procedures to create a NS instance.
Note: NS instantiation procedure is described in clause 7.3.3 in ETSI GS NFV-
IFA 013 [3].
3\. For each constituent NF, Network provisioning management service provider
invokes NF Creation Procedure as described in clause 7.10.
4\. The Network provisioning management service provider sends the response to
the consumer with DN of MOI for the created sub-network.
## 7.18 Procedure for Network slice instance activation
The Figure 7.18-1 illustrates the procedure for network slice instance
activation.
{width="6.69375in" height="1.7555555555555555in"}
Figure 7.18-1: Network slice instance activation
1\. Network Slice Management Service Provider (NSMS_P) receives a
modifyMOIAttributes operation (defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from Network Slice
Management Service Consumer (NSMS_C) with the DN of NetworkSlice instance and
the new value of UNLOCKED for the administrative state (see NetworkSlice IOC
and administrativeState attribute defined in clause 6.3.1 in TS 28.541[6]).
2\. NSMS_P, as the role of etwork Slice Subnet Management Service Consumer
(NSSMS_C), invokes the network slice subnet instance activation procedure.
3\. NSMS_P modifies the value of the administrative state attribute of the
NetworkSlice instance.
4\. NSMS_P sends network slice instance administrative state attribute
modification result (see modifyMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532
[8]) to NSMS_C.
## 7.19 Procedure for Network slice instance deactivation
The Figure 7.19-1 illustrates the procedure for network slice instance
deactivation.
{width="6.697222222222222in" height="1.7840277777777778in"}
Figure 7.19-1: Network slice instance deactivation
1\. Network Slice Management Service Provider (NSMS_P) receives a
modifyMOIAttributes operation (defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from Network Slice
Management Service Consumer (NSMS_C) with the DN of NetworkSlice instance and
the new value of LOCKED for the administrative state (see NetworkSlice IOC and
administrativeState attribute defined in clause 6.3.1 in TS 28.541[6]).
2\. NSMS_P, as the role of Network Slice Subnet Management Service Consumer
(NSSMS_C), invokes the Network slice subnet instance deactivation procedure.
3\. NSMS_P modifies the value of the administrative state attribute of the
NetworkSlice instance.
4\. NSMS_P sends network slice instance administrative state attribute
modification result (see modifyMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532
[8]) to NSMS_C.
## 7.20 Procedure for Network slice sunbet instance activation
The Figure 7.20-1 illustrates the procedure for network slice subnet instance
activation.
{width="6.697916666666667in" height="2.9868055555555557in"}
Figure 7.20-1: Network slice subnet instance activation
1\. Network Slice Subnet Management Service Provider (NSSMS_P) receives a
modifyMOIAttributes operation (defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from Network Slice
Subnet Management Service Consumer (NSSMS_C) with the DN of NetworkSliceSubnet
instance and the new value of UNLOCKED for the administrative state (see
NetworkSliceSubnet IOC and administrativeState attribute defined in clause
6.3.2 in TS 28.541[6]).
2\. If the network slice subnet instance consists of constituent network slice
subnet instance(s), then NSSMS_P, as the role of Network Slice Subnet
Management Service Consumer (NSSMS_C), invokes the network slice subnet
instance activation procedure for the constituent network slice subnet
instance(s).
3\. If the network slice subnet instance consists of constituent is NF
instance, then NSSMS_P request the NF related provisioning management service
provider to activate the NF (e.g., activate the NF in sleep mode, turn on the
ports).
4\. NSSMS_P modifies the value of the administrative state attribute of the
NetworkSliceSubnet instance.
5\. NSSMS_P sends network slice subnet instance administrative state attribute
modification result (see modifyMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532
[8]) to NSMS_C.
## 7.21 Procedure for Network slice subnet instance deactivation
The Figure 7.21-1 illustrates the procedure for network slice subnet instance
deactivation.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="2.9659722222222222in"}
Figure 7.21-1: Network slice subnet instance deactivation
1\. Network Slice Subnet Management Service Provider (NSSMS_P) receives a
modifyMOIAttributes operation (defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from Network Slice
Subnet Management Service Consumer (NSSMS_C) with the DN of NetworkSliceSubnet
instance and the new value of LOCKED for the administrative state (see
NetworkSliceSubnet IOC and administrativeState attribute defined in clause
6.3.2 in TS 28.541[6]).
2\. If the network slice subnet instance consists of constituent network slice
subnet instance(s), then NSSMS_P, as the role of Network Slice Subnet
Management Service Consumer (NSSMS_C), invokes the network slice subnet
instance deactivation procedure for the constituent network slice subnet
instance(s).
3\. If the network slice subnet instance consists of constituent is NF
instance, then NSSMS_P requests the NF related provisioning management service
provider to either deactivate the NF (if it is dedicated for this network
slice subnet instance and not being used by any other network slice subnet
instance) or to modify the NF (if it is shared by other network slice subnet
instance).
4\. NSSMS_P modifies the value of the administrative state attribute of the
NetworkSliceSubnet instance.
5\. NSSMS_P sends network slice subnet instance administrative state attribute
modification result (see modifyMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532
[8]) to NSMS_C.
# 8 Void
# 9 RESTful HTTP-based solution set of provisioning
## 9.1 Network slice provisioning management service
### 9.1.1 Mapping of operations
#### 9.1.1.1 Introduction
Table 9.1.1-1: Mapping of IS operations to SS equivalents
* * *
**IS operation** **HTTP Method** **Resource URI** **Qualifier** allocateNsi
POST {MnSRoot}/NSProvMnS/{MnSVersion}/ServiceProfile M
deallocateNsi DELETE
{MnSRoot}/NSProvMnS/{MnSVersion}/ServiceProfile={ServiceProfileId} M
* * *
#### 9.1.1.2 Operation allocateNsi
This operation is to allocate a network slice instance provided by the service
provider, the network slice instance may be new or existing.
Table 9.1.2-1: Mapping of IS operation input parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP POST)
* * *
IS operation parameter name SS parameter location SS parameter name SS
parameter type Qualifier attributeListIn request body n/a n/a M
* * *
Table 9.1.2-2: Mapping of IS operation output parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP POST)
* * *
IS operation parameter name SS parameter location SS parameter name SS
parameter type Qualifier attributeListOut response body n/a n/a M status
response status codes n/a n/a M response body error ErrorResponse O
networkSliceDN response body n/a Resource M
* * *
The message flow for allocation is as follows:
1\. The MnS consumer sends a HTTP POST request to the MnS producer.
\- The target URI is equal to the concatenation of URI of the parent resource
of resource to be created, and the resource (in this case ServiceProfile) to
be created.
\- The message body shall carry the complete representation of the resource to
be created. The resource identifier shall be absent or carry null semantics.
2\. The MnS producer sends a HTTP POST response to the MnS consumer.
\- On success, \"201 Created\" shall be returned. The Location header shall
carry the URI of the new resource (in this case ServiceProfile) and the
message body shall contain the complete complete representation of the
ServiceProfile and networkSliceDN identifying the NetworkSlice MOI created.
\- On failure, an appropriate error code shall be returned. The response
message body may provide additional error information.
#### 9.1.1.3 Operation deallocateNsi
This operation deallocate a service profile in an NSI. The provider may
terminate the requested NSI or modify the requested NSI without termination to
satisfy the request.
Table 9.1.1.3-1: Mapping of IS operation input parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP DELETE)
* * *
IS operation parameter name SS parameter location SS parameter name SS
parameter type Qualifier networkSliceDN request body n/a Resource M
serviceProfileId Request body n/a Resource M
* * *
Table 9.1.1.3-2: Mapping of IS operation output parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP DELETE)
* * *
IS operation parameter name SS parameter location SS parameter name SS
parameter type Qualifier status response status codes n/a n/a M response body
error ErrorResponse O
* * *
The message flow for deallocation is as follows:
1\. The MnS consumer sends a HTTP DELETE request to the MnS producer.
\- The target URI is equal to the concatenation of URI of the parent resource
and the resource (in this case ServiceProfile) to be deleted.
\- The message body shall contain the networkSliceDN identifying the
NetworkSlice MOI.
2\. The MnS producer sends a HTTP DELETE response to the MnS consumer.
\- On success, \"204 No content\" shall be returned.
\- On failure, an appropriate error code shall be returned. The response
message body may provide additional error information.
### 9.1.2 Resources
#### 9.1.2.1 Resource definitions
##### 9.1.2.1.1 Resource ".../ServiceProfile
##### 9.1.2.1.1.1 Description {#description-4 .H6}
This resource represents collects of network slice related requirement (i.e.
ServiceProfiles).
##### 9.1.2.1.1.2 URI {#uri .H6}
Resource URI: {MnSRoot}/NSProvMnS/{MnSVersion}/ServiceProfile
##### 9.1.2.1.1.3 HTTP methods {#http-methods .H6}
##### 9.1.2.1.1.3.1 POST {#post .H6}
The POST method create a serviceProfile, the provider may create a NSI or
using existing NSI to satisfy the serviceProfile.
This method shall support the request data structures, and the response data
structures and response codes specified in the following tables.
Table 9.2.1.1.3.1-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
**Name** **DATA TYPE** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** attributeListIn
LIST OF SEQUENCE\ M 1 This parameter
specifies the network slice related requirements or network related
requirements defined in ServiceProfile in Clause 6.3.3 in TS 28.541 [6].
* * *
Table Y.2.1.1.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Name | DATA TYPE | P | Cardinality | Description | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | att | LIST OF | M | 1 | This list of | | ributeListOut | SEQUENCE\ | | | the | | | | | | Slic | | | | | | eProfile[6] | | | | | | which has | | | | | | been | | | | | | allocated and | | | | | | the actual | | | | | | value | | | | | | assigned to | | | | | | each. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | status | HTTP response | M | 1 | HTTP response | | | code | | | code 200 | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | "Operati | | | | | | onSucceeded". | | | | | | | | | | | | All other | | | | | | HTTP response | | | | | | codes | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | "Oper | | | | | | ationFailed". | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | n | Resource | M | 1 | The DN of | | etworkSliceDN | | | | NetworkSlice | | | | | | MOI uniquely | | | | | | identifying | | | | | | the network | | | | | | slice | | | | | | instance. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
##### 9.1.2.1.1.3.2 DELETE {#delete .H6}
The DELETE method deletes a ServiceProfile.
This method shall support the request data structures, and the response data
structures and response codes specified in the following tables.
Table 9.2.2.2.2.3.1-1: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Name DATA TYPE P Cardinality Description networkSliceDN Resource M 1 The DN of
NetworkSlice MOI uniquely identifying the network slice instance.
serviceProfileId Resource M 1 It specifies the global unifique identifier of
the service profile in the NSI which is to be deallocated.
* * *
Table 9.2.2.2.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
+--------+------------------+---+-------------+------------------+ | Name | DATA TYPE | P | Cardinality | Description | +--------+------------------+---+-------------+------------------+ | status | HTTP response | M | 1 | HTTP response | | | code | | | code 200 | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | "Oper | | | | | | ationSucceeded". | | | | | | | | | | | | All other HTTP | | | | | | response codes | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | "O | | | | | | perationFailed". | +--------+------------------+---+-------------+------------------+
## 9.2 Network slice subnet provisioning management service
### 9.2.1 Mapping of operations
#### 9.2.1.1 Introduction
Table 9.2.1.1-1: Mapping of IS operations to SS equivalents
* * *
IS operation HTTP Method Resource URI Qualifier
allocateNssi POST
{MnSRoot}/NSSProvMnS/{MnSVersion}/SliceSubnetMgmt/SliceProfile M
deallocateNssi DELETE
{MnSRoot}/NSSProvMnS/{MnSVersion}/SliceSubnetMgmt/SliceProfile={id} M
* * *
#### 9.2.1.2 Operation allocateNssi
This operation is to allocate a network slice subnet instance provided by the
service provider, the network slice subnet instance may be new or existing.
Table 9.2.1.2-1: Mapping of IS operation input parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP POST)
* * *
IS operation parameter name SS parameter location SS parameter name SS
parameter type Qualifier attributeListIn request body n/a Resource M
* * *
Table 9.2.1.2-2: Mapping of IS operation output parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP POST)
* * *
IS operation parameter name SS parameter location SS parameter name SS
parameter type Qualifier attributeListOut response body n/a Resource M status
response status codes n/a n/a M Response body error ErrorResponse O
networkSliceSubnetDN response body n/a Resource M
* * *
The message flow for allocation is as follows:
1\. The MnS consumer sends a HTTP POST request to the MnS producer.
\- The target URI is equal to the concatenation of URI of the parent resource
of resource to be created, and the resource (in this case SliceProfile) to be
created.
\- The message body shall carry the complete representation of the resource to
be created. The resource identifier shall be absent or carry null semantics.
2\. The MnS producer sends a HTTP POST response to the MnS consumer.
\- On success, \"201 Created\" shall be returned. The Location header shall
carry the URI of the new resource (in this case SliceProfile) and the message
body shall contain the complete complete representation of the SliceProfile
and networkSliceSubnetDN identifying the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI created.
> \- On failure, an appropriate error code shall be returned. The response
> message body may provide additional error information.
#### 9.2.1.3 Operation deallocateNssi
This operation deallocate a slice profile in an NSSI. The provider may
terminate the requested NSSI or modify the requested NSSI without termination
to satisfy the request.
Table 9.2.1.3-1: Mapping of IS operation input parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP DELETE)
* * *
**IS operation parameter name** **SS parameter location** **SS parameter
name** **SS parameter type** **Qualifier** networkSliceSubnetDN request body
n/a Resource M sliceProfileId request body n/a Resource M
* * *
Table 9.2.1.3-2: Mapping of IS operation output parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP DELETE)
* * *
**IS operation parameter name** **SS parameter location** **SS parameter
name** **SS parameter type** **Qualifier** status response status codes n/a
n/a M response body error ErrorResponse O
* * *
The message flow for deallocation is as follows:
1\. The MnS consumer sends a HTTP DELETE request to the MnS producer.
\- The target URI is equal to the concatenation of URI of the parent resource
and the resource (in this case SliceProfile) to be deleted.
\- The message body shall contain the networkSliceSubnetDN identifying the
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI.
2\. The MnS producer sends a HTTP DELETE response to the MnS consumer.
\- On success, \"204 No content\" shall be returned.
\- On failure, an appropriate error code shall be returned. The response
message body may provide additional error information.
### 9.2.2 Resources
#### 9.2.2.1 Resource definitions
##### 9.2.2.1.1 Resource ".../SliceProfile
##### 9.2.2.1.1.1 Description {#description-5 .H6}
This resource represents collects of network slice subnet related requirements
(i.e. SliceProfile).
##### 9.2.2.1.1.2 URI {#uri-1 .H6}
Resource URI: {MnSRoot}/NSSProvMnS/{MnSVersion}/SliceSubnetMgmt/SliceProfile
##### 9.2.2.1.1.3 HTTP methods {#http-methods-1 .H6}
##### 9.2.2.1.1.3.1 POST {#post-1 .H6}
The POST method create a SliceProfile, the provider may create a new NSSI or
using existing NSSI to support the SliceProfile.
This method shall support the request data structures, and the response data
structures and response codes specified in the following tables.
Table 9.2.2.1.1.3.1-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
**Name** **DATA TYPE** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** attributeListIn
LIST OF SEQUENCE\ M 1 This parameter
specifies the network slice subnet related requirements defined in
SliceProfile in Clause 6.3.4 in TS 28.541 [6].
* * *
Table 9.2.2.1.1.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Name | DATA TYPE | P | Cardinality | Description | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | att | LIST OF | M | 1 | This list of | | ributeListOut | SEQUENCE\ | | | the | | | | | | Slic | | | | | | eProfile[6] | | | | | | which has | | | | | | been | | | | | | allocated and | | | | | | the actual | | | | | | value | | | | | | assigned to | | | | | | each. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | status | HTTP response | M | 1 | HTTP response | | | code | | | code 200 | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | "Operati | | | | | | onSucceeded". | | | | | | | | | | | | All other | | | | | | HTTP response | | | | | | codes | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | "Oper | | | | | | ationFailed". | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | network | Resource | M | 1 | The DN of | | SliceSubnetDN | | | | Netwo | | | | | | rkSliceSubnet | | | | | | MOI uniquely | | | | | | identifying | | | | | | the network | | | | | | slice subnet | | | | | | instance. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
##### 9.2.2.1.1.3.2 DELETE {#delete-1 .H6}
The DELETE method deletes a SliceProfile.
This method shall support the request data structures, and the response data
structures and response codes specified in the following tables.
Table 9.2.2.1.1.3.2-1: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Name DATA TYPE P Cardinality Description networkSliceSubnetDN Resource M 1 The
DN of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI uniquely identifying the network slice subnet
instance. sliceProfileId Resource M 1 It specifies the unifique identifier of
the slice profile in the NSSI which is to be deallocated.
* * *
Table 9.2.2.1.1.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
+--------+------------------+---+-------------+------------------+ | Name | DATA TYPE | P | Cardinality | Description | +--------+------------------+---+-------------+------------------+ | status | HTTP response | M | 1 | HTTP response | | | code | | | code 200 | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | "Oper | | | | | | ationSucceeded". | | | | | | | | | | | | All other HTTP | | | | | | response codes | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | "O | | | | | | perationFailed". | +--------+------------------+---+-------------+------------------+
###### ## Annex A (informative): A network slice journey example
The Generic Slice Template (GST) ([9]) provides a standardized list of
attributes that can be used to characterise different types of network slice.
GST is generic and is not tied to any:
\- Type of network slice
\- Agreement between a Network Slice Customer (NSC) and a Network Slice
Provider (NSP).
A Network Slice Type (NEST) is a GST filled with (ranges of) values. There may
be two kinds of NESTs:
\- Standardized NESTs (S-NEST), i.e. NESTs which character attributes are
assigned (ranges of) values by SDOs, working groups, foras, etc. such as e.g.
3GPP, GSMA, 5GAA, 5G-ACIA, etc.;
\- Private NESTs (P-NEST), i.e. NESTs which character attributes are assigned
(ranges of) values by the Network Slice Providers, which are different from
those assigned in S-NESTs.
Network Slice Providers can build their network slice product offering based
on S-NESTs and/or their P-NESTs. For example, a Standardized Network Slice
Type (S-NEST) NST-A, for which the attribute 'Packet delay budget' (see [x] --
clause 3.4.26) value range is between 1 ms and 100 ms, is specified by 3GPP.
Netwok Slice Provider Y may offer e.g. 3 products based on NST-A:
\- Platinum NST-A based network slice product, where the attribute 'Packet
delay budget' (see [x] -- clause 3.4.26) value range is between 1 ms and 10
ms;
\- Gold NST-A based network slice product, where the attribute 'Packet delay
budget' (see [x] -- clause 3.4.26) value range is between 11 ms and 50 ms;
\- Silver NST-A based network slice product, where the attribute 'Packet delay
budget' (see [x] -- clause 3.4.26) value range is between 51 ms and 100 ms.
NSP Y's customers can then order network slice instances from Y's product
catalog, as depicted by Figure A.1.
{width="5.357638888888889in" height="3.061111111111111in"}
Figure A.1: From GST to S-(/P-)NEST based product ordering
1) A Network Slice Customer orders network slice instance to a Network Slice
Provider, based on NSP's product offering, by sending a request to NSP' BSS
2) NSP's BSS receives the request from NSC and translates NSC requirements
into NSP technical parameter values
3) NSP's BSS sends a request to NSP's OSS to provide a network slice instance
which fits NSC's requirements (see Table 6.1-1)
4) NSP's Network Slice Provisioning MnS either creates a new network slice
instance or assigns an already existing network slice instance to NSC's
request
5) NSP's Network Slice Provisioning MnS may have to request the Network Slice
Subnet Provisioning MnS to provide a network slice subnet instance
corresponding to the network slice instance (see Table 6.2-1)
6) NSP's Network Slice Subnet Provisioning MnS may have to create one or more
inner network slice subnet instances
7) NSP's Network Function Provisioning MnS configures VNFs and/or PNFs (see
Table 6.3-1).
{width="6.370138888888889in" height="3.3645833333333335in"}
Figure A.2: Network Slice journey (NSaaS model) -- high-level call flow
Depending on NSP's product offering, NSC can order network slice instances
spanning one or more network domains, e.g.:
\- network slice instances composed of a RAN-only network slice subnet
instance
{width="3.7416666666666667in" height="2.075in"}
Figure A.3: RAN-only network slice subnet exposed as network slice
\- network slice instances composed of a CN-only network slice subnet instance
\- network slice instances composed of a RAN network slice subnet instance +
Transport network slice subnet + CN network slice subnet instance
{width="5.788194444444445in" height="2.55in"}
Figure A.4: RAN+TN+CN network slice subnets exposed as network slice
\- network slice instances composed of a RAN network slice subnet instance +
CN network slice subnet instance + IMS network slice subnet instance
\- or more, as shown below..
{width="6.711805555555555in" height="2.073611111111111in"}
Figure A.5: RAN+TN+CN+TN+IMS+TN+AS network slice subnets exposed as network
slice
###### ## Annex B (informative): General information for network slice related
identifiers
The following network slice related identifiers serve different purposes:
* * *
Identifier Description Identifiers for network slice management purpose  
NetworkSlice identifier To identify a NetworkSlice instance defined in TS
28.530 (see [4]), it is DN of a managed object instance of NetworkSlice IOC,
see TS 28.541 [6] NetworkSliceSubnet identifier To identify a
NetworkSliceSubnet instance defined in TS 28.530 (see [4]), it is DN of a
managed object instance of NetworkSliceSubnet IOC, see TS 28.541 [6]
**Identifiers for network slice signaling purpose**  
NSI ID NSI ID is only for 5GC signaling use, i.e. to identify Core Network
part of a Network Slice instance when multiple Network Slice instances of the
same Network Slice are deployed, and there is a need to differentiate between
them in the 5GC, see clause 3.1 of TS 23.501 [10]. The NRM attribute
cNSIIdList of NRFFunction and NSSFFunction, see TS 28.541 [6], is a list for
NSI ID(s). S-NSSAI To identify Network Slice defined in TS 23.501. Referred to
TS 23.501 [10] and TS 38.300 [11]. NRM attribute sNSSAIList defines the
S-NSSAI(s) supported by the corresponding managed object, see TS 28.541 [6].
PLMN ID Represent PLMN identifier.
* * *
The NSI ID and S-NSSAI are configuration parameters of the management system.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Plant UML source code
# C.1 General
This annex contains the PlantUML source code for procedures defined in clause
7 of the present document.
# C.2 Procedure of network slice instance allocation
\@startuml
skinparam shadowing false
skinparam monochrome true
hide footbox
actor \"NSMS_C\" as NSMS_Consumer
participant \"\tNSMS_P\t\t\" as NSMS_Provider
alt NSMS_C sends AllocateNsi request
NSMS_Consumer -> NSMS_Provider: 1a-1. AllocateNsi(ServiceProfile) Request
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 1a-2. Creates NetworkSliceController MOI
NSMS_Provider --> NSMS_Consumer: 1a-3. AllocateNsi(ServiceProfileId) Response
NSMS_Provider --> NSMS_Consumer: 1a-4.
notifyMOICreation(\n\tobjectClass=NetworkSliceController,
\n\tobjectInstance=DN of NetworkSliceController MOI,...)
else NSMS_C sends createMOI request
NSMS_Consumer -> NSMS_Provider: 1b-1. createMOI(\n\t
managedObjectClass=NetworkSliceController, \n\t
attributeListIn=inputServiceProfile,...) Request
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 1b-2. Creates NetworkSliceController MOI
NSMS_Provider --> NSMS_Consumer: 1b-3. createMOI() Response
end alt
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 2. Decides to create a new NetworkSlice MOI\
\n\t or use an existing NetworkSlice MOI.
alt Using an existing NetworkSlice MOI
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 3a-1. Identifies the NetworkSlice MOI to re-
use
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 3a-2. Configures NetworkSlice MOI with \n DN
of NetworkSliceController MOI
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 3a-3. Configures NetworkSliceController MOI
with \n DN of NetworkSlice MOI
opt If the existing NetworkSlice MOI needs to be modified
ref over NSMS_Provider
3a-4. Procedure of Network Slice Instance Modification
end ref
end opt
else Creating a new NetworkSlice MOI
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 3b-1. Derives the network slice subnet related
requirements
ref over NSMS_Provider
4b-2. Procedure of Network Slice Subnet Instance Allocation
end ref
\|\|\|
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 3b-3. Creates NetworkSlice MOI and \n
configures NetworkSlice MOI with \nDN of NetworkSliceController MOI and \nDN
of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 3b-4. Configures NetworkSliceController MOI
with \n DN of NetworkSlice MOI
\|\|\|
end alt
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 4. Updates attributes of
NetworkSliceController MOI\nindicating completion of the procedure
group Monitoring network slice allocation progress and result. \nThis can be
happened anytime after step NetworkSliceController is created (i.e., step 1a-2
or step 1b-2)
alt obtain the progress and result by subscribe-notification method
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Consumer: 5a. Notify network slice allocation progress
and result \n (DN of NetworkSliceController MOI and its attributes)
else obtain the progress and result by query method
NSMS_Consumer -> NSMS_Provider: 5b-1. Request to query the \n
NetworkSliceController information (DN of NetworkSliceController)
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Consumer: 5b-2. Response with the NetworkSliceController
\n information (DN of NetworkSliceController and values of its attribute)
end alt
\@enduml
# C.3 Procedure of Network Slice Subnet Instance Allocation
\@startuml
skinparam shadowing false
skinparam monochrome true
hide footbox
actor \"NSSMS_C\" as NSSMS_Consumer
participant \"NSSMS_P\" as NSSMS_Provider
\'alt CRUD operations not visible to the consumer
alt NSSMS_C sends AllocateNssi request
NSSMS_Consumer -> NSSMS_Provider: 1a-1. AllocateNssi(SliceProfile) Request
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 1a-2. Creates NetworkSliceSubnetController
MOI
NSSMS_Provider --> NSSMS_Consumer: 1a-3. AllocateNssi(SliceProfileId) Response
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Consumer: 1a.4.
notifyMOICreation(\n\tobjectClass=NetworkSliceSubnetController,
\n\tobjectInstance=DN of NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI,...)
else NSSMS_C sends createMOI request
NSSMS_Consumer -> NSSMS_Provider: 1b-1. createMOI(\n\t
managedObjectClass=NetworkSliceSubnetController, \n\t
attributeListIn=inputSliceProfile,...) Request
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 1b-2. Creates NetworkSliceSubnetController
MOI
NSSMS_Provider --> NSSMS_Consumer: 1b-3. createMOI() Response
end
ref over NSSMS_Provider
2\. Procedure of feasibility check and reservation of network slice subnet
end ref
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 3. Decides to create a new
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI\
\n\t or use an existing NetworkSliceSubnet MOI.
alt Using an existing NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 4a-1. Identifies the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
to re-use
\|\|\|
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 4a-2. Configures NetworkSliceSubnet MOI with
DN of NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 4a-3. Configures
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI with\nDN of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
opt If the existing NetworkSliceSubnet MOI needs to be modified
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
4a-4. Procedure of Network Slice Subnet Instance Modification
end ref
end opt
else Using a new NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 4b-1. Creates an MOI of NetworkSliceSubnet
and \nconfigures NetworkSliceSubnet MOI with DN of
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 4b-2. Configures
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI with\nDN of NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 4b-3. Derives the requirements for
corresponding\n network slice subnet constituent(s) and transport network
opt If the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI to be created contains virtualization part
(i.e., VNF or VL)
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
4b-4. NS instantiation procedure
end ref
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 4b-5. Configures the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
attribute nsInfo
end opt
loop 4b-6. for each constituent NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
4b-6a. Procedure of Network Slice Subnet Instance Allocation
end ref
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 4b-6b. Configures the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
\n attribute networkSliceSubnetRef with the DN constituent NetworkSliceSubnet
end loop
loop 4b-7. for each constituent Network Function
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
4b-7a. \tProcedure of NF instance creation or
\t\tProcedure of NF instance modification
end ref
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 4b-7b. Configures the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
\n attribute managedFunctionRef with the DN constituent ManagedFunction
end loop
loop for each transport network requirements
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
4b-8. Procedure of TN coordination
supporting network slicing
\|\|\|
end ref
end loop
end alt
\|\|\|
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 5. Configures attributes of
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI\nindicating completion of the procedure
group Monitoring network slice subnet allocation progress and result. \nThis
can be happened anytime after step NetworkSliceSliceController is created
(i.e., step 1a-2 or step 1b-2)
alt obtain the progress and result by subscribe-notification method
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Consumer: 6a. Notify network slice subnet allocation
progress and result \n (DN of NetworkSliceSliceController MOI and its
attributes)
else obtain the progress and result by query method
NSSMS_Consumer -> NSSMS_Provider: 6b-1. Request to query the \n
NetworkSliceSubnetController information (DN of NetworkSliceSliceController)
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Consumer: 6b-2. Response with the
NetworkSliceSubnetController \n information (DN of NetworkSliceSliceController
and values of its attribute)
end alt
\@enduml
# C.4 Procedure of Network Slice Instance Deallocation
\@startuml
skinparam shadowing false
skinparam monochrome true
hide footbox
actor \"NSMS_C\" as NSMS_Consumer
participant \"NSMS_P\" as NSMS_Provider
alt NSMS_C sends DeallocateNsi request
NSMS_Consumer -> NSMS_Provider: 1a-1. DeallocateNsi(networkSliceDN,
serviceProfileId) Request
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 1a-2. Identifies the DN of NetworkSlice MOI to
be deleted.
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 1a-3. Updates NetworkSlice MOI to remove the
\nreference to DN of NetworkSliceController
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 1a-4. Deletes NetworkSliceController MOI
NSMS_Provider --> NSMS_Consumer: 1a-5. DeallocateNsi() Response
else NSMS_C sends deleteMOI request
NSMS_Consumer -> NSMS_Provider: 1b-1. deleteMOI(baseObjectInstance=DN of
NetworkSliceController) Request
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 1b-2. Identifies the DN of NetworkSlice MOI
\nfrom the attribute networkSliceRef and \nvalue of attribute serviceProfileId
from \nthe NetworkSliceController MOI to be deleted.
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 1b-3. Updates NetworkSlice MOI to remove the
\nreference to DN of NetworkSliceController
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 1b-4. Deletes NetworkSliceController MOI
NSMS_Provider --> NSMS_Consumer: 1b-5. deleteMOI() Response
end
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 2. Decides to delete or modify NetworkSlice
MOI
alt Delete NetworkSlice MOI identified in step 1b-2. \t
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 3a-1. Deletes NetworkSlice MOI
ref over NSMS_Provider
3a-2. Procedure of network slice subnet instance deallocation
end ref
else Modify NetworkSlice MOI identified in step 1b-2.
\|\|\|
ref over NSMS_Provider
3b-1. Procedure of Network Slice Subnet Instance Modification
end ref
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 3b-2. Modify NetworkSlice MOI
end
\@enduml
# C.5 Procedure of network slice subnet instance deallocation
\@startuml
skinparam shadowing false
skinparam monochrome true
hide footbox
actor \"NSSMS_C\" as NSSMS_Consumer
participant \"NSSMS_P\" as NSSMS_Provider
\'participant \"NSSMS_Provider\" as NSSMS_Consumer
alt NSSMS_C sends DeallocateNssi request
NSSMS_Consumer -> NSSMS_Provider: 1a-1. DeallocateNssi(networkSliceSubnetDN,
sliceProfileId) Request
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 1a-2. Identifies the DN of
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI to be deleted
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 1a-3. Updates NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
attribute networkSliceSubnetControllerRef \n\tto remove DN of
NetworkSliceSubnetController
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 1a-4. Deletes NetworkSliceSubnetController
MOI
NSSMS_Provider --> NSSMS_Consumer: 1a-5. DeallocateNssi() Response
else NSSMS_C sends deleteMOI request
NSSMS_Consumer -> NSSMS_Provider: 1b-1. deleteMOI(baseObjectInstance=DN of
NetworkSliceSubnetController) Request
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 1b-2. Identifies the DN of
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI \nfrom the attribute networkSliceSubnetRef and \nvalue
of attribute sliceProfileId from the \nNetworkSliceSubnetController MOI to be
deleted
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 1b-3. Updates NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
attribute networkSliceSubnetControllerRef \n\tto remove DN of
NetworkSliceSubnetController
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 1b-4. Deletes NetworkSliceSubnetController
MOI
NSSMS_Provider --> NSSMS_Consumer: 1b-5. deleteMOI() Response
end
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 2. Decides to delete or modify
NetworkSliceSubnetSubnet MOI
alt 3a. Delete the NetworkSliceSubnetSubnet MOI identified in step 1b-2.
opt If the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI consists of constituent
NetworkSliceSubnetSubnet MOIs
loop for each constituent NetworkSliceSubnetSubnet MOI
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
3a-1. Procedure of network slice subnet instance deallocation
end ref
end loop
end opt
opt If the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI consists of NFs
loop for each constituent ManagedFunction MOI
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
3a-2. Procedure of NF instance deletion or
\t\tProcedure of NF instance modification
end ref
end loop
end opt
opt If the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI contains TN part
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
3a-3. Procedure of TN coordination supporting network slicing
end ref
end opt
opt If the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI contains virtualized part
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
3a-4. NS Termination procedure
end ref
end opt
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 3a-5. Deletes NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
else 3b. Modify the NetworkSliceSubnetSubnet MOI identified in step 1b-2.
opt If the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI consists of constituent
NetworkSliceSubnetSubnet MOIs
loop for each constituent NetworkSliceSubnetSubnet MOI
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
3b-1. Procedure of network slice subnet instance modification
end ref
end loop
end opt
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 3b-2. Modifies NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
end
\@enduml
# C.6 Procedure of Network Slice Instance Modification
\@startuml
skinparam shadowing false
skinparam monochrome true
hide footbox
actor \"NSMS_C\" as NSMS_Consumer
participant \"NSMS_P\" as NSMS_Provider
alt NSMS_C sends new network slice related requirements in NetworkSlice MOI
NSMS_Consumer -> NSMS_Provider: 1a. modifyMOIAttributes(\n\t
baseObjectInstance=NetworkSlice, \n\t modificationList=serviceProfileList,...)
request
else NSMS_C sends new network slice related \n requirements in
inputServiceProfile
NSMS_Consumer -> NSMS_Provider: 1b-1. modifyMOIAttributes(\n\t
baseObjectInstance=NetworkSliceController, \n\t
modificationList=inputServiceProfile,...) request
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 1b-2. Updates NetworkSliceController MOI
attributes\n with new inputServiceProfile along with progress and state
information.
NSMS_Consumer \ NSMS_Provider: 3. Decomposes the request to network slice
subnet requirements.
ref over NSMS_Provider
4\. Procedure of network slice subnet instance modification
end ref
NSMS_Provider -> NSMS_Provider: 5. Updates NetworkSlice MOI attributes
(serviceProfileList)
opt if NSMS_C sent new network slice related requirements in NetworkSlice MOI
(in step 1a)
Note over NSMS_Provider: NSMS_P sends response for modifyMOIAttributes request
received in step 1a.
NSMS_Consumer \ NSMS_Provider: 6b. Updates attributes of
NetworkSliceController MOI \nindicating completion of the procedure
end opt
\@enduml
# C.7 Procedure of Network Slice Subnet Instance Modification
\@startuml
skinparam shadowing false
skinparam monochrome true
hide footbox
actor \"NSSMS_C\" as NSSMS_Consumer
participant \"NSSMS_P\" as NSSMS_Provider
alt NSSMS_C sends new network slice subnet related requirements in
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI
NSSMS_Consumer -> NSSMS_Provider: 1a. modifyMOIAttributes(\n\t
baseObjectInstance=NetworkSliceSubnet, \n\t
modificationList=sliceProfileList,...) request
else NSSMS_C sends new network slice subnet related requirements in
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI
NSSMS_Consumer -> NSSMS_Provider: 1b-1. modifyMOIAttributes(\n\t
baseObjectInstance=NetworkSliceSubnetController, \n\t
modificationList=inputSliceProfile,...) request
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 1b-2. Updates NetworkSliceSubnetController
MOI attributes\n with new inputSliceProfile along with progress and state
information.
NSSMS_Consumer \ NSSMS_Provider: 3. Decomposes the modification request for
each constituent MOIs.
loop for each constituent NetworkSliceSubnet MOIs
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
4a. Procedure of network slice subnet instance modification
end ref
end loop
loop for each constituent ManagedFunction MOIs
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
4b. Procedure of NF instance creation or
\t\tProcedure of NF instance modification
end ref
end loop
opt The NSSI contains virtualized parts
\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
4c. NS instance scaling/updating/instantiation
procedures
end ref
end opt
opt The NSSI contains TN parts
\'\|\|\|
ref over NSSMS_Provider
4d. Procedure of TN coordination
supporting network slicing
end ref
end opt
NSSMS_Provider -> NSSMS_Provider: 5. Updates NetworkSliceSubnet MOI attributes
opt if NSSMS_C sent new network slice related requirements in
NetworkSliceSubnet MOI (in step 1a)
Note over NSSMS_Provider: NSSMS_P sends response for modifyMOIAttributes
request received in step 1a.
NSSMS_Consumer \ NSSMS_Provider: 6b. Updates attributes of
NetworkSliceSubnetController MOI \nindicating completion of the procedure
end opt
\@enduml
#