# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies end-to-end Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
for the 5G network and network slicing.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Void.
[3] ITU-T Recommendation E.800: \"Definitions of terms related to quality of
service\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.501: \" Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.501: \" System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[8] ETSI ES 203 228 V1.2.1 (2017-04): \"Environmental Engineering (EE);
Assessment of mobile network energy efficiency\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.310: \"Management and orchestration; Energy efficiency of 5G\".
[10] ETSI 202 336-12 V1.2.1 (2019-02): \"Environmental Engineering (EE);
Monitoring and control interface for infrastructure equipment (power, cooling
and building environment systems used in telecommunication networks); Part 12:
ICT equipment power, energy and environmental parameters monitoring
information model\".
[11] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 027 V4.0.2 (2020-11): \"Network Functions Virtualisation
(NFV) Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Performance Measurements
Specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 38.314: \"NR; layer 2 measurements\".
[13] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[14] 3GPP TS 38.214: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for data\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
EE Energy Efficiency
J Joule
kbit kilobit (1000 bits)
RTT Round Trip Time
# 4 End to end KPI concept and overview
The following KPI categories are included in the present document:
\- Accessibility (see the definition in [3]).
\- Integrity (see the definition in [3]).
\- Utilization.
\- Retainability (see the definition in [3]).
\- Mobility.
\- Energy Efficiency.
\- Reliability (See the definition in [13]).
Editor\'s note: For future update of the document it will also include:
\- Availability.
# 5 KPI definitions template
a) Name (Mandatory): This field shall contain the name of the KPI.
b) Description (Mandatory): This field shall contain the description of the
KPI.\ Within this field it should describe if the KPI is focusing on network
or user view. This filed should also describe the logical KPI formula to
derive the KPI. For example, a success rate KPI's logical formula is the
number of successful events divided by all events. This field should also show
the KPI unit (e.g., kbit/s, millisecond) and the KPI type (e.g., mean, ratio).
c) Formula definition (Optional):\ This field should contain the KPI formula
using the 3GPP defined measurement names.\ This field can be used only when
the measurement(s) needed for the KPI formula are defined in 3GPP TS for
performance measurements (TS 28.552 [6]). This field shall clarify how the
aggregation shall be done, for the KPI object level(s) defined in d).
d) KPI Object (Mandatory):\ This field shall contain the DN of the object
instance where the KPI is applicable, including the object where the
measurement is made. The DN identifies one object instance of the following
IOC:
\- NetworkSliceSubnet
\- SubNetwork
\- NetworkSlice
\- NRCellDU
\- NRCellCU
e) Remark (Optional):\ This field is for additional information required for
the KPI definition,\ e.g. the definition of a call in UTRAN.
# 6 End to end KPI definitions
## 6.1 KPI Overview
The KPI categories defined in [3] will be reused by the present document.
## 6.2 Accessibility KPI
### 6.2.1 Mean registered subscribers of network and network slice through AMF
a) AMFMeanRegNbr.
b) This KPI describe the mean number of subscribers that are registered to a
network slice instance. It is obtained by counting the subscribers in AMF that
are registered to a network slice instance. It is an Integer. The KPI type is
MEAN.
c) {width="3.926388888888889in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
d) SubNetwork, NetworkSlice
### 6.2.2 Registered subscribers of network through UDM
a) UDMRegNbr.
b) This KPI describe the total number of subscribers that are registered to a
network through UDM. It is corresponding to the measurement
RM.RegisteredSubUDMNbrMean that counts subscribers registered in UDM. It is an
Integer. The KPI type is MEAN.
c) {width="3.3534722222222224in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
d) SubNetwork
### 6.2.3 Registration success rate of one single network slice
a) RSR.
b) This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
registration procedures to the number of attempted registration procedures for
the AMF set which related to one single network slice and is used to evaluate
accessibility provided by the end-to-end network slice and network
performance. It is obtained by successful registration procedures divided by
attempted registration procedures. It is a percentage. The KPI type is RATIO.
c)
> Note: Above measurements with subcounter ._Type_ should be defined in 3GPP
> TS 24.501 [4].
d) NetworkSlice
### 6.2.4 Partial DRB Accessibility for UE services
a) Partial DRB Accessibility
b) This KPI describes the DRBs setup success rate, including the success rate
for setting up RRC connection and NG signalling connection. It is obtained as
the succeess rate for RRC connection setup multiplied by the success rate for
NG signalling connection setup multiplied by the success rate for DRB setup.
The success rate for RRC connection setup and for NG signalling connection
setup shall exclude setups with establishment cause mo-Signalling [5]. It is a
percentage. The KPI type is RATIO.
c) Partial DRBAccessibility 5QI = (∑RRC.ConnEstabSucc._Cause_
/∑RRC.ConnEstabAtt._Cause_) * (∑UECNTXT.ConnEstabSucc._Cause_ /∑
UECNTXT.ConnEstabAtt._Cause_) * (DRB.EstabSucc.5QI/DRB.EstabAtt.5QI) * 100
Partial DRB Accessibility SNSSAI = (∑RRC.ConnEstabSucc._Cause_
/∑RRC.ConnEstabAtt._Cause_) * (∑UECNTXT.ConnEstabSucc._Cause_ /∑
UECNTXT.ConnEstabAtt._Cause_) * (DRB.EstabSucc.SNSSAI/DRB.EstabAtt.SNSSAI) *
100.
The sum over causes shall exclude the establishment cause mo-Signalling [5].
For KPI on SubNetwork level the measurement shall be the averaged over all
NRCellCUs in the SubNetwork
d) SubNetwork, NRCellCU.
### 6.2.5 PDU session Establishment success rate of one network slice
(S-NSSAI)
a) PDUSessionEstSR.
b) This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successful PDU session
establishment request to the number of PDU session establishment request
attempts for all SMF which related to one network slice (S-NSSAI) and is used
to evaluate accessibility provided by the end-to-end network slice and network
performance. It is obtained by the number of successful PDU session requests
divided by the number of attempted PDU session requests. It is a percentage.
The KPI type is RATIO.
c) {width="3.6659722222222224in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}
d) NetworkSlice
### 6.2.6 Maximum registered subscribers of network slice through AMF
a) AMFMaxRegNbr.
b) This KPI describe the maximum number of subscribers that are registered to
a network slice. It is obtained by counting the subscribers in AMF that are
registered to a network slice. It is an Integer. The KPI type is CUM.
c) {width="3.707638888888889in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
d) NetworkSlice
### 6.2.7 Total DRB accessibility for UE services
a) Total DRB accessibility
b) This KPI describes the total DRBs accessibility obtained as the ratio of
the number of successfully established DRBs and number of services intended to
be setup by the end user that shall result into a DRB establishment via
Initial Context setup procedure, Added DRB setup and RRC Resume procedure. The
number of services intended to be setup by the end user that shall result into
a DRB establishment via Initial Context setup procedure is obtained as number
of attempted establishments of DRB via Initial Context setup procedure
amplified by inverse of the UE-associated logical NG-connection success ratio
further amplified by inverse of the RRC Connection setup state success ratio.
The number of services intended to be setup by the end user that shall result
into a DRB establishment via added DRB setup procedure is measured directly in
gNB via number of attempted establishments of DRB via added DRB setup
procedure. Finally the number of services intended to be setup by the end user
that shall result into a DRB establishment via RRC Resume procedure is
provided as number of attempted establishments of DRB via RRC Resume procedure
amplified by inverse of the RRC Resume success ratio. The success rate for RRC
connection setup and for UE-associated logical NG-connection setup shall
exclude setups with establishment cause mo-Signalling [5]. The success rate
for RRC resume shall exclude setups related to RNA update. It is a percentage.
The KPI type is RATIO.
c) DRBAccessibility 5QI = 100 * (_DRB.InitialEstabSucc.5QI +
(DRB.EstabSucc.5QI-_ DRB.InitialEstabSucc._5QI) + DRB.ResumeSucc.5QI)/(
DRB.InitialEstabAtt.5QI/((RRC connection setup success rate_ /100)*( UE-
associated logical NG-connection success ratio/100)) + _(_ DRB.EstabAtt.5QI-
DRB.InitialEstabAtt._5QI) + DRB.ResumeAtt.5QI/( RRC Resume success rate/100))_
DRBAccessibility SNSSAI = 100 * (DRB.InitialEstabSucc. SNSSAI +
(DRB.EstabSucc. SNSSAI -DRB.InitialEstabSucc. SNSSAI) + DRB.ResumeSucc.
SNSSAI)/( DRB.InitialEstabAtt. SNSSAI /((RRC connection setup success rate
/100)*( UE-associated logical NG-connection success ratio /100)) +
(DRB.EstabAtt. SNSSAI -DRB.InitialEstabAtt. SNSSAI) + DRB.ResumeAtt. SNSSAI /(
RRC Resume success rate/100))
Where:
RRC Resume success rate = 100* ∑RRC.ResumeSucc.cause /∑(RRC.ResumeAtt.cause -
RRC.ResumeFallbackToSetupAtt.cause), where all but the causes related to RNA
update shall be included.
RRC connection setup success rate = 100* (∑(RRC.ConnEstabSucc.Cause +
RRC.ResumeSuccByFallback.cause) + RRC.ReEstabSuccWithoutUeContext)
/(∑(RRC.ConnEstabAtt.Cause + RRC.ResumeFallbackToSetupAtt.cause) +
RRC.ReEstabFallbackToSetupAtt)
UE-associated logical NG-connection success ratio =
100*(∑UECNTXT.ConnEstabSucc.Cause/∑ UECNTXT.ConnEstabAtt.Cause)
The sum over causes shall exclude the establishment cause mo-Signalling [5].
The sum over causes for RRC resume shall exclude the causes related to RNA
update [5].
For KPI on SubNetwork level the measurement shall be the averaged over all
NRCellCUs in the SubNetwork
d) SubNetwork, NRCellCU.
### 6.2.8 Mean CM-Connected subscribers of network slice through AMF
a) AMFMeanCmConNbr.
b) This KPI describe the mean number of subscribers in a period that are not
only registered to a network slice but also established a PDU session related
to the network slice. And subscribers also have a NAS signalling connection
with the AMF over N1. It is obtained by counting the subscribers in AMF that
are showed \"cm-connected\" state for a network slice. It is an Interger. The
KPI type is CUM.
c)\ {width="4.082638888888889in" height="0.4791666666666667in"}
d) NetworkSlice.
### 6.2.9 Maximum on-line subscribers of network slice through AMF
a) AMFMaxCmConNbr.
b) This KPI describe the maximum number of subscribers in a period that are
not only registered to a network slice but also established a PDU session
related to a network slice. And subscribers also have a NAS signalling
connection with the AMF over N1. It is obtained by counting the subscribers in
AMF that are showed \"cm-connected\" state for a network slice. It is an
Interger. The KPI type is CUM.
c)\ {width="3.9368055555555554in" height="0.4791666666666667in"}
d) NetworkSlice.
### 6.2.10 PFCP session established success rate of one network and one
network slice
a) PFCPSessionEstSR.
b) This KPI describes the successful rate of PFCP session established in a
network or a network slice e on the UPF.
> It is used to evaluate the quality of user-plane connection established and
> the accessibility provided by the end-to-end network slice and network
> performance. It is obtained by the number of successful PFCP session
> requests divided by the number of attempted PFCP session requests. It is a
> percentage. The KPI type is RATIO.
c)
> {width="3.832638888888889in" height="0.34375in"}
d) Subnetwork, NetworkSlice.
### 6.2.11 Group-level N4 session establishment success rate of one 5G VN
group
a) GrouplevelN4SessionEstSR.
b) This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successful group-level N4
session establishment request to the number of group-level N4 session
establishment request attempts for all SMF related to one 5G VN group
communication and is used to evaluate accessibility provided by the end-to-end
network slice and network performance. It is obtained by the number of
successful group-level N4 session requests divided by the number of attempted
group-level N4 session requests. It is a percentage. The KPI type is RATIO.
c)
{width="6.051388888888889in" height="0.3541666666666667in"}
d) NetworkSlice.
### 6.2.12 PDU session Establishment success rate of one 5G VN Group
(InternalgroupID)
a) PDUSessionEstSR.
b) This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successful PDU session
establishment request to the number of PDU session establishment request
attempts for all SMF which related to one 5G VN Group (InternalgroupID) and is
used to evaluate accessibility provided by the 5G VN Group and network
performance. It is obtained by the number of successful PDU session requests
divided by the number of attempted PDU session requests. It is a percentage.
The KPI type is RATIO.
c)
> {width="3.75in" height="0.26666666666666666in"} *100
d) NetworkSlice.
### 6.2.13 Positive Paging Rate
a) AMFPositivePagingRate.
b) The KPI describes the positive paging rate, i.e. the amount of paging
requests that result in UEs transitioning from triggering a mobile terminated
call (thus moving from Idle/Inactive to Connected Mode), w.r.t total number of
paging requests. When Combined with {width="1.3583333333333334in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}, {width="1.6416666666666666in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}and {width="1.5166666666666666in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} (from all CUs, and their respective DUs,
belonging to the same AMF), this ratio will be used to quantify the impact of
false paging occasions, i.e. paging occasions that do not result in a UEs
triggering mobile terminated calls, on network side paging resource
utilisation as well as on UE's power consumption : low rates will imply non
optimal network resource utilisation and high UE wake up rate (wake up here is
defined by Idle/Inactive to Connected mode transition) or equivalently higher
UE power consumption. This KPI is a percentage. The KPI type is RATIO.
c) Below is the equation for AMFPositivePagingRate:
{width="3.191666666666667in" height="0.3416666666666667in"}
Measurement names: {width="2.275in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
d) AMF.
## 6.3 Integrity KPI
### 6.3.1 Latency and delay of 5G networks
#### 6.3.1.0 Void
#### 6.3.1.1 Downlink latency in gNB-DU
a) DLLat_gNB-DU.
b) This KPI describes the gNB-DU part of the packet transmission latency
experienced by an end-user. It is used to evaluate the gNB latency
contribution to the total packet latency. It is the average (arithmetic mean)
of the time from reception of IP packet to gNB-DU until transmission of first
part of that packet over the air interface, for a packet arriving when there
is no previous data in queue for transmission to the UE. It is a time interval
(0.1 mS). The KPI type is MEAN. This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs per
QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) DLLat_gNB-DU = DRB.RlcSduLatencyDl
or optionally DLLat_gNB-DU._QoS_ = DRB.RlcSduLatencyDl.QoS where QOS
identifies the target QoS quality of service class.
or optionally DLLat_gNB-DU._SNSSAI_ = DRB.RlcSduLatencyDl._SNSSAI_ where
_SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) NRCellDU
#### 6.3.1.2 Integrated downlink delay in RAN
##### 6.3.1.2.1 Downlink delay in NG-RAN for a sub-network
a) DLDelay_NR_SNw.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the RAN
part to the UE. It is used to evaluate delay performance of NG-RAN in downlink
for a sub-network. It is the weighted average packets delay from reception of
IP packet in gNB-CU-UP until the last part of an RLC SDU packet was received
by the UE according to received HARQ feedback information for UM mode or until
the last part of an RLC SDU packet was received by the UE according to
received RLC ACK for AM mode. It is a time interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type is
MEAN. This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI or
QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below are the equations for average "Integrated downlink delay in RAN" for
this KPI on SubNetwork level. The "Integrated downlink delay in RAN" is the
sum of average DL delay in gNB-CU-UP of the sub-network (DLDelay_gNBCUUP_SNw)
and the average DL delay in gNB-DU of the sub-network (DLDelay_gNBDU_SNw):
> DLDelay_NR_SNw = DLDelay_gNBCUUP_SNw + DLDelay_gNBDU_SNw
>
> or optionally DLDelay_ NR_SNw._QOS_ = DLDelay_gNBCUUP_SNw._QOS_ \+
> DLDelay_gNBDU_SNw._QOS_ where _QOS_ identifies the target quality of service
> class.
>
> or optionally DLDelay_NR_SNw._SNSSAI_ = DLDelay_gNBCUUP_SNw._SNSSAI_ \+
> DLDelay_gNBDU_SNw._SNSSAI_ where _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) SubNetwork
##### 6.3.1.2.2 Downlink delay in NG-RAN for a network slice subnet
a) DLDelay_NR_Nss.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the RAN
part to the UE. It is used to evaluate delay performance of NG-RAN in downlink
for a network slice subnet. It is the weighted average packets delay from
reception of IP packet in gNB-CU-UP until the last part of an RLC SDU packet
was received by the UE according to received HARQ feedback information for UM
mode or until the last part of an RLC SDU packet was received by the UE
according to received RLC ACK for AM mode. It is a time interval (0.1 ms). The
KPI type is MEAN.
c) Below is the equation for average \"Integrated downlink delay in RAN\" for
this KPI on NetworkSliceSubnet level. The \"Integrated downlink delay in RAN\"
for network slice subnet is the sum of average DL delay in gNB-CU-UP of the
network slice subnet (DLDelay_gNBCUUP_Nss) and the average DL delay in gNB-DU
of the network slice subnet (DLDelay_gNBDU_Nss):
> DLDelay_NR_Nss._SNSSAI_ = DLDelay_gNBCUUP_Nss._SNSSAI_ \+
> DLDelay_gNBDU_Nss._SNSSAI_ where _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI that the
> network slice subnet supports.
d) NetworkSliceSubnet
#### 6.3.1.3 Downlink delay in gNB-DU
##### 6.3.1.3.1 Downlink delay in gNB-DU for a NRCellDU
a) DLDelay_gNBDU_Cell.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the gNB-DU
part to the UE. It is used to evaluate delay performance of gNB-DU in
downlink. It is the average packets delay time from arrival of an RLC SDU at
the RLC ingress F1-U termination until the last part of an RLC SDU packet was
received by the UE according to received HARQ feedback information for UM mode
or until the last part of an RLC SDU packet was received by the UE according
to received RLC ACK for AM mode. It is a Time interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type
is MEAN. This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI
or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for average DL delay in gNB-DU for a NRCellDU:
> DLDelay_gNBDU_Cell = DRB.RlcSduDelayDl + DRB.AirIfDelayDl.
>
> and optionally: DLDelay_gNBDU._QOS_ = DRB.RlcSduDelayDl._QOS_ \+
> DRB.AirIfDelayDl._QOS_ where _QOS_ identifies the target quality of service
> class.
>
> and optionally: DLDelay_gNB._SNSSAI_ = DRB.RlcSduDelayDl._SNSSAI_ \+
> DRB.AirIfDelayDl._SNSSAI_ where _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI
d) NRCellDU
##### 6.3.1.3.2 Downlink delay in gNB-DU for a sub-network
a) DLDelay_gNBDU_SNw.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the gNB-DU
part to the UE. It is used to evaluate delay performance of gNB-DU in downlink
for a sub-network. It is the weighted average packets delay time from arrival
of an RLC SDU at the RLC ingress F1-U termination until the last part of an
RLC SDU packet was received by the UE according to received HARQ feedback
information for UM mode or until the last part of an RLC SDU packet was
received by the UE according to received RLC ACK for AM mode. It is a Time
interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type is MEAN. This KPI can optionally be split into
KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for average DL delay in gNB-DU for a sub-network,
where
> \- W is the measurement for the weighted average, one of the following:
>
> \- the DL data volume of the NR cell;
>
> \- the number of UL user data packets of the NR cell;
>
> \- any other types of weight defined by the consumer of KPI
>
> \- the #NRCellDU is the number of NRCellDU's in the SubNetwork.
>
> {width="1.4479166666666667in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="2.6979166666666665in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
>
> _and optionally KPI on SubNetwork level per QoS and per S-NSSAI:_
>
> {width="1.7395833333333333in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="3.301388888888889in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
>
> {width="1.96875in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="3.7805555555555554in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
d) SubNetwork
##### 6.3.1.3.3 Downlink delay in gNB-DU for a network slice subnet
a) DLDelay_gNBDU_Nss.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the gNB-DU
part to the UE. It is used to evaluate delay performance of gNB-DU in downlink
for a network slice subnet. It is the weighted average packets delay time from
arrival of an RLC SDU at the RLC ingress F1-U termination until the last part
of an RLC SDU packet was received by the UE according to received HARQ
feedback information for UM mode or until the last part of an RLC SDU packet
was received by the UE according to received RLC ACK for AM mode. It is a Time
interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type is MEAN.
c) Below is the equation for average DL delay in gNB-DU for a network slice
subnet, where
\- W is the measurement for the weighted average, one of the following:
\- the DL data volume of the NR cell;
\- the number of DL user data packets of the NR cell;
\- any other types of weight requested by the consumer of KPI;
\- the #NRCellDU is the number of NRCellDU's associated with the
NetworkSliceSubnet.
> {width="1.90625in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="3.7805555555555554in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
d) NetworkSliceSubnet
#### 6.3.1.4 Downlink delay in gNB-CU-UP
##### 6.3.1.4.1 Downlink delay in gNB-CU-UP
a) DLDelay_gNBCUUP.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the gNB-
CU-UP to the gNB-DU. It is used to evaluate the delay performance of gNB-CU-UP
in downlink. It is the average packets delay from reception of IP packet in
gNB-CU-UP until the time of arrival, at the gNB-DU, of the RLC SDU at the RLC
ingress F1-U termination. It is a Time interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type is
MEAN. This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI or
QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below the equation for average DL delay in a gNB-CU-CP:
> DLDelay_gNBCUUP = DRB. PdcpSduDelayDl + DRB.PdcpF1Delay
>
> and optionally: DLDelay_ gNBCUUP._QOS_ = DRB.PdcpSduDelayDl._QOS_ \+
> DRB.PdcpF1Delay._QOS_ where _QOS_ identifies the target quality of service
> class.
>
> and optionally: DLDelay_gNBCUUP._SNSSAI_ = DRB.PdcpSduDelayDl._SNSSAI_ \+
> DRB.PdcpF1Delay._SNSSAI_ where _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) GNBCUUPFunction
e) In non-split gNB scenario, the value of DRB.PdcpF1Delay (optionally
DRB.PdcpF1Delay._QOS,_ and optionally _DRB.PdcpF_ 1Delay._SNSSAI)_ is set to
zero because there are no F1-interfaces in this scenario.
##### 6.3.1.4.2 Downlink delay in gNB-CU-UP for a sub-network
a) DLDelay_gNBCUUP_SNw.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the gNB-
CU-UP to the gNB-DU. It is used to evaluate the delay performance of gNB-CU-UP
in downlink for a sub-network. It is the weighted average packets delay from
reception of IP packet in gNB-CU-UP until the time of arrival, at the gNB-DU,
of the RLC SDU at the RLC ingress F1-U termination. It is a Time interval (0.1
ms). The KPI type is MEAN. This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs per QoS
level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for average UL delay in gNB-CU-UP for a sub-network,
where
\- W is the measurement for the weighted average, one of the following:
\- the DL data volume in gNB-CU-UP;
\- the number of DL user data packets in gNB-CU-UP;
\- any other types of weight requested by the consumer of KPI;
\- the # GNBCUUPFunctions is the number of GNBCUUPFunctions's in the
SubNetwork.
> {width="1.6041666666666667in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="3.207638888888889in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
>
> _and optionally KPI on SubNetwork level per QoS and per S-NSSAI:_
>
> {width="1.8958333333333333in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="3.8118055555555554in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
>
> {width="2.125in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="4.290972222222222in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
d) SubNetwork
e) In non-split gNB scenario, the value of DRB.PdcpF1Delay (optionally
DRB.PdcpF1Delay._QOS,_ and optionally DRB.PdcpF1Delay._SNSSAI)_ is set to zero
because there are no F1-interfaces in this scenario.
##### 6.3.1.4.3 Downlink delay in gNB-CU-UP for a network slice subnet
a) DLDelay_gNBCUUP_Nss.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the gNB-
CU-UP to gNB-DU. It is used to evaluate the delay performance of gNB-CU-UP in
downlink for a network slice subnet. It is the weighted average packets delay
from reception of IP packet in gNB-CU-UP until the time of arrival, at the
gNB-DU, of the RLC SDU at the RLC ingress F1-U termination. It is a Time
interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type is MEAN.
c) Below is the equation for average UL delay in gNB-CU-UP for a network slice
subnet, where
\- W is the measurement for the weighted average, one of the following:
\- the DL data volume in gNB-CU-UP;
\- the number of DL user data packets in gNB-CU-UP;
\- any other types of weight requested by the consumer of KPI;
\- the # GNBCUUPFunctions is the number of GNBCUUPFunctions's associated with
the NetworkSliceSubnet.
> {width="2.0625in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="4.290972222222222in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
d) NetworkSliceSubnet
e) In non-split gNB scenario, the value of DRB.PdcpF1Delay._SNSSAI_ is set to
zero because there are no F1-interfaces in this scenario.
#### 6.3.1.5 Uplink delay in gNB-DU
##### 6.3.1.5.1 Uplink delay in gNB-DU for a NR cell
a) ULDelay_gNBDU_Cell.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the gNB-DU
part from the UE in a NR cell. It is used to evaluate delay performance of
gNB-DU in uplink. It is the average packet delay from when an UL RLC SDU was
scheduled, as per the scheduling grant provided, until time when the RLC SDU
is sent to PDCP or CU for split gNB. It is a time interval (0.1 ms). The KPI
type is MEAN. This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped
5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for average UL delay in gNB-DU for a NRCellDU:
> ULDelay_gNBDU_Cell = DRB.RlcDelayUI + DRB.AirIfDelayUI
>
> and optionally: {width="4.322222222222222in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> where _QOS_ identifies the target quality of service class.
>
> and optionally: {width="4.957638888888889in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> where _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) NRCellDU
##### 6.3.1.5.2 Uplink delay in gNB-DU for a sub-network
a) ULDelay_gNBDU_SNw.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the gNB-DU
part from the UE for a sub-network. It is used to evaluate delay performance
of gNB-DU in uplink for a sub-network. It is the weighted average packet delay
from when an UL RLC SDU was scheduled, as per the scheduling grant provided,
until time when the RLC SDU is sent to PDCP or CU for split gNB. It is a time
interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type is MEAN. This KPI can optionally be split into
KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for average UL delay in gNB-DU for a sub-network,
where
\- W is the measurement for the weighted average, one of the following:
\- the UL data volume of the NR cell;
\- the number of UL user data packets of the NR cell;
\- any other types of weight defined by the consumer of KPI
\- the #NRCellDU is the number of NRCellDU's in the SubNetwork.
> {width="1.4479166666666667in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="2.5208333333333335in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
>
> _and optionally KPI on SubNetwork level per QoS and per S-NSSAI:_
>
> {width="1.7395833333333333in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="3.1243055555555554in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
>
> {width="1.96875in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="3.6034722222222224in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
d) SubNetwork
##### 6.3.1.5.3 Uplink delay in gNB-DU for a network slice subnet
a) ULDelay_gNBDU_Nss.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the gNB-DU
part from the UE for a network slice subnet. It is used to evaluate delay
performance of gNB-DU in uplink for a network slice subnet. It is the weighted
average packet delay from when an UL RLC SDU was scheduled, as per the
scheduling grant provided, until time when the RLC SDU is sent to PDCP or CU
for split gNB. It is a time interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type is MEAN.
c) Below is the equation for average UL delay in gNB-DU for a network slice
subnet, where
\- W is the measurement for the weighted average, one of the following:
\- the UL data volume of the NR cell;
\- the number of UL user data packets of the NR cell;
\- any other types of weight requested by the consumer of KPI;
\- the #NRCellDU is the number of NRCellDU's associated with the
NetworkSliceSubnet.
> {width="1.90625in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="3.6034722222222224in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
d) NetworkSliceSubnet
#### 6.3.1.6 Uplink delay in gNB-CU-UP
##### 6.3.1.6.1 Uplink delay in gNB-CU-UP
a) ULDelay_gNBCUUP.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the gNB-
CU-UP from gNB-DU. It is used to evaluate delay performance of gNB-CU-UP in
uplink. It is the average packet delay from when the RLC SDU is sent to PDCP
or CU for split gNB, until time when the corresponding PDCP SDU was sent to
the core network from gNB-CU-UP. It is a time interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type
is MEAN. This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI
or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below the equation for average UL delay in a gNB-CU-CP:
> {width="3.8118055555555554in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
>
> and optionally: {width="4.634722222222222in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> where _QOS_ identifies the target quality of service class.
>
> and optionally: {width="5.259722222222222in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> where _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) GNBCUUPFunction
e) It is assumed that the F1 uplink delay is the same as the F1 downlink
delay. In non-split gNB scenario, the value of DRB.PdcpF1Delay (optionally
DRB.PdcpF1Delay._QOS,_ and optionally _DRB.PdcpF_ 1Delay._SNSSAI)_ is set to
zero because there are no F1-interfaces in this scenario.
##### 6.3.1.6.2 Uplink delay in gNB-CU-UP for a sub-network
a) ULDelay_gNBCUUP_SNw.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the gNB-
CU-UP part from the gNB-DU for a sub-network. It is used to evaluate delay
performance of gNB-CU-UP in uplink for a sub-network. It is the weighted
average packet delay from when the RLC SDU is sent to PDCP or CU for split
gNB, until time when the corresponding PDCP SDU was sent to the core network
from gNB-CU-UP. It is a time interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type is MEAN. This KPI
can optionally be split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR
option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for average UL delay in gNB-CU-UP for a sub-network,
where
\- W is the measurement for the weighted average, one of the following:
\- the UL data volume in gNB-CU-UP ;
\- the number of UL user data packets in gNB-CU-UP ;
\- any other types of weight requested by the consumer of KPI;
\- the # GNBCUUPFunctions is the number of GNBCUUPFunctions's in the
SubNetwork.
> {width="1.6041666666666667in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="3.3118055555555554in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
>
> _and optionally KPI on SubNetwork level per QoS and per S-NSSAI:_
>
> {width="1.8958333333333333in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="3.926388888888889in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
>
> {width="2.125in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="4.395138888888889in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
d) SubNetwork
e) It is assumed that the F1 uplink delay is the same as the F1 downlink
delay. In non-split gNB scenario, the value of DRB.PdcpF1Delay (optionally
DRB.PdcpF1Delay._QOS,_ and optionally DRB.PdcpF1Delay._SNSSAI)_ is set to zero
because there are no F1-interfaces in this scenario.
##### 6.3.1.6.3 Uplink delay in gNB-CU-UP for a network slice subnet
a) ULDelay_gNBCUUP_Nss.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the gNB-
CU-UP part from the gNB-DU for a network slice subnet. It is used to evaluate
delay performance of gNB-CU-UP in uplink for a network slice subnet. It is the
weighted average packet delay from when the RLC SDU is sent to PDCP or CU for
split gNB, until time when the corresponding PDCP SDU was sent to the core
network from gNB-CU-UP. It is a time interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type is MEAN.
This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in
NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for average UL delay in gNB-CU-UP for a network slice
subnet, where
\- W is the measurement for the weighted average, one of the following:
\- the UL data volume in gNB-CU-UP;
\- the number of UL user data packets in gNB-CU-UP;
\- any other types of weight requested by the consumer of KPI;
\- the # GNBCUUPFunctions is the number of GNBCUUPFunctions's associated with
the NetworkSliceSubnet.
> {width="2.0625in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="4.395138888888889in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
d) NetworkSliceSubnet
e) It is assumed that the F1 uplink delay is the same as the F1 downlink
delay. In non-split gNB scenario, the value of DRB.PdcpF1Delay._SNSSAI_ is set
to zero because there are no F1-interfaces in this scenario.
#### 6.3.1.7 Integrated uplink delay in RAN
##### 6.3.1.7.1 Uplink delay in NG-RAN for a sub-network
a) ULDelay_NR_SNw.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the RAN
part from the UE for a sub-network. It is used to evaluate delay performance
of NG-RAN in uplink. It is the weighted average packet delay from when an UL
RLC SDU was scheduled, as per the scheduling grant provided, until time when
the corresponding PDCP SDU was sent to the core network from gNB-CU-UP. It is
a time interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type is MEAN. This KPI can optionally be
split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and per
S-NSSAI.
c) Below are the equations for average \"Integrated uplink delay in RAN\" for
this KPI on SubNetwork level. The \"Integrated uplink delay in RAN\" is the
sum of average UL delay in gNB-CU-UP of the sub-network (ULDelay_gNBCUUP_SNw)
and the average UL delay in gNB-DU of the sub-network (ULDelay_gNBDU_SNw):
> ULDelay_NR_SNw = ULDelay_gNBCUUP_SNw + ULDelay_gNBDU_SNw
>
> or optionally ULDelay_ NR_SNw._QOS_ = ULDelay_gNBCUUP_SNw._QOS_ \+
> ULDelay_gNBDU_SNw._QOS_ where _QOS_ identifies the target quality of service
> class.
>
> or optionally ULDelay_NR_SNw._SNSSAI_ = ULDelay_gNBCUUP_SNw._SNSSAI_ \+
> ULDelay_gNBDU_SNw._SNSSAI_ where _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) SubNetwork
##### 6.3.1.7.2 Uplink delay in NG-RAN for a network slice subnet
a) ULDelay_NR_Nss.
b) This KPI describes the average packet transmission delay through the RAN
part from the UE for a network slice subnet. It is used to evaluate delay
performance of NG-RAN in uplink. It is the weighted average packet delay from
when an UL RLC SDU was scheduled, as per the scheduling grant provided, until
time when the corresponding PDCP SDU was sent to the core network from gNB-CU-
UP. It is a time interval (0.1 ms). The KPI type is MEAN. This KPI can
optionally be split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3)
and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for average "Integrated uplink delay in RAN" for this
KPI on NetworkSliceSubNet level. The "Integrated uplink delay in RAN" for
network slice subnet is the sum of average UL delay in gNB-CU-UP of the
network slice subnet (ULDelay_gNBCUUP_Nss) and the average UL delay in gNB-DU
of the network slice subnet (ULDelay_gNBDU_Nss):
> ULDelay_NR_Nss._SNSSAI_ = ULDelay_gNBCUUP_Nss._SNSSAI_ \+
> ULDelay_gNBDU_Nss._SNSSAI_ where _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI that the
> network slice subnet supports.
d) NetworkSliceSubnet
#### 6.3.1.8 E2E delay for network slice
##### 6.3.1.8.1 Average e2e uplink delay for a network slice
a) DelayE2EUlNs.
b) This KPI describes the average e2e UL packet delay between the PSA UPF and
the UE for a network slice. It is the weighted average packet delay from the
time when an UL RLC SDU was scheduled at the UE until the time when the
corresponding GTP PDU was received by the PSA UPF. The KPI type is MEAN in
unit of 0.1 ms.
c) This KPI is the weighted average of UL packet delay between PSA UPF and UE,
for all N3 interfaces (modelled by EP_N3 MOIs) and N9 interfaces (modelled by
EP_N9 MOIs) of all PSA UPFs supporting the network slice (modelled by
NetworkSlice MOI) identified by the S-NSSAI.
> This KPI is calculated in the equation below, where Wn3 and Wn9 are the
> measurements for the weighted average, Wn3 is one of the following:
\- the data volume of UL GTP PDUs received by PSA UPF on the N3 interface;
\- the number of UL GTP PDUs received by PSA UPF on the N3 interface;
\- any other types of weight defined by the consumer of KPI.
> And Wn9 is one of the following:
\- the data volume of UL GTP PDUs received by PSA UPF on the N9 interface;
\- the number of UL GTP PDUs received by PSA UPF on the N9 interface;
\- any other types of weight defined by the consumer of KPI.
> DelayE2EUlNs = {width="5.530555555555556in" height="0.2708333333333333in"}
>
> Where the _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) NetworkSlice.
##### 6.3.1.8.2 Average e2e downlink delay for a network slice
a) DelayE2EDlNs.
b) This KPI describes the average e2e DL packet delay between the PSA UPF and
the UE for a network slice. It is the weighted average packet delay from the
time when an GTP PDU has been sent by the PSA UPF until time when the
corresponding RLC SDU was received by the UE. The KPI type is MEAN in unit of
0.1 ms.
c) This KPI is the weighted average of DL packet delay between PSA UPF and UE,
for all N3 interfaces (modelled by EP_N3 MOIs) and N9 interfaces (modelled by
EP_N9 MOIs) of all PSA UPFs supporting the network slice (modelled by
NetworkSlice MOI) identified by the S-NSSAI.
> This KPI is calculated in the equation below, where Wn3 and Wn9 are the
> measurements for the weighted average, Wn3 is one of the following:
\- the data volume of DL GTP PDUs transmitted by PSA UPF on the N3 interface;
\- the number of DL GTP PDUs transmitted by PSA UPF on the N3 interface;
\- any other types of weight defined by the consumer of KPI.
> And Wn9 is one of the following:
\- the data volume of DL GTP PDUs transmitted by PSA UPF on the N9 interface;
\- the number of DL GTP PDUs transmitted by PSA UPF on the N9 interface;
\- any other types of weight defined by the consumer of KPI.
> DelayE2EDlNs = {width="5.780555555555556in" height="0.2708333333333333in"}
>
> Where the _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) NetworkSlice.
### 6.3.2 Upstream throughput for network and Network Slice Instance
a) UTSNSI.
b) This KPI describes the upstream throughput of one single network slice by
computing the packet size for each successfully received UL packet through the
network slice during each observing granularity period and is used to evaluate
integrity performance of the end-to-end network slice. It is obtained by
measuring the total number of upstream octets provided by N3 interface from
NG-RAN to all UPFs, related to the single network slice, divided by the
granularity period (in milliseconds). The KPI unit is kbit/s and the KPI type
is MEAN.
c) {width="3.1243055555555554in" height="0.3125in"}
d) NetworkSlice, SubNetwork.
### 6.3.3 Downstream throughput for Single Network Slice Instance
a) DTSNSI.
b) This KPI describes the downstream throughput of one single network slice
instance by computing the packet size for each successfully transmitted DL
packet through the network slice instance during each observing granularity
period and is used to evaluate integrity performance of the end-to-end network
slice instance. It is obtained by measuring the total number of downstream
octets provided by N3 interface from all UPFs to NG-RAN, related to the single
network slice, divided by the granularity period (in milliseconds). The KPI
unit is kbit/s and the KPI type is MEAN.
c) {width="3.2180555555555554in" height="0.3125in"}
d) NetworkSlice, SubNetwork.
### 6.3.4 Upstream Throughput at N3 interface
a) UGTPTN.
b) This KPI describes the throughput of incoming GTP data packets on the N3
interface (measured at UPF) which have been generated by the GTP-U protocol
entity on the N3 interface, during a granularity period. This KPI is used to
evaluate upstream GTP throughput integrity performance at the N3 interface. It
is obtained by measuring the total number of octets GTP data packets upstream
throughput provided by N3 interface from NG-RAN to UPF, divided by the
granularity period (in milliseconds). The KPI unit is kbit/s and the KPI type
is MEAN.
c) {width="2.4375in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
d) UPFFunction
### 6.3.5 Downstream Throughput at N3 interface
a) DGTPTN.
b) This KPI describes the throughput of downstream GTP data packets on the N3
interface (transmitted downstream from UPF) which have been generated by the
GTP-U protocol entity on the N3 interface, during a granularity period. This
KPI is used to evaluate integrity performance at N3 interface. It is obtained
by measuring the total number of octets GTP data packets downstream throughput
provided by N3 interface from UPF to NG-RAN, divided by the granularity period
(in milliseconds). The KPI unit is kbit/s and the KPI type is MEAN.
c) {width="2.5625in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
d) UPFFunction
### 6.3.6 RAN UE Throughput
#### 6.3.6.1 Void
#### 6.3.6.2 RAN UE Throughput definition
To achieve a Throughput measurement (below examples are given for DL) that is
independent of file size and gives a relevant result it is important to remove
the volume and time when the resource on the radio interface is not fully
utilized. (Successful transmission, buffer empty in figure 1).
{width="5.439583333333333in" height="3.6395833333333334in"}
Figure 1
To achieve a throughput measurement that is independent of bursty traffic
pattern, it is important to make sure that idle gaps between incoming data is
not included in the measurements. That shall be done as considering each burst
of data as one sample.
#### 6.3.6.3 DL RAN UE throughput
##### 6.3.6.3.1 DL RAN UE throughput for a NRCellDU
a) DlUeThroughput _Cell.
b) This KPI describes the average DL RAN UE throughput for a NRCellDU. The KPI
type is MEAN in kbit per second. This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs
per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for average DL RAN UE throughput for a NRCellDU:
> DlUeThroughput _Cell = DRB.UEThpDl;
>
> and optionally: DlUeThroughput _Cell._QOS_ = DRB.UEThpDl._QOS_ , where _QOS_
> identifies the target quality of service class;
>
> and optionally: DlUeThroughput _Cell._SNSSAI_ = DRB.UEThpDl._SNSSAI_ , where
> _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) NRCellDU
##### 6.3.6.3.2 DL RAN UE throughput for a sub-network
a) DlUeThroughput _SNw.
b) This KPI describes the average DL RAN UE throughput for a sub-network. The
KPI type is MEAN in kbit per second. This KPI can optionally be split into
KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for average DL RAN UE throughput for a sub-network,
where
> \- W is the measurement for the weighted average, it is one of the
> following:
>
> \- the DL data volume of the NR cell;
>
> \- a weight defined by the consumer of KPI
>
> \- the #NRCellDU is the number of NRCellDU's in the SubNetwork.
>
> {width="1.5in" height="0.16666666666666666in"} {width="1.4479166666666667in"
> height="0.4270833333333333in"}
>
> _and optionally KPI on SubNetwork level per QoS and per S-NSSAI:_
>
> {width="1.7916666666666667in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="1.6666666666666667in" height="0.4270833333333333in"}
>
> {width="2.0104166666666665in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="1.84375in" height="0.4270833333333333in"}
d) SubNetwork
##### 6.3.6.3.3 DL RAN UE throughput for a network slice subnet
a) DlUeThroughput _Nss.
b) This KPI describes the average DL RAN UE throughput for a network slice
subnet. The KPI type is MEAN in kbit per second.
c) Below is the equation for average DL RAN UE throughput for a network slice
subnet, where
> \- W is the measurement for the weighted average, it is one of the
> following:
>
> \- the DL data volume of the NR cell;
>
> \- a weight defined by the consumer of KPI
>
> \- the #NRCellDU is the number of NRCellDU's associated with the
> NetworkSliceSubnet.
>
> {width="1.9270833333333333in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="1.84375in" height="0.4270833333333333in"}_, where the SNSSAI
> identifies the S-NSSAI that the_ NetworkSliceSubnet supports.
d) NetworkSliceSubnet
#### 6.3.6.4 UL RAN UE throughput
##### 6.3.6.4.1 UL RAN UE throughput for a NRCellDU
a) UlUeThroughput_Cell.
b) This KPI describes the average UL RAN UE throughput for a NRCellDU. The KPI
type is MEAN in kbit per second. This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs
per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for average UL RAN UE throughput for a NRCellDU:
> UlUeThroughput _Cell = DRB.UEThpUl;
>
> and optionally: UlUeThroughput_Cell._QOS_ = DRB.UEThpUl._QOS_ , where _QOS_
> identifies the target quality of service class;
>
> and optionally: UlUeThroughput_Cell._SNSSAI_ = DRB.UEThpUl._SNSSAI_ , where
> _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) NRCellDU
##### 6.3.6.4.2 UL RAN UE throughput for a sub-network
a) UlUeThroughput_SNw.
b) This KPI describes the average UL RAN UE throughput for a sub-network. The
KPI type is MEAN in kbit per second. This KPI can optionally be split into
KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for average UL RAN UE throughput for a sub-network,
where
> \- W is the measurement for the weighted average, it is one of the
> following:
>
> \- the UL data volume of the NR cell;
>
> \- a weight defined by the consumer of KPI
>
> \- the #NRCellDU is the number of NRCellDU's in the SubNetwork.
>
> {width="1.4583333333333333in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="1.4479166666666667in" height="0.4270833333333333in"}
>
> _and optionally KPI on SubNetwork level per QoS and per S-NSSAI:_
>
> {width="1.7604166666666667in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="1.6666666666666667in" height="0.4270833333333333in"}
>
> {width="1.9791666666666667in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="1.84375in" height="0.4270833333333333in"}
d) SubNetwork
##### 6.3.6.4.3 UL RAN UE throughput for a network slice subnet
a) UlUeThroughput _Nss.
b) This KPI describes the average UL RAN UE throughput for a network slice
subnet. The KPI type is MEAN in kbit per second.
c) Below is the equation for average UL RAN UE throughput for a network slice
subnet, where
> \- W is the measurement for the weighted average, it is one of the
> following:
>
> \- the UL data volume of the NR cell;
>
> \- a weight defined by the consumer of KPI
>
> \- the #NRCellDU is the number of NRCellDU's associated with the
> NetworkSliceSubnet.
>
> {width="1.9270833333333333in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
> {width="1.84375in" height="0.4270833333333333in"}_, where the SNSSAI
> identifies the S-NSSAI that the_ NetworkSliceSubnet supports.
d) NetworkSliceSubnet
### 6.3.7 Upstream throughput for 5G VN Group
a) UTSNSI_5GVNGroup.
b) This KPI describes the upstream throughput of one 5G VN Group by computing
the packet size for each successfully received UL packet during each observing
granularity period and is used to evaluate integrity performance of the 5G VN
Group. It is obtained by measuring the total number of upstream octets
provided by N3 interface from NG-RAN to all UPFs, related to one 5G VN Group,
divided by the granularity period (in milliseconds). The KPI unit is kbit/s
and the KPI type is MEAN.
c)
> _UTSNSI_5GVNGroup_{width="2.2666666666666666in"
> height="0.25833333333333336in"} *8
d) NetworkSlice, SubNetwork.
### 6.3.8 Downstream throughput for 5G VN Group
a) DTSNSI_5GVNGroup.
b) This KPI describes the downstream throughput of one 5G VN Group by
computing the packet size for each successfully transmitted DL packet through
the 5G VN Group during each observing granularity period and is used to
evaluate integrity performance of the 5G VN Group. It is obtained by measuring
the total number of downstream octets provided by N3 interface from all UPFs
to NG-RAN, related to one 5G VN Group, divided by the granularity period (in
milliseconds). The KPI unit is kbit/s and the KPI type is MEAN.
c)
> _DTSNSI_5GVNGroup_{width="2.341666666666667in"
> height="0.25833333333333336in"} *8
d) NetworkSlice, SubNetwork.
## 6.4 Utilization KPI
### 6.4.1 Mean number of PDU sessions of network and network Slice Instance
a) PDUSesMeanNbr.
b) This KPI describes the mean number of PDU sessions that are successfully
established in a network slice . It is obtained by successful PDU session
establishment procedures of SMFs which is related to the network slice . It is
an integer. The KPI type is MEAN.
c) {width="3.7597222222222224in" height="0.5034722222222222in"}
d) NetworkSlice
### 6.4.2 Virtualised Resource Utilization of Network Slice Instance
a) VirtualResUtilizaiton.
b) This KPI describes utilization of virtualised resource (e.g. processor,
memory, disk) that are allocated to a network slice . It is obtained by the
usage of virtualised resource (e.g. processor, memory, disk) divided by the
system capacity that allocated to the network slice . It is a percentage, The
KPI type is Ratio.
Note: In the present document, this KPI is for the scenario when NF is not
shared between different network slice .
c) {width="2.94375in" height="0.4722222222222222in"}
{width="2.861111111111111in" height="0.4861111111111111in"}
{width="2.5694444444444446in" height="0.4722222222222222in"}
d) NetworkSlice
### 6.4.3 PDU session establishment time of network slice
a) PDUEstTime.
b) This KPI describes the time of successful PDU session establishment which
related to one single network slice and is used to evaluate utilization
provided by the end-to-end network slice and network performance. It is
obtained by measuring the time between the receipt by SMF from AMF of \"
Nsmf_PDUSession_UpdateSMContext Request \", which includes N2 SM information
received from (R)AN to the SMF and the sending of a \"
Nsmf_PDUSession_CreateSMContext Request or Nsmf_PDUSession_UpdateSMContext
Request PDU Session Establishment Request \" message from AMF to the SMF. It
is a time interval (millisecond). The KPI type is MEAN.
c) PDUEstTime = SM.PduSessionTimeMean.SNSSAI
d) NetworkSlice
### 6.4.4 Mean number of successful periodic registration updates of Single
Network Slice
a) RegUpdMeanNbr**.**
**b) This KPI describes the mean number of successfully periodic registration
updates in a network slice** **at the AMF. It is obtained by summing
successful of periodic registration updates at the AMFs which is related to
the network slice after registration accept by the AMF to the UE that sent the
periodic registration update request. It is an integer. The KPI type is
MEAN.**
c) {width="3.716666666666667in" height="0.4979166666666667in"}
d) NetworkSlice
### 6.4.5 Maximum number of PDU sessions of network slice
a) PDUSesMaxNbr.
b) This KPI describes the maximum number of PDU sessions that are successfully
established in a network slice. It is obtained by successful PDU session
establishment procedures of SMFs which is related to the network slice. It is
an integer. The KPI type is MEAN.
c)
d) NetworkSlice
### 6.4.6 PDU session establishment time of 5G VN Group
a) Group-levelPDUEstTime.
b) This KPI describes the time of successful PDU session establishment which
related to one 5G VN Group and is used to evaluate utilization provided by the
end-to-end network slice and network performance. It is obtained by measuring
the time between the receipt by SMF from AMF of \"
Nsmf_PDUSession_UpdateSMContext Request \", which includes N2 SM information
received from (R)AN to the SMF and the sending of a \"
Nsmf_PDUSession_CreateSMContext Request\" or \"Nsmf_PDUSession_UpdateSMContext
Request\" message from AMF to the SMF. It is a time interval (millisecond).
The KPI type is MEAN.
c) Group-levelPDUEstTime = SM.PduSessionTimeMean.InternalgroupID
d) NetworkSlice
## 6.5 Retainability KPI
### 6.5.1 QoS flow Retainability
#### 6.5.1.1 Definition
a) QoSRetain_R1, QoSRetain_R2.
b) This KPI shows how often an end-user abnormally loses a QoS flow during the
time the QoS flow is used. It is obtained by number of QoS flows with data in
a buffer that was abnormally released, normalized with number of data session
time units. The unit of this KPI is "active release / second". The KPI type is
MEAN.
c) To measure QoS flow Retainability for a single QoS level (R1) is fairly
straight forward.\ \ {width="2.3229166666666665in" height="0.3125in"}\ However
to measure the QoS flow Retainability for UEs is not as straight forward. The
measurement R1 is defined to look at the activity level of just one QoS level
at the time, so to use this formula and measurements in an aggregated way to
get QoS flow Retainability on UE level will not be accurate (e.g. for an UE
with multiple QoS flows there might be QoS flows that are active at the same
time, hence aggregating the QoS level measurements for session time will give
a larger session time than the total UE session time. See picture below).\ \ \
Hence a measurement QoS flow Retainability on UE level is defined (R2) to
provide a measurement for the overall QoS flow Retainability.\ \
{width="1.625in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
d) SubNetwork, NRCellCU
e) The definition of the service provided by 5GS is QoS flows.
#### 6.5.1.2 Extended definition
The retainability rate is defined as:
To define (from a QoS flow Retainability point of view) if a QoS flow is
considered active or not, the QoS flows can be divided into two groups:
\- For QoS flows with bursty flow, a QoS flow is said to be active if there is
user data in the PDCP queue in any of the directions or if any data (UL or DL)
has been transferred during the last 100 ms.
\- For QoS flows with continuous flow, the QoS flow (and the UE) is seen as
being active in the context of this measurement as long as the UE is in RRC
connected state, and the session time is increased from the first data
transmission on the QoS flow until 100 ms after the last data transmission on
the QoS flow.
A particular QoS flow is defined to be of type continuous flow if the mapped
5QI is any of {1, 2, 65, 66}.
### 6.5.2 DRB Retainability
#### 6.5.2.1 Definition
a) DRBRetain
b) This KPI shows how often an end-user abnormally loses a DRB during the time
the DRB is active. It is obtained by number of DRBs that were abnormally
released and that were active at the time of release, normalized with number
of data session time units. The unit of this KPI is \"active release /
second\". The KPI type is MEAN.
c) DRB Retainability for a single mapped 5QI level (R1) and for a single
S-NSSAI (R1) are defined as:
{width="2.1458333333333335in" height="0.3125in"}
> and
{width="2.7291666666666665in" height="0.3020833333333333in"}
d) SubNetwork, NRCellCU
e) The definition of the service provided by 5GS is DRBs.
#### 6.5.2.2 Extended definition
To define (from a DRB Retainability point of view) if a DRB is considered
active or not, the DRB can be divided into two groups:
\- For DRBs with bursty flow, a DRB is said to be active if any data (UL or
DL) has been transferred during the last 100 ms.
\- For DRBs with continuous flow, the DRB (and the UE) is seen as being active
in the context of this measurement as long as the UE is in RRC connected
state, and the session time is increased from the first data transmission on
the DRB until 100 ms after the last data transmission on the DRB.
A particular DRB is defined to be of type continuous flow if the mapped 5QI is
any of {1, 2, 65, 66}.
## 6.6 Mobility KPI
### 6.6.1 NG-RAN handover success rate
a) GRANHOSR.
b) A KPI that shows how often a handover within NR-RAN is successful,
regardless if the handover was made due to bad coverage or any other reason.
This KPI is obtained by successful handovers to the same or another gNB
divided by attempted handovers to the same or another gNB. This KPI covers
legacy Handover.
c)
d) SubNetwork, NRCellCU.
### 6.6.2 Mean Time of Inter-gNB handover Execution of Network Slice
a) InterGNBHOMeanTime**.**
b) **This KPI describes the time** of **successful** Mean Time of Inter-gNB
handover which related to one single network slice and is used to evaluate
utilization provided by the end-to-end network slice and network
performance**.** This KPI is obtained by measuring the time between the
receipt by the Source NG-RAN from the Target NG-RAN of a "Release Resource\"
and the sending of a \" N2 Path Switch Request \" message from Source NG-RAN
to the Target NG-RAN over a granularity period. The unit of this KPI is
millisecond.
d) Subnetwork
### 6.6.3 Successful rate of mobility registration updates of Single Network
Slice
a) MobilityRegUpdateSR.
b) This KPI describes the successful rate of mobility registration updates in
a network slice e at the AMF. This KPI is obtained by deviding the number of
successful mobility registration updates at the AMFs by number of mobility
registration update requests received by the AMFs of single network slice.
d) NetworkSlice
### 6.6.4 5GS to EPS handover success rate
a) 5GSEPSHOSR.
b) A KPI that shows how often a handover from 5GS to EPS is successful,
regardless if the handover was made due to bad coverage or any other reason.
This KPI is obtained by successful handovers from 5GS to EPS system divided by
the total number of handovers attempt's from 5GS to EPS system.
c)
d) SubNetwork, NRCellCU.
### 6.6.5 NG-RAN handover success rate for all handover types
a) GRANHOSRA.
b) A KPI that shows how often a handover within NR-RAN is successful,
regardless if the handover was made due to bad coverage or any other reason.
This KPI is obtained by successful handovers to the same or another gNB
divided by attempted handovers to the same or another gNB. This KPI covers
legacy Handover, Conditional Handover and DAPS Handover.
c)\ \ {width="0.8638888888888889in" height="0.14583333333333334in"}\
{width="7.274305555555555in" height="0.3854166666666667in"}\
{width="7.227083333333334in" height="0.25in"}\ {width="0.5513888888888889in"
height="0.14583333333333334in"}
d) SubNetwork, NRCellCU.
## 6.7 Energy Efficiency (EE) KPI
### 6.7.1 NG-RAN data Energy Efficiency (EE)
#### 6.7.1.1 Definition
a) EE~MN,DV~.
b) A KPI that shows mobile network data energy efficiency in operational NG-
RAN. Data Volume (DV) divided by Energy Consumption (EC) of the considered
network elements. The unit of this KPI is bit/J.
c) EE~MN,DV\ ~
> {width="2.921527777777778in" height="0.28194444444444444in"} - for non-split
> gNBs;
>
> {width="4.743055555555555in" height="0.4013888888888889in"} - for split
> gNBs;
d) SubNetwork
e) The Data Volume (in kbits) is obtained by measuring amount of DL/UL PDCP
SDU bits of the considered network elements over the measurement period. For
split-gNBs, the Data Volume is calculated per Interface (F1-U, Xn-U, X2-U).
The Energy Consumption (in kWh) is obtained by measuring the PEE.Energy of the
considered network elements over the same period of time. The samples are
aggregated at the NG-RAN node level. The 3GPP management system responsible
for the management of the gNB (single or multiple vendor gNB) shall be able to
collect PEE measurements data from all PNFs in the gNB, in the same way as the
other PM measurements.
### 6.7.2 Network slice Energy Efficiency (EE)
#### 6.7.2.1 Generic Network Slice Energy Efficiency (EE) KPI
{width="6.304861111111111in" height="0.4083333333333333in"}
where:
\- 'Performance of network slice' (P~ns~) is defined per type of network
slice;
\- 'Energy Consumption of network slice' (EC~ns~) is defined independently
from any type of network slice.
For one unit of EC~ns~, the higher P~ns~ is, the higher the generic network
slice EE KPI is, i.e. the more energy efficient the network slice is.
#### 6.7.2.2 Energy efficiency of eMBB network slice
a) EE~eMBB,DV~
b) A KPI that shows the energy efficiency of network slices of type eMBB. The
P~ns~ for a network slice of type eMBB is obtained by summing up UL and DL
data volumes at N3 interface(s) of the network slice.
{width="6.684027777777778in" height="0.5in"}
, where _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
This KPI is obtained by the sum of UL and DL data volumes at N3 interface(s)
of the network slice, divided by the energy consumption of the network slice.
The unit of this KPI is bit/J.
c)
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="0.43819444444444444in"}
d) NetworkSlice
e) In case of redundant transmission paths over the N3 interface for high
reliability communication (cf. TS 23.501 [7] clause 5.33.2), it is expected
that the data volume is counted once. In particular:
\- In case of Dual Connectivity based end to end Redundant User Plane Paths
(cf. TS 23.501 [7] clause 5.33.2.1), in which a UE may set up two redundant
PDU Sessions over the 5G network, the Data Volume related to only one PDU
session is to be considered;
\- In case of redundant transmission with two N3 tunnels between the PSA UPF
and a single NG-RAN node (cf. TS 23.501 [7] figure 5.33.2.2-1) which are
associated with a single PDU Session, the Data Volume related to only one N3
tunnel is to be considered;
\- In case of two N3 and N9 tunnels between NG-RAN and PSA UPF for redundant
transmission (cf. TS 23.501 [7] figure 5.33.2.2-2) associated with a single
PDU Session, the Data Volume related to only one N3 tunnel is to be
considered.
For the measurement of the energy efficiency of the 5G core network, the 3GPP
management system in charge of collecting the data volume measurements listed
here above shall consider them only once in case of redundant transmission
over the N3 interface.
#### 6.7.2.2a Energy efficiency of eMBB network slice -- RAN-based
##### 6.7.2.2a.1 Definition
a) EE~RANonlyeMBB,DV~
b) A KPI that shows the energy efficiency of network slices of type eMBB based
on NR measurements. The Pns for a network slice of type eMBB is obtained by
summing up UL and DL data volumes at F1-U, Xn-U and X2-U interface(s) of gNBs,
on a per S-NSSAI basis.
c)
For non-split gNBs:
{width="6.6875in" height="0.4951388888888889in"}
, where:
\- DRB.PdcpSduVolumeUl._SNSSAI_ is the Data Volume (amount of PDCP SDU bits)
in the uplink delivered to PDCP layer per S-NSSAI - see TS 28.552 [4] clause
5.1.2.1.2.1,
\- DRB.PdcpSduVolumeDl._SNSSAI_ is the Data Volume (amount of PDCP SDU bits)
in the downlink delivered to PDCP layer per S-NSSAI - see TS 28.552 [4] clause
5.1.2.1.1.1.
For split gNBs:
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="0.5131944444444444in"}
, where:
\- DRB.F1uPdcpSduVolumeDl._SNSSAI_ is the number of DL PDCP SDU bits sent to
GNB-DU (F1-U interface) per S-NSSAI - see TS 28.552 [4] clause 5.1.3.6.2.3,
\- DRB.F1uPdcpSduVolumeUl._SNSSAI_ is the number of UL PDCP SDU bits entering
the GNB-CU-UP from GNB-DU (F1-U interface) per S-NSSAI - see TS 28.552 [4]
clause 5.1.3.6.2.4,
\- DRB.XnuPdcpSduVolumeDl._SNSSAI_ is the number of DL PDCP SDU bits sent to
external gNB-CU-UP (Xn-U interface) per S-NSSAI - see TS 28.552 [4] clause
5.1.3.6.2.3,
\- DRB.XnuPdcpSduVolumeUl._SNSSAI_ is the number of UL PDCP SDU bits entering
the GNB-CU-UP from external gNB-CU-UP (Xn-U interface) per S-NSSAI - see TS
28.552 [4] clause 5.1.3.6.2.4,
\- DRB.X2uPdcpSduVolumeDl._SNSSAI_ is the number of DL PDCP SDU bits sent to
external eNB (X2-U interface) per S-NSSAI - see TS 28.552 [4] clause
5.1.3.6.2.3,
\- DRB.X2uPdcpSduVolumeUl._SNSSAI_ is the number of UL PDCP SDU bits entering
the GNB-CU-UP from external eNB (X2-U interface) per S-NSSAI - see TS 28.552
[4] clause 5.1.3.6.2.4.
The final Network Slice EE KPI definition, based on Data Volume, for RAN-only
eMBB type of network slice, would be defined as follows:
{width="2.9138888888888888in" height="0.5034722222222222in"}
, where EC~RANonlyns~ is the energy consumption of the RAN-only network slice
over the same observation period.
NOTE: Void
d) NetworkSlice
#### 6.7.2.3 Energy efficiency of URLLC network slice
##### 6.7.2.3.1 Introduction
This KPI is defined with two variants.
##### 6.7.2.3.2 Based on latency of the network slice
a) EE~URLLC,Latency~
b) A KPI that shows the energy efficiency of network slices of type URLLC. The
P~ns~ for a network slice of type URLLC is the inverse of the average end-to-
end User Plane (UP) latency of the network slice. In this KPI variant, latency
are the only factor considered for evaluating the performance of network
slice.
{width="3.8333333333333335in" height="0.4791666666666667in"}
, where 'Network slice mean latency' is defined as the average end-to-end User
Plane (UP) latency of the network slice, and where the average end-to-end User
Plane (UP) latency for one S-NSSAI is defined by:
{width="5.54375in" height="0.41041666666666665in"}
This KPI is obtained by the inverse of the average end-to-end User Plane (UP)
latency of the network slice divided by the energy consumption of the network
slice. The unit of this KPI is (0.1ms * J)^-1^.
c)
{width="5.670833333333333in" height="0.4791666666666667in"}
d) NetworkSlice
##### 6.7.2.3.3 Based on both latency and Data Volume (DV) of the network
slice
a) EE~URLLC,DV,Latency~
b) A KPI that shows the energy efficiency of network slices of type URLLC. The
P~ns~ for a network slice of type URLLC is the sum of UL and DL traffic
volumes at N3 or N9 interface(s) on a per S-NSSAI basis multiplied by the
inverse of the end-to-end User Plane (UP) latency of the network slice. In
this KPI variant, data volume and latency are two factors considered for
evaluating the performance of network slice. This KPI is applicable for the
cases where, for example, the URLLC network slice is deployed and operators
want to evaluate the Energy Efficiency of the slice at different periods of
time, such as the busy hours in the morning and the idle hours in the mid
night, in which both latency performance and the data volume performance can
vary.
{width="4.389583333333333in" height="0.39375in"}
where
{width="5.7555555555555555in" height="0.3090277777777778in"}
{width="5.763194444444444in" height="0.2923611111111111in"}
w~N3~ and w~N9~ are the weight for DV~N3~ and DV~N9~ respectively. w~N3~ and
w~N9~ can be decided according to the deployment of PSA UPF. For example, in
cases where PSA UPF has only N9 tunnels, such as the ones described in TS
23.501[2] clause 5.6.4 and clause 5.33.2.2, w~N3~ can be set to 0 and W~N9~
can be set to 1, so that only N9 interface is considered. In the cases where
PSA UPF has only N3 tunnels, w~N3~ can be set to 1 and w~N9~ can be set to 0,
so that only N3 interface is considered.
This KPI is obtained by the product of the sum of the weighted UL and DL
traffic data volumes at N3 interface(s) or N9 interface of the PSA UPF of the
network slice multiplied by the inverse of the end-to-end User Plane (UP)
latency of the network slice, divided by the energy consumption of the network
slice. The unit of this KPI is bit/(0.1ms*J).
c)
{width="5.770833333333333in" height="0.43819444444444444in"}
d) NetworkSlice
e) In case of redundant transmission paths for high reliability communication
(TS 23.501 [7] clause 5.33.2), it is expected that the data volume is counted
once. In particular:
\- In case of Dual Connectivity based end to end Redundant User Plane Paths (
TS 23.501 [7] clause 5.33.2.1), in which a UE may set up two redundant PDU
Sessions over the 5G network, the Data Volume related to only one PDU session
is to be considered;
\- In case of redundant transmission with two N3 tunnels between the PSA UPF
and a single NG-RAN node (TS 23.501 [7] figure 5.33.2.2-1) which are
associated with a single PDU Session, the Data Volume related to only one N3
tunnel is to be considered;
\- In case of two N3 and N9 tunnels between NG-RAN and PSA UPF for redundant
transmission ( TS 23.501 [7] figure 5.33.2.2-2) associated with a single PDU
Session, the Data Volume related to only one of the multiple N3/N9 tunnels for
redundant transmission connecting to PSA UPF is considered. The main reason
for this is that, if the traffic is counted more than once, it will increase
artificially the EEURLLC,DV,Latency KPI.
The 3GPP management system in charge of collecting the data volume
measurements listed here above shall consider them only once in case of
redundant transmission over the N3/N9 interface.
#### 6.7.2.4 Energy efficiency of MIoT network slice
##### 6.7.2.4.1 Based on the number of registered subscribers of the network
slice
a) EE~MIoT,RegSubs~
b) A KPI that shows the energy efficiency of network slices of type MIoT. In
this case, the P~ns~ for a network slice of type MIoT is the maximum number of
subscribers registered to the network slice.
{width="4.791666666666667in" height="0.5652777777777778in"}
, where _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
This KPI is obtained by the maximum number of registered subscribers to the
network slice divided by the energy consumption of the network slice. The unit
of this KPI is user/J.
c)
{width="5.050694444444445in" height="0.49583333333333335in"}
d) NetworkSlice
##### 6.7.2.4.2 Based on the number of active UEs in the network slice
a) EE~MIoT,ActiveUEs~
b) A KPI that shows the energy efficiency of network slices of type MIoT. In
this case, the P~ns~ for a network slice of type MIoT is the mean number of
active UEs of the network slice.
{width="6.684027777777778in" height="0.5076388888888889in"}
, where _SNSSAI_ identifies the S-NSSAI.
This KPI is obtained by the mean number of active UEs of the network slice
divided by the energy consumption of the network slice. The unit of this KPI
is UE/J.
c)
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="0.4236111111111111in"}
d) NetworkSlice
### 6.7.3 5G Energy Consumption (EC)
#### 6.7.3.1 NF Energy Consumption (EC)
##### 6.7.3.1.1 Definition
a) EC~NF~
b) This KPI describes the Energy Consumption (EC) of a 5G Network Function
(NF). This KPI is obtained by summing up the energy consumption of PNF(s)
and/or VNF(s) which compose the NF. The unit of this KPI is J.
c)
{width="2.1347222222222224in" height="0.38472222222222224in"}
\- How a 5GC NF is composed of VNFs and PNFs is implementation specific. In
particular, whether a VNF instance (respectively PNF) is shared or not between
more than one NF is implementation specific. Hence, the case where a VNF
instance (resp. PNF) is shared between multiple NFs is out of scope of the
present document;
\- EC~PNF~ represents the Energy Consumption (EC) of a PNF;
\- EC~VNF~ represents the Energy Consumption (EC) of a VNF. It is obtained by
summing up the Energy Consumption (EC) of all its constituent VNFCs;
\- In the present document:
# EC~PNF~ is measured according to ETSI ES 202 336-12 [10],
# it is considered that EC~VNF~ cannot be measured hence is estimated.
Therefore the resulting EC~NF~ KPI is defined as:
{width="3.3645833333333335in" height="0.3854166666666667in"}
##### 6.7.3.1.2 Estimated Virtualized Network Function (VNF) energy
consumption
a) EC~VNF,estimated~
b) A KPI that gives an estimation of the energy consumption of a VNF. This KPI
is obtained by summing up the estimated energy consumption of its constituent
Virtualized Network Function Components (VNFC). The unit of this KPI is J.
c) {width="3.8958333333333335in" height="0.4375in"}
d) ManagedFunction
e) In this version of the document, the energy consumption of the VNFC is
estimated as per clause 6.7.3.1.3.
##### 6.7.3.1.3 Estimated Virtualized Network Function Component (VNFC) energy
consumption
a) EC~VNFC,estimated~
b) A KPI that gives an estimation of the energy consumption of a VNFC. In this
version of the document, this KPI is obtained by taking the estimated energy
consumption of the virtual compute resource instance on which the VNFC runs.
The unit of this KPI is J.
c) {width="5.041666666666667in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
d) ManagedFunction
> e) In this version of the document, the energy consumption of the virtual
> compute resource instance is estimated based on either:
\- its mean vCPU usage, as per clause 6.7.3.1.4. The method for calculating
EC~VNFC,estimated~ is described in TS 28.310 [9] clause 6.3.2.2.1, or
\- its mean vMemory usage, as per clause 6.7.3.1.5, or
\- its mean vDisk usage, as per clause 6.7.3.1.6, or
\- its I/O traffic volume, as per clause 6.7.3.1.7.
##### 6.7.3.1.4 Estimated virtual compute resource instance energy consumption
based on mean vCPU usage
a) EC~virtualCompute,estimated,VCpuUsageMean~
b) A KPI that gives an estimation of the energy consumption of a virtual
compute resource instance. The energy consumption of a virtual compute
resource instance X is estimated as a proportion of the energy consumption of
the NFVI node on which the virtual compute resource instance X runs. This
proportion is obtained by dividing the vCPU mean usage of the virtual compute
resource instance X, by the sum of the vCPU mean usage of all virtual compute
resource instances running on the same NFVI Node as X. The unit of this KPI is
J.
c) {width="6.6875in" height="0.3958333333333333in"}
d) ManagedFunction
e)
\- VCpuUsageMean is the mean vCPU usage of the virtual compute resource
instance during the observation period, provided by ETSI NFV MANO (see clause
7.1.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 027 [11]),
\- {width="2.0416666666666665in" height="0.3958333333333333in"} is sum of the
vCPU mean usage of all virtual compute resource instances running on the same
NFVI Node during the same observation period, all separately provided by NFV
MANO (see clause 7.1.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 027 [11]),
\- EC~NFVINode,measured~ is the energy consumption of the NFVI node on which
the virtual compute resource runs, measured during the same observation
period, as per ETSI ES 202 336-12 [10].
##### 6.7.3.1.5 Estimated virtual compute resource instance energy consumption
based on mean vMemory usage
a) EC~virtualCompute,estimated,VMemoryUsageMean~
b) A KPI that gives an estimation of the energy consumption of a virtual
compute resource instance. The energy consumption of a virtual compute
resource instance X is estimated as a proportion of the energy consumption of
the NFVI node on which the virtual compute resource instance X runs. This
proportion is obtained by dividing the vMemory mean usage of the virtual
compute resource instance X, by the sum of the vMemory mean usage of all
virtual compute resource instances running on the same NFVI Node as X. The
unit of this KPI is J.
c)
{width="6.466666666666667in" height="0.37222222222222223in"}
d) ManagedFunction
e)
\- VMemoryUsageMean is the mean memory usage of the virtual compute resource
instance during the observation period, provided by NFV MANO,
\- {width="1.7152777777777777in" height="0.3284722222222222in"}is the sum of
the mean memory usage of all virtual compute resource instances running on the
same NFVI node during the same observation period, all separately provided by
NFV MANO (see clause 7.1.4 of [11],
\- EC~NFVINode,measured~ is the energy consumption of the NFVI node on which
the virtual compute resource runs, measured during the same observation
period, as per ETSI ES 202 336-12 [10]. The measurement defined in TS 28.552
[6] clause 5.1.1.19.3 can be used to measure EC~NFVINode,measured~.
##### 6.7.3.1.6 Estimated virtual compute resource instance energy consumption
based on mean vDisk usage
a) EC~virtualCompute,estimated,VDiskUsageMean~
b) A KPI that gives an estimation of the energy consumption of a virtual
compute resource instance. The energy consumption of a virtual compute
resource instance X is estimated as a proportion of the energy consumption of
the NFVI node on which the virtual compute resource instance X runs. This
proportion is obtained by dividing the vDisk mean usage of the virtual compute
resource instance X, by the sum of the vDisk mean usage of all virtual compute
resource instances running on the same NFVI Node as X. The unit of this KPI is
J.
c)
{width="6.445833333333334in" height="0.3993055555555556in"}
d) ManagedFunction
e)
\- VDiskUsageMean is the mean disk usage of the virtual compute resource
instance during the observation period, provided by NFV MANO,
\- {width="1.7222222222222223in" height="0.36875in"}is the sum of the mean
disk usage of all virtual compute resource instances running on the same NFVI
Node during the same observation period, all separately provided by NFV MANO
(see clause 7.1.6 of [11],
\- EC~NFVINode,measured~ is the energy consumption of the NFVI node on which
the virtual compute resource runs, measured during the same observation
period, as per ETSI ES 202 336-12 [10]. The measurement defined in TS 28.552
[6] clause 5.1.1.19.3 can be used to measure EC~NFVINode,measured~.
##### 6.7.3.1.7 Estimated virtual compute resource instance energy consumption
based on I/O traffic volume
a) EC~virtualCompute,estimated,VDiskUsageMean~
b) A KPI that gives an estimation of the energy consumption of a virtual
compute resource instance. The energy consumption of a virtual compute
resource instance X is estimated as a proportion of the energy consumption of
the NFVI node on which the virtual compute resource instance X runs. This
proportion is obtained by dividing the I/O traffic volume of the virtual
compute resource instance X, by the sum of the I/O traffic volume of all
virtual compute resource instances running on the same NFVI Node as X. The
unit of this KPI is J.
c)
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="0.39652777777777776in"}
d) ManagedFunction
e)
\- IOTrafficVolume is the sum of the incoming and outgoing traffic volumes of
the virtual compute resource instance during the observation period, provided
by NFV MANO.
\- Incoming traffic volume is obtained by measuring the number of incoming
bytes on virtual compute (VNetByteIncoming - cf. clause 7.1.8 of [11]) during
the observation period.
\- Outgoing traffic volume is obtained by measuring the number of outgoing
bytes on virtual compute (VNetByteOutgoing - cf. clause 7.1.9 of [11]) during
the observation period,
{width="4.491666666666666in" height="0.19166666666666668in"}
\- {width="1.792361111111111in" height="0.3486111111111111in"}is the sum of
the incoming and outgoing traffic volumes of all virtual compute resource
instances running on the same NFVI node during the same observation period,
all separately provided by NFV MANO (see clause 7.1.8 and 7.1.9 of [11]),
\- EC~NFVINode,measured~ is the energy consumption of the NFVI node on which
the virtual compute resource runs, measured during the same observation
period, as per ETSI ES 202 336-12 [10]. The measurement defined in TS 28.552
[6] clause 5.1.1.19.3 can be used to measure EC~NFVINode,measured~.
#### 6.7.3.2 5GC Energy Consumption (EC)
##### 6.7.3.2.1 Definition
a) EC~5GC~
b) This KPI describes the Energy Consumption (EC) of the 5G Core Network (CN).
It is obtained by summing up the Energy Consumption of all the Network
Functions (EC~NF~) that compose the 5G core network. For the Energy
Consumption (EC) of Network Functions, see clause 6.7.3.1. The unit of this
KPI is J.
c)
{width="1.0875in" height="0.40555555555555556in"}
d) Subnetwork
#### 6.7.3.3 Network Slice Energy Consumption (EC)
a) EC~ns~
b) This KPI describes the Energy Consumption (EC) of the network slice. It is
obtained by summing up the Energy Consumption of all the Network Functions
(EC~NF~) that compose the network slice. The unit of this KPI is J.
c)
{width="1.0208333333333333in" height="0.4166666666666667in"}
As a network slice may be composed of a RAN network slice subnet, a Transport
Network (TN) network slice subnet and a 5GC network slice subnet, they all
participate to the energy consumption of the network slice. However, the
definition and way to measure the energy consumption of the TN segment is not
in the scope of the present document.
The definition of EC~ns~ based on the following principles:
\- For all gNBs in the network slice, clause 5.1.1.19.3 (PNF Energy
consumption) of TS 28.552 [6] applies. This measurement is obtained according
to the method defined in ETSI ES 202 336-12 [10] -- clauses 4.4.3.1, 4.4.3.4,
Annex A;
\- In case a 5GC NF is composed of Virtualized Network Functions (VNF) and/or
Physical Network Functions (PNF), clause 6.7.3.1 of this document defines the
NF Energy Consumption (EC);
\- In case a NF is dedicated to a network slice, the energy consumption of the
NF is entirely attributable to the network slice;
\- In case a NF is shared between multiple network slices, the participation
of the NF to the energy consumption of the network slice has to be estimated,
as it can\'t be measured:
\- In case of a gNB shared between multiple network slices, the energy
consumption attributable to each network slice is estimated as a proportion of
the total gNB energy consumption, where the proportion is calculated as the
data volume of the network slice relatively to the total data volume carried
by the gNB,
\- In case of a AMF shared between multiple network slices, the energy
consumption attributable to each network slice is estimated as a proportion of
the total estimated AMF energy consumption, where the proportion is calculated
as the mean number of registered subscribers of the network slice relatively
to the overall mean number of registered subscribers of the AMF during the
same time period (see TS 28.552 [6] clause 5.2.1.1 for the definition of the
mean number of registered subscribers),
\- In case of a SMF shared between multiple network slices, the energy
consumption attributable to each network slice is estimated as a proportion of
the total estimated SMF energy consumption, where the proportion is calculated
as the mean number of PDU sessions of the network slice relatively to the
overall mean number of PDU sessions of the SMF during the same time period
(see TS 28.552 [6] clause 5.3.1.1 for the definition of the mean number of PDU
sessions),
\- In case of a UPF shared between multiple slices, the energy consumption
attributable to each network slice is estimated as a proportion of the total
estimated UPF energy consumption, where the proportion is calculated as the
data volume of the network slice relatively to the overall data volume of the
UPF during the same time period.
\- In case of a UPF with N3 interface(s), the data volume of the UPF is
obtained by summing up, for all N3 interface(s), the number of octets of
incoming GTP data packets on the N3 interface, from (R)AN to UPF (see TS
28.552 [6] clause 5.4.1.3) and the number of octets of outgoing GTP data
packets on the N3 interface, from UPF to (R)AN (see TS 28.552 [6] clause
5.4.1.4)
\- In case of a PSA UPF with no N3 interface(s), the data volume of the UPF is
obtained by summing up, for all N9 interface(s), the number of octets of
incoming GTP data packets on the N9 interface for PSA UPF (see TS 28.552 [6]
clause 5.4.4.2.3) and the number of octets of outgoing GTP data packets on the
N9 interface for PSA UPF (see TS 28.552 [6] clause 5.4.4.2.4)
\- The case of other 5GC NFs shared between network slices is not addressed in
the present document.
d) NetworkSlice
#### 6.7.3.4 NG-RAN Energy Consumption (EC)
##### 6.7.3.4.1 NG-RAN EC
a) EC~NG-RAN~
b) This KPI describes the Energy Consumption (EC) of the NG-RAN. It is
obtained by summing up the Energy Consumption of all the gNBs that constitute
the NG-RAN. The unit of this KPI is J.
c) {width="1.4583333333333333in" height="0.17708333333333334in"}
d) Subnetwork
##### 6.7.3.4.2 gNB EC
a) EC~gNB~
b) This KPI describes the Energy Consumption (EC) of the gNB. It is obtained
by summing up the Energy Consumption of all the Network Functions (NF) that
constitute the gNB. For the Energy Consumption of Network Functions (EC~NF~),
see clause 6.7.3.1. The unit of this KPI is J.
c) {width="1.1145833333333333in" height="0.17708333333333334in"}
d) ManagedElement
### 6.7.4 5GC Energy Efficiency (EE)
#### 6.7.4.1 Generic 5GC Energy Efficiency (EE)KPI
{width="4.093055555555556in" height="0.3645833333333333in"}
, where:
\- 'Useful Output of 5GC' (UsefulOutput~5GC~) is the useful output of 5GC. It
can be defined differently, depending on which 5GC network functions are
considered;
\- 'Energy Consumption of 5GC' (EC~5GC~) is the Energy Consumption of 5GC.
For one unit of EC~5GC~, the higher UsefulOutput~5GC~ is, the higher the
generic 5GC EE KPI is, i.e. the more energy efficient the 5GC is.
#### 6.7.4.2 Energy Efficiency of 5GC based on the useful output of 5GC user
plane
a) EE~5GC,UO,UP,DV~
b) A KPI that shows the energy efficiency of 5GC. This KPI is based on the
useful output of 5GC user plane. The useful output of the 5GC user plane is
obtained by summing up UL and DL data volumes at N3
interface(s).{width="5.259722222222222in" height="0.3854166666666667in"}
This KPI is obtained by the sum of UL and DL data volumes at N3 interface(s),
divided by the energy consumption of 5GC. The unit of this KPI is bit/J.
c) {width="4.968055555555556in" height="0.3645833333333333in"}
d) SubNetwork
e) In case of redundant transmission paths over the N3 interface for high
reliability communication (cf. TS 23.501 [7] clause 5.33.2), it is expected
that the data volume is counted once. In particular:
\- In case of Dual Connectivity based end to end Redundant User Plane Paths
(see TS 23.501 [7] clause 5.33.2.1), in which a UE may set up two redundant
PDU Sessions over the 5G network, the Data Volume related to only one PDU
session is to be considered;
\- In case of redundant transmission with two N3 tunnels between the PSA UPF
and a single NG-RAN node (cf. TS 23.501 [7] figure 5.33.2.2-1) which are
associated with a single PDU Session, the Data Volume related to only one N3
tunnel is to be considered;
\- In case of two N3 and N9 tunnels between NG-RAN and PSA UPF for redundant
transmission (see TS 23.501 [7] figure 5.33.2.2-2) associated with a single
PDU Session, the Data Volume related to only one N3 tunnel is to be
considered.
> For the measurement of the energy efficiency of the 5G core network, the
> 3GPP management system in charge of collecting the data volume measurements
> listed here above shall consider them only once in case of redundant
> transmission over the N3 interface.
## 6.8 Reliability KPI
### 6.8.1 Definition
Reliability is defined (see TS 22.261 [13] clause 3.1) in the context of
network layer packet transmissions, as the percentage value of the packets
successfully delivered to a given system entity within the time constraint
required by the targeted service out of all the packets transmitted.
#### 6.8.1.1 Packet transmission reliability KPI in DL on Uu
a) DLRelPSR_Uu
b) This KPI describes the Reliability based on Packet Success Rate(PSR)
Percentage between gNB and UE. It is used to evaluate the Uu interface
reliability contribution to the total network downlink reliability. It is the
percentage of RLC SDU packets which are successfully received in UE out of the
total RLC SDU packets transmitted by gNB. It is a measure of the DL packet
delivery success i.e. PSR% over Uu interface. It is a percentage value (%).
This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in
NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) Below is the equation for downlink Reliability in RAN based on PSR
percentage between gNB and UE.
DLRelPSR_Uu = {width="1.4791666666666667in" height="0.2604166666666667in"} ×
100 , where N(T1,drbid) & Dloss(T1,drbid) are as defined in TS 38.314.
or optionally DLRelPSR_Uu.QoS = {width="1.9270833333333333in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} × 100, where QoS
identifies the target QoS quality of service class.
or optionally DLRelPSR_Uu.SNSSAI = {width="2.2395833333333335in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} × 100,
where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) NRCellDU
#### 6.8.1.2 Packet transmission reliability KPI in UL on Uu
a) ULRelPSR_Uu
b) This KPI describes the Reliability based on Packet Success Rate Percentage
between UE and gNB. It is used to evaluate the Uu interface reliability
contribution to the total network uplink reliability. It is the percentage of
PDCP SDU packets which are successfully received in gNB out of the total PDCP
SDU packets transmitted by UE. It is a measure of the UL packet delivery
success i.e. PSR% over Uu interface. It is a percentage value (%). This KPI
can optionally be split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped 5QI or QCI in NR
option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) ULRelPSR_Uu = DRB.PacketSuccessRateUlgNBUu × 100 , where
DRB_PacketSuccessRateUlgNBUu is as defined in TS 28.552 [6].
or optionally ULRelPSR_Uu.QoS = DRB.PacketSuccessRateUlgNBUu.QOS × 100, where
QoS identifies the target QoS quality of service class.
or optionally ULRelPSR_Uu.SNSSAI = DRB.PacketSuccessRateUlgNBUu.SNSSAI × 100,
where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) NRCellCU
#### 6.8.1.3 Packet transmission reliability KPI in DL on N3
a) DLRelPSR_N3
b) This KPI describes the Reliability based on Packet Success Rate(PSR)
Percentage between UPF and gNB. It is used to evaluate the N3 interface
reliability contribution to the total network downlink reliability. It is the
percentage of GTP data PDUs which are successfully received by gNB out of the
total GTP data PDUs transmitted by UPF over N3 interface. It is a measure of
the DL packet delivery success i.e. PSR% over N3 interface. It is a percentage
value (%). This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped
5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) DLRelPSR_N3 = {width="3.7736111111111112in" height="0.4534722222222222in"}
where GTP.OutDataPktN3UPF, GTP.InDataPktPacketLossN3gNB are as defined in TS
28.552
or optionally,
DLRelPSR_N3.QoS = {width="4.038888888888889in" height="0.4625in"}
where QoS identifies the target QoS quality of service class.
or optionally,
DLRelPSR_N3.SNSSAI = {width="3.6868055555555554in"
height="0.3798611111111111in"}
where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) UPFFunction, GNBCUUPFunction
#### 6.8.1.4 Packet transmission reliability KPI in UL on N3
a) ULRelPSR_N3
b) This KPI describes the Reliability based on Packet Success Rate(PSR)
Percentage between gNB and UPF. It is used to evaluate the N3 interface
reliability contribution to the total network uplink reliability. It is the
percentage of GTP data PDUs which are successfully received by UPF out of the
total GTP data PDUs transmitted by gNB over N3 interface. It is a measure of
the UL packet delivery success i.e. PSR% over N3 interface. It is a percentage
value (%). This KPI can optionally be split into KPIs per QoS level (mapped
5QI or QCI in NR option 3) and per S-NSSAI.
c) ULRelPSR_N3 = {width="3.89375in" height="0.4in"}
where GTP.InDataPktN3UPF , GTP.InDataPktPacketLossN3UPF are as defined in TS
28.552
or optionally,
ULRelPSR_N3.QoS = {width="4.4625in" height="0.4388888888888889in"}
where QoS identifies the target QoS quality of service class.
or optionally,
ULRelPSR_N3.SNSSAI = {width="4.0680555555555555in"
height="0.5284722222222222in"}
where SNSSAI identifies the S-NSSAI.
d) UPFFunction
## 6.9 Average air-interface efficiency achievable per UE within the observed
NRCellDU
a) AvgCqiEfficiency_Cell.
b) The KPI describes the average air-interface efficiency for a NRCellDU
according to CQI tables. The KPI takes into account both the channel rank(RI)
and the channel quality(CQI), and can comprehensively reflect the overall
channel quality of the cell. It is a real value. The unit of KPI refer to that
of efficiency defined in TS 38.214. The KPI type is MEAN.
c) Below is the equation for average air-interface efficiency for NRCellDU:
Where is the efficiency used in the CQI table defined in TS 38.214 [14].
d) NRCellDU
###### ## Annex A (informative): Use cases for end to end KPIs
# A.1 Use case for end-to-end latency measurements of 5G network-related KPI
The end-to-end latency is an important performance parameter for operating 5G
network. In some scenarios (e.g. uRLLC), if end-to-end latency is
insufficient, the 5G network customer cannot obtain guaranteed network
performance provided by the network operator. So it is necessary to define
end-to-end latency of network related measurement to evaluate whether the end-
to-end latency that network customer requested has been satisfied. A procedure
is invoked by network management system and is used:
\- to update the CSMF/NSMF with the end-to-end latency parameter for
monitoring;
\- to inform the network customer/network operator the end-to-end latency;
\- to make CSMF/NSMF aware if the end-to-end latency can meet network
customer's service requirement.
If high end-to-end latency are measured, it is also of benefit to pinpoint
where in the chain from application to UE that the latency occurs.
# A.2 Use case for number of registered subscribers of single network-slice
related KPI
Number (mean and max) of registered subscribers of single network slice can be
used to describe the amount of subscribers that are successfully registered,
it can reflect the usage of network slice , It is useful to evaluate
accessibility performance provided by one single network slice which may
trigger the lifecycle management of the network slice, this kind of KPI is
valuable especially when network functions (e.g. AMF) are shared between
different network slice . This KPI is focusing on both network and user view.
# A.3 Use case for upstream/downstream throughput for one-single-network-
slice-related KPI
Measuring throughput is useful to evaluate system load of end to end network
slice. If the throughput of the specific network slice cannot meet the
performance requirement, some actions need to be performed to the network
slice e.g. reconfiguration, capacity relocation. So it is necessary to define
the IP throughput for one single network slice . This KPI is focusing on
network and user view.
# A.4 Use case for mean PDU sessions number in network slice
It is necessary to evaluate the mean or maximum PDU session number in the
network slice to indicate system load level. For example, if the mean or
maximum value of the PDU sessions is high, maybe the system capacity should be
increased. This KPI is focusing on network view.
# A.5 Use case for virtualised resource utilization of network-slice-related
KPI
It is necessary to evaluate the current utilization of virtualised resources
(e.g. memory and storage utilization) that a network slice is occupied. If the
utilization is larger or smaller than the threshold, maybe some scale in/out
operations will be made by the management system. This KPI is focusing on
network and user view.
# A.6 Use case for 5GS registration success rate of one single-network-slice-
related KPI
It is necessary to evaluate accessibility performance provided by 5GS. 5GS
registration for a UE is important when they have registered to the network
slice . If users or subscribers cannot register to the network slice , they
cannot access any network services in the network slice . This KPI is focusing
on network view.
# A.7 Use case for RAN UE throughput-related KPI
The UE perceived throughput in NG-RAN is an important performance parameter
for operating 5G network. If the UE throughput of the NR cell cannot meet the
performance requirement, some actions need to be performed to the network,
e.g. reconfiguration or capacity increase. So it is necessary to define UE
throughput KPI to evaluate whether the end-users are satisfied. The KPI covers
volume large enough to make the throughput measurement relevant, i.e.
excluding data volume of the last or only slot.
The UE throughput KPI covers also \"NR option 3\" scenarios. Then the gNB is
\"connected\" towards the EPC, and not towards 5GC.
It is proposed to allow the KPI separated based on mapped 5QI (or for QCI in
case of NR option 3).
When network slicing is supported by the NG-RAN, multiple network slices may
be supported. The UL and DL UE throughput for each network slice is then of
importance to the operator to pinpoint a specific performance problem.
# A.8 Use case for QoS flow retainability-related KPI
QoS flow is the key and limited resource for 5GS to deliver services. The
release of the QoS flow needs to be monitored. QoS flow retainability is a key
performance indicator of how often an end-user abnormally losing a QoS flow
during the time the QoS flow is used. This key performance indicator is of
great importance to estimate the end users' experiences.
# A.9 Use case for DRB accessibility-related KPIs
In providing services to end-users, the first step is to get access to the
service. First after access to the service has been performed, the service can
be used.
The service provided by NG-RAN is the DRB. For the DRB to be successfully
setup it is also necessary to setup an RRC connection and an NG signalling
connection.
If an end user cannot access a service, it is hard to charge for the service.
Also, if it happens often that an end-user cannot access the provided service,
the end-user might change wireless subscription provider, i.e. loss of income
for the network operator. Hence, to have a good accessibility of the services
is important from a business point of view.
The DRB accessibility KPIs require the following 5 measurements:
\- DRB connection setup success rate.
\- DRB setup success rate.
The success rate for RRC connection setup and for NG signalling connection
setup shall exclude setups with establishment cause mo-Signalling, since these
phases/procedures occur when there is no request to setup a DRB.
The KPIs are available per mapped 5QI and per S-NSSAI, and assist the network
operator with information about the accessibility provided to their 5G network
customers.
# A.10 Use case for mobility KPIs
When a service is used it is important that it is not interrupted or aborted.
One of the fault cases in a radio system for this is handovers/mobility.
If a mobility KPI is not considered OK, then the network operator can
investigate which steps that are required to improve the mobility towards
their services.
These KPIs can be used for observing the impact on end-users of mobility in
NG-RAN and towards other system.
# A.11 Use case for DRB retainability related KPI
DRB is the key and limited resource for 5GS to deliver services. Once a QoS
flow reaches a gNB it will trigger setup of a new DRB or it will be mapped to
an existing DRB. The decision on how to map QoS flows into new or existing
DRBs is taken at the CU-CP. CU-CP also defines one set of QoS parameters (one
5QI) for the DRB. If a QoS flow is mapped to an existing DRB, the packets
belonging to that QoS flow are not treated with the 5QI of the QoS flow, but
they are treated with the mapped 5QI of the DRB.
The release of the DRB needs to be monitored, so that abnormal releases while
the UE is considered in an active transfer shall be logged. DRB retainability
is a key performance indicator of how often an end-user abnormally loses a DRB
during the time the DRB is actively used. This key performance indicator is of
great important to estimate the end users' experiences. DRBs with bursty flow
are considered active if any data (UL or DL) has been transferred during the
last 100 ms. DRBs with continuous flow are seen as active DRBs in the context
of this measurement as long as the UE is in RRC connected state. A particular
DRB is defined to be of type continuous flow if the mapped 5QI is any of {1,
2, 65, 66}.
The key performance indicator shall monitor the DRB retainability for each
used mapped 5QI value, as well as for the used S-NSSAI(s). DRBs used in 3GPP
option 3 shall not be covered by this KPI. For the case when a DRB have
multiple QoS flows mapped and active, when a QoS flow is released it will not
be counted as a DRB release (DRB still active) in this KPI.
# A.12 Use case for PDU session establishment success rate of one network
slice (S-NSSAI) related KPI
It is necessary to evaluate accessibility performance provided by 5GS. PDU
session Establishment for a UE is important when it has registered to the
network slice. If users or subscribers cannot establish PDU sessions in slice
instance, they cannot access any network services in the network slice. This
KPI is focusing on network view.
# A.13 Use case for integrated downlink latency in RAN
Following figure captured in clause 4.2.3, 3GPP TS 23.501[x] illustrates the
5G system architecture. The end to end downlink latency should be measured
from Data Network to UE, of which the latency from RAN to UE is an important
part for the latency of this section is closely related to NG-RAN.
The integrated downlink latency in RAN is a key performance parameter for
evaluating the packet delay in RAN for QoS monitoring. This KPI is also an
important part of the end-to-end network latency for SLA assurance.
# A.14 Use case for PDU session Establishment success rate of one single-
network-slice instance-related KPI
It is necessary to evaluate PDU session establishment time, it can be used to
analyse the network service difference between different RAN locations in one
area, which can be used for management area division. This KPI is focusing on
network view.
# A.15 Use case for QoS flow retainability-related KPI
QoS Flow is the key and limited resource for 5GS to deliver services. The
release of the QoS flow needs to be monitored. QoS Flow drop ratio is a key
performance indicator of how often an end-user is abnormally losing a bearer.
This key performance indicator is of great importance to estimate the end
users' experiences.
The KPI shall be available per QoS group.
From QoS perspective it is important to focus also on call duration as in some
cases wrong quality perceived by the end user is not fully reflected by drop
ratio nor retainability KPI. Typical case is when due to poor radio conditions
the end user redials (the call was terminated normally) to the same party to
secure the quality. But in this case the drop ratio KPI will not show any
degradation. Secondly, although the call is dropped the end user may or may
not redial depending on dropped call duration compared to the case when the
call would be normally released. It is therefore highly recommended to monitor
distribution of duration of normally and abnormally released calls.
# A.16 Use case for 5G Energy Efficiency (EE) KPI
Assessment of Energy Efficiency in network is very important for operators
willing to control their OPEX and, in particular, their network energy OPEX.
5G energy efficiency can be addressed from various perspectives:
\- NG-RAN.
Mobile Network data Energy Efficiency (EE~MN,DV~) is the ratio between the
performance indicator (DV~MN~) and the energy consumption (EC~MN~) when
assessed during the same time frame, see ETSI ES 203 228 [8] clause 3.1 and
clause 5.3.
{width="0.9583333333333334in" height="0.25in"}
where EE~MN,DV~ is expressed in bit/J.
Assessment of EE~MN,DV~ needs the collection of both Data Volumes (DV) and
Energy Consumption (EC) of 5G Network Functions (NF). How this EE KPI can be
applied to NG-RAN is specified in clause 4.1 of TS 28.310 [9].
Before the network operator takes any action to save network energy OPEX, the
network operator needs to know the energy efficiency of its 5G network.
This KPI needs to be used for observing the impact of NG-RAN on data energy
efficiency of 5G access networks.
\- Network slices.
In a Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS) model, a Network Slice Customer (NSC)
may ask to its Network Slice Provider (NSP) a network slice with certain
characteristics, among which the expected EE of the network slice. It is
therefore required that a standardized definition of EE KPIs exists, per type
of network slice, and that such EE KPIs can be measured and delivered by
Network Slice Providers.
# A.17 Use case for PFCP session established success rate of one network and
one network slice instance-related KPI
It is necessary to evaluate the PFCP session established success rate of one
network and one network slice instance-related KPI. It can be used to analyse
the quality for the N4 interface connection between different vendor's SMF and
UPF related to one network or one network silce. The KPI is very useful for
the industry customer's Park area and N4 interface decouping deployment for
operrators. And this KPI is mainly focusing on network view.
# A.18 Use case for end-to-end reliability measurements of 5G network-related
KPI
The end-to-end reliability is an important performance parameter for operating
5G network. In some scenarios (e.g. uRLLC), if end-to-end reliability is
insufficient, the 5G network customer cannot obtain guaranteed network
performance provided by the network operator. So it is necessary to assess
end-to-end reliability of network utilizing the packet delivery success rate
measurements defined in clauses 6.8.2,6.8.3,6.8.4 and 6.8.5.The same can be
used to determine the end to end reliability of a slice.
# A.19 Use case for average UE achievable air-interface efficiency
The average UE achievable air-interface efficiency could provide operators
with the channel status considering both channel rank and quality
simultaneously. It can help operators to evaluate the overall channel state
and the efficiency of the cell when Massive MIMO is enabled. There are several
CQI tables defined in TS 38.214[14], the KPI can be calculated by using all
the CQI tables or some of CQI tables with the same BLER value.
# A.20 Use case for 5G VN group measurements related KPIs.
It is necessary to evaluate the end-to-end network KPIs on 5G VN group level
to evaluate the performance of 5G LAN-type services for provided consistence
of group UE experience. The 5G VN group measurements KPIs require the follow
measurements:
\- The 5G VN internal group status, calculated by group member
registration/de-registration success rate of 5G VN group, internal Group ID
identifies a 5G VN group communication, as specified in TS 23.501 [4].
\- The 5G VN internal group session establishment success rate, calculated by
the PDU session establishment success rate related to a 5G VN group, internal
Group ID identifies a 5G VN group communication, as specified in TS 23.501
[4].
\- The duration of 5G VN internal group communication, counted by the sum of
duration of individual PDU sessions within the 5G VN group communication,
internal Group ID identifies a 5G VN group communication, as specified in TS
23.501 [4].
To monitor the status of 5G VN Group, 5G VN Group level session establishment
success rate and the duration of 5G VN group communication can assist the
network operator with information about the 5G LAN-type services provided to
their 5G network customers. These KPIs are focusing on network view.
#