# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
A non-public network is a network that is intended for non-public use.
Deployments of non-public networks in private environments (e.g. factories,
enterprises) to provide coverage within a specific geographic area for non-
public use is a key demand of emerging 5G applications and verticals. An NPN
can be deployed as SNPN or as PNI-NPN.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies concepts, use cases, requirements and solutions
for management of non-public networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[5] 5G-ACIA White paper: \"5G Non-Public Networks for Industrial Scenarios\",
July 31, 2019.
[6] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG-RAN; NG Application Protocol (NGAP)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 38.473: \"NG-RAN; F1 Application Protocol (F1AP)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM); Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
[17] 3GPP TS 28.537: \"Management and orchestration; Management
capabilities\".
[18] 5G-ACIA: Exposure of 5G Capabilities for Connected Industries and
Automation Applications, https://5g-acia.org/whitepapers/exposure-
of-5g-capabilities-for-connected-industries-and-automation-applications-2/.
[19] 3GPP TS 28.104: \"Management and orchestration; Management Data Analytics
(MDA)\".
[20] 3GPP TS 32.423: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace data definition and management\".
[21] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Non-Public Network:** See definition in TS 22.261 [4].
**Public network integrated NPN:** See definition in TS 23.501 [3].
**Stand-alone Non-Public Network: See** definition in TS 23.501 [3].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CSC Communication Service Customer
CSP Communication Service Provider
MNO Mobile Network Operator
NPN Non-Public Network
PNI-NPN Public Network Integrated NPN
SNPN Stand-alone NPN
# 4 Concepts and overview
## 4.1 General
A Non-Public Network (NPN) is a 5GS deployed for non-public use, see TS 23.501
[3]. In contrast to public networks that offer mobile network services to the
general public, non-public networks are intended for the sole use of a private
entity such as a college or an enterprise. Non-public networks may be deployed
on the entity\'s defined premises such as a campus or a factory to provide
coverage within a specific geographic area.
An NPN may be deployed as:
\- a Stand-alone Non-Public Network (SNPN), i.e. operated by an NPN operator
and not relying on network functions provided by a PLMN; or
\- a Public network integrated NPN (PNI-NPN), i.e. a non-public network
deployed with the support of a PLMN.
## 4.2 Roles related to NPN management
In the context of NPNs, responsibilities regarding operations have to be
clearly defined and assigned to roles.
In clause 4.8 of TS 28.530 [2], the roles related to 5G networks and network
slicing management are presented. An NPN represents a 5G network with a
delimited scope in its use (i.e. non-public use). This means that NPN
management can be built upon the roles related to 5G networks management, as
long as the scope of these roles is limited to acting on network and services
for non-public use.
According to the above rationale, the roles related to NPN management include:
\- NPN Service Customer (NPN-SC): a Communication Service Customer (CSC) which
consumes communication services for non-public use, i.e. communication
services offered over NPNs. An NPN-SC is the realization of the CSC role (see
definition in TS 28.530 [2], clause 4.8) in NPN environments.
\- NPN Service Provider (NPN-SP): a Communication Service Provider (CSP) which
provides communication services for non-public use, i.e. communication
services offered over NPNs. An NPN-SP is the realization of the CSP role (see
definition in TS 28.530 [2], clause 4.8) in NPN environments.
\- NPN Operator (NPN-OP): a Network Operator (NOP) whose management scope is
limited to 5G networks for non-public use, i.e. NPNs. An NPN operator is the
realization of the NOP role (see definition in TS 28.530 [2], clause 4.8) in
NPN environments.
\- Network Equipment Provider (NEP), including VNF supplier: see definition in
TS 28.530 [2], clause 4.8.
\- Virtualization Infrastructure Service Provider (VISP): see definition in TS
28.530 [2], clause 4.8.
\- Data Centre Service Provider (DCSP): see definition in TS 28.530 [2],
clause 4.8.
\- NFVI Supplier: see definition in TS 28.530 [2], clause 4.8.
\- Hardware Supplier: see definition in TS 28.530 [2], clause 4.8.
Note that NEP, VISP, DCSP, NFVI supplier and Hardware Supplier roles are the
same as defined for 5G networks and network slicing management. This is
because their managed/provided assets are unaware of the public or non-public
nature of 5G network and services running atop.
Depending on actual scenarios and the type of NPNs under consideration, i.e.
SNPN or PNI-NPN, different relationships can be found between NPN management
roles and potential stakeholders, see annex A Deployment considerations on NPN
management modes.
## 4.3 NPN management aspects
### 4.3.1 Drivers
Vertical industries have a very wide range of use cases with very diverse
requirements comparing with management of traditional PLMN. Management of NPN
has the following specific aspects:
\- Assurance for diversified SLA requirements: The diversified SLA
requirements from different kinds of vertical industries need to be
guaranteed, e.g. manufacturing industry and medical care need ultra-reliable
low-latency wireless connectivity and indoor, outdoor or hybrid coverage NPN
deployments. Other than performance requirements (e.g. ultra-low latency,
ultra-high reliability), functional and operational requirements should also
be guaranteed in SLA, e.g. high-precision positioning, real-time monitoring,
etc.
\- Support of different O&M models: an O&M model allows specifying who is
responsible for managing what part of the network. The various NPN scenarios,
with a number of vertical use cases and a plenty of deployment variants, in
some cases may lead to the definition of different O&M models. For example,
many small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) do not have sufficient
technical expertise for their NPNs\' deployment and operation. Therefore,
cooperation with PLMN Operators to obtain O&M of NPNs from PLMN Operators
might be the most cost-effective way for such customers. On the other hand,
large enterprises like electric utility companies might want to have their own
O&M for their NPNs to fulfil specific requirements.
\- Management capability exposure: this expresses the ability of an NPN-SP to
expose some management capabilities, such as performance and KPIs monitoring,
fault supervision and provisioning management capabilities, to the
corresponding NPN-SC. The NPN-SP makes the selected NPN management
capabilities available through well-defined APIs to allow the NPN-SC to
consume these capabilities, as well as extending them with their own operation
and maintenance systems, if needed. NPN-SC may provide their business
objectives by intents and policies management to NPN-SP and no need to focus
on detailed configuration parameters of NPNs. The mobile management
capabilities exposed to the enterprise are as follows.
> \- Management capability of configuration: The vertical may request to
> mobile network operator for a limited management capability which would
> enable the enterprise to dynamically change the configuration parameters
> (e.g. CAG configuration).
>
> \- Management capability of performance assurance: The performance assurance
> capabilities that may be provided to the enterprise may include creation of
> certain measurement jobs which collects the value of one or multiple
> measurement types which are the performance measurements and assurance data
> defined in TS 28.552 [12] or collects the value of one or multiple KPIs
> defined in TS 28.554 [13].
>
> \- Management capability of fault supervision: The fault supervision
> capabilities that may be provided to the enterprise may include get
> NSI/NSSI/NF alarm data and control NSI/NSSI/NF alarm data.
### 4.3.2 Management modes
#### 4.3.2.1 General
Different management modes of NPN are listed in table 4.3-1.
#### 4.3.2.2 PNI-NPN
**\- MNO Managed Mode** : The NPN operator role is entirely played by a mobile
network operator, which also plays the Network Operator (NOP) role (see
definition in TS 28.530 [2], clause 4.8) for PLMN. In this case, no specific
spectrum resources are required and service continuity (e.g. roaming) with
PLMN is ensured by the mobile network operator who manages both PNI-NPN and
PLMN.
**\- MNO-Vertical Managed Mode** : The NPN operator role is played by two
parties: a mobile network operator, which also plays the NOP role for PLMN,
and a vertical customer. The mobile network operator performs the main
management tasks related to the PNI-NPN, while allowing the vertical to retain
some control over this PNI-NPN. To that end, the vertical consumes the
management capabilities exposed by the mobile network operator, being this
exposure regulated according to the business agreement between the two
parties. The mobile network operator shall restrict the types (e.g.
provisioning, fault supervision, performance assurance) of management
capabilities and corresponding managed network resource (e.g. NRM fragments)
exposed to a vertical. In this case, no specific spectrum resources are
required and service continuity (e.g. roaming) with PLMN is ensured by the
mobile network operator who manages both PNI-NPN and PLMN. The vertical can
also outsource its PNI-NPN management tasks to other third party OAM service
provider.
#### 4.3.2.3 SNPN
**\- MNO Managed Mode:** The NPN operator role is entirely played by a mobile
network operator, which also plays the NOP role for PLMN In this case,
specific spectrum resources (e.g. unlicensed spectrums) are required, and
cooperation with PLMN Operator may be needed if there is requested NPN
connectivity to external PLMN resources (e.g. to allow UEs registered into the
SNPN to access public network services).
**\- MNO-Vertical Managed Mode:** The NPN operator role is played by two
parties: a mobile network operator, which also plays the NOP role for PLMN,
and a vertical customer. The mobile network operator performs the main
management tasks related to the SNPN, while allowing the vertical to retain
some control over this SNPN. To that end, the vertical consumes the management
capabilities exposed by the mobile network operator, being this exposure
regulated according to the business agreement between the two parties. The
mobile network operator shall restrict the types (e.g. provisioning, fault
supervision, performance assurance) of management capabilities and
corresponding managed network resource (e.g. NRM fragments) exposed to a
vertical. In this case, specific spectrum resources (e.g. unlicensed
spectrums) are required, and cooperation with PLMN Operator may be needed if
there is requested NPN connectivity to external PLMN resources (e.g. to allow
UEs registered into the SNPN to access public network services). The
management tasks for the SNPN are performed mainly by the mobile network
operator and the vertical with some management capabilities. The vertical can
also outsource its SNPN management tasks to other third party OAM service
provider.
**\- Vertical Managed Mode:** The NPN operator role is entirely played by a
vertical. In this case, specific spectrum resources (e.g. unlicensed
spectrums) are required, and cooperation with PLMN Operator may be needed if
there is requested NPN connectivity to external PLMN resources (e.g. to allow
UEs registered into the SNPN to access public network services). The vertical
can also outsource its SNPN management tasks to other third party OAM service
provider.
Table 4.3-1: Different management modes of NPN
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Management | NPN type | Management | **NPN |** Use | | mode | | of NPN | Operator**| case** | +=============+==========+=============+=============+=============+ | **MNO | PNI-NPN | An NPN is | Mobile | 5.1.2 | | Managed | | fully | network | | | Mode** | | managed by | operator | | | | | a mobile | | | | | | network | | | | | | operator | | | | | | which also | | | | | | manages | | | | | | PLMN. | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **M | PNI-NPN | An NPN is | Mobile | 5.1.2 | | NO-Vertical | | managed by | network | | | Managed | | a mobile | operator | | | Mode** | | network | and | | | | | operator | vertical | | | | | which also | | | | | | manages | (Note 1)\ | | | | | PLMN and a | (Note 2) | | | | | vertical | | | | | | who gets | | | | | | some | | | | | | management | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | | | | | exposed | | | | | | from the | | | | | | mobile | | | | | | network | | | | | | operator | | | | | | according | | | | | | to business | | | | | | agreement | | | | | | between the | | | | | | two | | | | | | parties. | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **MNO | SNPN | An NPN is | Mobile | 5.1.1.1 | | Managed | | fully | network | | | Mode** | | managed by | operator | | | | | a mobile | | | | | | network | | | | | | operator. | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **M | SNPN | An NPN is | Mobile | 5.1.1.1 | | NO-Vertical | | managed by | network | | | Managed | | a mobile | operator | | | Mode** | | network | and | | | | | operator | vertical | | | | | and a | | | | | | vertical | (Note 1)\ | | | | | who gets | (Note 2) | | | | | some | | | | | | management | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | | | | | exposed | | | | | | from the | | | | | | mobile | | | | | | network | | | | | | operator | | | | | | according | | | | | | to business | | | | | | agreement | | | | | | between the | | | | | | two | | | | | | parties. | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Vertical | SNPN | An NPN is | Vertical | 5.1.1.1 | | Managed | | fully | | | | Mode** | | managed by | (Note 1) | | | | | a vertical. | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: The | | | | | | vertical | | | | | | can | | | | | | outsource | | | | | | its NPN | | | | | | management | | | | | | tasks to | | | | | | other third | | | | | | party OAM | | | | | | service | | | | | | provider to | | | | | | manage the | | | | | | NPN based | | | | | | on the | | | | | | management | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | | | | | exposed | | | | | | from the | | | | | | mobile | | | | | | network | | | | | | operator. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | mobile | | | | | | network | | | | | | operator | | | | | | shall | | | | | | restrict | | | | | | the | | | | | | exposure of | | | | | | management | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | | | | | and | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | managed | | | | | | resources | | | | | | to | | | | | | vertical. | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 4.4 Management of SNPNs
An SNPN is deployed as an isolated network from PLMN. An optional connection
to the public network services via the firewall, can be employed to enable NPN
customers to access to public network services, such as voice, while within
NPN coverage, see figure 1 in clause 5.2 of [5].
To manage an SNPN which is a 5GS (i.e. NG-RAN and 5GC) that can be optionally
complemented with other access networks based on non-3GPP technologies (i.e.
IEEE Wi-Fi), the standalone SNPN management system needs a dedicated NPN
identifier. The combination of a PLMN ID and Network Identifier (NID) is used
to identify an SNPN.
The NID shall consist of an assignment mode and an NID value, see figure
4.4-1.
Figure 4.4-1: Network Identifier (NID)
The NID can be assigned using the following assignment models, see clause
5.30.2.1 of TS 23.501 [3] and clause 12.7.1 of TS 23.003 [6]:
\- Self-assignment: NIDs are chosen individually by NPN-OP for SNPNs at
deployment time (and may therefore not be unique) but use a different
numbering space than the coordinated assignment NIDs as defined in TS 23.003
[6]. This assignment model is encoded by setting the assignment mode to value
1.
\- Coordinated assignment: NIDs are assigned using one of the following two
options:
1) Option 1: The NID is assigned such that it is globally unique independent
of the PLMN ID used. Option 1 of this assignment model is encoded by setting
the assignment mode to value 0.
2) Option 2: The NID is assigned such that the combination of the NID and the
PLMN ID is globally unique. Option 2 of this assignment model is encoded by
setting the assignment mode to value 2.
NOTE: The details of NID are defined in clause 12.7 of TS 23.003 [6].
An SNPN, which includes 3GPP and non-3GPP segments, may be created for use of
an NPN-SC. From management viewpoint, this means that the 3GPP and non-3GPP
segments of this NPN are completely independent and separated from PLMN
provided network functions. The NPN operator has full management control over
the exclusive SNPN network functions, i.e., 3GPP segment which includes non-
public 5GC and/or non-public NG-RAN, and non-3GPP segment.
An SNPN, which includes 3GPP segments only, may be created for use of an NPN-
SC. From management viewpoint, this means that the 3GPP segments of this NPN
are completely independent and separated from PLMN provided network functions.
The NPN-OP has full management control over the exclusive SNPN network
functions, i.e., 3GPP segments which includes non-public 5GC and non-public
NG-RAN.
## 4.5 Management of PNI-NPNs
A PNI-NPN is an NPN made available via a PLMN, by means of dedicated DNNs, or
by one (or more) network slice instances allocated for the NPN [2]. In order
to access PNI-NPN, the UE shall have a subscription for the PLMN.
PNI-NPN operation may optionally make use of the concept of Closed Access
Group (CAG) [3], which enables the control of UE\'s access to PNI-NPN on a per
cell basis (CAG cells). The CAG concept is used to prevent UEs which are not
allowed to access the PNI-NPN from automatically selecting and accessing the
associated cell(s). The CAG cell broadcasts information such that only UEs
supporting CAG are accessing the cell. This is not possible with the sole use
of network slicing unless an operator specific barring is used. That is why
CAG concept is needed for access control.
The PLMN ID identifies the network and the CAG ID identifies the CAG cells.
Network selection and reselection is performed based on PLMN ID. Cell
selection and reselection, and access control are done based on the CAG ID.
In a PNI-NPN scenario, the CAG management aspects include:
\- Assignment and maintenance of CAG IDs.
\- Managing the actual list of UEs that are allowed on the CAG. The
information contained on this list should be shared between the NPN-SP and the
NPN-SC.
\- Access rights of individual CAG cells. The NPN-SC shall have the capability
to configure access rights to CAG cells (e.g. allowed days / time slots for
UEs provided to contractors of a company).
## 4.6 Impact of NPNs on 5G system management
### 4.6.1 UE related management aspects
#### 4.6.1.1 Collecting UE related data and providing to authorized NPN
service customer
UEs under service of NPN may have various forms, such as phones or PCs or IoT
terminals, some of them are assets of the NPN service customer. UE related
data including UE locations, measurements, etc. is required by the NPN service
customer to help their own business in some cases. Such UE related data is
easier or more cost-efficient to be acquired by NPN UEs compared with being
acquired by other methods e.g. by add-on devices or applications. For example,
healthcare industry NPN customers require location information of their NPN
UEs applied in mobile medical machines for asset management; enterprise NPN
customers require location information of the NPN UEs of their employees for
attendance management.
In this case, 3GPP management system may need to collect UE related data and
provide them to authorized NPN service customer. Such collected UE related
data are generated by management services which are defined and implemented in
3GPP system, such as:
\- MDT data, including immediate MDT, logged MDT, RLF reports, accessibility
measurements.
\- Trace data, to track traffic process of UEs and locate possible causes of
traffic problems for example.
Furthermore, according to pre-defined agreements among the NPN stakeholders,
some specific UE related data can be provided to authorized NPN customer, e.g.
to promote their positioning ability or evaluate QoE. Such data may be
processed or masked based on collected data such as MDT or trace. For example,
GNSS information can be extracted from MDT data to locate assets in NPN.
#### 4.6.1.2 5G VN group management
A 5G Virtual Network (VN) group is a set of UEs using private communication
for 5G LAN-type service [3]. The definition of 5G VN groups is required by the
NPN-SC to help their own business in some cases. For example, an NPN-SC might
request that certain UEs be members of one or more 5G VN groups.
Based on the above rationale, 3GPP management system may need to allow for the
5G VN group management support in NPNs, following up the needs of the NPN-SC.
This includes:
\- Creation, modification and removal of 5G VN groups, including definition of
group communication services and other attributes (e.g. the service area).
\- Addition/removal of individual UEs to/from a 5G VN group.
\- Notification of 5G VN group related information (e.g. status, events),
following up NPN-SC subscription preferences.
### 4.6.2 NG-RAN related management aspects
An NG-RAN node can serve multiple NPNs, including SNPNs and PNI-NPNs. To that
end, the NPN-OP shall configure the NG-RAN node accordingly, using 3GPP
management system.
For NG-RAN non-split deployments, the gNB needs to be configured (via 3GPP
management system) with lists of NID(s) and CAG(s) it supports, for SNPN and
PNI-NPN, respectively. In the NG Application Protocol (NGAP), this information
is used as follows.
\- The gNB communicates supported NID(s) to AMF in the following NGAP
messages: NG SETUP REQUEST (see clause 9.2.6.1 of TS 38.413 [9]) and RAN
CONFIGURATION UPDATE (see clause 9.2.6.4 of TS 38.413 [9]).
\- The gNB does not communicate supported CAG(s) to the AMF; instead, it keeps
this cell-level information internally. The gNB uses information on supported
CAG(s) to accept/reject handover requests from AMF in the following NGAP
message: HANDOVER REQUEST (see clause 9.2.3.4 of TS 38.413 [9])
For NG-RAN split deployments, individual gNB-DU needs to be configured (via
3GPP management system) with lists of NID(s) and CAG(s) it supports, for SNPN
and PNI-NPN, respectively. In the F1 Application Protocol (F1AP), this
information is used as follows:
\- Each gNB-DU communicates supported NID(s) to the gNB-CU in the following
F1AP messages: F1 SETUP REQUEST (see clause 9.2.1.4 of TS 38.473 [10]) and
gNB-DU CONFIGURATION UPDATE (see clause 9.2.1.7 of TS 38.473 [10]). With this
information, the gNB-CU knows NPN support information about the cells
configured in this gNB-DU.
\- Upon receiving the above information from individual gNB-DUs, the gNB-CU
knows which NID(s) are available for use. The reason is that not all
distributed gNB-DUs under the same gNB-CU may necessarily support the same
NIDs.
\- Based on this information, the gNB-CU can decide on which specific cells
need to be activated on individual gNB-DUs. The gNB-CU communicates this
information in the following F1AP messages: F1 SETUP RESPONSE (see clause
9.2.1.5 of TS 38.473 [10]) and gNB-DU CONFIGURATION ACKNOWLEDGE (see clause
9.2.1.8 of TS 38.473 [10]).
\- gNB-DUs do not communicate supported CAG(s) to the gNB-CU; instead, they
keep this cell-level information internally.
There could be scenarios where the NG-RAN node supporting NPNs is shared using
5G MOCN. In all these NPN sharing scenarios, each Cell Identity as specified
in TS 38.331 [11] is associated with one of the following configuration
options:
\- one or multiple SNPNs;
\- one or multiple PNI-NPNs (with CAG);
\- one or multiple PLMNs only.
For more details on these configuration options, see clause 5.18 of TS 23.501
[3].
### 4.6.3 5GC related management aspects
As described in clause 5.30.3.1 of TS 23.501[3], the architecture of 5G Core
is capable to support SNPN and PNI-NPN.
For SNPN, the architecture depicted in clause 4.2.3 of TS 23.501 [3] is
extended with the additional features as described in clause 5.30.2 of TS
23.501 [3].
The 5GC NRM shall support the network resource model for SNPN:
\- N3IWF and service access point of Untrusted Non-3GPP access for UE to
access PLMN services via SNPN.
3GPP management system shall support configuration of 5GC NFs (e.g., AMF, SMF,
UPF etc.) as network nodes in SNPN. The NID shall be configured to 5GC NFs
when 5GC NFs are part of SNPN, in case of both self-assignment and coordinated
assignment.
For PNI-NPN, there are no further specific 5GC related management aspects
apart from those captured in clause 4.5.
# 5 Specification level requirements
## 5.1 Use cases
### 5.1.0 Generic use cases
#### 5.1.0.1 Collecting UE related data
In some NPN scenarios, the NPN-SC may need to deploy a new vertical service or
supervise NPN service SLA based on the UE related data (e.g. UE measurement,
etc). In this situation, the 3GPP management system may collect UE related
data and provide them to authorized NPN-SC. To obtain the UE related data, the
NPN-SC may consume the corresponding capability exposed by the NPN-SP.
#### 5.1.0.2 NPN fault management
5G-ACIA has described the functional requirements for exposing the
capabilities of non-public 5G systems to industrial factory applications in
[18]. The requirements given in clause 4.3 of 5G-ACIA white paper in [18] are
for NPN fault management aspects, as following:
_\"[R-4.3.1-07] The 5G exposure reference points must allow monitoring of
errors and other alarms from physical/logical network components and
connections._
_[R-4.3.1-08] The 5G exposure reference points must provide the monitoring
information in such a way that it can be effectively used for error detection,
localization, root-cause analysis, and error resolution.\"_
Therefore, for vertical industry scenarios where 5G industry terminals, e.g.
camera, programmable logic controller (PLC) and smart distribution transformer
terminal, etc., are widely deployed in NPN, 3GPP management system needs to
provide fault management capabilities to detect rapidly whether or not the
faults occurred on the NPN side.
#### 5.1.0.3 Management of NPN service customer
As described in clause 4.2, an NPN service customer is used to represent the
role of communication service customer in NPN environment. NPN service
customer can request and consume the management capabilities exposed by the
mobile network operator. The mobile network operator would restrict the types
(e.g. provisioning, fault supervision, performance assurance) of management
capabilities and corresponding managed network resource exposed to an NPN
service customer. The restriction of MnS consumption can be achieved through
the granular access control on NPN service customer and the filtering of MnS.
### 5.1.1 Use cases related to SNPN management
#### 5.1.1.1 Create a SNPN
This use case describes a scenario where an NPN-SP decides to provision an NPN
for use by an NPN-SC in the form of SNPN. It is either an MNO or an enterprise
can be playing a role of NPN-SP, and it is an enterprise (the different or
same if the enterprise is also NPN-SP) be playing a role of NPN-SC. This SNPN
consists of network resources decoupled from PLMN resources, including:
\- RAN NE(s)
\- 5GC network functions
\- Transport network
In this scenario, the NPN-SC sends to the NPN-SP a request for the provision
of an NPN. This request contains the NPN related SLS requirements. To fulfil
the SLS of requested NPN, the NPN-SP decides to create a new SNPN.
The NPN-SP maps SLS of requested NPN into 3GPP 5G system related requirements.
These requirements allow the NPN operator to decide on the constituent network
resources and the topology of the 3GPP 5G network to be created for the SNPN,
as follows:
\- For the AN and CN related parts, the NPN operator takes all the actions
needed to set up and configure required network resources, including RAN NE(s)
and 5GC network functions. For more details, refer to TS 28.531 [8], clauses
5.1.17 \"Creation of 3GPP NF\" and 5.1.18 \"Configuration of a 3GPP NF
instance\". Some of these actions can require setting up a new 3GPP sub-
network. For more details, refer to TS 28.531 [8], clause 5.1.19 \"Creation of
a 3GPP sub-network\".
\- For the TN related part, the NPN operator takes all the actions needed to
set up the required connectivity along the RAN and CN, configuring the
underlying transport network. When taking these actions, information on SNPN
topology (e.g. external connection points of AN and CN) and performance (e.g.
latency, bandwidth) should be considered.
If the requested NPN requires connectivity to external PLMN resources (e.g. to
allow UEs registered into the SNPN to access public network services), the
NPN-SP derives the requirements for such a connectivity. These requirements
allow the NPN operator to configure the transport network connecting the SNPN
and the PLMN accordingly.
NOTE 1: To allow UEs to access public network services from the SNPN, the UEs
also have to be registered in the PLMN UDM.
NOTE 2: For the derivation of connectivity requirements between SNPN and the
PLMN, the NPN-SP makes use of two sources of information:
1) the SLS of requested NPN, received from the NPN-SC; and
2) connectivity information of the created 3GPP 5G network, received from the
NPN operator.
In this use case, depending on different situations, the NPN operator role can
be played by:
\- the mobile network operator only. In such MNO Managed Mode case, the mobile
network operator takes the entire responsibility of operating the SNPN and
managing SNPN-PLMN connectivity, if required; or
\- the mobile network operator and the enterprise. In such MNO-Vertical Mode
case, the mobile network operator can expose some management capabilities to
the enterprise, according to business agreement between the two parties. SNPN-
PLMN connectivity, if required, is always managed by the mobile network
operator; or
\- the vertical only. In such Vertical Managed Mode case, the enterprise takes
the entire responsibility of operating the SNPN. The SNPN-PLMN connectivity,
if required, is always managed by the mobile network operator who takes the
entire responsibility of operating the PLMN.
In this use case depending on the different NID assignment models as described
in clause 4.4, the NPN operator role can configure the NID to related AN nodes
and 5GC NFs. The management of NID is described in clause 4.4 in the present
document.
### 5.1.2 PNI-NPN provisioning by network slice (NSaaS) of PLMN
A mobile network operator (playing the role of NPN-SP) decides to provision a
PNI-NPN for use by an enterprise (playing the role of NPN-SC) in the form of a
network slice of a PLMN. This network slice may include PLMN network functions
/ network function services for non-public use. Depending on NPN-SC, the slice
can span one or more network domains, e.g.:
\- Network slice corresponding to a RAN-only network slice subnet.
\- Network slice corresponding to CN-only network slice subnet.
\- Network slice corresponding to a network slice subnet composed of RAN slice
subnet + Transport network slice subnet + CN slice subnet.
In this scenario, the NPN-SC provides the NPN related SLA requirements to the
NPN-SP. These requirements specify NPN related SLS (i.e. NPN desired
performance and required functionality) together with other business related
information (i.e. NPN lifetime, NPN slice charging / accounting, etc.). To
fulfil the SLS of requested NPN, the NPN-SP decides to use network slicing.
The NPN-SP maps SLS of requested PNI-NPN into ServiceProfile attributes. For
details on these attributes, see TS 28.541 [7]. Based on these attributes, the
NPN-SP determines to reuse an existing network slice or create a new network
slice for the PNI-NPN. If an existing network slice can be reused, the
operator may reconfigure the existing network slice.
In this use case, the NPN operator role is played by:
\- The mobile network operator only. In such MNO Managed Mode case, the mobile
network operator takes the entire responsibility of operating the network
slice of the PLMN.
\- The mobile network operator and the enterprise. In such MNO-Vertical
Managed Mode, according to business agreement between both parties, the mobile
network operator can expose some management capabilities to the enterprise.
NOTE: The scope of the NPN operator in this use case does not include the
management of enterprise owned 5G network resources (i.e. on-premise physical
equipment and on-premise NFVI).
## 5.2 Requirements
### 5.2.1 Generic requirements for management of NPN
**REQ-NPN-FUN-01** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
monitor the performance measurements and KPIs associated with an NPN.
**REQ-NPN-FUN-02** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
provide the performance measurements and KPIs associated with an NPN to
authorized entity, either NPN-SC (when NPN-SP and NPN-OP are both played by
the same actor) or NPN-SP (when NPN-SP and NPN-OP are played by different
actors).
**REQ-NPN-FUN-03** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
receive SLA requirements from authorized NPN-SC and then translating the SLA
requirements into service and network resources related requirements.
**REQ-NPN-FUN-04** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
evaluate SLS assurance related to an NPN.
**REQ-NPN-FUN-05** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
restrict the exposure of management capabilities and corresponding managed
resources to NPN-SC.
**REQ-NPN-FUN-06** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
support management capabilities exposure, which includes management
capabilities of network provisioning, fault supervision and performance
assurance to the authorized NPN-SC.
**REQ-NPN-FUN-07** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
provision both physical and virtual NPNs.
**REQ-NPN-FUN-08** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
provision different NPNs intended to different NPN-SCs.
**REQ-NPN-FUN-09** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
provision an NPN which serves different NPN-SCs.
**REQ-NPN-FUN-10** The 3GPP management system shall offer the NPN-SC the
ability to manage its own NPN(s) and its private slice(s) in the PLMN in a
combined manner.
**REQ-NPN- FUN-11** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
monitor the fault and other alarms from network elements of NPN.
**REQ-NPN-FM-12** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
provide monitoring information which can be used for fault detection and fault
localization in NPN.
**REQ-NPN-FUN-13** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
maintain the NPN service customer information, e.g. authorized management
capabilities.
### 5.2.2 Requirements for management of SNPN
**REQ-SNPN-FUN-01** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
support standalone operation of an SNPN.
**REQ-SNPN-FUN-02** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
support management of dedicated NPN identifier (i.e. combination of a PLMN ID
and a Network Identifier (NID) which is used to identify an SNPN.
**REQ-SNPN-FUN-03** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
configure NID which consists of an assignment mode and an NID value.
**REQ-SNPN-FUN-04** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
configure an NR cell for the support of SNPN, by configuring a gNB (gNB-DU in
NG-RAN split deployment scenarios) with a list of served NIDs per PLMN
Identity.
**REQ-SNPN-FUN-05** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
interwork with one or more non-3GPP management systems to support the
operation of a SNPN which includes 3GPP and non-3GPP segments.
### 5.2.3 Requirements for management of PNI-NPN
**REQ-PNIN-FUN-01** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
collect NPN UE related data which may include MDT data and trace data.
**REQ-PNIN-FUN-02** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
provide NPN UE related data to authorized NPN-SC according to pre-defined
agreements.
**REQ-PNIN-FUN-03** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support assignment and maintenance of CAG ID which identifies the CAG cells.
**REQ-PNIN-FUN-04** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
configure a NR cell to support PNI-NPN, by configuring a gNB (gNB-DU in NG-RAN
split deployment scenarios) with a list of serving CAGs per PLMN Identity.
**REQ-PNIN-FUN-05** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
manage the list of UEs that are allowed on the corresponding CAG.
**REQ-PNIN-FUN-06** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
configure access policy of CAG cells.
NOTE: The access policy of CAG cells includes such as allowed days/time slots
for NPN UEs that are allowed on the corresponding CAG cells.
**REQ-PNIN-FUN-07** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
provision a PNI-NPN by means of dedicated DNN, or by one (or more) network
slice instance(s). For the latter, the network slice instance is made
available for the NPN-SC by means of Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS) model
(see clause 4.1.6 from TS 28.530 [2]).
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Generic solutions for management of NPN
### 6.1.1 Solution for collecting UE related data
The NPN-SP/OP follows the mechanisms used for the control and configuration of
the Trace and MDT as described in TS 32.422 [16], including:
\- the MDT/trace activation procedures in clause 4.1 of TS 32.422 [16] for
MDT/trace configuration, and,
\- the MDT/trace reporting procedures in clause 4.6 and 4.7 of TS 32.422 [16]
for UE related data reporting.
{width="6.69375in" height="2.89375in"}
Figure 6.1.1-1: Procedures of UE related data collection
Figure 6.1.1-1 shows the procedure of UE related data collection.
It is assumed that the NPN-SP and NPN-OP roles are played by the same actor in
figure 6.1.1-1. The work flow between NPN-SP and NPN-SC for the pre-defined
agreements is out of scope of the present document.
1) Based on the pre-defined agreements, NPN-SC sends \"Create MDT collection
task\" request to NPN-SP/OP.
2) The NPN-SP/OP sends a Trace Session activation request to the NE. This
request includes the parameters for configuring MDT data collection such as
area, job type and list of measurements.
3) After receiving the MDT collection request, NE performs the UE selection
based on the input information derived from NPN-SP/OP, such as device
capability information and area scope.
4) NE shall activate the MDT functionality and send configuration information
to the selected UEs (see clause 4.1 of clause of TS 32.422 [16]).
5) When UE receives the MDT activation, it shall start the MDT functionality
based on the received configuration parameters. The MDT related measurements
are then reported to NE.
6) Then NE reports the related data to NPN-SP/OP (see clauses 4.6 and 4.7 of
TS 32.422 [16]).
7) According to pre-defined agreements among the NPN roles, some specific UE
related data can be provided to authorized NPN customer (see clause 7.2 of TS
28.537 [17]) such data may be processed or masked based on collected data such
as MDT or trace. For example, GNSS information can be extracted from MDT to
locate assets in NPN.
### 6.1.2 Solution for NPN fault management
In order to provide fault management capabilities scoping NPN and UEs
representing 5G industry terminals, an NPN management system should monitor
the fault of NPN and large quantity of 5G industry terminals which may be
deployed in an enterprise.
The management services and performance data which are reused to achieve NPN
fault management are following:
\- Generic fault supervision management service defined in clause 11.2 of TS
28.532 [14].
\- Performance assurance management service defined in clause 11.3 of TS
28.532 [14].
\- MDA assisted fault management service defined in clause 7.2.3 of TS 28.104
[19].
\- Trace control and configuration management service defined in clauses 4.1,
4.2 and 6 of TS 32.422 [16].
The performance data collected at 5G industry terminals includes:
\- MDT data (e.g. UL/DL throughput volume, UL/DL throughput time used for
calculation of UL/DL throughput, UL/DL packet delay per QoS level, UL/DL
packet loss rate per QoS level, etc., defined in clause 4.34.1 of TS 32.423
[20].
### 6.1.3 Solution for management of NPN service customer
The NPN service customer (i.e. NPN-SC) is a role defined for NPN management to
represent the CSC (e.g. verticals) which consumes communication services for
non-public use (see clause 4.2). While in 3GPP management system, tenant
represents a group of MnS consumers associated with the management
capabilities they are allowed to access and consume (see clause 4.8 of TS
28.533 [21]). Therefore, the management of NPN-SC, which focuses on the
granular access control of NPN-SC, is achieved through the management of
context information for tenants.
The creation of tenant context is finished during tenant registration
procedure. The tenant registers to NPN-SP/OP for two reasons:
\- Enable the authentication and authorization to tenant.
\- Enable the tenant to obtain the permitted MnS information (e.g., MnS type
and MnS components).
Figure 6.1.3-1 shows the procedure of management of tenant.
{width="5.430253718285214in" height="2.0470516185476817in"}
Figure 6.1.3-1: Procedure of management of tenant
The pre-condition of the procedure is that the NPN-SC and NPN-SP/OP have
reached a business agreement. Tenant provides the vertical information (e.g.
human readable name of vertical, subscribed management capabilities exposed to
vertical, etc.) to register a vertical to NPN-SP/NPN-OP through a tenant
registration request message.
1) According to the tenant identifier provided by tenant (playing the role of
NPN-SC), access control MnS producer (i.e. Authentication and Authorization
MnS producer) identifies the management capabilities that are allowed to
exposed to the tenant. After specifying the management capabilities for the
tenant, access control MnS producer generates credential/access token for
authentication/authorization and decides to request the creation of MOI
Identity, Role and PermissionForMnSs to manage tenant context.
Editor\'s NOTE: reference to IOC Identity, Role and PermissionForMnSs (see
3GPP draftCR 28.533 S5-234845), will be updated later after the draftCR
converted to a CR.
2) Access control MnS producer sends the _createMOI_ request to MnS
provisioning producer to create the instances of IOC Identity, Role and
PermissionForMnSs of certain tenant to manage tenant context information. For
the definition of operation _createMOI_ , see clause 11.1.1.1 of TS 28.532
[14].
3) MnS provisioning producer executes the _createMOI_ operations.
MnS provisioning producer returns operation execution state (e.g.,
OperationSucceeded or OperationFailed) and the name/value pairs of MOIs'
attributes to access control MnS producer. The name/value pairs of MOIs'
attributes, as tenant context, include the identifier of tenant, credential,
permitted MnSs, etc.
## 6.2 Solutions for management of SNPN
### 6.2.1 Solution for SNPN provisioning with 3GPP segments only
An SNPN, which includes 3GPP segment only, may need to be created for use of
an NPN-SC. It is illustrated as provisioning a SNPN in figure 6.2.1-1 which
can be used for create SNPN in the MNO Managed Mode and Vertical Managed Mode
(see clause 4.3.2).
{width="5.96130905511811in" height="2.2781200787401574in"}
Figure 6.2.1-1: Procedure of SNPN provisioning with 3GPP segments only
1) NPN-SP receives SLA requirements of the requested SNPN from NPN-SC. The SLA
requirements specifies NPN related SLA according to different vertical
industry requirements (e.g. coverage requirement within a specific geographic
area, downlink/uplink throughput requirements, latency requirement, etc.)
together with other business related information (e.g. NPN lifetime, etc.).
The work flow between NPN-SP and NPN-SC is out of scope of present
specification.
2) Based on the requirements from NPN-SC, NPN-SP maps SLS into 3GPP-related
NPN requirements including RAN/CN/TN part-related requirements.
3) The NPN-SP sends the 3GPP-related NPN requirements in form of NRM fragments
(e.g. ServiceProfile \) to NPN-OP.
4) The NPN-OP determines the constituent network resources and topology needed
for the SNPN creation. The related Managed Object instance (reference to
related information models for NR, 5GC in TS 28.541 [7] and generic NRM in TS
28.622 [15], e.g., GNBCUCPFunction IOC, GNBDUFunction IOC, GNBCUUPFunction
IOC, SubNetwork IOC, Top IOC and etc.) would be created for the requested SNPN
using the operations (e.g. createMOI operations) of generic provisioning MnS
in TS 28.532 [14].
> The NPN-OP determines to reuse an existing 3GPP segment or create a new 3GPP
> segment for the requested NPN. If a 3GPP segment from an existing stand-
> alone NPN can be reused, the NPN-OP may reconfigure that SNPN:
a) In case of creating a new 3GPP segment for the SNPN:
\- Based on RAN part-related requirements, the 3GPP network management system
determines to utilize new RAN NE(s).
\- Based on CN part-related requirements, the 3GPP network management system
determines to utilize new CN NF(s) or CN NF service(s).
\- Based on TN part-related requirements, the NPN operator configures the
underlying transport network, considering the information on SNPN topology
(e.g. external connection points of AN and CN) and performance (e.g. latency,
bandwidth).
5) The NPN-OP notifies the created 3GPP segment information (e.g. the DN of
created MOI) to the NPN-SP which subscribes the provisioning notification by
re-using the notifications (e.g. NotifyMOICreation notifications) of generic
provisioning MnS in TS 28.532 [14].
## 6.3 Solutions for management of PNI-NPN
### 6.3.1 Solution for NPN provisioning by a network slice of a PLMN
A mobile network operator (playing the role of NPN-SP) decides to provision a
PNI-NPN for private use by an enterprise (playing the role of NPN-SC) in the
form of a network slice of a PLMN. NPN-SP and NPN-OP are assumed to be same in
this case for simplicity in understanding.
{width="6.69375in" height="3.064583333333333in"}Figure 6.3.1-1: Procedure for
NPN provisioning by a network slice of a PLMN
The main aspects of NPN provisioning by a network slice of a PLMN illustrated
in Figure 6.3.1-1 include:
1) The NPN-SC provides the NPN related SLA requirements to NPN-SP. These
requirements specify NPN related SLS according to different vertical industry
requirements (e.g. coverage requirement within a specific geographic area,
downlink/uplink throughput requirements, latency requirement, etc.) together
with other business related information (e.g. NPN lifetime, NPN slice charging
/ accounting, etc.). The work flow between NPN-SP and NPN-SC is out of scope
of the present document.
2) The NPN-SP maps these SLS requirements into ServiceProfile attributes (see
TS 28.541 [7]).
3) The NPN-SP sends ServiceProfile in \"AllocateNSI\" request to NSMS_P.
4) Then the NSMS_P follows the NSI allocation procedure as described in clause
7.2 in TS 28.531 (this implicitly follows sub-steps like deriving slice
profile requirements for subnets from service profile, checking possibility of
reusing existing or creating new slice, allocation of NSSI etc. as per
procedure defined in TS 28.531 [8]).
\- The NG-RAN domain NSSMS_P determines to utilize the existing NG-RAN NE(s)
or new NG-RAN NEs that are deployed in the PLMN network or deployed locally at
the enterprise\'s premise or in the factory.
Based on the access policy from operator, from which the NSSMS_P can derive
rules like days/time slots/occasions etc. for which an NPN UE can access a CAG
cell, the NSSMF assigns the CAG ID identifying the CAG cells which enables the
control of UE\'s access to related PNI-NPN. The NRCellDU should be configured
with the CAG ID to support access control for PNI-NPN UEs. The details of
NRCellDU see TS 28.541 [7].
\- The 5GC domain NSSMS_P determines to utilize new or existing 5GC NF(s) of
the 5GC part that are deployed in the PLMN network.
\- If any, the TN domain related requirements are provided to the management
system of TN domain.
5) The NSMS_P sends NSI allocation result in AllocateNsi response to the NPN-
SP including the relevant network slice instance information.
### 6.3.2 Solution for exposure of management capability of PNI-NPN
The MNO (playing the role of NPN-SP) provides a PNI-NPN for a vertical
(playing the role of NPN-SC) in the form of a network slice of a PLMN. This
solution can be used by a vertical to obtain certain management capabilities
(e.g., provisioning, performance monitoring) exposed by MNO in MNO-Vertical
Managed Mode. The vertical consumes the exposed management capabilities to
manage the PNI-NPN, including:
\- Using the Network Slice Provisioning exposure management services and
Network Slice Provisioning data report exposure management service (see clause
6.1 of TS 28.531 [8]), NPN-SC can request allocating, deallocating modifying
an NSI, or obtain notifications about NSI Information model data.
\- Using exposure of generic fault supervision management service (see clause
11.2 of TS 28.532 [14]) and generic performance assurance management service
(see clause 11.3 of TS 28.532 [14]), NPN-SCs can create certain measurement
jobs and select the type of data analytics and performance to be monitored,
e.g., performance related to various traffic types, geographical areas,
different device types, for a specific group of devices, for certain traffic
congestion situation and analytical KPIs related to performance predictions.
{width="4.538888888888889in" height="2.0694444444444446in"}
Figure 6.3.2‑1: Exposure of management capability of PNI-NPN in MNO-Vertical
Managed Mode
###### ## Annex A (informative): Deployment considerations on NPN management
modes
The applicability of management modes (see clause 4.3.2) depends on the NPN
scenarios under consideration. Different scenarios may exist, depending on the
deployment considerations of individual NPN functions. Table A-1 and Table A‑2
capture this variety for SNPN and PNI-NPN scenarios, respectively.
Table A-1: Applicability of management modes in different SNPN scenarios
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NPN | MNO Managed | M | Vertical | | | functions | Mode | NO-Vertical | Managed | | | | | Managed | Mode | | | | | Mode | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | NG-RAN | indoor; | indoor; | indoor; | | | | outdoor | outdoor | outdoor | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5GC | Packet core | on-premise; | on-premise; | on-premise; | | | (AMF, SMF, | | | | | | NRF, ...) | off-premise | off-premise | off-premise | | | | (deployed | (deployed | (deployed | | | | on MNO | on MNO | on | | | | footprint) | footprint) | hyperscaler | | | | | | footprint) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | S | on-premise; | on-premise; | on-premise | | | ubscription | | | | | | and | off-premise | off-premise | | | | d | (deployed | (deployed | | | | ata-storage | on MNO | on MNO | | | | manager | footprint) | footprint) | | | | (UDM, UDR, | | | | | | AUSF, ...) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | UPF | on-premise; | on-premise; | on-premise | | | | | | | | | | off-premise | off-premise | | | | | (deployed | (deployed | | | | | on MNO | on MNO | | | | | footprint) | footprint) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: In | | | | | | case of | | | | | | vir | | | | | | tualization | | | | | | of 5GC | | | | | | functions, | | | | | | the VISP | | | | | | role is | | | | | | relevant. | | | | | | The VISP is | | | | | | in charge | | | | | | of managing | | | | | | the virtual | | | | | | resources | | | | | | which | | | | | | support the | | | | | | execution | | | | | | of those | | | | | | VNFs, each | | | | | | hosted by | | | | | | one or more | | | | | | VDUs. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | vertical | | | | | | may play | | | | | | the VISP | | | | | | role for | | | | | | the | | | | | | vir | | | | | | tualization | | | | | | of | | | | | | on-premise | | | | | | 5GC | | | | | | functions. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | MNO may | | | | | | play the | | | | | | VISP role | | | | | | for the | | | | | | vir | | | | | | tualization | | | | | | of | | | | | | off-premise | | | | | | 5GC | | | | | | functions | | | | | | in MNO | | | | | | Managed | | | | | | Mode and | | | | | | M | | | | | | NO-Vertical | | | | | | Managed | | | | | | Mode. These | | | | | | 5GC | | | | | | functions | | | | | | are | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | to the NPN, | | | | | | and | | | | | | therefore | | | | | | are | | | | | | separated | | | | | | from PLMN | | | | | | functions | | | | | | (used for | | | | | | public | | | | | | use). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: A | | | | | | hyperscaler | | | | | | may play | | | | | | the VISP | | | | | | role for | | | | | | the | | | | | | vir | | | | | | tualization | | | | | | of | | | | | | off-premise | | | | | | 5GC | | | | | | functions | | | | | | in Vertical | | | | | | Managed | | | | | | Mode. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | Off-premise | | | | | | UPF may | | | | | | need to be | | | | | | deployed at | | | | | | the Telco | | | | | | Edge Cloud, | | | | | | typically | | | | | | due to | | | | | | performance | | | | | | c | | | | | | onstraints. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table A-2: Applicability of management modes in different PNI-NPN scenarios
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NPN functions | MNO Managed | MNO-Vertical | | | | Mode | Managed Mode | | +================+================+================+================+ | NG-RAN | indoor; | indoor; | | | | outdoor | outdoor | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5GC | Packet core | off-premise | off-premise | | | (AMF, SMF, | (deployed on | (deployed on | | | NRF, ...) | MNO footprint) | MNO footprint) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Subscription | off-premise | on-premise; | | | and | (deployed on | | | | data-storage | MNO footprint) | off-premise | | | manager (UDM, | | (deployed on | | | UDR, AUSF, | | MNO footprint) | | | ...) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | UPF | off-premise | on-premise; | | | | (deployed on | off-premise | | | | MNO footprint) | (deployed on | | | | | MNO footprint) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: In | | | | | case of | | | | | virtualization | | | | | of 5GC | | | | | functions, the | | | | | VISP role is | | | | | relevant. The | | | | | VISP is in | | | | | charge of | | | | | managing the | | | | | virtual | | | | | resources | | | | | which support | | | | | the execution | | | | | of those VNFs, | | | | | each hosted by | | | | | one or more | | | | | VDUs. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | vertical may | | | | | play the VISP | | | | | role for the | | | | | virtualization | | | | | of on-premise | | | | | 5GC functions. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | MNO may play | | | | | the VISP role | | | | | for the | | | | | virtualization | | | | | of off-premise | | | | | 5GC functions | | | | | in MNO Managed | | | | | Mode and | | | | | MNO-Vertical | | | | | Managed Mode. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | Off-premise | | | | | UPF may need | | | | | to be deployed | | | | | at the Telco | | | | | Edge Cloud, | | | | | typically due | | | | | to performance | | | | | constraints. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
###### ## Annex B (informative): Plant UML source code
## B.1 Procedure for UE related data collection
\@startuml
note over \"NPN-SC\", \"NPN-SP/OP\": Pre-defined agreements
\"NPN-SC\" -> \"NPN-SP/OP\": 1. Create MDT collection task
\"NPN-SP/OP\" -> \"NE\":2. Send MDT collection request
\"NE\" -> \"NE\":3. UE Selection
skinparam responseMessageBelowArrow true
\"NE\" -> \"UE\":4. MDT activation
\"UE\" -> \"NE\":5. MDT data reporting (e.g. RLF report)
\"NE\" -> \"NPN-SP/OP\":6. MDT data reporting (e.g. RLF report)
\"NPN-SP/OP\" -> \"NPN-SC\":7. Send MDT results
skinparam sequenceMessageAlign center
\@enduml
## B.2 Procedure for SNPN provisioning with 3GPP segments only
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for SNPN
provisioning with 3GPP segments only, as depicted by Figure 6.2.1-1:
\@startuml
\"NPN-SC\" -> \"NPN-SP\":1. SLA requirements(e.g. coverage, \n DL/UL
throughout,lantency,NPN lifetime)
\"NPN-SP\" -> \"NPN-SP\": 2. map SLA into 3GPP-related NPN requirements
\"NPN-SP\" -> \"NPN-OP\": 3. Send the 3GPP-related NPN requirements\n in form
of the corresponding NRM fragmentsn
\"NPN-OP\" -> \"NPN-OP\": 4. Decide on the constituent\n network resources and
topology\n to trigger MOI creation
\"NPN-OP\"-> \"NPN-SP\": 5. NotifyMOICreation Notification
skinparam sequenceMessageAlign center
\@enduml
## B.3 Procedure for NPN provisioning by a network slice of a PLMN
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for NPN
provisioning by a network slice of a PLMN, as depicted by Figure 6.3.1-1:
\@startuml
\"NPN-SC\" -> \"NPN-SP\": 1. SLS requirements\n(coverage,DL/UL
throughout,lantency,NPN lifetime)
\"NPN-SP\" -> \"NPN-SP\": 2. maps SLS requirements \n into ServiceProfile
\"NPN-SP\" -> \"NSMS_P\":3. AllocateNsi request
note over NSMS_P, NSSMS_P: 4. NSI Allocation \n (Decides to create a new NSI
\n or use an existing NSI)
\"NSMS_P\" -> \"NPN-SP\":5. AllocateNsi response
skinparam sequenceMessageAlign center
\@enduml
## B.4 Procedure for exposure of management capability of PNI-NPN in MNO-
Vertical Managed Mode
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
exposure of management capability of PNI-NPN in MNO-Vertical Managed Mode, as
depicted by figure 6.3.2-1:
\@startuml
\"NPN-SC\" -> \"NPN-SP\": exposed management capability request
note over \"NPN-SP\": Consume MnSs from MNO
\"NPN-SP\" -> \"NPN-SC\":exposed management capability response
skinparam sequenceMessageAlign center
\@enduml
## B.5 Procedure for management of tenant
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure of
management of the tenant, as depicted by Figure 6.1.3-1:
\@startuml
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
participant \"Access control MnS producer\" as cmer
participant \"Provisioning MnS Producer\" as prov
rnote over cmer
1.Identify the management capabilities
that can be consumed by the tenant
endrnote
cmer -> prov: 2.create MOI for Identity, Role, PermissionForMnSs
prov -> prov: 3.execute the request
prov -> cmer: 4.return MOI creation results
\@enduml
#