# Foreword {#foreword-1}
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes use cases, potential requirements and solutions
for exposure of management services to external network slice consumers, e.g.
verticals and service providers. The present document provides conclusions and
recommendations on the next steps for the standardization.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] TM Forum TMF622 Product Order API REST Specification.
[3] TM Forum TMF641 Service Ordering API.
[4] TM Forum TMF652 Resource Order Management API.
[5] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.202: \"Charging management; Network slice management charging
in the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TR23.700-99 \"Study on Network Slice Capability Exposure for
Application Layer Enablement (NSCALE)\".
[8] 3GPP TS23.434 \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL);
Functional architecture and information flows\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.537: \"Management and orchestration; Management
capabilities\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[12] TM Forum TMF633 Service Catalogue Management API.
[13] TM Forum TMF620 Product Catalogue Management API.
[14] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Functional architecture and information flows to
support Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs; Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic Management
Service\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.623: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[17] 3GPP TS 28.622: \" Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 28.201: \"Charging management; Network slice performance and
analytics charging in the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 29.222: \"Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs\".
[20] 3GPP TS 31.222: \"Security aspects of Common API Framework (CAPIF) for
3GPP northbound APIs\".
[21] CAMARA: [https://github.com/camaraproject]{.underline}
[22] GSMA Open Gateway, Feb 2023 [Online]. Link:
https://www.gsma.com/futurenetworks/gsma-open-gateway/.
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BSS Business Support System
CSP Communication Service Provider
NOP Network OPerator
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 General
### 4.1.1 Concepts related to network management capability exposure
#### 4.1.1.1 Exposed Management Services
Exposed MnS represents the MnS that can be exposed by MnS producer to the
external MnS consumer. Exposed MnS may rely on a dedicated MnF (e.g. EGMF
defined in 3GPP or function defined in other standard like TMF) that manages
the exposure aspects.
NOTE: Whether MnS is exposed to external MnS consumer via BSS or via an
exposure platform depends on requirements from third parties\' applications
and/or NSP\'s policy.
#### 4.1.1.2 Exposure of Management Services
Exposure of management services supports the case that an external MnS
consumer which is outside 3GPP management system can indirectly consume
management capability offered by MnS producer within 3GPP management system.
Even though the exposed MnS complies with the same Technical Specification as
an MnS, the actual operational behaviour and managed data may be constrained
by the network slice provider.
NOTE: The exposure of MnS data and MnSs to the external MnS consumer may incur
additional charging which needs to studied further by 3GPP SA5 charging group.
#### 4.1.1.3 Exposure Governance
##### 4.1.1.3.0 General
Perform access control including Filtering when external MnS consumer consume
MnS from 3GPP management system.
To avoid unauthorised management capability consumption, management services
should be subject to exposure governance before being exposed to different
types of MnS consumers. As introduced in TS 28.533 [11], management capability
exposure governance provides exposure governance (i.e. filtering) on basic
elements of management function service based interface:
1) Management service component type A
2) Management service component type B
3) Management service component type C
Definitions and typical cases of filtering are given in the following
subclauses.
##### 4.1.1.3.1 Filtering
Definition: The exposure access control on certain information elements (i.e.
granular access) of MnS component type A, type B and/or type C according to
the consumer\'s authorization level. For example, the permission of Read,
write, the acquisition of notification for certain MnSs.
Typical case 1: Assuming the management service X is a provisioning MnS with
operations createMOI, getMOIAttributes, modifyMOIAttributes and deleteMOI as
MnS component type A, the filtering on management service X could be that only
a subset of original MnS is exposed to MnS consumer, e.g. only operation
getMOIAttributes, is exposed to management service consumer.
Typical case 2: Assuming the management service Y is a provisioning MnS with
NRM MOIs as the component type B, the filtering on management service Y could
be that only a subset of original MnS is exposed to MnS consumer, e.g. only
part of the attributes of the NRM MOI, is exposed to management service
consumer.
To implement the filtering on MnS, attribute mnsScope of IOC MnsInfo, see
further details in TS 28.622 [17], may be used to provide information about
the management scope of a Management Service. The management scope is defined
as the set of managed object instances that can be accessed (as filtering)
using the Management Service.
#### 4.1.1.4 Exposure via BSS
##### 4.1.1.4.1 General
_Exposure of service data to companies that are external to the operator are
regulated by contracts. Different customers may have access to different
management capabilities. It may differ on what attributes/policies/intents are
allowed to be changed, which value ranges changes are allowed, and which
performance metrics are allowed to be exposed._
The network slice data with the ServiceProfile is located in the Network
Management Layer.
Even if the external interface always goes via BSS, there are different
scenarios for how a customer, e.g. vertical, can influence the ServiceProfile.
The capabilities required by a Vertical have to be the same on the interface
between NOP Network Management Layer and CSP Service manager. The external
interface is external to the administrative domain of the operator, while the
internal interface is inside the administrative domain of the operator.
##### 4.1.1.4.2 Exposure scenarios
See clause 5.4.1 for detailed description of exposure scenarios/use cases via
BSS.
#### 4.1.1.5 Exposure via OSS
##### 4.1.1.5.1 General
Exposure of service data to companies that are external to the operator are
regulated by contracts. The exposure usually goes through BSS, as explained in
clause 4.1.1.3. However, based on specific contract, the customer may interact
with the Operator via OSS. There are different scenarios for how a customer
having such contract interacts with Operator for the network slice management
capability exposure.
##### 4.1.1.5.2 Exposure scenarios
See clause 5.5.1 for detailed description of exposure scenarios/use cases via
OSS.
### 4.1.2 Roles related to network management capability exposure
#### 4.1.2.1 Exposed MnS
The roles related to network management capability exposure are the exposed
MnS consumer and exposed MnS producer with the interface for the exposed MnS.
The roles and interface are shown in Figure 4.1.2.1-1
{width="4.708333333333333in" height="0.4791666666666667in"}
Figure 4.1.2.1-1 Roles related to network management capability exposure
#### 4.1.2.2 Exposed MnS consumer
The logical entity consuming management capability offered by an Exposed MnS
producer is called an Exposed MnS consumer. An exposed MnS consumer is
equivalent to an MnS consumer with the difference that it is outside the trust
domain of the CSP or NOP. An exposed MnS consumer is owned by an external
customer (e.g. vertical such as Industry, Internet Company, etc.) which may
take the role of a CSC or NSC. The external customer usually has specific
service requirements on a 5G network.
#### 4.1.2.3 Exposed MnS producer
The logical entity offering management capability that can be consumed by an
Exposed MnS consumer is called Exposed MnS producer. An exposed MnS producer
is owned by a service provider which may take the role of a CSP or NSP.
### 4.1.3 Types of interface for the exposure of network slice
#### 4.1.3.1 Introduction {#introduction-1}
Different types of interfaces may be used during the whole lifecycle of
network slice, including ordering, provisioning, operation phases. These
interfaces can be categorized as:
\- Inter-organization interfaces (represented East-West):
\- Between the organizational entity playing the Network Slice Customer (NSC)
role, named Company V here, and the organizational entity playing the Network
Slice Provider (NSP) role, named Company A here:
\- Interface Type-A to:
\- create a product (network slice) order,
\- retrieve information concerning a product (network slice) order,
\- update a product (network slice) order,
\- delete a product (network slice) order;
Candidate APIs for Interface Type-A include, but are not limited to, TMF API
622 (Product ordering).
Interface Type-A is not in the scope of 3GPP.
\- Between the organizational entity playing the Network Slice Provider (NSP)
role, named Company A here, and the two organizational entities playing the
Communication Service Provider (CSP) role, acting as \'partners\' and named
Company X and Company Y respectively here
\- Interface Type-X to:
\- create a product order,
\- retrieve information concerning a product order,
\- update a product order,
\- delete a product order;
Candidate APIs for Interface Type-X include, but are not limited to, TMF API
622 (Product ordering).
Interface Type-X is not in the scope of 3GPP.
\- Intra-organization interfaces (represented North-South), internal to the
organizational entity playing the Network Slice Provider (NSP) role:
\- Between its BSS and its OSS/SML
\- Interface Type-1 to:
\- create a service order,
\- retrieve information concerning a service order,
\- update a service order,
\- delete a service order;
Candidate APIs for Interface Type-1 include, but are not limited to, TMF API
641 (Service ordering).
Interface Type-1 is not in the scope of 3GPP.
\- Between its OSS/SML and its OSS/NML
\- Interface Type-2 to:
\- create a network slice / network slice subnet,
\- retrieve information concerning a network slice / network slice subnet,
\- update a network slice / network slice subnet,
\- delete a network slice / network slice subnet,
\- collect PM and FM data concerning a network slice / network slice subnet;
Candidate APIs for Interface Type-2 include, TS 28.531, TS 28.532, TS 28.545,
TS 28.550.
Interface Type-2 is in the scope of 3GPP/SA5.
The following clauses describe a non-exhaustive set of use cases.
In case of additional use cases, new types of interfaces may be needed.
#### 4.1.3.2 Use case No.1: simple case
In this use case, Company-V (as the NSC) chooses a product from Company-A
product offerings and sends a request to Company-A to order the product which
is a network slice via Interface Type-A.
As Company-A can satisfy Company-V\'s requirements by itself, it does not have
to count on partners.
In this use case, Interface Type-A, Type-1 and Type-2 are involved.
{width="5.715277777777778in" height="3.527083333333333in"}
Figure 4.1.3.2-1: Use case No.1: simple case
#### 4.1.3.3 Use case No.2: partners involved
In this use case, Company-V (as the NSC) chooses a product from Company-A
product offerings and sends a request to Company-A to order the product which
is a network slice via Interface Type-A.
As Company-A cannot satisfy Company-V\'s requirements by itself, it has to
count on partners (Company-X and Company-Y), e.g. to provide RAN coverage in
their respective countries.
In this use case, Interface Type-A, Type-1, Type-2 and Type-X are involved.
{width="5.767361111111111in" height="2.6069444444444443in"}
Figure 4.1.3.3-1: Use case No.2: partners involved
### 4.1.4 Procedures related to consumption of exposed network management
capabilities
#### 4.1.4.1 Introduction {#introduction-2}
When an NSP receives an order from an NSC for a network slice enabled product,
the order is decomposed by the NSP\'s BSS. Depending on whether the NSP
employs services from 3^rd^ party CSP\'s different procedures may apply for
the same order. The different procedures applicable to the same order may be
invoked asynchronously and treated as independent procedures, however it may
not result in loss of traceability between the original order and the orders
that are created as result of decomposition. The following procedures have
been identified:
\- Procedure invoking internal service order after receiving product order
from NSC
\- Procedure invoking external product order after receiving product order
from NSC
\- Procedure invoking external service order after receiving product order
from NSC
\- Procedure for create product
\- Procedure for consumption of exposed MnS after service order is completed
#### 4.1.4.2 Procedure invoking internal service order after receiving product
order from NSC
_The procedure for invoking a service order internal to the NSP after
receiving a product order from an NSC is shown in Figure 4.1.4.2-1. The
interface through which the NSC can order a product from the NSP is on BSS
level. The steps as shown in Figure 4.1.4.2-1 are described in the subsequent
paragraphs._
{width="6.122222222222222in" height="3.0030063429571303in"}
Figure 4.1.4.2-1: Procedure invoking internal service order after receiving
product order from NSC
1) The NSP receives a product order from the NSC through the interface to BSS.
The interface between the NSC and BSS of the NSP is used.
2) The BSS processes the product order and when applicable converts it to
appropriate service order(s) for the OSS Service Management Layer. This is
internal to BSS and there are no interface requirements.
3) The OSS Service Management Layer receives a service order from the BSS. The
interface between the BSS of the NSP and the OSS_SML of the NSP is used.
4) The OSS Service Management Layer processes the service order and when
applicable converts it to appropriate request(s) for the OSS Network
Management Layer as requests for management and orchestration of resources.
This is internal to the OSS Service Management Layer and there are no
interface requirements.
5) The OSS Network Management Layer receives a request from the OSS Service
Management Layer. An interface between the OSS Service Management Layer and
OSS Network Management Layer may be used.
6) The OSS Network Management Layer processes the request and when applicable
converts it to appropriate request(s) for the network. An interface between
the OSS Network Management Layer and Network Layer (not shown) may be used.
7) The OSS Network Management Layer notifies the OSS Service Management Layer
that the resource order(s) have been completed. An interface between the OSS
Service Management Layer and the Network Layer may be used.
8) The OSS Service Management Layer notifies the BSS that the service order
has been completed. The interface between the OSS Service Management Layer and
the BSS is used.
9) The BSS notifies the NSC that the product order has been completed. The NSC
may start using the services included in the product order. The interface
between the NSC and the BSS is used.
#### 4.1.4.3 Procedure invoking external product order after receiving product
order from NSC
_The procedure for invoking a product order external to the NSP after
receiving a product order from an NSC is shown in Figure 4.1.4.3-1. The
interface through which the NSC can order a product from the NSP is on BSS
level. The steps as shown in Figure 4.1.4.3-1 are described in the subsequent
paragraphs._
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.529166666666667in"}
Figure 4.1.4.3-1: Procedure invoking external product order after receiving
product order from NSC
1) The NSP receives a product order from the NSC through the interface to BSS.
The interface between the NSC and BSS of the NSP is used.
2) The NSP BSS processes the product order and when applicable converts it to
appropriate product order(s) towards a 3^rd^ party CSP BSS. This is internal
to BSS and there are no interface requirements.
NOTE: When the BSS_NSP receives a product order, the BSS_NSP splits the
product order into service orders. A service order that can be fulfilled by
the NSP will be processed by the NSP_OSS_SML (see also Figure 4.1.4.2.1) while
a service order that cannot be fulfilled by NSP will be ordered from the CSP
through a product order.
3) The CSP BSS receives a product order from the NSP BSS. The interface
between the BSS of the CSP and the BSS of the NSP is used.
4) The CSP BSS processes the product order and when applicable converts it to
appropriate service order(s) for the CSP OSS. This is internal to the BSS and
there are no interface requirements.
5) The CSP OSS receives a service order from the CSP BSS. The interface
between the BSS and the OSS both belonging to the CSP is used.
6) The CSP OSS processes the service order until the service order is
completed.
7) The CSP OSS notifies the CSP BSS that the service order has been completed.
The interface between the OSS and the BSS both belonging to the CSP is used.
8) The CSP BSS notifies the NSP BSS that the product order has been completed.
The interface between the BSS of the CSP and the BSS of the NSP is used.
9) The BSS notifies the NSC that the product order has been completed. The NSC
may start using the services included in the product order.
#### 4.1.4.4 Procedure invoking external service order after receiving product
order from NSC
_The procedure for invoking a service order external to the NSP after
receiving a product order from an NSC is shown in Figure 4.1.4.4-1. The
interface through which the NSC can order a product from the NSP is on BSS
level. The steps as shown in Figure 4.1.4.4-1 are described in the subsequent
paragraphs._
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.03125in"}
Figure 4.1.4.4-1: Procedure invoking external service order after receiving
product order from NSC
1) The NSP receives a product order from the NSC through the interface to BSS.
The interface between the NSC and BSS of the NSP is used.
2) The NSP BSS processes the product order and when applicable converts it to
appropriate service order(s) for the OSS producer. This is internal to BSS
producer and there are no interface requirements.
3) The NSP OSS receives a service order from the NSP BSS. The interface
between the OSS and the BSS, both belonging to the same NSP, is used.
4) The OSS processes the service order and when applicable converts it to
appropriate service order(s) for a 3^rd^ party CSP OSS. This is internal to
the OSS producer and there are no interface requirements.
5) The CSP OSS receives a service order from the NSP OSS producer. The
interface between the OSS of the CSP and the OSS of the NSP is used.
6) The CSP OSS processes the service order until the service order is
completed. This is internal to the OSS producer and there are no interface
requirements.
7) The CSP OSS notifies the CSP BSS that the service order has been completed.
The interface between the OSS and the BSS, both belonging to the same CSP, is
used.
8) The CSP OSS notifies the NSP OSS producer (may occur at the same time as or
before step 7) that the service order has been completed. The interface
between the OSS of the CSP and the OSS of the NSP is used.
9) The NSP BSS notifies the NSC that the product order has been completed. The
NSC may start using the services included in the product order.
#### 4.1.4.5 Procedure for product onboarding
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.1527777777777777in"}
Figure 4.1.4.5-1: Procedure related to product onboarding
1) OSS_SML obtains 3GPP management services in the network through management
service discovery;
2) OSS_SML governs the rules and policies of MnS and configures the available
MnS (e.g. exposed MnS) to BSS_NSP. For example, if the RAN NE is dedicated to
external customers, the performance monitoring service of a RAN NE should be
exposed. Otherwise, it should not be exposed;
3) Optionally, the BSS_NSP may send information to request the list of
available services from OSS_SML;
4) OSS_SML provides the list of available services to BSS_NSP;
5) BSS_NSP configures (groups or package the services into a product) the
services from OSS_SML such that they can be exposed to NSC;
6) NSC should request the product catalogue from BSS_NSP.
7) BSS_NSP provides product catalogue to NSC.
#### 4.1.4.6 Procedure for consumption of exposed MnS after service order is
completed
_The procedure for consumption of an exposed MnS after the product and service
orders are completed is shown in figure 4.1.4.6-1. The MnS is produced by_ the
MnS producer located in the _OSS of the NSP._
An MnS may already be produced before CAPIF 1 service is requested. The CAPIF
2/2e service is a filtered, enriched and/or converted version of the MnS. The
transformation, filtering, enrichment, or conversion of MnS APIs into service
APIs is optional. The details of how this transformation, filtering and/or
enrichment are to be done are out of scope of SA5.
Note: There exist initiatives such as CAMARA [21] which are working in this
translation.
Filtering is removing of information elements (attributes and classes),
enrichment is adding information elements from other MnSs or other sources
outside OAM, and converting is changing information elements through for
example combining or mapping information elements. The CAPIF 2/2e service is
provided by the API_Provider_domain_function and consumed by the
NSC_Application. The API_Provider_domain_function uses the MnS(s) produced to
provide the CAPIF 2/2e service.
{width="6.69375in" height="4.9527777777777775in"}
Figure 4.1.4.6-1: Procedure for consumption of exposed MnS after service order
is completed
NOTE 1: For simplicity reasons the CAPIF Core function and API Provider domain
function defined in TS 23.222 [14] are combined and any communication between
them is also not included.
NOTE 2: The procedure is only applicable to \"Exposure via CAPIF alternative
1\" described in clause 7.9.1.
1) The CAPIF_Core_function receives an authenticating and authorization
request from the NSC_Application based on the identity and other information
required for authentication and authorization of the NSC_Application.
2) The CAPIF_Core_function processes the authentication and authorization
request.
3) The CAPIF_Core_function provides the response with the result of the
authentication and authorization to the NSC_Application.
4) The CAPIF_Core_function receives a request for the discovery of service
APIs information.
5) The CAPIF_Core_function processes the discovery request.
6) The CAPIF_Core_function provides the appropriate response to the
NSC_Application.
7) The API_Provider_domain_function receives an authentication and
authorization request from the NSC_Application based on the identity and other
information required for authorization of the NSC_Application.
8) The API_Provider_domain_function processes the authorization request.
9) The API_Provider_domain_function provides the response with the result of
the authentication and authorization to the NSC_Application.
10) The API_Provider_domain_function receives a request for the invocation of
the service API(s) from the NSC_Application.
11) The API_Provider_domain_function processes (and optionally may enrich
and/or convert) the invocation request.
12) The MnS_Producers receive requests from the API_Provider_domain_function
for MnS.
13) The MnS_Producers provide the appropriate responses to the
API_Provider_domain_function.
14) The API_Provider_domain_function processes (and optionally may filter,
enrich and/or convert) the response from the MnS_Producers.
15) The API_Provider_domain_function provides the appropriate response to the
NSC_Application.
NOTE 3: Each response in the steps does not always need to trigger the next
request.
## 4.2 Issues
### 4.2.1 Issue #1: Types of NSCs
The problem of network slice capability exposure is mostly relevant for
B2B/B2B2C market, where Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS) [1] model applies.
In this regard, different types of NSCs can be found.
\- Baseline vertical customer: it corresponds to a NSC which is only
interested in monitoring the network slice, to verify it behaves as expected,
according to the SLA. This NSC does typically have no telco experience, and is
associated to a network slice that is entirely deployed on a PLMN. The
capabilities offered to a baseline vertical customer includes the ability for
this NSC to receive information on subscribed items, including network slice
status (e.g. active, inactive) and subscribed management data (e.g. KPIs,
events/logs, trace data, etc.). The profile of this NSC type is a \'passive
NSC\'.
\- Advanced vertical customer: it corresponds to an NSC which requests (to the
NSP) a dedicated network slice for the provision of PNI-NPN services. In this
scenario, a portion of the network slice is deployed within the NSC premises
(e.g. RAN, UPF) and the other portion (e.g. 5GC control plane functions) is
hosted by one or more PLMN nodes. Unlike the baseline vertical customer, this
new NSC does typically have (yet limited) telco knowledge, and wants to retain
certain control over the allocated network slice. The capabilities offered to
an advanced vertical customer might include (i) monitoring capabilities, i.e.
the same capabilities offered to a baseline vertical customer and (ii) device
configuration capabilities, i.e. provision of parameters for battery, mobility
and communication patterns associated to the device, (iii) edge
discovery/selection, e.g. in case the vertical wants to deploy workloads on
the telco edge cloud.
\- Hyperscaler: it corresponds to a NSC which requests (to the NSP) a
dedicated network slice to provide a service-tailored connectivity pipe to a
NSC\'s customer. With some enterprises (i.e. NSC\'s customer) starting to
migrate workloads towards hyperscaler nodes, it is necessary for the
hyperscaler (i.e. NSC) to provide SLA guarantees to these enterprises,
especially for critical processes/services. However, the hyperscaler does not
have network resources between its cloud nodes and customer premises, and
therefore has to ask the mobile network operator (i.e. NSP) to set up a
network slice between these endpoints. The capabilities offered to a
hyperscaler might include (i) monitoring capabilities, i.e. the same
capabilities offered to a baseline vertical customer; (ii) quality on demand,
i.e. dynamic QoS and bandwidth management; (iii) policy control.
\- Mobile (Virtual) Network Operator.
NOTE 1: In all the above cases, the NSP role is assumed to be played by an
MNO.
NOTE 2: The capabilities mentioned above are neither exhaustive nor accurate,
but examples to motivate the need for considering different NSC types.
_The NSC types within the scope of FS_NSCE should be use case driven._
### 4.2.2 Issue #2: Types of capabilities available for exposure
When referring to the capabilities a NSC might be interested to consume, there
are three big groups of capabilities that a NSP can make available for
consumption:
\- Application layer capabilities, not in the scope of the present document.
\- Management layer capabilities.
\- Network layer capabilities, not in the scope of the present document.
_There is the need to have one single exposure layer to make all the
capabilities available for NSCs. This exposure layer should integrate network
layer capabilities (\@NEF), management layer capabilities (\@MCEG),
application layer capabilities (\@SEAL), together with non-3GPP capabilities
(e.g. cloud related capabilities). Otherwise, if 3GPP starts defining
different exposure fabrics, (i) the likelihood of encountering
incompatibilities/duplicities across these specific solutions is high; (ii)
the operators may come up with increased integration efforts, which ultimately
may make their systems very hard to build and maintain._
### 4.2.3 Issue #3: EGMF/MCEG
The Exposure Governance Management Function (EGMF) was originally defined in
TS 28.533 [11] as an MnF providing management capability exposure governance
(MCEG). However, the current definition needs more elaboration on the
following questions:
\- The functional scope of management capability exposure governance, and its
relationship with the access control and with existing API GW solutions in
carrier networks.
\- The impact of management capability exposure governance on the Network
Slice NRM fragment. Is it within the scope of SA5 or not? If in-scope, then:
\- what NSC related information (e.g. NSC id, NSC granted capabilities) does
the NSP send to the NOP?
\- how does the NOP manage this information in relation to the existing
NetworkSlice and NetworkSliceSubnet IOCs?
\- The need to standardize EGMF. Does 3GPP really need to define this MnF?
Does not this approach mean moving away from producer centric model of 3GPP,
i.e. focus on service producers rather than MnFs?
\- If EGMF standardization is within the scope of 3GPP, then does 3GPP need to
provide details on EGMF internals? Does 3GPP need to decide whether the EGMF
is positioned on the Network Management Layer (NML), or the Service Management
Layer (SML), or BSS layer?
### 4.2.4 Issue #4: NSC-NSP service interaction
_**The** NSC-NSP service interactions work (i.e. APIs made available by the
NSP, for consumption by the NSCs) is out of the 3GPP scope. Based on the
proposal #2, which argues in favour of having one single exposure layer
integrating 3GPP capabilities and non-3GPP capabilities, together with the
fact that a high number of NSCs are not familiar with 3GPP models, it makes
sense to let these interactions be covered in other industry fora._
Editor\'s note: The potential group to provide the single exposure layer is
FFS.
### 4.2.5 Void
### 4.2.6 Issue #6: Network slice management capability exposure interface via
OSS
Scenarios regarding exposure interface via OSS have been introduced in clause
4.1.1.4. NSC can make contract with the NSP or CSP regarding exposure via BSS.
Upon the completion of the contact, the NSC can directly get access to the OSS
within the NSP or CSP for access the exposed MnS. Several key issues exist for
the use cases. For example, how does the NSC identify the address of MnS
producer for the exposed MnS within the OSS and how to consume the exposed MnS
directly from OSS needs to be addressed.
### 4.2.7 Issue #7: Capability exposure ecosystem
Capability exposure paves the way for transforming telco networks into
programmable service platforms that can be easily accessed by 3^rd^ parties,
including application developers, aggregator marketplaces and enterprise
customers, through APIs. This new paradigm, referred to Network-as-a-Service
(NaaS), enables these 3^rd^ parties (and their applications) to consume
exposed telco capabilities, tapping into them to provide enhanced user
experiences and contribute to service innovation with new use cases.
The development of NaaS requires a collaborative workspace that bring together
incumbent telco standards bodies with IT and cloud communities, industry
associations and open-source projects. An effective collaboration among
organizations needs to be based on a clear demarcation on their scope of work,
avoiding that participating organizations run overlapping activities or
duplicate efforts; otherwise, NaaS may risk ending up with a fragmented
ecosystem. With this goal in mind, GSMA Open Gateway initiative [22] has
defined a reference NaaS framework built on three main organizations:
**\- Linux Foundation\'s** **CAMARA** : it represents the \"exposure\"
doctrine, i.e. how capabilities are exposed for external consumption via 3^rd^
party facing APIs. CAMARA defines these APIs, and is responsible for their
hosting and release management. Third-party facing APIs are user-friendly
(semantics tailored to the service needs of 3^rd^ parties) and open (following
Apache2.0 license).
**\- GSMA Open Gateway** : it represents both the \"technical\" doctrine, i.e.
how third-party facing APIs are to be supported by underlying telco
capabilities, and \"business\" doctrine, i.e. definition of templates for
agreements between operators and 3^rd^ parties, ensuring a consistent
commercial framework for exposing services. GSMA conducts the technical work
through OPG/OPAG (Operator Platform Group / Operator Platform API Group), and
the commercial work through WAS (Wholesale Agreement Services).
**\- TM Forum** : it represents the \"operational\" doctrine, i.e. how to
manage capabilities throughout the entire NaaS lifecycle. This includes the
registration/onboarding of 3^rd^ parties, service fulfilment (e.g.
provisioning, activation and modification), service assurance (e.g. incident
management, service status, service performance) and billing.
# 5 Use cases for network management capability exposure
## 5.1 Exposed network slice management capability consumption
### 5.1.1 Description
A use case of exposed network slice management capability consumption can be
described as follows:
1\. In order to enable the consumption of network slice related exposed MnS,
an NSC firstly makes a contract with the NSP, which contains the agreement and
conditions for consuming an exposed MnS. The condition can be a certain
constraint of exposed MnS consumption based on the contract, e.g. the usage
quota of certain exposed MnS, the usage frequency of certain exposed MnS, etc.
The NSC negotiates its specific requirements for the network slice management
capability consumption with the NSP. Based on the contract, NSP selects the
MnS that can be exposed externally and decides on exposure policies that will
be applied to the MnS when it is exposed externally. For example, NSP may
decide to disallow certain operations, limit the Managed Object Instances that
may be managed, or aggregate/anonymize sensitive data.
2\. The BSS may interact with the OSS in order to complete certain
configuration (i.e. permission regarding what exposed MnS, optionally under
what condition, can be consumed) regarding the consumption of exposed MnS
based on the customized requirement from the NSC.
3\. The MnS can be exposed directly or NSP applies any policies before
exposing the resulting functionality as an MnS.
4\. NSP publishes the MnS in a service directory so that the NSC is able to
discover the exposed MnS.
5\. NSP authenticates NSC to consume the exposed MnS as defined in the
contract, and provides the relevant authorization keys to NSC.
6\. After successful authorization verification, NSC requests to access the
exposed MnS. The MnS can be exposed originally as it is for internal
consumption or NSP applies any constrains before exposing the limited
functionality as a MnS. The access may need the interaction with BSS (e.g.
through Service Catalogue) or the access can directly go through OSS.
### 5.1.2 Issue and gaps
#### 5.1.2.1 Issues
How to publish MnS which can be exposed to BSS to a suitable MnS producer for
network management capability exposure is not specified in existing 3GPP
management system.
NSC needs to apply for the access of network slice management capability
through BSS. However, there is no discussion and agreement on whether an
exposed MnS is exposed transparently through the BSS or being processed
through a dedicated exposure platform before exposing to the NSC.
The definition and the format of permission (authorization) for the
consumption of network slice related exposed MnS and its potential impact on
internal interface with BSS is not discussed in current SA5 work.
#### 5.1.2.2 Gaps
1) How to publish a MnS.
2) How an external consumer can discover the available MnS;
3) And, how to define exposure policies that will be applied when an MnS is
accessed by an external consumer is not specified in existing 3GPP management
standards.
## 5.2 Exposure of MnS for monitoring QoS of video application
### 5.2.1 Description
A use case of exposure of MnS for monitoring QoS of video application can be
described as follows:
1\. A live concert with high-resolution video application service is provided
with service provider A (i.e. associate to exposed MnS consumer). A local
hosting network (e.g. SNPN) is available and provides localized services for
high-resolution video service of the concert. The local hosting network is
managed by the service provider A. The high-resolution video streaming service
of the live concert is available from both the local hosting network and PLMN.
Service provider A and the provider of PLMN (i.e. associate to exposed MnS
provider) are two different parties.
2\. The service provider A of the local hosting network can have an offer from
the Operator of PLMN before identifying the correct MnS for exposure through
BSS (e.g. by using Product Catalog). The BSS may obtain the information of MnS
that is allowed to be exposed using a MnS service for exposure provided by
OSS. The contract may contain the agreement on the exposure of MnSs for
consuming certain management MnS related to QoS. According to the contract,
the service provider A can have the permission to use the MnS for consuming
certain performance MnS related to QoS for the PLMN. The performance MnS can
be related to NR and 5GC, e.g. Average DL UE throughput in gNB. For the
hosting network, the service provider may have contract with the Network
Operator which can offer network management service for the hosting network.
The network management service may be offered by a management system that
belongs to a service platform of the Network Operator. Due to the contract,
the service provider can access the management system directly without going
through BSS.
3\. Once the offer has been accepted, the corresponding exposure governance
management service within the 3GPP management system (of the Operator of PLMN)
is configured with permission rule through the interface between BSS and OSS.
The permission rule defines that the provider of the local hosting network can
have the right to access certain management MnS regarding QoS.
4\. Through obtaining the measurement MnS using exposure capability, the
provider of the local hosting network can determine the situation when PLMN
cannot support the high-resolution video service with satisfied QoS. In this
case, the service provider A can notify its customers about the local hosting
network that may improve the QoS of the high-resolution video application.
### 5.2.2 Potential issues and gaps
#### 5.2.2.1 Issues
Whether and how to expose MnS directly from OSS is not specified in existing
3GPP management system.
The definition and the format of the permission rule (authorization) for the
network management capability exposure regarding NR and 5GC related
performance MnS is not specified in existing 3GPP management system.
Whether and how to publish MnS which can be exposed to an external party from
a suitable MnS service producer for the exposure of performance MnS regarding
NR and 5GC is not specified.
#### 5.2.2.2 Gaps
If there is a need to publish MnS, then the exposure of performance MnS
regarding NR and 5GC is not specified in 3GPP management system.
## 5.3 exposed MnS discovery service
### 5.3.1 Description
An exposed MnS should be allowed to register to a trusted discovery service
entity (e.g. a discovery MnS producer or an authorized supported discovery
system) such that interested authorized consumers (within or external to the
operator) are able to discover it. This implies that the exposed MnS is only
exposed to a discovery service entity where a pre-existing contract allows for
such an exposure.
A use case of exposed MnS discovery service is described as follows:
1\. MNO A provides exposed MnSs from 3GPP management system for external
customers and these exposed MnSs go through BSS/OSS for exposure.
2\. In order to provide such discovery service to external customer, MNO A
registers its exposed MnS to a trusted discovery service entity. MNO A
configures the exposed MnS with the discovery entity\'s address and the
exposed MnS is registered at the discovery service entity with the appropriate
level of exposure.
3\. MNO A performs changes in its management system that impacts the
information exposed by the exposed MnS. The changed information is
automatically updated in the discovery service entity.
4\. In case the relationship between MNO A and a discovery service entity
(especially for the discovery system) ends, which implies the discovery
service entity is no longer trusted, MNO A deregisters its exposed MnS to the
discovery service entity. MNO A removes the configuration of the discovery
entity\'s address for exposed MnS and the exposed MnS is deregistered at the
discovery service entity before the trusted discovery service entity becomes a
no longer trusted entity.
### 5.3.2 Potential issues and gaps
#### 5.3.2.1 Issues
Study is needed whether the exposed MnS discovery service is to be provided by
the MnS discovery service producer, by a dedicated exposed MnS discovery
service producer (e.g. EGMF) or by a trusted discovery system.
Study is needed on whether the MnS data as defined in TS 28.533 [11] can also
be re-used for exposed MnS data, or if any extensions are necessary.
Study is needed on figuring out differences if the discovery system is
external or internal to the operator.
Discovery of service and consumption of a discovered service can be completely
separated. However, there may be an issue with managing which consumers have
access to the discovery system and could theoretically consume the management
service when authorization rules are not respected.
There is an issue with authentication and authorization between the three
parties i.e. MnS producer/operator, MnS consumer/customer and discovery system
owner.
#### 5.3.2.2 Gaps
To limit issues the exposure from a discovery system of the operator may only
provide \"read\" permissions (w.r.t the exposed MnS) without authentication
and authorization. To execute the discovered exposed MnS the consumer still
needs to be authenticated and authorized by the management system. Therefore,
there is a gap in the difference in exposure for consumption, and exposure for
discovery which needs to be solved.
Editor\'s Note: Whether or not the issue with a third-party discovery system
should be solved only for MnSs or for any 3GPP exposed service is FFS.
## 5.4 Exposure of network slice as a product
### 5.4.1 Description
#### 5.4.1.0 General
This use case involves the following roles:
\- NSP: Network Slice Provider
\- NSC: Network Slice Customer
\- NOP: Network Operator
\- CSC: Communication Service Customer
\- CSP: Communication Service Provider
, and the following systems:
\- BSS: Business Support System
\- OSS: Operations Support System, made up of the two following sub-systems:
\- SML: Service Management Layer
\- NML: Network Management Layer (for sake of simplicity, network management
and network element / function management are both in the NML).
#### 5.4.1.1 Sub-use case 1: NSP and NOP played by the same organization
In this scenario, the following organizations play aforementioned roles as
follows:
\- Company-V plays the role of NSC
\- Company-A plays the role of NSP and NOP
\- As NSP, it has:
\- a BSS, e.g. to manage its customers, products, contracts, and
\- a SML, to manage the services that support its products.
\- As NOP, it has:
\- its own 5G network (RAN + core). In this sub-use case, Company-A owns the
whole set of network resources used by the service required to support the
product ordered by Vertical V.
\- a NML, to manage the network resources used by services.
{width="5.192361111111111in" height="2.7756944444444445in"}
Figure 5.4.1.1-1: Sub-use case 1 - NSP and NOP played by the same organization
Company-A product catalogue proposes the following product offerings:
\- Network Slice eMBB with different flavours: Silver, Gold, Platinum
\- Network Slice URLLC with different flavours: Silver, Gold, Platinum
\- Network Slice MIoT with different flavours: Silver, Gold, Platinum.
In this sub-use case 1:
1\. Company-V (as the NSC) chooses a product from Company-A product offerings
2\. Company-V sends a request to Company-A (as the NSP) to order the product
\'Network Slice eMBB Platinum\'. To achieve this, a candidate API is TMF API
622 (Product Ordering)
2.1 Company-A BSS determines which service supports the product being ordered
by Company-V and issues a request to its OSS/SML to order this service. This
service can be e.g. a network slice. To achieve this, a candidate API is TMF
API 641 (Service Ordering)
2.2 OSS / SML determines which network resources support the service being
ordered and issues a request to the OSS / NML to allocate required network
resources, e.g. network slice subnet(s), network functions, etc. To achieve
this, candidate APIs are from TS 28.531 and TS 28.532
2.3 OSS / NML allocates network resources required to support the service and
informs OSS / SML back about the characteristics of the network resources
being allocated
2.4 OSS / SML associates the allocated network resources to the service and
informs its BSS back about the characteristics of the service supporting the
product
3\. Company-A (as the NSP) sends a reply to Company-V to inform that the
product ordered is now available to Company-V.
NOTE: In this use case, aspects related to Transport Network(s) are not
addressed as they are out of 3GPP scope.
#### 5.4.1.2 Sub-use case 2: NOP role played simultaneously by different
organizations
In this scenario, the following organizations play aforementioned roles as
follows:
\- Company-V plays the role of NSC
\- Company-A plays the role of NSP and NOP
\- As NSP, it has:
\- a BSS, e.g. to manage its customers, products, contracts, and
\- a SML, to manage the services that support its products
\- As NOP, it has:
\- its own 5G core network. In this sub-use case, Company-A owns the whole set
of 5G core network resources used by the service required to support the
product ordered by Vertical-V
\- a NML, to manage the 5G core network resources used by services
As Company-A has no RAN in all requested areas, it relies on external
organizations, namely Company-X and Company-Y, to provide RAN coverage in the
US and in Spain respectively. Therefore:
\- Company-A plays the role of Communication Service Customer (CSC) wrt.
Company-X and Company-Y who both play the role of Communication Service
Provider (CSP)
\- Both Company-X and Company-Y have their own catalogue of products to offer
RAN coverage in their respective countries
\- Both Company-X and Company-Y play the role of CSP (for their respective
product offerings) and NOP (for their respective RAN).
{width="6.129166666666666in" height="2.7708333333333335in"}
Figure 5.4.1.2-1: Sub-use case 2 - NOP role played simultaneously by different
organizations
Company-A product catalogue proposes the following product offerings:
\- Network Slice eMBB with different flavours: Silver, Gold, Platinum
\- Network Slice URLLC with different flavours: Silver, Gold, Platinum
\- Network Slice MIoT with different flavours: Silver, Gold, Platinum.
In this sub-use case 2:
1\. Company-V (as the NSC) chooses a product from Company-A product offerings
2\. Company-V sends a request to Company-A (as the NSP) to order the product
\'Network Slice eMBB Platinum\'. To achieve this, a candidate API is TMF API
622 (Product Ordering)
2.1 Company-A BSS determines which service supports the product being ordered
by Company-V and issues a request to its OSS/SML to order this service. This
service can be e.g. a network slice. To achieve this, a candidate API is TMF
API 641 (Service Ordering)
2.2 Company-A OSS / SML determines which network resources support the service
being ordered and:
2.2.1 based on its knowledge that required 5G core network resources are
available internally, it issues a request to its own OSS / NML to allocate
required 5G core network resources, e.g. network slice subnet(s) for its 5G
core network, etc. To achieve this, candidate APIs are from TS 28.531 and TS
28.532
2.2.2 Company-A OSS / NML allocates 5G core network resources required to
support the service and informs OSS / SML about the characteristics of the
network resources being allocated
2.2.3 based on its knowledge that required RAN resources are not available
internally, it informs Company-A BSS about missing RAN resources
2.3 Company-A BSS:
2.3.1 acting as a CSC, issues a request to Company-X to order product X-1
(e.g. from the Wholesale offerings) to get RAN coverage in the US. To achieve
this, a candidate API is TMF AP 622 (Product ordering). Company-X, as the CSP,
receives the product order. Company-X BSS determines which service supports
the product being ordered by Company-A and issues a request to its OSS/SML to
order this service. This service can be e.g. a network slice. To achieve this,
a candidate API is TMF API 641 (Service Ordering). Company-X OSS / SML
determines which network resources support the service being ordered, etc.
Once completed, Company-X BSS informs Company-A BSS that the product which has
been ordered is now available to Company-A
2.3.2 acting as a CSC, issues a request to Company-Y to order product Y-1
(e.g. from the inter-operator network slice offerings) to get RAN coverage in
Spain. To achieve this, a candidate API is TMF AP 622 (Product ordering).
Company-Y, as the CSP, receives the product order. Company-Y BSS determines
which service supports the product being ordered by Company-A and issues a
request to its OSS/SML to order this service. This service can be e.g. a
network slice. To achieve this, a candidate API is TMF API 641 (Service
Ordering). Company-Y OSS / SML determines which network resources support the
service being ordered, etc. Once completed, Company-Y BSS informs Company-A
BSS that the product which has been ordered is now available to Company-A
2.3.3 informs its own OSS/SML that required RAN resources are available
2.4 Company-A OSS / SML associates the network resources allocated either
internally or externally (by Company-X or Company-Y) to the service and
informs its BSS about the characteristics of the service supporting the
product
3\. Company-A (as the NSP) sends a reply to Company-V to inform that the
product ordered is now available to Vertical-V.
NOTE: In this use case, aspects related to Transport Network(s) are not
addressed as they are out of 3GPP scope.
### 5.4.2 Potential issues and gaps
#### 5.4.2.1 Issues
In both sub-use case 1 and sub-use case 2, the characteristics of the network
slice ordered by the NSC to the NSP are exposed by the NSP to the NSC at
product-level, i.e. as specified by the product specification in the NSP
catalogue. The product specification provides the characteristics of the
product being offered by the NSP at business level and is not subject to
standardization. These characteristics are generally more abstract than
attributes defined in the 3GPP 5G NRM (cf. TS 28.541) and performance
measurements defined in TS 28.552 [x].
#### 5.4.2.2 Gaps
In these two sub-use cases, there is no exposure of service or network
resources directly to the NSC. From a BSS perspective no gaps in 3GPP
specifications have been identified
## 5.5 Exposure of network slice as a service
### 5.5.1 Description
#### 5.5.1.0 General
This use case involves the following roles:
\- NSP: Network Slice Provider
\- NSC: Network Slice Customer
\- NOP: Network Operator
\- CSC: Communication Service Customer
\- CSP: Communication Service Provider
, and the following systems:
\- BSS: Business Support System
\- OSS: Operations Support System, made up of the two following sub-systems:
\- SML: Service Management Layer
\- NML: Network Management Layer (for sake of simplicity, network management
and network element / function management are both in the NML).
#### 5.5.1.1 Sub-use case 1: NSP and NOP play by the same organization
In this scenario, the following organizations play aforementioned roles as
follows:
\- Company-V, which has a contract with Company-A for the exposure directly
via OSS, plays the role of NSC
\- Company-A plays the role of NSP and NOP
\- As NSP, it has:
\- a BSS, e.g. to manage its customers, products, contracts, and
\- a SML, to manage the services that support its products.
\- As NOP, it has:
\- its own 5G network (RAN + core). In this sub-use case, Company-A owns the
whole set of network resources used by the service that can potentially
support the service required by Company-V
\- a NML, to manage the network resources used by services
NOTE: NSC may have connection with Company-A BSS for the product-level
interaction. If not, the OSS/SML may have an embedded BSS functionalities for
the product-level interaction.
{width="5.309027777777778in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}
Figure 5.5.1.1-1: Sub-use case -- NSP and NOP played by the same organization
Company-A proposes the following product offering together with the exposure
capability:
\- Network Slice eMBB with the exposure capability of related KPI monitoring
and alarm notification, etc.
In this sub-use case 1:
1\. Company-V (as the NSC) gets the information regarding exposed MnSs that
are available via the exposed MnS discovery service from the Company-A.
2\. Company-V sends a request to Company-A (as the NSP) for the access to
exposed MnS set \'Network Slice eMBB\', which contains the exposure
capabilities such as related KPI monitoring and alarm notification, etc. To
achieve this, a candidate API is the interface with the MnF that controls the
exposure governance (e.g. EGMF).
2.1 Company-A SML determines which service supports the exposed MnS being
requested by Company-V.
2.2 Company-A OSS / SML sends a response, including the authentication
materials (e.g. key, token) for access to the chosen exposed MnS.
3\. The company-V can direct consume the exposed MnS (e.g. KPI monitoring and
alarm notification) from SML of the Company-A\'s 3GPP management system.
#### 5.5.1.2 Sub-use case 2: NOP role played simultaneously by different
organizations
In this scenario, the following organizations play aforementioned roles as
follows:
\- Company-V, which has a contract with Company-A for the exposure directly
via OSS, plays the role of NSC
\- Company-A plays the role of NSP and NOP
\- As NSP, it has:
\- a BSS, e.g. to manage its customers, products, contracts, and
\- a SML, to manage the services that support its products,
\- As NOP, it has:
\- its own 5G core network. In this sub-use case, Company-A owns the whole set
of 5G core network resources used by the service that can potentially support
the service required by Company-V
\- a NML, to manage the 5G core network resources used by services
As Company-A has no RAN in all requested areas, it relies on a different
organization with a specific contract (e.g. exposure directly via OSS), namely
Company-B Spain and Company-C USA, to provide RAN coverage in the Spain and in
the USA respectively. Therefore:
\- Company-A plays the role of Communication Service Customer (CSC) wrt.
Company-B Spain and Company-C USA who both play the role of Communication
Service Provider (CSP)
\- Both Company-B Spain and Company-C USA have their own services to offer RAN
coverage in their respective countries
\- Both Company-B Spain and Company-C USA play the role of CSP (for their
respective product offerings) and NOP (for their respective RAN).
NOTE 1: NSC may have connection with Company-A BSS for the product-level
interaction. If not, the OSS/SML may have an embedded BSS functionalities for
the product-level interaction.
{width="6.00625in" height="3.1770833333333335in"}
Figure 5.5.1.2-1: Sub-use case -- NOP role played simultaneously by different
organizations
Company-A proposes the following product offering together with the exposure
capability:
\- Network Slice eMBB with the exposure capability of related KPI monitoring
and alarm notification, etc.
In this sub-use case 2:
1\. Company-V (as the NSC) gets the information regarding exposed MnSs that
are available via the exposed MnS discovery service from the Company-A.
2\. Company-V sends a request to Company-A (as the NSP) for the access to
exposed MnS set \'Network Slice eMBB Platinum\', which contains the exposure
capabilities such as related KPI monitoring and alarm notification, etc. To
achieve this, a candidate API is the interface with the MnF that controls the
exposure governance (e.g. EGMF).
2.1 Company-A SML determines which service supports the exposed MnS being
requested by Company-V.
2.2 Company-A OSS / SML determines which network resources support the service
being requested and:
2.2.1 based on its knowledge that required RAN resources are not available
internally, the SML, acting as a CSC, issues a request to Company-C USA to
request service to get RAN coverage in the US. To achieve this, a candidate
API is the interface with the MnF that controls the exposure governance (e.g.
EGMF) of Company-C USA. Company-C USA, as the CSP, receives the service
request. Company-C USA SML determines which service supports the exposed MnS
being requested by Company-A. This service can be e.g. a network slice.
Company-C USA OSS / SML determines which network resources support the service
being requested, etc. Once completed, Company-C USA SML informs Company-A SML
that the exposed MnS which has been requested is now available to Company-A.
The Company-A SML can consume the exposed MnS from Company-C USA directly via
its SML.
2.2.3 acting as a CSC, issues a request to Company-B Spain to request service
to get RAN coverage in Spain. To achieve this, a candidate API is the
interface with the MnF that controls the exposure governance (e.g. EGMF) of
Company-B Spain. Company-B Spain, as the CSP, receives the service request.
Company-B Spain SML determines which service supports the exposed MnS being
requested by Company-A. This service can be e.g. a network slice. Company-B
Spain OSS / SML determines which network resources support the service being
requested, etc. Once completed, Company-B Spain SML informs Company-A SML that
the exposed MnS which has been requested is now available to Company-A. The
Company-A SML can consume the exposed MnS from Company-B Spain directly via
its SML.
3\. Company-A (as the NSP) sends a reply to Company-V to inform that the
exposed MnS requested is now available to Company-V. The reply may also
include the authentication materials (e.g. key, token) for access to the
chosen exposed MnS.
NOTE 2: NSP may not have network at all. In this case, if and how NSP can
offer exposure services to NSC is FFS.
NOTE 3: In this use case, aspects related to Transport Network(s) are not
addressed as they are out of 3GPP scope.
## 5.6 Exposure to application servers and application functions
### 5.6.1 Description
The operator has other non-management entities such as the middleware (example
SEAL server) or application servers (AS) defined by 3GPP SA6 that could
consume management services as shown in Figure 4.1.1.3.2-1. These could be
internal or external to the operator. In such cases the BSS may or may not be
directly involved. An example of an external application could be a V2X
application server may use the management system to provision V2X slices in a
certain geography (AS2 or AS3 in Figure 5.6.1-1). An example for an internal
application could be the operators eMBB application server discovering a newly
supported coverage area and provisioning the operator eMBB network slice
instance in that area (AS1 in Figure). AS1 and AS2 access the 3GPP management
system from an operator internal enabler server (see TR 23.700-99), another
enabler server could be located in the vertical premises and therefore
external to the operator. In TR 23.700-99 both such options are considered. In
this scenario the operator MnSs are directly access by internal or external
entities (subject to prior agreements) without going through the BSS. In
addition to application servers and application enabler server, any internal
of external authorized application function may also access exposed MnS.
In Figure 4.1.1.3.2-1 AS1 and AS2 may or may not be aware that they use
exposed MnSs from the operator. The respective enabler servers could hide this
internal implementation. Bother enabler servers may access exposed MnS subject
to respective authorization. However, it is likely that the application
enabler server A and AF1 have direct access to management services without a
BSS, whereas the application enabler server B and AF2 would need some sort of
involvement of the BSS.
Figure 5.6.1-1: Exposure to application server within and outside operator
network
### 5.6.2 Issue and gaps
Issues:
\- To be able to consumer MnS the external entities need to be aware of the
existence of the operator and the respective MnS it wants to consumer. This
issue depends on the dynamism supported by the system. In a highly dynamic and
changing system the issue is equivalent to Clause 5.4 exposed MnS support to
discovery systems.
\- Furthermore, the external entities need to gain credentials to access the
exposed MnS.
# 6 Potential requirements for network management capability exposure
## 6.1 Potential requirements related to exposed MnS discovery service
\- **REQ-NSCE-01** The 3GPP management system may provide capabilities
allowing to discover exposed MnS and related exposed MnS producers that are
managing a specific managed entity.
\- **REQ-NSCE-02** The 3GPP management system may have functionalities to
register exposed MnS to an appropriate discovery service/system (e.g. exposed
MnS discovery service producer).
\- **REQ-NSCE-03** The 3GPP management system may provide capabilities to
authenticate and authorize network slice consumers to discover exposed MnS and
related MnS producers.
## 6.2 Potential requirements related to exposure interface via OSS
\- **REQ-NSCE-04** The 3GPP management system may provide capabilities to
authenticate and authorize network slice consumers to consume exposed MnS
directly from 3GPP management system.
# 7 Possible solutions for network management capability exposure
## 7.1 Possible solution for \"exposed MnS support to discovery systems\" --
Scenario 5.4
The steps of the solution are as follows:
1\. A MnS consumer configures using the appropriate MnS (for example the
generic provisioning service) the details of the external discovery service
location and other supporting details (for e.g. authentication and
authorization). Further, the detail on which parts of which MnS (component A)
IOCs and which instances of the corresponding MOI (component B) and
corresponding data (component C) can be registered with the discovery
service/system. As an example, the operator may want to register her the
ability to provision (Management object A) a particular slice type (NSSAI-ID)
at a certain coverage area (coverageArea item 6.3.3 TS28.541) with some
additional details (example: supported latency or maxNumberofUEs or
delayTolerance) to an external discovery service or system.
2\. In addition to the information of what is externally registered,
information relating to the address of the exposed MnS needs to be provided.
This could be default information based on the operator in the external
discovery system or in case of a trusted discovery the address of the actual
exposed management service.
3\. The 3GPP Management System registers the exposed management component A, B
and C as configured in step 1 to the appropriate external discovery
service/system.
4\. Eventually, if any of the exposure details change -- for example the same
slice type can now be supported in a new coverageArea -- the registration to
the external discovery system may now need to be updated.
The solution for the trust issue between the three MnS discovery system owner,
MnS consumer and the MnS producer is scenario dependent. For example in a
multi-operator network scenario. In this scenario operator A is an MnS
producer, a joint venture of multiple operators as a MnS discovery system
owner and operator B as an MnS consumer. Both Operator A and Operator B have
business relations with the joint venture thereby creating a trust
relationship between Operator A and the joint venture (JV) AND operator B and
the joint venture. The JV provides the authorization and authentication
details for each of the operator to use the discovery service. Operator A may
then expose aspects of its MnS that it considers ok to expose with the JV.
Operator B can then discover the MnS offered by operator A and contact
operator A to access them. If operator B requires a higher level of access
than operator A provides in the JV by default, then they need to form a new
business relationship.
## 7.2 Possible solutions for exposed MnS discovery service
To enable communication between exposed MnS consumers and exposed MnS
producers, exposed MnS consumers need a mechanism to discover exposed MnS
producers that are available in the 3GPP management system, this is called
exposed MnS discovery service.
When the operator decides to expose a management service (exposed MnS), the
operator needs to decide which MnS(s) should be exposed, which internal MnS
operations should be abstracted/filtered, and which internal MnS data should
be abstracted/filtered. As part of this decision, the operator may use the MnS
Discovery Service to collect information. The operator exposes the MnS and
registers it with the exposed MnS discovery service, this may be done using an
EGMF.
The exposed MnS discovery service consumer sends a request to appropriate
discovery service (e.g. exposed MnS discovery service producer) to obtain the
exposed MnS data.
## 7.3 Potential solution for MnS discovery service for exposure
The MnS data can be accessed by different kinds of discovery service consumers
based on different use cases.
In some use cases, the exposure usually goes through BSS. The BSS can obtain
MnS data from the MnS discovery service on behalf of the NSC.
There are different scenarios where the NSC could directly interact with the
MnS producer exposure interface via OSS.
{width="5.322916666666667in" height="2.21875in"}
Figure 7.3.1 Procedure for MnS discovery service for exposure via BSS
1) The BSS requests for MnS data from the MnS discovery service for NSC on
behalf of the NSC. The MnS data may contain the address of the exposed
producer.
2) MnS discovery service producer for NSC provides discovery service to NSC.
The MnS discovery service producer returns the MnS data to BSS. The BSS may
provide discovery service to NSC based on MnS data.
3) The NSC completes the product order via the interaction with BSS_NSP.
{width="6.239583333333333in" height="3.3020833333333335in"}
Figure 7.3.2: Procedure for MnS discovery service for exposure via OSS
1) The NSC completes a product order via the interaction with BSS_NSP. As a
result of the product ordering, the NSC obtains the address of the MnS
discovery service producer for exposure.
NOTE: MnS discovery service producer providing discovery service for the
exposed MnS to external.
2) The NSC executes authentication and authorization for accessing MnS
discovery service.
3) The NSC requests for MnS data for exposed MnS from the MnS discovery
service. The exposed MnS data for exposed MnS may contain the information of
the exposed MnS instance and the address of the exposed MnS producer. The MnS
data for exposed MnS is the data for authorized NSC to identify proper MnS
producer which produces the exposed MnS.
4) The MnS discovery service returns the MnS data for exposed MnS to the NSC.
5) The NSC requests the services from the target exposed MnS producer.
6) The target exposed MnS producer returns the responses.
## 7.4 Potential solution for exposed MnS consumption via OSS interface
This clause introduces the solution for the use case described in clause 5.6,
where the NSC can directly interact with OSS for the consumption of exposed
MnS.
{width="5.341666666666667in" height="4.26875in"}
Figure 7.4.1: Exposed MnS consumption via OSS interface
1\. The NSP receives a product order from the NSC through BSS. The interface
used towards the BSS is specified by TM Forum specifications [2].
2\. The BSS processes the product order and when applicable converts it to
appropriate service order(s) for the OSS Service Management Layer. This is
internal to BSS and there are no interface requirements.
3\. The OSS Service Management Layer receives a service order from the BSS.
The interface used is specified by TM Forum specifications [3].
4\. The MnS producer for NSC (e.g. NSMF) on the OSS Service Management Layer
processes the service order and when applicable converts it to appropriate
request(s) for the OSS Network Management Layer as requests for management and
orchestration of resources. In addition, MnS producer on the OSS Service
Management Layer can decides to expose MnS directly from OSS_SML and prepares
the address of MnS discovery service producer for NSC that can be accessed by
the NSC and related authorization information (e.g. token) for accessing the
MnS discovery service for NSC. The service order may trigger a procedure of
resource order with OSS_NML.
5\. The MnS producer for NSC on OSS Service Management Layer notifies the BSS
that the service order has been completed. In addition, the notification may
contain the address of producer that manages the MnS discovery service for NSC
to access and also identities of the related MOIs which is related to the
exposed MnSs that the NSC requests. The interface used is specified by TM
Forum specifications [3].
NOTE 1: The MnS discovery service producer for NSC can be within the OSS or
outside the OSS.
6\. The BSS notifies the NSC that the product order has been completed. In
addition, the address of MnS discovery producer for NSC and the related
authorization information (e.g. token) for accessing the MnS discovery service
for NSC are sent to the NSC by the product order completed message. The
interface used the interface towards the BSS is specified by TM Forum
specifications [2].
7\. If the notification in step 6 contains the address of MnS discovery
service producer for NSC, the NSC conducts authentication and authorization
for accessing exposed MnS discovery service.
8\. After the authentication and authorization, the NSC obtains the MnS data
for exposed MnS, which contains the information of the exposed MnS instance
and the address of target MnS producer for NSC. The MnS data for exposed MnS
is the data for authorized NSC to identify proper MnS producer which produces
the exposed MnS.
9\. After obtaining the information of the MnS data for exposed MnS, the NSC
identifies the target MnS producer for NSC and consumes the exposed MnS. To
consider the security, the MnS producer may leverage a dedicated MnF which
controls the exposure governance as a proxy for exposing MnS.
The NSC has to consume several MnSs e.g. for authentication, authorization,
and MnS discovery. When the NSC consumes an MnS, the MnS may rely on other
MnSs to be able to produce the service.
Table 7.4.1: Exposed MnS consumption via OSS interface
Step Description in step Interface Reference Description in reference
* * *
1 product order External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order 2 None - - 3
service order Internal TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order 4 None - - 5 service
order completed Internal TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order State Change Event
with the address of MnS producer 6 product order completed External TM Forum
TMF622 [2] Product Order State Change Event with the address of MnS producer 7
Authentication and Authorization External - Authentication and authorization
of the NSC\'s MnS consumers. Dedicated operation for Authentication and
Authorization is missing in current specification. 8 MnS discovery External TS
28.532 [15], TS 28.622 [17] MnS discovery of MnS producers may require
enhancement of TS 28.532 and TS 28.622 for registry. 9 MnS consumption
External TS 28.532 [15], TS 28.531 [5] Consumption of MnS may need enhancement
to TS 28.532 and TS 28.531, for authorization.
## 7.5 Solution for internal service order after receiving product order
_This clause describes a solution for the procedure described in clause_
4.1.4.2. For each step in the procedure Table 7.5.1 identifies the following:
\- if an interface is Internal to an operator, i.e. internal to a CSP or
internal to an NSP, or External between a CSP and an NSP, or None in case the
step is an internal process and there is no interface requirement,
\- which operation or notification is used by that step, and
\- which specification describes the interface (stage 2 and stage 3).
_Table 7.5.1:_ Solution for internal service order after receiving product
order
Step Description in step Interface Reference Description in reference
* * *
1 product order External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order 2 None - - 3
service order External TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order 4 None - - 5 resource
order Internal TM Forum TMF652 [4] Resource Order 6 Internal TS 28.531 [5],
clause 6.5.1- AllocateNsi 7 resource order completed Internal TM Forum TMF652
[4] Service Order State Change Event 8 service order completed External TM
Forum TMF641 [3] Product Order State Change Event 9 product order completed
External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order State Change Event
## 7.6 Solution for external product order after receiving product order
_This clause describes a solution for the procedure described in clause_
4.1.4.3. For each step in the procedure Table 7.6.1 identifies the following:
\- if an interface is Internal to an operator, i.e. internal to a CSP or
internal to an NSP, or External between a CSP and an NSP, or None in case the
step is an internal process and there is no interface requirement,
\- which operation or notification is used by that step, and
\- which specification describes the interface (stage 2 and stage 3).
_Table 7.6.1:_ Solution for external product order after receiving product
order
Step Description in step Interface Reference Description in reference
* * *
1 product order External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order 2 None - - 3
product order External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order 4 None - - 5 service
order Internal TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order 6 None - - 7 service order
completed Internal TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order State Change Event 8
product order completed External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order State
Change Event 9 product order completed External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product
Order State Change Event
## 7.7 Solution for external service order after receiving product order
_This clause describes a solution for the procedure described in clause_
4.1.4.4. For each step in the procedure Table 7.7.1 identifies the following:
\- if an interface is Internal to an operator, i.e. internal to a CSP or
internal to an NSP, or External between a CSP and an NSP, or None in case the
step is an internal process and there is no interface requirement,
\- which operation or notification is used by that step, and
\- which specification describes the interface (stage 2 and stage 3).
_Table 7.7.1:_ Solution for external product order after receiving product
order
Step Description in step Interface Reference Description in reference
* * *
1 product order External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order 2 None - - 3
service order Internal TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order 4 None - - 5 service
order External TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order 6 None - - 7 notify service
order completed Internal TS 28.202 [6] Service Order Completed Notification 8
service order completed External TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order State
Change Event 9 service order completed External TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service
Order State Change Event
## 7.8 Potential solution for product onboarding
_This clause describes a solution for the procedure described in clause_
4.1.4.5. For each step in the procedure Table 7.8.1 identifies the following:
\- if an interface is Internal to an operator, i.e. internal to the NSP or
External between a NSC and NSP, or None in case the step is an internal
process and there is no interface requirement,
\- which operation or notification is used by that step, and
\- which specification describes the interface (stage 2 and stage 3).
_Table 7.8.1:_ Solution for product onboarding
Step Description in step Interface Reference Description in reference
* * *
1 service discovery Internal TS 28.537 [10], clause 5- Editor\'s Note: further
details are FFS 2 None - - 3 request list of available services Internal TM
Forum TMF633 [12] Service Catalogue 4 provide list of available services
Internal TM Forum TMF633 [12] Service Catalogue 5 None - - 6 product catalogue
request External TM Forum TMF620 [13] Product Catalogue 7 product catalogue
External TM Forum TMF620 [13] Product Catalogue
## 7.9 Potential solutions for network slice management capability exposure
via CAPIF
### 7.9.1 Exposure via CAPIF alternative 1
This clause describes a potential solution where network slice management
capability is exposed via the Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs,
see TS 23.222 [14].
{width="6.69375in" height="4.388888888888889in"}
Figure 7.9.1-1: Exposure via CAPIF alternative 1
In this alternative, network slice management capability exposure provides
faultMnS, fileDataReportingMnS, heartbeatNtf, perfMnS, provMnS, and
streamingDataMnS as specified in in TS 28.532 [15].
Editor\'s note: Whether network slice management capability exposure is
affected by transforming the management service API to another service API is
FFS.
### 7.9.2 Exposure via CAPIF alternative 2
This clause describes a potential solution where network slice management
capability exposure is used in conjunction with a CAPIF core function (see TS
23.222 [14]) to expose management services to MnS consumers.
{width="6.69375in" height="4.381944444444445in"}
Figure 7.9.2-1: Exposure via CAPIF alternative 2
In this alternative, network slice management capability exposure consumes the
interfaces at reference points CAPIF-3, CAPIF-4, and CAPIF-5 as defined in TS
23.222 [14]. It may be necessary to extend CAPIF-3/4/5 as defined in TS 23.222
[14] to support exposure of network slice management services.
In this alternative, network slice management capability exposure provides the
interfaces at reference point CAPIF-2/2e. It may be necessary to extend
CAPIF-2/2e as defined in TS 23.222 [14] to support network slice management
capability exposure and authentication of MnS consumers.
In this alternative, MnS consumers utilize the interfaces at reference point
CAPIF-1/1e. It may be necessary to extend CAPIF-1/1e as defined in TS 23.222
[14] to support authorization/authentication of MnS consumers and discovery of
MnS producers.
Editor\'s note: Whether network slice management capability exposure is
affected by transforming the management service API to another service API is
FFS.
Table 7.9.2-1 shows the CAPIF interface and the potential MnS that can be
implemented within the interface for alternative 2. In addition, extension of
CAPIF interface may be needed to achieve certain functionalities in the
context of network slice management capability exposure.
Table 7.9.2-1: Interface description
+------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | Interface | Related MnS | Gap analysis | +============+===========================+===========================+ | CAPIF 1/1e | - Discovery of MnS(s) | - How the MnS consumer | | | from MnS registry using | can discover the MnS | | | ProvMnS\ | producer using CAPIF 1/1e | | | Specified in | is not specified. | | | TS 28.622 [17], | | | | TS 28.623 [16], and | - The | | | TS 28.532 [15] | ServiceAPIDescription for | | | | CAPI | | | | F_Discover_Service_API | | | | needs to be extended in | | | | the context of network | | | | slice management | | | | capability exposure. The | | | | MnS address within the | | | | MnS data can indicate a | | | | MnS producer for exposing | | | | MnS after authentication | | | | and authorization. | | | | | | | | - Management of MnS | | | | consumers includes the | | | | management of MnS | | | | consumer type and | | | | identity. The management | | | | of MnS consumer type and | | | | identity is for | | | | differentiating different | | | | access permission for | | | | different MnS consumer. | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | CAPIF 2/2e | - Authentication and | - How to use MnS as | | | authorization of MnS | extension for CAPIF 2/2e | | | consumers is specified in | is not specified. | | | TS 28.533 [11] clause | | | | 4.9. | - The Service API for | | | | CAPIF 2/2e need to be | | | - Service APIs (MnS): | extended to support MnS. | | | faultMnS, | | | | fileDataReportingMnS, | | | | heartbeatNtf, perfMnS, | | | | provMnS, and | | | | streamingDataMnS\ | | | | Specified in in | | | | TS 28.532 [15] | | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | CAPIF 3 | - | | | | Nchf_ConvergedCharging\ | | | | Specified in | | | | TS 28.201 [18] and | | | | TS 28.202 [6] | | | | | | | | - Access control | | | | capability specified in | | | | TS 28.533 [11] | | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | CAPIF 4 | - MnS Registry\ | - How to publish the MnS | | | Specified in | data for MnS discovery by | | | TS 28.622 [17] and | the MnS consumer using | | | TS 28.623 [16]. | CAPIF 4 is not specified. | | | | | | | | - The | | | | ServiceAPIDescription for | | | | CAP | | | | IF_Publish_Service_API | | | | needs to be extended in | | | | the context of network | | | | slice management | | | | capability exposure. The | | | | MnS address within the | | | | MnS data can indicate a | | | | MnS producer for exposing | | | | MnS after authentication | | | | and authorization. | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | CAPIF 5 | - Auditing of the MnS | - How to allow MnS | | | producer is not specified | producer to recognize and | | | | differentiate each MnS | | | | consumer during the | | | | auditing is not | | | | specified. | | | | | | | | - MnS consumer ID is | | | | needed for auditing | | | | service API invocation. | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
After the MnS consumer completes authentication and authorization, the CAPIF
core function needs to help the MnS consumer to discover the address of the
MnS producer so that the MnS consumer can request MnS consumption. In order to
provide the discovery service to the MnS consumer, the MnS data that contains
the address of the MnS producer needs to be published to the CAPIF core
function. This may require an extension of CAPIF-4 interface to make sure that
the ServiceAPIDescription for CAPIF_Publish_Service_API can carry the MnS data
in order to support the discovery service for the MnS consumer.
The mnsAddress of MnsInfo within CAPIF-1/1e and 4 can be extended as below:
Table 7.9.2-3: mnsaddress information within MnsInfo
Attributes Support Cardinality Description
* * *
mnsAddress M 1 The MnS address for external MnS consumer indicates a MnS
producer for exposing MnS after authentication and authorization.
For CAPIF-5 interface, According to TS 23.222, API management function can
access the service API invocation logs via CAPIF-5. The procedure for auditing
needs the query service API log request from API management function to the
CAPIF core function. Since API management function is within the 3GPP
management system, in order to differentiate each MnS consumer, MnS consumer
ID is needed in order to allow MnS producer to recognize each MnS consumer
during the auditing. Therefore, API Invoker\'s ID need to be extended as MnS
customer ID.
The MnS consumer management information is needed for differentiating the MnS
consumer in term of consumer type and different access permission. The MnS
consumer type is for differentiate the MnS consumer inside and outside the
PLMN trust domain.
CAPIF core function can authorize MnS consumer with certain permission (e.g.
access token) using CAPIF-1/1e interface. The permission can allow the MnS
consumer to get access to the authorized information of MnS from respective
MnS producer. In order to allow the corresponding MnS producer to recognize
the MnS consumer and the corresponding authorized MnS, MnS consumer ID is
needed. Therefore, API Invoker\'s ID need to be extended as MnS customer ID.
Editor\'s note: The format of MnS consumer ID is FFS.
The MnS consumer management information within CAPIF-1/1e can be extended as
below:
Table 7.9.2-4: MnS consumer management information
+-----------------+---------+-------------+---------------------+ | Attributes | Support | Cardinality | Description | +=================+=========+=============+=====================+ | MnSConsumerType | O | 1...N | It indicates the | | | | | type of MnS | | | | | consumer that | | | | | requests for the | | | | | exposure of the | | | | | MnSs provided by | | | | | MnS producer. The | | | | | type of MnS | | | | | consumer is | | | | | external if the MnS | | | | | consumer is outside | | | | | the PLMN trust | | | | | domain. The type of | | | | | MnS consumer is | | | | | internal if the MnS | | | | | consumer is inside | | | | | the PLMN trust | | | | | domain. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValue: | | | | | EXTERNAL, | | | | | | | | | | INTERNAL | +-----------------+---------+-------------+---------------------+ | MnSConsumerID | O | 1...N | It indicates the | | | | | Identifier of the | | | | | MnS consumer that | | | | | requests MnSs from | | | | | the MnS producer. | | | | | | | | | | The identifier of | | | | | the MnS consumer | | | | | can be associated | | | | | to its access | | | | | token. The access | | | | | token can represent | | | | | a set of MnSs that | | | | | are allowed to be | | | | | exposed to MnS | | | | | consumer. | | | | | | | | | | The format of the | | | | | MnS consumer ID can | | | | | use FQDN (See TS | | | | | 21.003 [Y] clause | | | | | 19.4.2.1). | +-----------------+---------+-------------+---------------------+
The MnS consumer can directly get access to MnS producer after the
authentication and validation with MnS producer if the exposure governance is
implemented in respective MnS producer. The MnS producer may be able to
provide original MnS following exposure governance which includes filtering.
As a result, MnS consumer may be able to access only a subset of original MnS
via the response from the MnS producer.
### 7.9.3 Exposure via CAPIF alternative 3
This clause describes a potential solution where network slice management
capability exposure implements a Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs
(see TS 23.222 [14]) to expose management services to MnS consumers.
{width="6.75752624671916in" height="4.058441601049869in"}
Figure 7.9.3-1: Exposure via CAPIF alternative 3
In this alternative, network slice management capability exposure may
internally implement the internal interfaces using reference points CAPIF-3,
CAPIF-4, and CAPIF-5 as defined in TS 23.222 [14] or may use non-standardized
interfaces.
In this alternative, network slice management capability exposure provides the
interfaces at reference point CAPIF-1/1e. It may be necessary to extend
CAPIF-1/1e as defined in TS 23.222 [14] to support
authorization/authentication of MnS consumers and discovery of MnS producers.
In this alternative, network slice management capability exposure provides the
interfaces at reference point CAPIF-2/2e. It may be necessary to extend
CAPIF-2/2e as defined in TS 23.222 [14] to support network slice management
capability exposure and authentication of MnS consumers.
Editor\'s note: Whether network slice management capability exposure is
affected by transforming the management service API to another service API is
FFS.
Table 7.9.3-1 shows the CAPIF interface and the potential MnS that can be
implemented within the interface for alternative 3. In addition, extension of
CAPIF interface may be needed to achieve certain functionalities in the
context of network slice management capability exposure.
Table 7.9.3-1: Interface description
+------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | Interface | Related MnS | Gap analysis | +============+===========================+===========================+ | CAPIF 1/1e | - Discovery of MnS(s) | - How the MnS consumer | | | from MnS registry using | can discover the MnS | | | ProvMnS\ | producer using CAPIF 1/1e | | | Specified in | is not specified. | | | TS 28.622 [17], | | | | TS 28.623 [16], and | - The | | | TS 28.532 [15] | ServiceAPIDescription for | | | | CAPI | | | | F_Discover_Service_API | | | | needs to be extended in | | | | the context of network | | | | slice management | | | | capability exposure. The | | | | MnS address within the | | | | MnS data can indicate a | | | | MnS producer for exposing | | | | MnS after authentication | | | | and authorization. | | | | | | | | - Management of MnS | | | | consumers includes the | | | | management of MnS | | | | consumer type and | | | | identity. The management | | | | of MnS consumer type and | | | | identity is for | | | | differentiating different | | | | access permission for | | | | different MnS consumer. | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | CAPIF 2/2e | - Authentication and | - How to use MnS as | | | authorization of MnS | extension for CAPIF 2/2e | | | consumers is specified in | is not specified. | | | TS 28.533 [11] clause | | | | 4.9 | - The Service API for | | | | CAPIF 2/2e need to be | | | - Service APIs (MnS): | extended to support MnS. | | | faultMnS, | | | | fileDataReportingMnS, | | | | heartbeatNtf, perfMnS, | | | | provMnS, and | | | | streamingDataMnS\ | | | | Specified in in | | | | TS 28.532 [15] | | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
After the MnS consumer completes authentication and authorization, the CAPIF
core function needs to help the MnS consumer to discover the address of the
MnS producer so that the MnS consumer can request MnS consumption via the MnS
producer. In order to provide the discovery service to the MnS consumer, the
MnS data that contains the address of the MnS producer needs to be published
to the CAPIF core function.
The mnsAddress of MnsInfo within CAPIF-1/1e can be extended as below:
Table 7.9.2-3: mnsaddress information within MnsInfo
Attributes Support Cardinality Description
* * *
mnsAddress M 1 The MnS address for external MnS consumer indicates MnS
producer for exposing MnS after authentication and authorization.
For CAPIF-5 interface, According to TS 23.222, API management function can
access the service API invocation logs via CAPIF-5. The procedure for auditing
needs the query service API log request from API management function to the
CAPIF core function. Since API management function is within the 3GPP
management system, in order to differentiate each MnS consumer, MnS consumer
ID is needed in order to allow MnS producer to recognize each MnS consumer
during the auditing. Therefore, API Invoker\'s ID need to be extended as MnS
customer ID.
The MnS consumer management information is needed for differentiating the MnS
consumer in term of consumer type and different access permission. The MnS
consumer type is for differentiate the MnS consumer inside and outside the
PLMN trust domain.
CAPIF core function can authorize MnS consumer with certain permission (e.g.
access token) using CAPIF-1/1e interface. The permission can allow the MnS
consumer to get access to the authorized information of MnS from respective
MnS producer. In order to allow the corresponding MnS producer to recognize
the MnS consumer and the corresponding authorized MnS, MnS consumer ID is
needed. Therefore, API Invoker\'s ID need to be extended as MnS customer ID.
The MnS consumer management information within CAPIF-1/1e can be extended as
below:
Table 7.9.2-4: MnS consumer management information
+-----------------+---------+-------------+---------------------+ | Attributes | Support | Cardinality | Description | +=================+=========+=============+=====================+ | MnSConsumerType | O | 1...N | It indicates the | | | | | type of MnS | | | | | consumer that | | | | | requests for the | | | | | exposure of the | | | | | MnSs provided by | | | | | MnS producer. The | | | | | type of MnS | | | | | consumer is | | | | | external if the MnS | | | | | consumer is outside | | | | | the PLMN trust | | | | | domain. The type of | | | | | MnS consumer is | | | | | internal if the MnS | | | | | consumer is inside | | | | | the PLMN trust | | | | | domain. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValue: | | | | | EXTERNAL, | | | | | | | | | | INTERNAL | +-----------------+---------+-------------+---------------------+
The MnS consumer can directly get access to MnS producer after the
authentication and validation with MnS producer if the exposure governance is
implemented in respective MnS producer. The MnS producer may be able to
provide original MnS following exposure governance which includes filtering.
As a result, MnS consumer may be able to access only a subset of original MnS
via the response from the MnS producer.
### 7.9.4 Evaluation
An evaluation of these 3 alternatives is given, which can help to draw the
conclusion and recommendation for this solution.
                  Summary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pros                                                                                                                           Cons
* * *
Alternative 1 API provider domain acts as MnS consumer which interacts with
the MnS producer within SA5. SA5 jurisdiction ends at MnS Consumer. What MnS
consumers does to expose the MnS further to API Invoker (external entity) is
out--of-scope of SA5.How the external MnS consumer conduct authentication,
authentication, discover the MnS and consume the MnS is not specified in this
alternative. No standardization work needed for SA5. The requirements in
clause 6 are not addressed in a standardized manner. Alternative 2 MnS
producer embeds API provider domain functions capabilities and has direct
interaction with CAPIF core function. External MnS consumer can conduct
authentication and authorization with CCF. After that, the external MnS
consumer can consume the MnS via the service API provided by API provider
domain. With certain extension for CAPIF interface, solution on how external
MnS consumer discover and consume MnS can be specified. Extension of CAPIF
interfaces (e.g. CAPIF-1e, CAPIF-2e, CAPIF-3, CAPIF-4, CAPIF-5) is needed.
Alternative 3 MnS producer embeds both CAPIF Core Function and API provider
domain functions capabilities. CCF and API provider domain interact with each
other via internal interfaces. With certain extension for CAPIF interface,
solution on how external MnS consumer discover and consume MnS can be
specified. Extension of CAPIF interface (e.g. CAPIF CAPIF-1e, CAPIF-2e) is
needed.
So far, there are several gaps regarding, MnS publishing, discovery, which are
captured in TR 28.824 [Z]:
\- Whether and how to publish a MnS that can be discovered by external
customer is not specified in existing 3GPP management system.
\- If there is a need to publish MnS, then the exposure of MnS (e.g.
performance MnS regarding NR and 5GC) is not specified in 3GPP management
system.
\- To limit issues the exposure from a discovery system of the operator may
only provide \"read\" permissions (w.r.t the exposed MnS) without
authentication and authorization. To execute the discovered exposed MnS the
consumer still needs to be authenticated and authorized by the management
system. Therefore, there is a gap in the difference in exposure for
consumption, and exposure for discovery which needs to be solved.
All these gap can be resolved by alternative 2 and 3 since all the related
interfaces are within the scope of alternative 2 and 3. Alternative 1 cannot
solve the gaps mentioned above.
Based on the aforementioned evaluation, It is suggested to recommend
alternative 2 and 3 as baseline for the normative work.
## 7.10 Possible solution for network slice management capability exposure
This solutions supports exposure via CAPIF alternative 2and exposure via CAPIF
alternative 3 as defined in clauses 7.9.2 and 7.9.3.
This solution proposes to use CAPIF framework [14] to expose network slice
management capabilities to external entities. The solution requires extending
the existing CAPIF mechanism to support MnS exposure and authorization. This
includes extending the ServiceAPIDescription (see clause 8.2.4.2.2 of [19]) to
support the description of the 3GPP management services required for exposure.
This also includes defining mechanism to build exposure governance rules for
allowing granular access to MnS from external entities.
In addition to external entities, the same solution can be used to provide
access to entities inside PLMN trust domain (see clause 3.1 of [14]). Three
types of consumer are considered here;
\- NOP-External: the consumer is external to PLMN trust domain,
\- OAM-External: the consumers is external to 3GPP management domain e.g. (5GC
NFs, trusted AF and application layer entities e.g. SEAL)
\- OAM-Internal: consumer is internal to 3GPP management domain.
Figure 7.10-1
MnS Producer (acting as API Provider Domain Function) registers with CCF using
Register_API_Provider operation as defined in clause 5.11.2.2.2 of [19].
MnS consumer (acting as API Invoker) registers with CCF. The registration
request will include related MnS Consumer details as part of
APIInvokerEnrolmentDetails (clause 8.4.4.2.2 of [19]).
Editor\'s Note 1: Whether the APIInvokerEnrolmentDetails (clause 8.4.4.2.2 of
[19]) need to be extended with provided consumer details in FFS.
1) MnS producer publishing the available management services with CCF. MnS
Producer can optionally perform transformation of MnS into service API(s)
before publishing. In absence of this transformation MnS are considered to be
service APIs being exposed to MnS Consumer.
Note 1: Whether this optional transformation is needed or not, and its
implementation details, is out-of-scope of 3GPP.
Editor\'s Note: Initiatives such as CAMARA are working on this kind of
transformation.
2) MnS consumer gets authenticated with CCF as per the procedures defined in
clause 8.10 of [14].
3) MnS consumer discovers the available service APIs using the CAPIF discovery
mechanisms. CCF authenticates the MnS Consumer and reports the available
management service described by the ServiceAPIDescription.
4) MnS consumer gets authorization to access available service APIs as per the
procedures defined in clause 8.11 of [14].
5) MnS consumer gets authenticated with AEF as per the procedures defined in
clause 8.14 of [14].
6) MnS consumer tries to access the service API.
7) MnS Producer checks the validity of the token including checking the
granular consumer\'s authorizations. MnS Producer will then decide whether to
allow the access or not.
8) MnS Producer may interact with CAPIF Core for authentication, authorization
and charging.
9) MnS Producer provides appropriate response.
NOTE 2: When this solution applies to alternative 3, the CAPIF core function
becomes part of MnS Producer.
This solution requires MnS to be described as a Service API. To accomplish
this, the management service discovery data needs to be mapped to CAPIF data
structures.
As defined in 28.622 [17], a Management Service is described by IOC MnsInfo
(clause 4.3.42).
As defined in 29.222 [19], the service API is described in a
ServiceAPIDescription datatype (clause 8.2.4.2.2) which contains one or
multiple aefProfiles (clause 8.2.4.2.4). Each aefProfile contains one or
multiple API versions (clause 8.2.4.2.5). Each API version may expose one or
multiple resources (clause 8.2.4.2.6).
One possible solution to represent an exposed MnS as a Service API is as
follows:
MnsInfo attribute mnsLabel is mapped to ServiceAPIDescription/apiName.
MnsInfo attribute mnsVersion is mapped to
ServiceAPIDescription/AefProfile/Version/apiVersion.
MnsInfo attribute mnsType is mapped to
ServiceAPIDescription/AefProfile/Version/Resource/resourceName.
MnsInfo attribute mnsAddress is mapped to
ServiceAPIDescription/AefProfile/Version/Resource/uri.
MnsInfo attribute mnsScope is mapped to
ServiceAPIDescription/AefProfile/Version/Resource/description.
Editor Notes 3: Whether the authorization mechanism as defined in [14] need to
be extended is FFS.
## 7.11 Potential solution for consumption of exposed MnS after service order
completed
_This clause describes a solution for the procedure for consumption of exposed
MnS after service order completed described which is described in clause_
4.1.4.6. For each step in the procedure Table 7.11.1 identifies the following:
\- if an interface is:
\- Internal to the NSP,
\- External between a NSC and NSP,
\- None, for internal processes within a function.
\- which operation or notification is used by that step, and
\- which specification describes the interface (stage 2 and stage 3).
_Table 7.11.1:_ Solution for consumption of exposed MnS within the operator
trusted domain (NSC_Application is inside operator trusted domain)
Step Description in step Interface Reference Description in reference
* * *
1 Authentication and authorization request Internal TS 23.222 [14], clause
6.4.2 CAPIF-1 2 None - - 3 Authentication and authorization response Internal
TS 23.222 [14], clause 6.4.2 CAPIF 1 4 Discovery request Internal TS 23.222
[14], clause 6.4.2 CAPIF-1 5 None - - 6 Discovery response Internal TS 23.222
[14], clause 6.4.2 CAPIF-1 7 Authentication and authorization request Internal
TS 23.222 [14], clause 6.4.4 CAPIF-2 8 None  
9 Authentication and authorization response Internal TS 23.222 [14], clause
6.4.4 CAPIF-2 10 API invocation request Internal TS 23.222 [14], clause 6.4.4
CAPIF-2 11 None  
12 MnS request Internal TS 28.532 MnS 13 MnS response Internal TS 28.532 MnS
14 None  
15 API invocation response Internal TS 23.222 [14], clause 6.4.4 CAPIF 2
Table 7.11.2: Solution for consumption of exposed MnS outside operator trusted
domain (NSC_Application is outside operator trusted domain)
Step Description in step Interface Reference Description in reference
* * *
1 Authentication and authorizationrequest External TS 23.222 [14], clause
6.4.3 CAPIF-1e 2 None - - 3 Authentication and authorization response External
TS 23.222 [14], clause 6.4.3 CAPIF 1e 4 Discovery request External TS 23.222
[14], clause 6.4.3 CAPIF-1e 5 None - - 6 Discovery response External TS 23.222
[14], clause 6.4.3 CAPIF-1e 7 Authentication and authorization request
External TS 23.222 [14], clause 6.4.5 CAPIF-2e 8 None  
9 Authentication and authorization response External TS 23.222 [14], clause
6.4.5 CAPIF-2e 10 API invocation request External TS 23.222 [14], clause 6.4.5
CAPIF-2e 11 None  
12 MnS request Internal TS 28.532 MnS/ 13 MnS response Internal TS 28.532 MnS/
14 None  
15 API invocation response External TS 23.222 [14], clause 6.4.5 CAPIF 2e
## 7.12 Possible solution for \"Exposure to application servers and
application functions\" -- Clause 5.8
For consumer entities internal to the operator the access details to MnS are
directly configured by the operator.
For consumer entities (AS or AF) external to the operator, the assumption is
that the appropriate business relation exists between the entity owner and the
operator. Given such an assumption, the following steps recommend how the
consumer entities can access the exposed MnS. The steps assume that the entity
is aware of the MnS:
1) The entity approaches an access controlling entity requesting access to the
MnS. Which MnS and how this access is provided is implementation and business
agreement dependent and is completely controllable by the operator.
2) If authorized, and in accordance with the business agreement the access
controlling entity provides access tokens (which may be limited in some way)
to the consumer entity.
3) These access tokens are then used by the consumer entity to access the
exposed MnS.
## 7.13 Possible solution for end-to-end handling of NSC requirements for
network slice management capabilities exposure
In this possible solution:
1\. Network Slice Customer (NSC) orders a network slice to its Network Slice
Provider (NSP). In the product order request, NSC expresses its requirements
wrt. bandwidth, latency, coverage, etc. In addition, NSC may express its
requirements for network slice management capabilities exposure;
NOTE 1: In order to enable NSC to express its network slice management
capabilities exposure expectations, whether a new attribute is needed in
NG.116 GST is FFS.
2\. NSP BSS receives and analyses NSC product order request;
3\. NSP BSS sends a service order request to NSP OSS SML. The service order
request includes NSC requirements including those related to network slice
management capabilities exposure;
4\. NSP OSS SML receives these requirements, analyses them
5\. NSP OSS SML captures them in the form of NSC-specific access control data
NOTE 2: An Access Control NRM fragment is required to capture per NSC (a.k.a.
tenant) access rights.
6\. NSP OSS/SML sends the service order response to BSS;
7\. NSP BSS sends the product order response order to NSC.
{width="6.081624015748032in" height="2.440106080489939in"}
Figure 7.13-1
Then, during the network slice operation phase, if NSC requests access to
network slice management capabilities, NSP may, during the authorization
phase, check NSC request against the data available in its Access Control NRM.
{width="5.959428040244969in" height="2.391078302712161in"}
Figure 7.13-2: NSP OSS SML may accept or reject NSC request to access to
network slice management capabilities
# 8 Conclusion and Recommendation
## 8.1 Reference Architecture for network slice ordering, provisioning and
assurance
### 8.1.1 Conclusion
_From the use case specific architectures depicted in:_
# Clause 4.1.1.4.2 (Exposure scenarios)
# Clause 4.1.3.2 (Use case No.1: simple case)
# Clause 4.1.3.3 (Use case No.2: partners involved)
# Clause 5.5 (Exposure of network slice as a product)
\- 5.5.1.1 (Sub-use case 1: NSP and NOP played by the same organization)
\- 5.5.1.2 (Sub-use case 2: NOP role played simultaneously by different
organizations)
# Clause 5.6 (Exposure of network slice as a service)
\- 5.6.1.1 (Sub-use case 1: NSP and NOP play by the same organization)
\- 5.6.1.2 (Sub-use case 2: NOP role played simultaneously by different
organizations),
_it is possible to derive a reference architecture valid for all use cases, by
merging the use case specific architectures._
{width="6.742787620297463in" height="3.2175503062117237in"}
Figure 8.1.1-1: Reference architecture for network slice ordering,
provisioning and assurance
The interfaces present in this reference architecture are:
\- Inter-organization interfaces (represented East-West):
\- Between the Customer and the Service Provider:
\- Interface ITF-1 to:
\- create a product (e.g. network slice) order,
\- retrieve information concerning a product (e.g. network slice) order,
\- update a product (e.g. network slice) order,
\- delete a product (e.g. network slice) order;
Candidate APIs for Interface ITF-1 include, but are not limited to, TMF API
622 (Product ordering), in which case entities managed via this interface
include ProductOrder, ProductOrderItem, etc. defined in TMF 622 [2].-
Interface ITF-2 to:
\- enable the Service Provider to expose, from its Service Management Layer,
network slice management capabilities to the Customer;
\- Candidate APIs for Interface ITF-2 include TS 28.531 [a], TS 28.532 [b], TS
28.545 [c], TS 28.550 [d].
\- Entities managed via the Interface ITF-2 include NetworkSlice (cf. TS
28.541 [9]).
\- At the Service Provider\'s side of Interface ITF-2, the Exposure Governance
Management Function (EGMF) governs the network slice management capabilities
exposure.
\- Between the Service Provider and its Partner(s):
\- Interface ITF-5 to:
\- create a product order,
\- retrieve information concerning a product order,
\- update a product order,
\- delete a product order;
Candidate APIs for Interface ITF-5 include, but are not limited to, TMF API
622 (Product ordering), in which case entities managed via this interface
include ProductOrder, ProductOrderItem, etc. defined in TMF 622 [2].
\- Interface ITF-6 to:
\- enable the Partner to expose, from its Service Management Layer, network
slice management capabilities to the Service Provider;
Candidate APIs for Interface ITF-6 include TS 28.531 [a], TS 28.532 [b], TS
28.545 [c], TS 28.550 [d].
Entities managed via the Interface ITF-6 include NetworkSlice (cf. TS 28.541
[9]).
At the Service Provider\'s side of Interface ITF-6, the Exposure Governance
Management Function (EGMF) governs the network slice management capabilities
exposure.
\- Intra-organization interfaces (represented North-South), internal to the
Service Provider:
\- Between its BSS and its OSS/SML
\- Interface ITF-3 to:
\- create a service order,
\- retrieve information concerning a service order,
\- update a service order,
\- delete a service order;
Candidate APIs for Interface ITF-3 include, but are not limited to, TMF API
641 (Service ordering), in which case entities managed via this interface
include ServiceOrder, ServiceOrderItem, etc. defined in TMF 641 [3].
\- Between its OSS/SML and its OSS/NML
\- Interface ITF-4 to:
\- create a network slice / network slice subnet,
\- retrieve information concerning a network slice / network slice subnet,
\- update a network slice / network slice subnet,
\- delete a network slice / network slice subnet,
\- collect PM and FM data concerning a network slice / network slice subnet.
Candidate APIs for Interface ITF-4 include, TS 28.531 [a], TS 28.532 [b], TS
28.545 [c], TS 28.550 [d].
Entities managed via the Interface ITF-4 include NetworkSlice,
NetworkSliceSubnet, etc. (cf. TS 28.541 [9]).
NOTE: In order not to create confusion, especially for external readers, it
has been proposed in Figure 8.1.1-1 to rename interfaces, since interfaces
Type-A and Type-B, used elsewhere in the present document, could be mixed up
with MnS Component Type-A, Type B, Type C, defined in TS 28.533; similarly,
interfaces Type-1 and Type-2, used elsewhere in the present document, could be
mixed up with interfaces type 1, 2, etc. defined in TS 32.101 [e].
### 8.1.2 Recommendation
It is recommended that the architecture depicted in clause 8.1.1 is included
in the normative phase, as the reference architecture for network slice
ordering, provisioning and assurance. The above list of candidate interfaces /
APIs is not exhaustive. Other organizations / open source projects / etc. may
use this reference architecture with different interfaces / APIs.
## 8.2 Network slice management capability exposure via CAPIF
### 8.2.1 Conclusion
_Three alternatives_ for potential solutions (see clauses 7.9.1, 7.9.2 and
7.9.3) for network slice management capability exposure via CAPIF have been
evaluated _in clause 7.9.4, which can help to draw the conclusion and
recommendation for the solutions. Based on the evaluation, all analysed gaps
can be resolved by alternative 2 and alternative 3 since all the related
interfaces are within the scope of alternative 2 and alternative 3._
_Meanwhile, alternative 2 and alternative 3 are also supported in solution for
network slice management capability exposure depicted in clause 7.9.10._
Clause B.3.2 Deployment model of TS 23.222 [14] illustrates the integrated
deployment of the 3GPP network exposure systems (SCEF and NEF) with the CAPIF.
The SCEF and the NEF may be integrated with a single CAPIF core function,
where the CAPIF core function takes the role of a unified gateway, to offer
their respective service APIs to the API invokers.
To make CSPs have a single gateway to expose whatever capability they want,
SA5 is advised to follow the same deployment approach as SA2 regarding
SCEF/NEF integration into CAPIF framework. This approach would mean the
following :
\- The CAPIF core function, the SCEF, the NEF and the logical MnF providing
management capability exposure governance are all deployed in the PLMN trust
domain
\- The CAPIF core function, providing API registration and discovery
capabilities, takes the role of a unified gateway and provides the entry point
of exposure services provided by multiple 3GPP capabilities to different API
invokers.
\- The API invokers obtains the T8, N33 and MnS service API information and
the corresponding entry point details from the CAPIF core function via CAPIF-1
or CAPIF-1e reference points.
SA5 alternative 2 fits this deployment approach well _. Therefore, it is
suggested to recommend alternative 2 as baseline for the normative work._
### 8.2.2 Recommendation
It is recommended that the _alternative 2_ depicted in clause 7.9.2 _as
baseline for the normative work. This work includes:_
\- Specify normative requirements on management capability exposure;
\- Gap analysis, by comparing specified requirements against the features
provided by the alternative 2. In case there are gaps, SA5 will conduct the
following activity plan:
\- Document identified gaps, and recommended actions to bridge them.
\- Gaps + recommendations to be addressed on TS 23.222 [aa] accordingly,
enhancing CAPIF as needed.
\- -Define procedures enabling different external consumers to access
management services via CAPIF.
## 8.3 Filtering
### 8.3.1 Conclusion
As introduced in clause 4.1.1.3.1, the filtering is the exposure access
control on certain information elements (i.e. granular access) of MnS
component type A, type B and/or type C. Filtering plays an important role on
exposure governance. It provides the ability to provision segregated yet
tailored permissions to authorised MnS consumers in resource sharing
environments, ensuring these permissions do not conflict our used by
unauthorised MnS consumers. The solutions to implement the filtering
functionality can leverage MSAC outcomes, and may translate into
enhancements/extensions to NRM.
### 8.3.2 Recommendation
It is recommended to use granular access control mechanisms defined in MSAC
work item as baseline solution for the filtering functionality.
## 8.4 Capability exposure ecosystem
### 8.4.1 Conclusion
The capability exposure ecosystem has been presented in clause 4.2.7,
reporting on participating organizations and their scope of work. The
touchpoints of their activities have been also clarified, noting the relevance
of GSMA Open Gateway and TM Forum with regards to the exposure of management
capabilities to 3^rd^ parties.
### 8.4.2 Recommendation
In normative work, it is recommended for SA5 to:
\- Aligning with the view drafted in GSMA Open Gateway initiative, to avoid
industry misalignment and capability exposure ending up with a fragmented
ecosystem.
\- Consider the outcomes produced and periodically reported (via public
documents and/or Liaisons Statements) by GSMA Open Gateway and TM Forum when
developing solutions for management capability exposure in normative work.
Provide inputs to (and assist) GSMA Open Gateway and TM Forum for those
capabilities whose invocation trigger FCAPS management operations on 5G
managed resources (e.g. RAN NFs, 5GC NFs, sub-networks, network slices). These
inputs may be provided through Liaison Statements with these two
organizations, and/or the organizations of joint workshops.
###### ### Annex A: Appendix with UML code of the sequence diagrams
# A.1 UML code for Figure 4.1.4.2.1
\@startuml
skinparam sequence {
ArrowColor Black
ActorBorderColor Black
ActorBackgroundColor White
ParticipantBorderColor Black
ParticipantBackgroundColor White
LifeLineBorderColor Black
BackGroundColor \> Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor Black
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
autonumber
actor NSC
participant BSS_NSP
participant OSS_SML
participant OSS_NML
NSC --> BSS_NSP : product order
BSS_NSP --> BSS_NSP : process product order
BSS_NSP --> OSS_SML : service order(s)
OSS_SML --> OSS_SML : process service order(s)
OSS_SML --> OSS_NML : resource order(s)
OSS_NML --> OSS_NML : process resource order(s)
OSS_SML \> Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor Black
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
autonumber
actor NSC
participant BSS_NSP
participant BSS_CSP #lightgrey
participant OSS_CSP #lightgrey
NSC --> BSS_NSP : product order
BSS_NSP --> BSS_NSP : process product order
BSS_NSP --> BSS_CSP : product order(s)
BSS_CSP --> BSS_CSP : process product order(s)
BSS_CSP --> OSS_CSP : service order(s)
OSS_CSP --> OSS_CSP : process service order(s)
BSS_CSP \> Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor Black
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
autonumber
actor NSC
participant BSS_NSP
participant OSS_NSP
participant BSS_CSP #lightgrey
participant OSS_CSP #lightgrey
NSC --> BSS_NSP : product order
BSS_NSP --> BSS_NSP : process product order
BSS_NSP --> OSS_NSP : service order(s)
OSS_NSP --> OSS_NSP : process service order(s)
OSS_NSP --> OSS_CSP : service order(s)
OSS_CSP --> OSS_CSP : process service order(s)
OSS_CSP --> BSS_CSP : notify service order(s) completed
OSS_NSP \> Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor Black
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
actor NSC
participant BSS_NSP
participant OSS_SML
participant OSS_NML
OSS_SML--> OSS_NML: 1. service discovery
OSS_SML---> OSS_SML: 2. configure the available MnS service
opt
BSS_NSP -->OSS_SML: 3. request list of available services
end
OSS_SML---> BSS_NSP: 4. provide list of available services
BSS_NSP --> BSS_NSP: 5. configure the MnS service for exposure
NSC --> BSS_NSP: 6. product catalogue request
BSS_NSP --> NSC: 7. product catalogue
\@enduml
# A.6 UML code for 7.3.1
\@startuml
skinparam sequence {
ArrowColor Black
ActorBorderColor Black
ActorBackgroundColor White
ParticipantBorderColor Black
ParticipantBackgroundColor White
LifeLineBorderColor Black
BackGroundColor \> Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor Black
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
actor NSC
participant BSS_NSP
participant MnS_Discovery_service_producer
BSS_NSP --> MnS_Discovery_service_producer: 1. request to obtain MnS data
MnS_Discovery_service_producer --> BSS_NSP: 2. response for MnS data
Ref over NSC, BSS_NSP : 3. procedure of product order
\@enduml
# A.7 UML code for 7.3.2
\@startuml
skinparam sequence {
ArrowColor Black
ActorBorderColor Black
ActorBackgroundColor White
ParticipantBorderColor Black
ParticipantBackgroundColor White
LifeLineBorderColor Black
BackGroundColor \> Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor Black
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
actor NSC
participant BSS_NSP
participant MnS_Discovery_service_producer
participant OSS_SML
Ref over NSC, OSS_SML: 1. procedure of product order
Ref over NSC, OSS_SML: 2. authentication and authorization for accessing
exposed MnS discovery service
NSC --> MnS_Discovery_service_producer: 3. request to obtain MnS data for
exposed MnS
MnS_Discovery_service_producer --> NSC: 4. response for exposed MnS data for
exposed MnS
NSC ---> OSS_SML: 5. request to use an exposed MnS
OSS_SML---> NSC: 6. response for using an exposed MnS
\@enduml
# A.8 UML code for Figure 4.1.4.6.1
\@startuml
skinparam sequence {
ArrowColor Black
ActorBorderColor Black
ActorBackgroundColor White
ParticipantBorderColor Black
ParticipantBackgroundColor White
LifeLineBorderColor Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor White
skinparam NoteColor White
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
autonumber
participant NSC_Application
box \"CAPIF core and API provider domain functions\" #white
participant \"CAPIF_Core_\nfunction\" as CAPIF_Core
participant \"API_Provider_\ndomain_function\" as API_Provider
end box
participant MnS_Producers
NSC_Application --> CAPIF_Core : Authentication and authorization request
CAPIF_Core -> CAPIF_Core: process request
NSC_Application \ CAPIF_Core : Discovery request
CAPIF_Core -> CAPIF_Core: process request
NSC_Application \ API_Provider : Authentication and authorization request
API_Provider -> API_Provider: process request
NSC_Application \ API_Provider : API Invocation request
API_Provider -> API_Provider: process request
API_Provider --> MnS_Producers: MnS request
API_Provider \ API_Provider: process response
NSC_Application \<\-- API_Provider : API Invocation response
\@enduml
#