# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction {#introduction-1}
The purpose of the present document is to study on Network and Service
Operations for Energy Utilities.
# 1 Scope
The present document considers service requirements introduced by the SEI work
item related to telecom management [2] and [3]. This feasibility study
identifies use cases and requirements for exposing capabilities of the 3GPP
management system to external energy utility service providers. The study
further considers how management capabilities or what information can be
provided to MNOs by the external energy utility service providers. The study
will consider both energy utility use cases and requirements. The study of
FS_NSCE [4] can be considered for the technical investigation.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.104: \"Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[4] 3GPP TR 28.824: \"Study on network slice management capability exposure\".
[5] IT Process Wiki -- The ITIL Wiki:. https://wiki.en.it-
processmaps.com/index.php/ITIL_Service_Operation Content is available
according to Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Germany
License. Access 08.12.21.
[6] 3GPP TR 22.867: \"Study on 5G smart energy and infrastructure\"
[7] Connected Nations 2020, UK Report, Ofcom.
https://www.ofcom.org.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0024/209373/connected-
nations-2020.pdf Access 20.4.22.
[8] Telecom Services Security Incidents 2019 Annual Analysis Report, ENISA
European Agency for Cybersecurity, July 23, 2020.
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/annual-report-telecom-security-
incidents-2019.
NOTE: This publication is intended for information purposes only and is
accessible free of charge. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is
acknowledged. Access 20.4.22.
[9] DIRECTIVE (EU) 2019/ 944 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL -
of 5 June 2019 - on common rules for the internal market for electricity and
amending Directive 2012/ 27/ EU (europa.eu)\ [https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32019L0944&from=EN]{.underline}
[10] IEC TC 57
[https://www.iec.ch/ords/f?p=103:7:511571509228708::::FSP_ORG_ID,FSP_LANG_ID:1273,25]{.underline}
[11] 3GPP TS 32.130: \"Telecommunication management; Network sharing; Concepts
and requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[14] 3GPP TS 22.104: \" Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains \".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.404: \" Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements;
Definitions and template\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[17] CAMARA: Telco Global API Alliance
\, accessed 16.02.23.
[18] ETSI ES 202 336 (all parts): \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Monitoring
and Control Interface for Infrastructure Equipment (Power, Cooling and
Building Environment Systems used in Telecommunication Networks)\".
[19] IETF RFC 1628: \"UPS Management Information Base\", 1994.
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Distribution System Operator:** a natural or legal person who is responsible
for operating, ensuring the maintenance of and, if necessary, developing the
distribution system in a given area and, where applicable, its
interconnections with other systems, and for ensuring the long-term ability of
the system to meet reasonable demands for the distribution of electricity.
NOTE 1: see Article 2, definitions in DIRECTIVE (EU) 2019/ 944 [9].
**SCADA** : \'Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition\'.
NOTE 2: The management system of power grid is standardized by IEC TC 57, see
Dashboard, scope [10].
**Distribution Automation:** A family of technologies, systems and processes
(including sensors, actuators, processors, communication networks, switches,
etc.) that enable the remote, real-time monitoring, operation, and
optimization of utility distribution systems on the field.
**Remote Terminal Unit:** a host in a customer network operated entirely out
of the scope of 3GPP standardization.
**Uninterruptable Power Supply:** an independent source of energy that, for a
limited time duration, can sustain operations normally despite an interruption
of energy distribution services.
**Customer Premises Equipment:** a component of communications infrastructure
that is installed in the facility owned and operated by a customer.
**Energy Supply** **ID:** This is the point where the energy supply terminates
in the operator site and has a unique ID that is known by both the MNO and
DSO.
**site operator:** A business entity who operates infrastructure on behalf of
MNOs, e.g. in some networking scenarios, for base station(s) and/or cell
site(s).
NOTE 3: This entity supports telecommunications operations and management,
e.g. in network sharing scenarios. The site operator is a Master Operator
(MOP) as defined in 32.130. [11]
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DSO Distribution System Operator
SCADA Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition
DA Distribution Automation
CPE Customer Premises Equipment
RTU Remote Terminal Unit
UPS Uninterruptable Power Supply
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 General
The delivery of energy has to occur with extreme levels of availability.
Reliability is crucial in this domain, for regulatory, business and public
health and safety requirements. To achieve this reliability, a range of
\'smart energy services\' are employed by the energy system. These services,
largely standardized by IEEE and IEC, require communication. As greater
degrees of efficiency, resiliency, responsiveness and other capabilities are
sought in the generation and delivery of energy, more and more communications
services are required by the energy sector.
There are many options for delivery of communication services today -- power
line communications, fibre optics, fixed networks, microwave transmission,
satellite communications and mobile telecommunications. The appropriate means,
or rather _mix_ of communications services, depends on several factors
including the location, the possibility of leveraging existing assets (e.g.
power lines,) and the \'total cost of operations,\' and the _properties_ of
the communication service.
To the extent that the 3GPP system can provide services that meet the needs of
the energy sector, telecommunications will be an increasingly important part
of the technical ecosystem by which energy is delivered.
The stage 1 feature \'Smart Energy Infrastructure\' includes service
requirements that will be considered further, in detail, in the present
document. In particular, TR 22.867 [6] identified requirements for specific
standardized capabilities that allow a utility operator to obtain information
from an operator\'s network, and to share information with the operator. This
information all serves to improve the realized availability of energy system
services.
The energy utility service provider needs information regarding outages and
performance degradation of the communication system, as it may be possible for
the energy utility service provider to reactively or even proactively
establish and use an alternative means of communication. Changes in the
configuration of the network may also impact the energy utility service
provider. Finally, the energy utility service provider can share information
with the MNO in order to facilitate rapid diagnosis and recovery from
performance problems and energy supply interruptions.
Another reason that energy utilities are an important sector for 3GPP is that
telecommunications network operations themselves require energy. The
relationship is bi-directional: MNOs require energy services, and energy
utilities require communication services. This demands a particular risk
management be undertaken by both systems, especially in the event of an energy
outage. The present document considers how energy utility service providers
and MNOs can exchange information in a standardized format related to an
energy service interruption and how to resolve such energy service
interruptions efficiently.
# 5 Concepts
## 5.1 Energy Service is Critical for Telecommunications Service Availability
It is important to note that energy outages are one of the principal factors
that in telecommunication service availability failures.
Ofcom analysed service outages between September 2019 and August 2020 in the
UK and found that power cuts were the #2 most common causes of
telecommunications failure incidents during that period. [7]
ENISA analysed European data and found that in 2019, the second most common
cause of telecommunications service failure were power cuts. \" Power cuts are
the second most common detailed cause: Overall, independent from the
underlying root cause, power cuts are either a primary or a secondary cause in
over a fifth of the major incidents\" [8].
Governments in each country settle requirements for reporting of failure of
power grid. In some cases, the consumer can claim economic compensations due
to caused damage.
As a common principle in all countries worldwide, a state authority is
responsible to report failures on a yearly basis in the power grid but
deviations do exist.
The telecom network can be impacted by external factors, specifically by the
power grid. If there is a failure in the grid, then the faulty part needs to
be disconnected to avoid risk for fire or human injuries due to short circuit.
Further, the telecom network requires electricity and has a limited capacity
to operate without energy from the power grid.
The telecom network can be impacted due to internal power system failure at
the site. This can be a short circuit or damaged batteries. This is part of
telecom operator\'s incident management or fault management system and out of
scope of this study.
The start up of electrical power grid can be cumbersome. As common a top-down
approach is performed in centralized energy distribution system. However, in
future a bottom-up approach may be the best alternative, since some of the
micro grids may still work to the extent that they can operate autonomously.
Detailed assessment of micro-grids is outside the scope of this study.
Each country sets their own requirements and regulations for the energy sector
and telecom sector operating in that country. It is common for there to be the
following regulation:
\- Telecom act is controlling the telecom regulation. This is setting
requirement for how the telecom service in the country is handling. This can
include reliable operation.
\- Energy act is controlling the energy regulation
Disaster act is giving guidance when major problem is impacting the countries.
MNOs do have backup system installed at site since they are operating a mobile
network 24/7. There can be external power failure and then the backup system
can have internal problem or limited capacity.
# 6 Business use cases and potential requirements
## 6.1 Business use case: MNO exposes network performance monitoring
### 6.1.1 Description
**Motivation**
In clause C.2.1, it was explained that DSOs require extremely high
availability for communication to provide distribution automation and SCADA
services to prevent energy service outages. Unlike the use case C.5 MNO
exposes Network Service Alarm, this use case focusses on proactive measures.
The motivation for this is described in clause C.2.1.
The sooner and in sufficient detail that the DSO obtains information regarding
communication service deterioration, the better. This deterioration may be
considered a \'problem.\' (The term \'problem\' is used in the sense described
in Annex A, a reduction in service metrics. This is distinguished from an
\'incident\' in which required service levels cannot be maintained.)
As described in clause C.2.1, a DSO can determine levels of service over time
by means of their own infrastructure. The DSO has many routers in their
network. These provide networking within substation networks and have wireless
access interfaces to connect the substation network over a wide area. These
routers perform periodic monitoring operations, e.g. sending ICMP echo (ping)
messages to ascertain latency and reachability. In addition, the UE has access
to radio and cellular information - signal strength, serviced Cell ID, radio
technology. These measurements are captured on the UE and obtained \'over the
top\' by the DSO using their own management system over time. The acquired
data are assessed to discern trends that, historically considered, indicate
that an incident is likely. This monitoring occurs at a coarse granularity
(e.g. one measurement per minute.) There are two shortcomings to this approach
that this use case seeks to overcome:
1\. The information is based on measurements of single nodes only, not the
overall network. The DSO knows
(a) The location of each of their devices and the serving Cell ID.
(b) The DSO has several devices (in the same cell) and can by means of
correlation of data received by devices identify possible problems that affect
the entire cell.
(c) The nature of the deterioration of performance remains ambiguous - is it
an issue in the DSO\'s own network (essentially a managed set of VLANs and
substation networks), or is it a problem in the MNO\'s network?
2\. The granularity of the measurement is coarse, the bandwidth requirements
to control and collect the data significant compared to the service data
traffic (when there is no need for more than routine monitoring and management
of the energy system) and the measurements are distributed - requiring
connectivity to all UEs. To the extent the performance deteriorates, so too
does the access of the DSO to the UEs that provide measurements. So, as an
incident approaches, just when more information granularity is needed, it
becomes increasingly difficult to acquire data.
These two problems have one clear solution: centralized information obtained
from the MNO instead of decentralized information acquisition. The exposed
information from the MNO will correspond to the network performance
absolutely, it need not be approximated. It will assist in determining the
cause of performance problems - if the MNO does not report the problem but it
is detected in the DSO network, this indicates that the problem is in the DSO
network. If the MNO reports performance indicating a problem, then the DSO can
focus on this rather than on investigating the root cause of the problem in
their own network. The centralized measurements will be more efficient, can be
of finer granularity, will be available even if the network performance
seriously declines.
The acquired data is used, as described in clause C2, to determine when to
initiate back up communication capabilities. These take some time (e.g. 2
minutes) to activate. Accurate, timely, sufficiently granular information can
lead to better historical information, which correlates diverse behaviours of
the network including service performance incidents. This can lead to improved
understanding of service, such as periodic changes in service levels and on
the other hand developments that have historically been associated with
service level incidents.
In the latter, rare case, the DSO may elect to take proactive decisions. These
proactive decisions will improve communication service availability. It is
essential to maintain the best possible communication service availability to
avoid even brief intervals of lack of availability of communication. If there
is a specific need to monitor and manage the network during one of these
intervals, it will not be possible to do so (i.e. by means of Distribution
Automation or SCADA smart energy services), and this could lead to damage or
an outage affecting energy service customers.
**Background**
See use case C.2.
### 6.1.2 Details
**Use Case Actors**
**DSO network operations centre engineer** : The DSO network operations centre
engineer is responsible for deploying monitoring and control mechanisms in the
network. The DSO network operations centre engineer determines how to control
and configure the network for resiliency, e.g. when and how to switch between
different accesses to maximize availability.
**DSO electrical system operations centre engineer** : This actor is
responsible for maintaining availability, efficiency and safety of the energy
system.
**Use case**
Service flow
1\. The energy system is monitored and managed by the DSO electrical system
operations centre engineer who relies upon a functioning network to
communicate with electrical utility equipment in substation networks.
2\. There are a set of substation networks with routers that include a UE for
wide area communications. The DSO network operations centre engineer is
responsible for this network. The DSO network operations centre engineer
employs monitoring mechanisms to observe the performance of the
telecommunications network over time, to capture historic data and continually
watch for performance degradation indicating risk of an incident, as described
in clause C.2.1 above. These monitoring mechanisms are exposed by the MNO, so
that authorized third parties (including the DSO) are able to receive
performance monitoring information.
NOTE: The alarms are provided at the network level, based on the overall
statistical performance of the network. The alarms described here do not
correspond to the performance of individual UEs or sessions.
3\. The DSO network operations centre engineer, using the exposed monitoring
mechanism interface, can request which metrics, under which conditions, will
be provided. The interface provides a means by which the reports can be
configured, including frequency and parameters to report.
Table 6.1.2-1: Report parameters
Parameter Configuration Expected Behaviour Notes
* * *
latency location (cell ID), frequency of reporting, granularity of reporting.
The report is provided by network exposure by the MNO. The time of the
measurement is crucial, so this information is included in the report
delivered to the DSO. throughput location (cell ID), frequency of reporting,
granularity of reporting. The report is provided by network exposure by the
MNO. As above. packet loss location (cell ID), frequency of reporting,
granularity of reporting. The report is provided by network exposure by the
MNO. As above. availability location (cell ID) The report is provided by the
network exposed by the MNO. As above.
The information that are needed by the DSO will change over time, thus it is
important that the DSO can configure the monitoring process, especially in
terms of granularity.
4\. The reports are delivered according to the above configuration.
Service flow result
When a problem develops, the DSO network operations centre engineer (or an
automated management function) may trigger a fail-over to a backup network
communications facility. This proactive and timely intervention can reduce or
even eliminate the occurrence of incidents. Even if the activation of a back
up communication facility occurs too late to entirely eliminate interval in
which the DSO substation network components are unreachable or only reachable
with inadequate quality of service, this interval will be significantly
reduced.
### 6.1.3 Potential Requirements
PR 6.1.3-1. The 3GPP management system shall, according to mobile network
operator policy, regulatory requirements and contractual obligations, expose
standardized interfaces to authorized third parties that provide the ability
to initiate and terminate requests for monitoring including the configuration
of the monitoring (e.g. monitoring interval, measurement period granularity,
location of interest, etc.)
Table 6.1.3-1: Information Elements and Management Functionality Mapping (see
clause 7.1.2)
Purpose Applied Existing Management functionality or New Management
Functionality
* * *
Determining monitoring configuration (monitoring interval, measurement period
granularity) Monitoring configuration is general and applied to any monitoring
done to satisfy this requirement. Existing: ThresholdMonitor IOC,
monitorGranularityPeriod attribute of the ThresholdMonitor IOC Determining
location of interest (Lat/long, TAC, cell ID) Monitoring location of interest
will be used to scope the object instance to be monitored Existing:
targetThresholdlocation in ThresholdMonitor IOC
PR 6.1.3-2. The 3GPP management system shall, according to MNO policy,
regulatory requirements and contractual obligations, expose standardized
interfaces to authorized third parties that provide a mechanism for the MNO to
send reports containing required performance metrics measurements to the DSO.
The measurements in these reports are provided in a form such that it will be
possible to ascertain the number of measurements made as well as to calculate
the standard deviation of those measurements, in order to aid in the
interpretation of the reported measurement.
Table 6.1.3-2: Information Elements and Management Functionality Mapping (see
clause 7.1.2)
Purpose Applied Existing Management functionality or New Management
Functionality
* * *
Communicating Measurements For any monitoring information provided by the MNO
to the DSO. Existing: Measurement [15]
PR 6.1.3-3. The 3GPP management system shall support the following performance
metrics to monitor information according to the associated configuration:
a) Latency between all served UEs and the corresponding base stations, at the
granularity of a base station or network slice;
b) Throughput [an average for the base station\'s network traffic or network
slice];
c) Packet loss [an average for the base station\'s network traffic or network
slice];
d) Availability [an average for the cell\'s availability at a specific base
station or at a (RAN) network level].
Table 6.1.3-2: Information Elements and Management Functionality Mapping (see
clause 7.1.2)
Purpose Applied Existing Management functionality or New Management
Functionality
* * *
Latency Over Uu, for traffic between the UE and the base station (averaged);
either for all traffic or for the network slice traffic. Existing: As defined
in clauses 5.1.1.1.1 and 5.1.1.1.3 in TS 28.552 Throughput As above Existing:
As defined in clauses 5.1.1.3.1 and 5.1.1.3.3 in TS 28.552 Packet Loss As
above Existing: As defined in clauses 4.2.1.5.1 in TS 38.314 for DL and in
5.1.3.1.1 in TS 28.552 for UL. Availability Availability (average) of cells.
New: To be defined (based on a cell\'s availability at the base station)
PR 6.1.3-4. Authentication of the consumer (3^rd^ party) by the producer (3GPP
management system) shall be possible,
PR 6.1.3-5. Authentication of the producer (3GPP management system) by the
consumer (3^rd^ party) shall be possible.
PR 6.1.3-6. Authorization of the consumer (3^rd^ party) by the producer (3GPP
management system) shall be possible,
PR 6.1.3-7. Communication between the consumer (3^rd^ party) and the producer
(3GPP management system) shall be confidentially protected.
PR 6.1.3-8. Communication between the consumer (3^rd^ party) and the producer
(3GPP management system) shall be integrity protected.
## 6.2 Business use case: Energy utility and telecommunication coordinated
recovery of energy service
### 6.2.1 Description
There is clearly a mutual interest in coordination between telecommunications
and energy service operations to achieve rapid recovery of energy service.
This is not only true for the MNO, who benefits from the availability of
supplied power, but also of the DSO who needs mobile telecommunication service
to restore and maintain the operation of its grid.
Energy service interruptions may occur in many parts of the energy system,
ultimately effecting the end customer. This use case does not consider every
service interruption scenario. It rather concentrates on one specific level of
the system. The remainder of the task of efficient recovery is out of scope of
this use case. Please consider the following model:
{width="3.9811329833770777in" height="1.2694717847769028in"}
Figure 6.2.1-1: A simple model of the energy service delivery system
This use case concentrates on the distribution aspects, which is depicted
above as a single level in a hierarchy, but in fact may have a series of sub-
stations between high voltage transmission and the final distribution to
energy consumers.
Interruptions occur in the distribution system, as at some level, the medium
voltage network may require local reconfigurations or suffer unplanned loss of
distribution service (e.g. due to distribution cable damage, etc.) The
resulting energy service interruptions last a variable amount of time (from
minutes to hours.)
The normal situation is that a utility may need to disconnect a certain Medium
Voltage feeder. As the grid does not automatically re-connect this feeder to
an active one, there will be a power outage in all points of supply connected
to it while the power is being restored. The procedures and times to reconnect
the affected feeder would be the same if for any reason this has been caused
by a planned operation, an unexpected incident, or if it is a major grid
problem.
In the recovery procedures, the DSO network operations centre needs to restore
power in a certain order often for regulatory compliance: the order includes
prioritizing the more important energy consumers (e.g., Hospitals, government
sites).
This prioritization may also include major MNOs\' sites, such as base stations
and core network sites to restore communication services, which is in the
interest of both MNO and DSO stakeholders. This prioritized recovery of MNO
sites is enabled by this use case.
It is here where a standardized mechanism connecting DSOs and MNOs would be
beneficial. This use case describes the information and operations that would
be required on that interface.
Part of the information may have a more static nature.
This is the point of Energy Supply ID. The DSO is aware of each point of
supply (to an energy consumer), by means of the Energy Supply ID. The MNO
needs to let the DSO know the relevant Energy Supply IDs, so that the utility
can know where they connect to its feeders. Another critical information
element is the power back up installed by the MNO in each site (including
\'back up\' base stations), and its current expected duration. In addition,
for each Energy Supply ID, base station, e.g. eNB, IDs (serving the cell IDs)
served by the base station as shown in figure 6.2.1-2 below.
{width="5.291938976377953in" height="2.3577602799650044in"}
Figure 6.2.1-2: Local recovery scenario
NOTE 1: The representation of the ID above corresponds to the Energy Supply
termination of the base station site.
The correspondence between the communication system serving the distribution
substation by means of a UE (camped in the depicted cell), the Energy Supply
ID of the base station and the ID of the base station enables the DSO to
identify important operational aspects, such as:
(a) the impact of the distribution substation interrupting service:
specifically the base station that the distribution substation relies on will
have its power supply interrupted;
(b) upon recovery of the distribution substation, which substations may be
high priority for resumption of service.
As implied in Figure 6.2.1-2, there is a dependency that the DSO has on the
MNO in that the DSO relies upon data connectivity to smart energy equipment in
the distribution system. Through the use of smart energy services, restoration
of energy service is rapid and reliable. If the energy substation lacks data
connectivity, it is sometimes necessary to send a technician to the site to
restore service, which is time consuming.
Within the distribution substation is a router, a kind of customer premises
equipment (CPE) that communicates as a router that supports a mobile
interface, shown as the UE. Beyond the CPEs DSO Remote Terminal Units (RTUs)
are connected. The DSO monitors and controls the RTUs as part of normal
operations, especially in the event of a service outage.
Other information exposed by the new mechanism is dynamic.
The figure below depicts the situation at the time of a failure and what is
needed in order to restore energy service.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.5743055555555556in"}
Figure 6.2.1-3: Local failure event
NOTE 2: In Figures 6.2.1-3 and 6.2.1-4, the green cubes labelled \'ES\'
represent energy supply points, associated with an Energy Supply ID.
The red lines above are medium voltage lines between energy distribution
substations (DS). Note that initially Primary Substation (PS) 1 feeds DS7, DS6
and DS5, and PS2 feeds DS1, DS2, DS3 and DS4.
Between DS2 and DS3 there is a distribution failure. This has the result of
causing DS3 and DS4 to no longer be able to maintain the energy distribution
service to customers.
Note that the topology of energy distribution lines is redundant. In order to
achieve distribution successfully through this redundant topology, energy
service has to be **switched** **on and off** at corresponding distribution
substations. This for example could be done between DS4 and DS5 to feed
restore service to all substations. The switching is disruptive of energy
service. For some time, energy supplied by the distribution substation to the
energy customers is off-line. This would result in the following topology:
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.1972222222222224in"}
Figure 6.2.1-4: Local failure restored
The topology in Figure 6.2.1-4 is altered so that DS4 and DS5 are now
connected, accepting the medium voltage line between DS2 and DS3 are
disconnected. PS1 and PS2 remain disconnected; they represent another level of
redundancy in the system.
If the process of switching on and off until a stable configuration is
achieved has to be done **manually** the process can take considerable time
(e.g. hours) as technicians has to be on-site to control the substation
configuration. The technicians have to communicate, e.g. using mobile
telecommunications. However, if the process takes a long time - the mobile
telecommunication infrastructure, as shown by base station A and base station
B, will likely have exhausted their Uninterruptable Power Supply (UPS),
further complicating recovery procedures.
The alternative investigated in this use case involves taking into account the
configuration (as described in Figure 6.2.1-2) and dynamic information
obtained from the 3GPP network management system concerning the **current
capacity (expected remaining duration of service) of the UPS in each of the
MNO\'s infrastructure sites.**
Using smart energy services (principally Distribution Automation), it is
possible to perform the \'switch on and off\' procedures rapidly, within
minutes, and reconfigure the network. There will still be transient electrical
service outages to the customers that the distribution substations serves.
Taking into account (a) which mobile network infrastructure sites (i.e. base
stations) are critical to service and which cells they serve, (b) the
corresponding Energy Supply ID, (c) the distribution substation (UEs) that
rely on these base stations, (d) the remaining UPS capacity available in the
sites, it is possible for the DSO to plan the \'switch on / switch off
process\' to avoid any interruption of service. This is done by **selective
ordering** of the switch on / switch off activity, to avoid exhausting any
mobile network infrastructure UPS - especially where this base station (etc.)
serves to enable communication services to a distribution substation.
Note that in figure 6.2.1-3, the cell in which each is located is served by a
base station that can be affected by \'switching off.\' It is also known to
the DSO that e.g. DS2 is served by A and (secondarily) by base station B.
Knowledge of this redundancy can also be of benefit to the planning of the
DSO, to prevent in the worst case that both base stations UPS capacity is
exhausted and there is no way to restore energy service to these sites.
In order to support the process described above, another example of dynamic
real-time information is the \'real\' current back up power available at the
base station, at any moment in time; the intention is to see how much time the
DSO has to restore the power before service interruption compromises the
MNO\'s operation.
### 6.2.2 Details
**Use case actors**
**DSO network operations centre \'management system\'**
The DSO network operations centre management system (DSO-MS) maintains
operational information to inform DSO network operations.
**MNO network operations centre \'management system\'**
The MNO network operations centre management system (MNO-MS) has and can
expose operational information to DSOs concerning the network\'s configuration
and status.
The MNO-MS is a 3GPP management system and the DSO-MS is not a 3GPP management
system, however it supports mechanisms that are defined by 3GPP standards
(e.g. it uses \'northbound interfaces\' exposed by the 5G network management
system.)
**Use case service flow**
Preconditions:
There is a feeder, whose operation requires smart energy services. The smart
energy services are available through DSO equipment RTUs. These RTUs are
connected with a router, a CPE in the DSO site, that supports a mobile
telecommunications interface, a UE.
The DSO can obtain information from each UE in the DSO network. The DSO-MS is
aware of the Base station ID of the serving base station for each UE.
On a regular basis, e.g. daily, the DSO-MS obtains \'static information\' from
the MNO-MS. The DSO-MS is aware which base stations each of the DSO\'s UE camp
on. The DSO-MS is also aware of which base stations rely on which Distribution
Substation.
**Service Flow: MNO-DSO coordination to achieve rapid energy service outage
recovery**
{width="4.4168941382327205in" height="1.2639534120734908in"}
Figure 6.2.2-1: Timeline for Restoration of a Distribution Substation
1\. The DSO-MS uses the standardized mechanism to identify an energy service
outage at a particular Distribution Substation (or set of Distribution
Substations).
This is shown in Figure 6.2.2-1 as the time of the outage incident.
2\. The DSO-MS uses the standardized mechanism to request information from the
MNO-MS, to identify the UPS capacity of the base stations in the vicinity of
the outage, where the distribution substations will need to be switched on and
off. This is shown in Figure 6.2.2-1 as a, b, c, d which correspond to base
stations A, B, C and D.\ \ This request may be done repeatedly, over time, so
that the DSO-MS can track the status of the MNO-MS. The MNO-MS may inform the
DSO-MS of the current UPS status for a specific Energy Supply ID.
3\. The DSO-MS can use the standardized mechanism to inform the MNO-MS of
which sites (using the Energy Supply ID known by both the MNO and the DSO)
will experience an outage. The DSO can inform the MNO in advance of a planned
outage, e.g. when switching on and off will take place.
4\. The DSO will actively switch on and off the medium voltage topology at the
different distribution stations seeking to establish a stable and sufficient
topology. The DSO will prioritize switching involving DS1 so that the UPS of
base station A is not exhausted, because \'a\' will expire first as shown in
Figure 6.2.2-1.
5\. A stable and sufficient medium voltage distribution topology is
established without exhausting any of the UPS capacity of the base stations
and other critical mobile infrastructure sites.
Post-conditions:
The DSO-MS has informed the MNO-MS before, during and after an energy service
outage.
The DSO-MS has been able to obtain dynamic UPS information corresponding to
mobile infrastructure sites throughout the recovery process.
Service Result:
Energy service is restored to the MNO sites and to the rest of the DSO\'s
energy service customers efficiently, without requiring mobile manual
intervention.
### 6.2.3 Potential Requirements
PR 6.2.3-1. The 3GPP management system should support, subject to operator
policy, regulatory requirements and contractual obligations, the for the DSO
to obtain the following information from the site operator.
For each \'site\' for which energy service is critical to the site operator:
\- Energy Supply ID
\- UPS Capacity of the site (at the time at which this information is
obtained);
\- Base Station ID (if applicable. The site may not be a base station, e.g. it
could be data centre or other facility.)
PR 6.2.3-2. The 3GPP management system should support, subject to operator
policy, regulatory requirements and contractual obligations, the capability to
enable the DSO to provide the site operator with information concerning the
beginning of an energy service outage and the effected sites (e.g., Energy
Supply IDs, Base Station IDs).
PR 6.2.3-3. The 3GPP management system should support, subject to operator
policy, regulatory requirements and contractual obligations, the capability to
enable the DSO to obtain information from the site operator concerning the UPS
capacity corresponding to a specific site (e.g., Energy Supply IDs, Base
Station IDs).
PR 6.2.3-4. The 3GPP management system should support, subject to operator
policy, regulatory requirements and contractual obligations, the capability to
enable the DSO to inform the site operator concerning the end of an energy
service outage and the related sites (e.g., Energy Supply IDs, Base Station
IDs).
PR 6.2.3-5. The 3GPP management system should support, subject to operator
policy, regulatory requirements and contractual obligations, the capability to
inform the DSO of any energy service outage to specific sites (e.g., Energy
Supply IDs, Base Station IDs).
PR 6.2.3-6. Authentication of the consumer (3^rd^ party) by the producer (3GPP
management system) shall be possible,
PR 6.2.3-7. Authentication of the producer (3GPP management system) by the
consumer (3^rd^ party) shall be possible.
PR 6.2.3-8 Authorization of the consumer (3^rd^ party) by the producer (3GPP
management system) shall be possible,
PR 6.2.3-9. Communication between the consumer (3^rd^ party) and the producer
(3GPP management system) shall be confidentially protected.
PR 6.2.3-10. Communication between the consumer (3^rd^ party) and the producer
(3GPP management system) shall be integrity protected.
## 6.3 Business use case: Rapid intervention for outages without redundant
energy feeder topology
### 6.3.1 Description
This use case is a variation on clause 6.2 above.
In 6.3, a redundant topology offers the opportunity to adjust the switching of
medium voltage lines for energy distribution. When there is a failure of one
of these lines, it is possible to adjust the topology to re-establish energy
supply to all distribution substations.
This possibility exists only if there is a redundant topology. There are
scenarios in which there is no redundant topology, either because a substation
is remotely located or because the redundant topology is sufficiently damaged
that a sufficient network cannot be re-established. This use case addresses
these scenarios.
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="2.192361111111111in"}
Figure 6.3.1-1: Local Failure Event of feeder of Distribution Substations
without Redundant Topology
In figure 6.3.1-1, there is a failure in the distribution line between
Distribution Substation 2 and Distribution substation 3. This will result in a
failure to supply energy to ES2, and thereby base station B.
In this use case, it is necessary to re-establish the energy supply between
substation 2 and substation 3 prior to resuming service in substation 3 and 4.
Once this has been re-established the topology is restored as shown in Figure
6.3.1-2.
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="2.192361111111111in"}
Figure 6.3.1-2: Restored Energy feeder to Distribution Substations
At the point when the distribution is again possible, it is necessary to
resume service at distribution substation 3 and 4. However, as some time has
elapsed, the UPS capacity of B will be exhausted. This will mean that any
smart energy automated operations to distribution substation 3 and 4 will be
impossible. Manual intervention to restart service will require substantially
more time than automated response.
For this reason, this use case suggests a new operational capability to
achieve rapid coordinated recovery. In this approach the DSO informs the site
operators to reserve UPS capacity in certain sites, so that it will be
possible to resume telecom operations subsequent to the resumption of energy
distribution service. If energy distribution service does not resume, after
the UPS capacity becomes exhausted, telecom operations will become impossible.
### 6.3.2 Details
**Use case actors**
**DSO network operations centre \'management system\'**
The DSO network operations centre management system (DSO-MS) maintains
operational information used for DSO network operations. The DSO-MS supports
interfaces defined in this use case. All other aspects of the DSO-MS are out
of scope of 3GPP specification. The DSO-MS is a consumer of the 3GPP
management system.
**Site Operator network operations centre \'management system\'**
The site operator network operations centre management system (SiteOp-MS) has
and can expose operational information to DSOs concerning the network\'s
configuration and status. The SiteOp-MS as discussed in this use case can be
considered a producer of management interfaces consumed by the DSO-MS. The
SiteOp-MS is effectively a standardized subset of interfaces and semantics of
the 3GPP management system. The SiteOp-MS is a 3GPP management system for 5G
and the DSO-MS is not a 3GPP management system, however it supports mechanisms
that are defined by 3GPP standards (e.g. it uses \'northbound interfaces\'
exposed by the 5G network management system.)
**Use case service flow**
Preconditions:
The purpose of the following description is to explain the scenario in which
the energy utility operates a network by means of diverse accesses. It is
important to mention that other access systems are used to access the energy
utility site networks as well, but only access via the mobile
telecommunication system is in of scope of this use case.
An energy utility maintains many energy distribution substations. Each is an
energy utility infrastructure site that is responsible for distribution of
energy to customer sites. This energy utility infrastructure site\'s operation
requires smart energy services. The smart energy services are used to manage
and control DSO equipment. This equipment is present on a local area network
in the energy utility infrastructure site, which is accessed (e.g. as a VLAN)
over any access. In this use case, the access that is used is 3GPP access. A
UE is used effectively to carry DSO energy utility infrastructure site
communication opaquely (that is, as encrypted traffic) to the Utility Service
Provider Network. For background information on this scenario, see TR 22.867,
clause 5.7 [6].
The DSO can obtain information from each UE that is used to provide access to
the DSO networks. The DSO is, by means of this information obtained from UEs
in the DSO network, aware of the Base station ID of the serving base station
for each UE.
On a regular basis, e.g. daily, the DSO-MS reads information from the SiteOp-
MS exposed 3GPP management system MnS Producer\'s exposed interfaces. The DSO-
MS is aware which base stations each of the DSO\'s UE camp on. The DSO-MS is
also aware of which base stations rely on which Distribution Substation.
Service Flow:
{width="6.69375in" height="1.5576388888888888in"}
Figure 6.3.2-1: Timeline for Restoration of a Distribution Substation
1\. At some time (T~0~) there is an outage incident either a planned or
unplanned incident.
2\. The DSO-MS uses the standardized mechanism to request information from the
MNO-MS, to identify the UPS capacity, including remaining time of operation,
of the base stations in the vicinity of the outage, where the distribution
substations will need to be switched on and off.\ \ This request may be done
repeatedly, over time, so that the DSO-MS can track the status of the MNO-MS.
The MNO-MS may inform the DSO-MS of the current UPS status for a specific
Energy Supply ID.
3\. At some subsequent time (T~1~), the energy utility begins restoration of
energy feeder lines or other affected infrastructure.
4\. The period of time that will elapse before the restoration of energy
service from some set of distribution substations will be longer than the UPS
capacity of the mobile infrastructure sites. This use case assumes that the
MNO knows or can estimate the remaining time of operation after T~0~ given the
UPS capacity of different mobile infrastructure sites, as received in step 2,
shown as a, b, c, d in Figure 6.3.2-1. That is, T~2~ occurs _after_ the UPS
capacity is exhausted in the sites affected by the energy outage. This use
case assumes that the DSO knows or can estimate time at which energy
distribution service can resume, shown as T~2~ in figure 6.3.2-1. This may not
be the exact time at which resumption of energy service can resume, which is
shown as T~3~. T~2~ is an estimate when the energy feeder will have recovered,
while T~3~ represents the time at which energy feeder service resumes and
restoration of distribution is possible.
5\. The energy feeder for one or more energy distribution substations is now
complete. At this point, it will be possible to restore energy distribution.
However, operations are required at the distribution substation. This can be
performed by smart energy services remotely if there is network coverage. The
starting time, when the MNO provides service with remaining UPS capacity, is
shown in Figure 6.3.2-1 as T~3~. The smart energy services to restore energy
distribution services to all customers, including the MNO, is shown as T~4~.
There are two alternatives for how the restoration can occur. Manually, as
described in 6a, or with remote intervention, as described in 6b.
6a. Without prior arrangement, there will be no UPS capacity remaining in the
infrastructure that serves the distribution substations that have restored
power. They will not be able to perform automated recovery, as explained in
use case C.4. In this case, manual intervention is required to restore energy
distribution. This will be complete after a substantial period of time (T~5~).
6b. Alternatively, prior arrangement can be made so UPS capacity will remain
in the infrastructure at the time it is needed to restore energy distribution
service. This prior arrangement is described in the steps below, and consists
of operations between the DSO-MS and MNO-MS.
This is to enable the situation that, at time (T~3~), the MNO is able to use
remaining UPS capacity to offer telecommunication service at the time at which
the DSO will perform remote operations by means of data communications to
restore service in the sites affected by the outage, and operates them until
the outage concludes.
6.b.1. In this use case, the DSO-MS communicates to the MNO-MS:
\- the affected sites (identified by the associated Energy Supply IDs) by the
outage
\- the time X after which recovery is possible
\- the time Y (that is a certain interval of time after X) that the recovery
is expected to complete (a small number of minutes)
The site operator, knowing this, has the opportunity to manage the use of the
UPS in the affected sites so that they do not exhaust at time (a, b, c, d,
etc.). Rather, capacity sufficient for operation of the base station between
time X and Y is reserved. Figure 6.3.2-2 below shows a concrete example of
this interaction.
{width="5.305971128608924in" height="1.4187390638670165in"}
Figure 6.3.2-2: Example of Restoration Scenario of a Distribution Substation
Table 6.3.2-1: Example Sequence of Restoration of a Distribution Substation
+-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | Time | Event | +=======+=============================================================+ | 00:34 | A storm rages and causes power lines to collapse in the | | | mountain province. Energy distribution service by | | | Distribution Substation 3 is no longer possible! | +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | 00:36 | The DSO informs the MNO that there has been an energy | | | distribution incident that will affect site S. The DSO | | | expects to repair the medium voltage line by 02:45, and if | | | telecommunications service permits it, remote control | | | (using Distribution Automation and SCADA controls) of all | | | sites served by Distribution Substation 3 can be restored - | | | by 02:50. | | | | | | In terms of the procedure step 5a, X=0:2:45, Y = 5 minutes. | +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | 00:40 | The MNO conserves energy as appropriate to conserve 5 | | | minutes of operating capacity of their UPS reserve. | +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | 02:38 | The DSO informs the MNO that the feeder line is restored. | | | Remote control restoration of service can begin now. This | | | is T~2~ in Figure 6.3.2-1. | +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | 02:43 | The MNO resumes operation at site S. The DSO is informed | | | that the service has resumed. | +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | 02:47 | The DSO completes distribution automation. Site S now has | | | energy service. This is T~4~ in Figure 6.3.2-1. | +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
6.b.2. The DSO, after time (T~3~), employs smart energy services such as
distribution automation or specific SCADA operations to restore service to
customers rapidly, including the site operator.
6.b.3. The incident concludes (T~4~). Energy distribution service has been
restored to the MNO site(s) as well as other energy service customers.
6.b.4 The DSO-MS notifies the MNO-MS that the restore operation is complete.
Service flow result
T~4~ occurs before manual uncoordinated recovery of service would be
successful (T~5~ in Figure 6.3.2-1.) Thus, alternative 6.b is superior to 6.a
for both the site operator and the DSO.
Service is restored to distribution substation 3 and 4 at T~4~, within minutes
of the restoration of the medium voltage line between distribution substation
2 and 3 T~3~. This is substantially faster than service could be restored if a
technician had to visit distribution substation 2 and 3 - represented on
Figure 6.3.2-1 as T~5~. As a result, service is restored to the MNO sites
affected more rapidly than in an uncoordinated incident.
### 6.3.3 Potential requirements
This use case also has potential requirements 6.3.3-1 through 6.3.3-10. These
requirements, if supported, enable the site operator to voluntarily
discontinue service, retain UPS capacity, and wait until an opportune time to
restore service. This is subject to operator policy, contractual obligations
and regulatory restrictions.
For all the requirements below, supported interaction is described between the
DSO and the MNO (or site operator). The reason for this term \'site operator\'
is that in network sharing scenarios, the base station and/or cell site may be
operated by a third party. In active network sharing scenarios the DSO can
communicate with an site operator that operates the site, but can be distinct
from the serving site operator. The interaction described is really between
the DSO and the management services of the entity that operates the site
essential for telecommunication service, identified by the energy supply ID.
PR 6.3.3-1. The 3GPP management system should expose management services,
subject to operator policy, to enable the DSO to provide the MNO (or site
operator) with information concerning the expected restoration time of its
distribution services for site operator for effected sites.
PR 6.3.3-2. The 3GPP management system should support, subject to operator
policy, the capability to enable the DSO to provide the MNO (or site operator)
with information concerning the time when DSO restores its Energy
\"transmission\" service. At this time the DSO needs the MNO\'s (or site
operator\'s) communication services to be able to use its automated energy
services for rapid remote recovery of energy distribution services.
PR 6.3.3-3. The 3GPP management system should support, subject to operator
policy, the capability to enable the DSO to provide the MNO (or site operator)
with information concerning the time duration for which DSO expects to require
MNO\'s (or site operator\'s) communication services to achieve coordinated
recovery for being able to use smart energy services to restore its energy
distribution services. The time that the DSO provides to the MNO (or site
operator) can be adjusted as new information becomes available. The time
estimate specifies which base stations are needed for the remote recovery
operations.
PR 6.3.3-4. The 3GPP management system should support, subject to operator
policy, the capability to enable the DSO to provide the MNO (or site operator)
with information concerning the locations where for example DSO substations
need to restore distribution services on priority. Location information
expressing where restoration will occur could be expressed in terms such as
latitude-longitude pairs or Energy Supply Id.
PR 6.3.3-5. The 3GPP management system should support, subject to operator
policy, the capability to enable the site operator to provide the DSO with
information concerning the time at which MNO (or site operator) should
actually be able to provide communication services to achieve coordinated
recovery to DSO for a particular region.
PR 6.3.3-6. The 3GPP management system should support, subject to operator
policy and other conditions, the capability to enable the DSO to provide the
site operator with information concerning the time duration for which site
operator would actually be able to provide communication services to achieve
coordinated recovery of DSO\'s energy distribution services for a particular
region.
PR 6.3.3-7. Authentication of the consumer (3^rd^ party) by the producer (3GPP
management system) shall be possible,
PR 6.3.3-8. Authentication of the producer (3GPP management system) by the
consumer (3^rd^ party) shall be possible.
PR 6.3.3-9. Authorization of the consumer (3^rd^ party) by the producer (3GPP
management system) shall be possible,
PR 6.3.3-10. Communication between the consumer (3^rd^ party) and the producer
(3GPP management system) shall be confidentially protected.
PR 6.3.3-11. Communication between the consumer (3^rd^ party) and the producer
(3GPP management system) shall be integrity protected.
PR 6.3.3-12. The 3GPP management system should support, subject to operator
policy, the capability to enable the site operator to provide the DSO with
information about locations where MNO (or site operator) will actually be able
to provide dedicated communications services to achieve coordinated recovery
of DSO\'s energy distribution services.
# 7 Key Issues and potential solutions
## 7.1 Key Issue #1: MNO exposes network performance monitoring
### 7.1.1 Description
This describes the issues to be studied in context of the use case of MNO
exposes Network Performance Monitoring. This corresponds to the use case and
associated requirements in 6.1. The requirements from C.5 are not addressed by
this key issue: alarms and fault management are not considered by the
solutions corresponding to this key issue.
This key issue is that DSO has to be an MNO trusted entity to access MnSes
provided by the 3GPP Management System. The existing performance assurance
mechanism can be used to report network performance to DSO. However, the
following need to be studied
a. How the existing ThresholdMonitor can be used for configuring the network
monitoring.
b. How the existing NtfSubscriptionControl can be used for sending reports as
notifications against monitoring.
c. Whether the existing performance measurements [13] and KPIs [12] are enough
to support the requirements (e.g. latency, throughput, packet loss,
availability etc.)
### 7.1.2 Potential solutions
#### 7.1.2.1 Potential Solution #1: MNO exposes network performance monitoring
##### 7.1.2.1.1 Introduction {#introduction-2}
This solution addresses Key Issue 1 and the requirements in clause C.6.
The solution assumes that DSO is an MNO trusted entity and can access MnSes
provided by the 3GPP Management System. In this solution, the existing
provisioning MnS and related NRM fragments are used. DSO uses ThresholdMonitor
to configure the related threshold for various network performance
requirements e.g. latency, throughput, packet loss, cell/network availability
etc. DSO also uses the NtfSubscriptionControl to subscribe for
NotifyThresholdCrossing notifications. The management system monitors the
network and delivers the notification when the measurement or KPI crosses the
configured threshold limit.
Depending on the configuration of the monitorGranularityPeriod attribute of
the ThresholdMonitor, the DSO can identify the frequency of the threshold to
be checked, post which the notification will be sent.
The returned Measurements conform to the Measurement Template [15], which
identifies each individual measured value distinctly. Thus, it is possible to
ascertain from the report the number of samples per measurement as well as the
distribution of the data (e.g. to compute the standard deviation.)
##### 7.1.2.1.2 Description
Figure 7.1.2.1.2-1: Monitoring Configuration Procedure
1\. DSO sends createMOI request for perfMetricJob IOC to Performance Assurance
Producer.
NOTE: The configured reporting mechanisms (file or stream) are established in
this step.
2\. createMOI response is sent by Performance Assurance Producer to DSO.
3\. Performance Assurance producer creates the PM jobs on the specified object
instances.
4\. Performance Assurance Producer provides the required measurements and KPIs
to DSO based on the configured reporting mechanisms (file or stream).
5\. DSO sends createMOI request for ThresholdMonitor IOC to Performance
Assurance Producer.
5a. The attribute performanceMetrics, contains the measurements defined for
each of the network performance requirements as required by DSO e.g. latency,
throughout, packet loss, availability etc.
5b. It also contains an attribute containing the location (Lat/long, TAC,
cellid). This is used to scope the object instance to be monitored.
6\. Performance Assurance Producer creates the MOI.
7\. createMOI response is sent by Performance Assurance Producer to DSO.
8\. DSO sends createMOI for NtfSubscriptionControl IOC to performance
Assurance Producer.
8a. The attribute notificationRecipientAddress contains the address of the
notification recipient i.e. DSO.
9\. Performance Assurance Producer creates the MOI.
10\. createMOI response is sent by Performance Assurance Producer to DSO.
11\. Performance Assurance Producer checks for threshold crossing based on the
current state of the related performance measurement.
12\. Performance Assurance Producer sends notifyThresholdCrossing notification
to DSO if the performanceMetrics value crosses the configured thresholdValue.
#### 7.1.2.2 Potential Solution #2: MNO exposes network performance monitoring
On one hand the DSO is interested in actual occurrences of threshold crossing
events as described above. On the other hand, the DSO needs to be notified in
advance about pending threshold crossings. The 3GPP management system may
inform the DSO about the predicted end of a threshold-crossing condition. This
information may be used to support the DSO regarding the coordination of
recovery actions.
As a solution the 3GPP management system could notify about predicted
threshold-crossing or alarming conditions, including the predicted start and
end time of such conditions.
The corresponding sequence of steps is similar to the description of actual
threshold crossings, except that the notifications inform about predictions of
threshold crossing events.
## 7.2 Void
## 7.3 Key Issue #3: Energy utility and telecommunication coordinated recovery
of energy service
### 7.3.1 Description
#### 7.3.1.1 General
This describes the issues to study in context of the use case of Energy
utility and network operator coordinated recovery of energy service.
There is clearly a mutual interest in coordination between MNO and energy
service operations to achieve rapid recovery of energy service. This is not
only true for the MNO, who benefits from the availability of supplied power,
but also of the DSO who needs mobile telecommunication service to restore and
maintain the operation of its grid.
NOTE: Though DSOs use many forms of access (e.g. fixed access, dedicated
fibber access, etc.), they increasingly rely on telecommunications services
for communication access to many substations and other facilities. It
therefore directly benefits the overall availability of communication service
for the energy utility when the availability of the telecommunication service
improves. The Energy utility provider (DSO) knows when and where outage has
occurred and when telecommunication services are critically important for
recovery. The MNO knows their uninterruptable power supply resources and the
possibility of utilizing telecommunication services to enable utility\'s
energy system rapid recovery via smart energy services.
Without a standardized mechanism to share all this information, the service
recovery mechanism would be very inefficient and time consuming. Therefore, a
standardized mechanism is needed to share all this information between DSO and
MNO to enable efficient usage of smart energy services for service recovery.
#### 7.3.1.2 Coordinated recovery of energy service with redundant topology
The functions described here correspond to the requirements in the use case
6.2 \"Business use case: Energy utility and telecommunication coordinated
recovery of energy service\".
a) How can the DSO obtain the information from the MNO that is listed in PR
6.2.3-1?
b) How can the DSO provide the MNO with information concerning the beginning
of an energy service outage and the affected sites? [PR 6.2.3-2]
c) How can the DSO obtain the UPS capacity related info of a specific site
from the MNO? [PR 6.2.3-3]
d) How can the DSO inform the MNO of energy service outages ending and the
affected sites? [PR 6.2.3-4]
#### 7.3.1.3 Coordinated recovery of energy service without redundant topology
The functions described here correspond to the requirements in the use case
6.3 \"Business use case: Rapid intervention for outages without redundant
topology\".
The key issue topics described in clause 7.3.1.2 has to be resolved for this
key issue. In addition, the following key issues need to be addressed.
a) How does the DSO provide the MNO with information concerning the _expected
time_ at which the DSO will be able to restore its energy services? [PR
6.3.3-1]
b) How does the DSO provide the MNO with the _time_ at which it has restored
its energy transmission service? [PR 6.3.3-2]
c) How does the DSO provide the MNO with the _time duration_ that the DSO
expects to require to restore energy services, facilitated by
telecommunication services? [PR 6.3.3-3]
d) How does the DSO inform the MNO of the locations affected by an energy
service outage (latitude-longitude pairs, energy supply IDs) where the DSO
would like to restore service on priority than some other locations? [PR
6.3.3-4]
e) How does the MNO inform the DSO of the _actual time_ and _locations_ (e.g.
base station IDs) where the MNO is _able_ to provide telecommunication
services to enable the DSO to restore energy service? [PR 6.3.3-5]
f) How does the MNO inform the DSO of the _time duration_ for which the MNO is
able to provide telecommunication services to enable the DSO to restore energy
service? [PR 6.3.3-6]
### 7.3.2 Potential Solutions
#### 7.3.2.1 Potential Solution # 1: Energy utility and telecommunication
coordinated rapid recovery of energy service
##### 7.3.2.1.1 Introduction {#introduction-3}
The solution addresses key issues of Energy utility and telecommunication
coordinated rapid recovery of energy service. It involves mutual exchange of
information between an energy utility (DSO) and MNO using mechanisms exposed
by 3GPP network management system. The mechanisms are for rapid recovery of
utility\'s energy service outage and subsequent fallback by MNO from its UPS
to utility\'s energy supply for MNO communications service/network operations.
The solution also involves mechanisms to protect MNO sites from complete
breakdown in case of UPS running out of its capacity due to prolonged DSO
energy service outage. The DSO informs about its energy service outages like
time of outage, locations, expected recovery time etc. to MNO. MNOs Rapid
Intervention (MRI) is the approach by which DSO seeks dedicated communication
service support from MNO using its UPS backup for network operations. DSO
needs this to use its automated smart energy services for the rapid recovery
of its energy distribution services.
The site operator has information on the state of its power backup e.g. UPS
backup duration at different base station locations, base station IDs that are
enduring DSO\'s power outage and are depending on UPS backup, base stations
that provide communications services to DSOs substations for smart energy
services implementation etc.
The UPS capacity can be obtained using the IETF standard UPS Management
Information Base [19]. Another possibility to obtain the UPS capacity
information is to use the ETSI standard ETSI ES 202 336 [18].
The DSO can obtain these UPS related information from the MNO and can avoid
shutting down of energy service for base station IDs that their UEs camp on or
for the critical MNO infrastructure that have insufficient UPS backup capacity
to survive the planned outage. The DSO can potentially create the strategic
energy service interruptions as long as there is sufficient UPS backup
capacity remaining for the duration of the outage at the MNO site.
##### 7.3.2.1.2 Description
The procedure below includes the interactions required between the DSO MnS and
MNO MnS in order to satisfy the operational requirements in key issue 7.3.1.2
and 7.3.1.3. The procedure is general in that it can be extended to other
attributes easily, and it is based on existing mechanisms specified by SA5.
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-1: Coordinated Rapid Recovery and strategic outage plan
Procedure
NOTE 1: Steps 1-7 in the procedure flow can be considered \'initial set up\'
to enable operations to address the functional requirements in clauses 6.2 and
6.3 and described in Key Issues 7.3.1.2 and 7.3.1.3.
1\. In order to be able to provide energy service outage and recovery related
information for MNO, DSO sends createMOI request for creating an IOC which
contains information attributes for outage and rapid recovery by DSO such as:
a) Time stamp of DSO\'s energy distribution service outage
b) Locations (latitude-longitude pair and Energy Supply Id) where DSO\'s
energy service outage occurs
c) Time by when DSO expects restoration of its distribution services for MNO.
d) Time when DSO has restored its energy transmission service and starts
expecting rapid intervention by MNO.
e) Time duration for which DSO expects to require MNO\'s rapid intervention
for being able to use smart energy services to restore its energy distribution
services.
f) Information of locations where for example DSO substations need to restore
distribution services on priority.
g) The time at which MNO will actually be able to provide rapid intervention
to DSO.
h) The time duration for which MNO will actually be able to provide rapid
intervention to DS
i) The information of locations where MNO will actually be able to provide
rapid intervention to DSO.
j) The time stamp at which DSO\'s energy distribution services are finally
restored.
k) The information of locations where (e.g. DSO substations) distribution
energy service has been finally restored.
NOTE 2: Not all of the above will be configured at the time of IOC creation.
2\. MnS producer in MNO creates the MOI that contains these information
attribute records for multiple sites.
3\. createMOI response is sent by MNO MnS producer to DSO.
4\. MNO creates the MOI representing the UPS related information of MNO site.
It is name-contained by IOC created in step 1. This is required by DSO from
MNO to achieve coordinated intelligent outage planning by DSO during its
energy outage recovery. UPS related information of MNO site has to be:
4.1 Information on whether the MNO site has UPS installed/available or not.
4.2 Information on the total UPS backup capacity installed in MNO site
(suggested granularity: number of in minutes) i.e. the MNO site UPS backup has
installed capacity of how many minutes.
4.3 Information on the status of the remaining UPS backup capacity (suggested
granularity: number of minutes) available for MNO site at any given time.
4.4 The identity of DSO energy supply meter present in MNO site.
4.5 The identity of base station present in MNO site.
5\. In order to be able to get automatically notified of any changes in the
attributes information in the MOI, DSO sends createMOI request for
NtfSubscriptionControl IOC to MNO.
NOTE 3: In step 5, if done, a subscription is created such that, subject to
parameters in the NtfSubscriptionControl IOC, notifications are sent from the
MNO to the DSO. This allows, for example, the MNO to notify the DSO of changes
in the UPS backup capacity over time. This step is shown as step 8 below.
6\. MNO MnS producer creates the MOI for NtfSubscriptionControl IOC.
7\. createMOI response is sent by MNO MnS producer to DSO.
8\. If there is a change in the attributes, the MNO sends a
notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges notification to inform DSO about the changes.
NOTE 4: In steps 9 and 10 below, there is a change in an attribute of the MOI.
This is done by DSO to update MNO on the changes, e.g. information about an
expected outage for a specific site.
9\. DSO can modify/update any information like outage start time stamp by
sending a modifyMOIAttributes request to MNO. DSO can
create/read/update/delete (CRUD operations) the information in the MOI by
using provisioning MnS (defined in TS 28.532).
10\. MNO MnS producer provides the modify response to the DSO.
NOTE 5: In steps 11 and 12 below, the DSO MnS requests and receives
respectively the current value of one or more attribute(s).
DSO can also query the UPS related information as and when required by using
the getMOIAttributes operation. For example the information could include
identity of DSO energy supply meter, MNO base station, remaining UPS backup
duration of a particular site, etc.11. DSO requests the required information
from the MNO by using getMOIAttributes operation.
12\. MNO provides the required information in the response to the DSO.
#### 7.3.2.2 Potential Solution # 2: Energy utility and telecommunication
coordinated rapid recovery of energy service
The 3GPP management system and the DSO might inform each other about predicted
alarming conditions, including the predicted start and end of the alarming
condition. The DSO might inform the 3GPP management system about predicted
start time and predicted end time of power outages, such that the MNO is able
to plan its energy consumption properly. The 3GPP management system might
inform the DSO about predicted start and end time of alarming conditions, such
that the DSO is able to prepare corresponding counter measures. By this both
DSO as well as MNO know in advance when the mobile network or the power supply
will be unavailable and when they are predicted to be available again.
## 7.4 Key Issue #4: Security aspects of exposure of energy service
### 7.4.1 Description
The overall concept of exposing 3GPP management information and services from
a 3GPP communications system assumes that the consumer of the information and
services is approved to have access by the owner / operator of the
communications system.
This includes:
\- authentication of the consumer
\- authentication of the producer
\- authorization of the consumer
\- confidentiality of the exposed information and communications
\- integrity protection of the expose information and communications
### 7.4.2 Potential solutions
#### 7.4.2.1 Potential solution #1: CAPIF
CAPIF has been defined in 3GPP and provides necessary capabilities to meet
these requirements.
#### 7.4.2.2 Potential solution #2: MSAC
SA5 work item Access control for management service (MSAC) has as an objective
to extend service based management architecture to support authentication and
authorization capabilities.
# 8 Conclusion and recommendation
## 8.1 Key Issue #1: MNO exposes network performance monitoring
The solution in clause 7.1.2.1 provides a mechanism by which the 3GPP
management system, according to MNO policy, can expose standardized interfaces
to DSO entity that provides the ability to initiate and terminate requests for
monitoring and to receive reports containing the required performance data.
This corresponds to the key issue objectives listed in clause 7.1.1.
The solution in clause 7.1.2.1 addresses only performance management use case
(6.1). The requirements in clause C.5 on alarms are not addressed in this
release. The purpose of the table below is to show that key issue 1 is fully
addressed by the solution in clause 7.1.2.1.
Table 8.1-1: Key Issue to Solution Mapping
Key Issue Solution Remarks
* * *
7.1.1.a. configuring network monitoring 7.1.2.1.2, steps 5-7  
7.1.1.b. obtain reports 7.1.2.1.2, steps 8-12  
7.1.1.c. does PM contain enough measurements and KPIs to support the
requirements? 7.1.2.1.2, step 5a It is recommended that the required
measurement and KPIs be defined as part of 28.552 [13] and 28.554 [12]
respectively.
The solution in clause 7.1.2.2 provides a mechanism by which the 3GPP
management system, according to mobile network operator policy, can expose
standardized interfaces to DSO entity that provides the ability to initiate
and terminate requests for monitoring and to receive predictive reports
containing the required performance data.
The solutions will entail:
1\. An update to ThresholdMonitor for an additional location based attributes
to be used to scope the objectInstance.
2\. New Performance Measurements and KPI related to availability, cell in-
service and out-service.
3\. The specification of the procedure and explanation of its relevance to and
use by energy utilities.
4\. Allowing the DSO to make its own predictions of network impairment and
also receive the 3GPP management system\'s predictions of network impairment.
The DSO thus has the full complement of data to prepare countermeasures.
The solutions are feasible as they either re-use or build on existing
mechanisms and follow the model driven approach. Hence, the recommendation is
to normatively define the solutions. It is recommended to proceed solutions #1
and #2 above in normative specifications.
NOTE: The solutions enhance 3GPP management system capabilities so that DSO
can use it for MNO\'s network monitoring purposes. However, the access to
these capabilities will be subject to proper authorization and authentication.
Further, all use of these mechanisms is subject to operator policy,
contractual obligations and regulatory restrictions.
## 8.2 Key Issue #3: Energy utility and telecommunication coordinated recovery
of energy service
Solutions #1 and #2. provides a solution to each of the elements in the key
issues 7.3.1.2 and 7.3.1.3.
The data model containing all the above elements will be defined in the
normative specification phase.
The solutions provide a mechanism for the energy utility (DSO) and
telecommunication coordinated recovery of energy service. This involves mutual
sharing of information between DSO and site operator, according to MNO policy,
through standardized interfaces. The information has to be at least the
following information elements:
\- the time of the beginning of an energy service outage and the effected
sites;
\- the UPS capacity corresponding to a specific site, end of an energy service
outage and the related sites
\- DSO and site operator rapid intervention related information (transmission
restore time, required intervention duration, feasible intervention duration).
For the solutions, supported interaction is described between the DSO and the
site operator. In some network sharing scenarios, the base station and/or cell
site may be operated by this third party. In this case, the specified
interaction described is really between the DSO and the site operator would be
between the DSO and the site operator of the site essential for
telecommunication service, identified by the energy supply ID.
The solutions require the NRM enhancements related to step 1, step 4 in clause
7.3.2.1.2.
NOTE: The solutions enhance 3GPP management system capabilities so that DSO
can use it for site operator\'s network monitoring purpose. However the access
to these capabilities, when occurred, will be subject to proper authorization
and authentication.
The specification of the procedure and explanation of its relevance to and use
by energy utilities will be defined as part of the normative work.
The proposed solutions build on existing mechanisms and follows the model-
driven approach. They provide means to satisfy the requirements given in
clauses 6.2 and 6.3.
It is recommended to specify a means to support requirements in clauses 6.2
and 6.3 considering clauses 7.3.2.1.2 and 7.3.2.2 in normative specifications.
## 8.3 Key Issue #3: Security aspects of exposure of energy service
Solutions #1 and #2 are feasible. There are many existing CAPIF interfaces
that have been exposed by 3GPP standards and these support bidirectional
authentication, authorization, confidentiality and integrity protection. MSAC
is developed in SA5 and supports access control.
It is recommended to adopt solutions #1 and #2 as a conclusion of the present
document.
###### ### Annex A: Service model for energy utilities and communication
service providers
The purpose of this annex is to discuss a model and terminology for IT service
processes that will be useful when considering the use cases for this study.
IT processes concern the delivery of IT services within a given organization.
The IT processes and operations of a third party are out of scope of 3GPP. The
IT processes and operations of a MNO are also out of scope of the standard,
and not exposed to a third party except in very specific cases, for specific
reasons.
In the present document, the _interaction_ between the energy utility and the
communication service provider at the IT service level are considered. These
interactions are essential to the successful service delivery of energy
services. To the extent that these interactions can be standardized, they will
become more efficient to operate and require less integration effort for both
the energy utility service provider and the MNO.
There are three IT Service processes that will be considered briefly in this
clause to provide context for the use cases that follow [5].
Table A.1: ITIL Processes
+---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IT Process | ITIL Definition | Relevance to this | | | | study | +=====================+======================+======================+ | Event Management | Process Objective: | To address the | | | To make sure CIs and | objectives of the | | | services are | present document, | | | constantly | alerts or alarms and | | | monitored, and to | related information | | | filter and | will be considered, | | | categorize Events in | as communicated | | | order to decide on | between the energy | | | appropriate actions. | utility operator and | | | | the MNO. These may | | | An \'Event\' is | trigger further | | | essentially an alert | action by either the | | | or alarm created by | energy utility | | | any IT service, CI | operator or MNO. | | | or monitoring tool. | | | | It is further | While the specifics | | | characterized, often | of the use of | | | as input to the | categorization of | | | Problem Management | events and the | | | or Incident | details of IT | | | Management processes | Processes is out of | | | described below. | scope of this study | | | | (and 3GPP), the | | | | utility of creating | | | | and communicating | | | | standardized events | | | | to enable such | | | | processes is in | | | | scope. | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Problem Management | Process Objective: | Many of the use | | | To manage the | cases in the present | | | lifecycle of all | document concern | | | Problems. The | different problems. | | | primary objectives | Either the energy | | | of Problem | utility operator or | | | Management are to | the MNO ascertains | | | prevent Incidents | that a problem | | | from happening, and | exists and is able | | | to minimize the | to take further | | | impact of incidents | action to address | | | that cannot be | this. | | | prevented. Proactive | | | | Problem Management | The specifics of the | | | analyses Incident | IT processes of the | | | Records, and uses | energy utility | | | data collected by | operator and the MNO | | | other IT Service | are out of scope of | | | Management processes | the present | | | to identify trends | document. However, | | | or significant | there are some | | | Problems. | \'Problems\' that | | | | may have relevance | | | | to both operators. | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Incident Management | Process Objective: | Some of the use | | | To manage the | cases in the present | | | lifecycle of all | document concern | | | Incidents. The | Incidents, | | | primary objective of | specifically -- | | | Incident Management | communication | | | is to return the IT | service outages and | | | service to users as | energy service | | | quickly as possible. | outages. Both of | | | | these have relevance | | | | to both energy | | | | utility operators | | | | and MNOs. For these | | | | specific Incidents | | | | some operational | | | | requirements may be | | | | identified to enable | | | | all actors to | | | | eliminated the | | | | unplanned | | | | interruption in | | | | service or reduction | | | | in quality of | | | | service. | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
###### ### Annex B: Network services and operations for energy utilities
applicability statement
The present document discusses how NSCE and layered services can complement
the functionality in the conclusions of the present document.
{width="4.171641513560805in" height="2.6385378390201226in"}
Figure B-1: Consumer Interaction with or without a Layered Interface
In Figure B-1, above, two distinct architectures are shown.
(A) includes a well-defined and understood management system relationship as
defined in 3GPP.
NOTE 1: Given only model (A), an implementation and deployment of NSOEU will
only be feasible given two assumptions:
\- Energy utility backend IT systems from are able to consume as-is SA5
defined MnSs (i.e., they are able to interpret MnS component Type A, B and C,)
and thus are able to become MnS consumers.
\- As MnS consumers, the energy utility is authorized to gain access to MnS
producer capabilities, according to a previous authentication and
authorization procedure. Such procedures are not in scope of the present
document.
It is noted that there are already systems that are deployed today by which
energy utilities exchange information, mostly request and receive information,
in a \'custom\' (that is to say not a standards specified) manner. Extensive
and successful experience in the past with custom exposed information through
vendor extensions to RADIUS was the motivation to pursue SEI in 3GPP. This
approach has two drawbacks:
\- The functionality of the interface needs to be implemented for each energy
utility-operator relationship.
\- The security and policy governing this interface needs to be implemented
for each energy utility-operator relationship.
The present document addresses these shortcomings of a proprietary approach.
The conclusions of this study address the first shortcoming but not the
second.
To address a policy and security framework for exposure of management
services, the mechanisms in the conclusions of the present document can rely
upon a layered interface. The layered service can do so in a general way, so
that capabilities that are supported for all forms of management services,
including those for energy utilities and far beyond.
Additional layered services are possible beyond those for authorization,
security and access policy.
For example, the CAMARA initiative of GSMA [17] aims to define, develop,
integrate and validate APIs that 3rd parties can invoke. Unlike standard
telco-centric APIs (e.g. 3GPP APIs), which are mostly focused on ensuring
interoperability within (multi-vendor) and between operators, CAMARA APIs will
follow developer-friendly style, with semantics and consumption patterns that
are tailored to the business and operational needs of 3rd parties (including
especially third parties who are not in the telecommunications industry
sector, specifically.) CAMARA can in future focus on defining which
information will be exchanged between the MNO and third parties, including
energy utilities. As stated in [17], CAMARA offers an \" Abstraction from
Network APIs to Service APIs is necessary: To hide telco complexity making
APIs easy to consume for customers with no telco expertise (user-friendly
APIs); To fulfil data privacy and regulatory requirements; To facilitate
application to network integration.\"
In summary, without layered interface support, the solutions concluded in the
present document will conform to the model depicted in Figure B-1 (A) above.
The solution will require proprietary (closed) solutions to achieve the three
objectives (hiding complexity, data privacy and regulatory requirements,
application to network integration.) Standards supporting layered interfaces
over the solutions defined in the present document, be they NSCE or CAMARA or
both, would resolve these shortcomings.
NOTE 2: CAPIF exposure of management services addresses the data privacy
objective discussed in the present annex.
###### ### Annex C: Use cases not pursued
# C.1 General
The use cases and the associated potential requirements in this annex have no
associated solutions (clause 7) nor conclusions (clause 8). The potential
requirements listed are not to be considered as conclusions of the present
document.
# C.2 Business use case: DSO obtains network performance and outage
information, current practice
## C.2.1 Description
**Motivation**
When there is an electrical outage, the electrical service operator strives to
restore service as quickly as possible. There are several reasons for the need
for rapid recovery from an interruption of electrical service:
\- In some countries, regulations require rapid recovery and penalize an
Energy Utility service provider for any time in which services does not
operate. For example, at the least, in many countries customers do not have to
pay for electrical service when it is not available.
\- Interruptions in electrical service can be expensive, as businesses often
require electricity for operations, manufacturing and to properly store
valuable products. Thus, electrical outages can translate directly into
business losses (of productivity or inventory.)
\- Power outages for hospitals and care facilities can result in harm or even
death to patients.
NOTE 1: Regulations identify \'critical\' electricity customers which are
obliged to install and maintain secure sources (e.g. local generators.) Public
MNOs in some cases are not covered by these regulations. Further, public MNOs
are generally not considered \'critical\' electricity customers by regulation,
so Energy Utility service providers cannot prioritize service to these
customers.
\- Electrical service outages affect many customers, so failure of service is
not comparable in terms of business consequences to outages of mobile
telecommunication service to a single customer.
For this reason, there are regulations that make energy service availability
the highest priority. In order to achieve this, Smart Energy services such as
protection, SCADA and Distribution Automation are used to monitor and adjust
distribution equipment to avoid incidents that would reduce energy service
availability.
As a point of comparison, a fibber optic access service is often offered with
an availability of at least 99.999 %. Telecommunication systems may not
achieve this level of service availability. Since telecommunications offers an
_alternative_ to fixed fibber optic access, additional means to achieve high
degrees of availability are essential to the DSO.
**Background**
To achieve extreme telecommunication service availability, it is currently not
feasible to rely on a single telecommunication network. Instead, DSOs networks
employ communication access equipment that have multiple USIMs. If one
telecommunication service provider is not available, the second can be used.
However, this arrangement (\'failover\') is insufficient, as it requires in
practice 2 minutes or more to bring up a secondary USIM and register with a
back up network.
NOTE 2: An electrical service operator is a more general term than a DSO. For
the purpose for the purpose of the use case, the term DSO is more appropriate,
while the more general term is applicable to the motivation above.
To prevent an outage that will last an hour or more, Distribution Automation
needs to be used to intervene in the first minutes, ideally in the first
seconds, in which an outage occurs. The following examples show two outages
and can be considered characteristic of the prospects of resolution in most
situations.
In Figure C.2-1, an incident affecting an underground Medium Voltage (MV) line
eliminated service to 4223 customers. The existence of DA in secondary
substations along the line allowed the fault to be isolated quickly and then
resolved. This dramatically reduced the service outage duration for a
substantial number of customers. A few customers that were along a line
without DA access required local operation that took more than one hour. (The
time scale on the X axis is not to scale.)
{width="3.9279997812773404in" height="3.0906616360454944in"}
Figure C.2-1: Incident Example
Over 50 % of the customers could have their service restored in 3 minutes.
Another 40 % of the customers had their service restored in under 10 minutes.
The remaining roughly 10 % of the customers required manual intervention in
order to have their service restored. The rapid service restoration saved EUR
1,000s in saved penalties as well as needing only one service truck to roll.
In Figure C.2-2, another example, another MV line was damaged, again showing a
complication of a line that did not offer the possibility of DA intervention.
{width="4.263999343832021in" height="3.5078226159230095in"}
Figure C.2-2: Incident Example featuring a time consuming recovery for a
minority of customers
This incident affected 5292 customers. The outage lasted 7 hours but it can be
observed that most of the customers could have their service restored within
the first minutes due to remote access to primary and secondary substations
and intervention using DA. In this incident, EUR 10000s could be saved.
Considering the importance of rapid response during a power outage, it is
important that the communication facility is available at the time of an
outage. If communication failure only is ascertained during an incident, the
outage duration can be extended significantly for most of the affected
customers.
In order to improve availability, some DSOs use dual USIM UE deployments. In
practice, it takes on the order of 2 minutes to bring up service on an
alternate mobile network. These minutes, if they coincide with an outage, are
expensive both in terms of penalties and in terms of problems faced by
customers during the outage. This also uses up roughly half of the \'downtime
budget\' of 99.999 % availability (5 minutes per year unscheduled downtime
maximum.)
Communication links are tested, e.g. every minute by means of ping messages
end to end, to identify availability and latency. The effective availability
of 3GPP telecommunications networks observed in practice can be more like 98.5
% (where availability means ability to achieve communication with the
expectations of performance according to the service level agreement. While
this is far below the levels energy utility operators expect from 5G and that
are cited in stage 1 requirements, the fact is that observations of
performance of past generations indicate that in order to achieve the target
availability, information is needed. Please see TS 22.104 [14], Annex A.4.
NOTE 3: The actual availability of mobile network services is not exposed to
energy utility service provider (customers), nor is the cause of the
availability limit, e.g. limited capacity, radio quality issues, etc. This
makes it difficult for energy utilities to perform risk assessment and network
planning for communication services to carry their smart energy services.
Communication performance failure, based on extensive field experience, can be
correlated with network performance events. Network performance can be
compared to historic information indicating failures. In this case when
communication with a \'primary\' PLMN shows signs of declining performance, an
\'alternate\' communication channel can be employed, e.g. registration with
another PLMN for a multi-USIM device. This action can be performed
proactively, so that in the event that the \'primary\' communication session
does fail to deliver required performance, recovery can occur quickly (within
seconds) to the \'alternative\' communication session.
## C.2.2 Details
There is currently no mechanism to convey network or services status from the
MNO to the DSO. While the DSO can access real information from their CPEs
(radio module or connectivity state), no information comes from the MNO. Thus,
in case service failure is happening in an area, the DSO can just infer this
situation through a qualified guess.
DSOs have alternative telecommunication connectivity possibilities in any
given site. This connectivity can be provided by private networks (different
to the MNOs\'), or can be provided via alternative MNOs (another CPE in the
same site; several SIM cards in the same CPE; etc.). Many of the sites where
DSOs need connectivity are mission critical; this means that the service has
to be highly available. If the DSO is forced to use a standard MNO service,
with no specific availability target, and no mechanism to know that service
may be failing in an area, the DSO will not rely in MNO services and will
develop alternative telecommunications infrastructure that will eventually
make MNOs\' services unnecessary.
The MNO has information on the state of its infrastructure. From the Core to
the Radio Access Network, and through the different intelligent elements that
make the 3GPP standards-based MNO network provide their services, the MNO can
tell which network or service parts may be showing a degraded performance or
potential unavailability. This information will enhance the MNO service
visibility for specific user groups that may benefit from this, while making
sure that some of them do not develop alternative solutions they can fully
control.
Between the complete lack of information today, and the total control that MNO
have of their network infrastructure, and that eventually may reach all the
services provided to their customers, there is room to find added value
service status information for specific user groups.
**Use case actors**
**DSO network operations centre engineer** : The DSO operations engineer is
responsible for deploying monitoring and control mechanisms in the network.
The DSO operations centre engineer determines how to control and configure the
network for resiliency, e.g. when and how to switch between different accesses
to maximize availability.
**DSO electrical system operations centre engineer** : This actor is
responsible for maintaining availability, efficiency and safety of the energy
system.
**Use case service flow**
0\. The energy system is monitored and managed by the electrical system
engineer. It relies upon the telecommunications network.
1\. The DSO network operations centre engineer deploys monitoring and control
mechanisms to determine when a telecommunications network is not available.
2\. There is no standard way to obtain network availability or performance
information, so the DSO network operations centre engineer has to rely upon
\'over the top\' monitoring processes. In order to ensure that these
monitoring processes do not use a significant amount of the communications
capacity, the monitoring relies on periodic probes, e.g. ICMP messages
(\'pings\') every minute. This is a very \'coarse grain\' monitoring process,
since a failure or performance degradation may take a significant amount of
time to detect.
3a. The DSO network operations centre engineer may manually trigger or set up
a configuration that will automatically trigger a switch between one
telecommunication network to a back-up communication access.
3b. The DSO network operations centre engineer is not successful to initiate
and complete a telecommunications network switch because insufficient
information was available to the network operations centre to predict the
event so the network fails before fail-over can occur, i.e. for more than 2
minutes. This means that the fail-over occurs during a time in which no
communication is possible. This results in a network failure visible to the
energy system engineer who requires communication for smart energy services.
If a fault or protection problem for example occurs in that time the failure
can cause damage to the energy system, inefficiencies and even outages.
Especially if control is needed (e.g. critical SCADA) during this time frame,
a serious energy system outage could occur.
**Service flow result**
Since the information that the DSO network operations centre engineer relies
upon is of coarse granularity, there is a high likelihood that performance
degradation or failure will be detected after several seconds from the point
when they occurred. This extends the period of time in which communication
service will be inadequate or unavailable before a secondary communication
access can be made available. This reduces the availability of the energy
system because, should an energy outage or instability occur during the time
in which there is no communication possible, or inadequate performing
communication this will lead to an energy service outage as described above.
## C.2.3 Potential requirements
There are no potential requirements.
# C.3 Business use case: DSO reporting to MNO to resolve problems and
incidents, current practice
## C.3.1 Description
Annex A of the present document describes two processes, Problem Management
and Incident Management. In current practice, these processes require
interaction between the DSO and MNO, but the interaction is specialized,
entirely depending on the processes of each individual MNO.
Problems, generally an observed decline or lack of expected service in certain
scenarios over a period of time, need to be addressed or they will likely lead
to incidents (where service fails completely or degrades so that service
levels do not meet agreed key performance indicator objectives). Problem
management allows interaction between a service provider and service customer
to address longer term issues - such as capacity planning, disaster recovery
or, most relevant, analysis of problems to identify their root cause. If the
observed communication problem in the energy utility service provider\'s
network is decisively _not_ the MNO\'s service and network, this will greatly
help the energy utility service provider to diagnose and resolve the problem.
If, on the other hand, it is the result of the MNO\'s service and network,
this realization can lead to more rapid response.
Incidents, a service failure, are resolved by means of specific procedures
defined by service providers. The goal of the customer and service provider is
to resolve incidents as quickly as possible.
It is acknowledged that the specifics of the IT processes for Problem
Management and Incident Management are out of scope of 3GPP standards. It is
however possible that the diversity of interfaces used to report information
and the format of those reports can be standardized in 3GPP.
Since an energy utility service provider has to work with many MNOs,
especially if the energy utility service provider operates across national
borders, the lack of standards in this area for providing information
regarding a problem or incident brings complexity and can delay the resolution
process.
Energy utilities have vast deployments of communicating devices in hundreds or
thousands of static sites. The communication status of each of these devices
is constantly monitored, especially their availability, but also latency and
other performance metrics. This data, currently collected by energy utility
service providers to identify problems and incidents in their own networks,
could potentially be very useful to MNOs. This information is currently not
shared by energy utilities with MNOs.
NOTE: An energy utility service operator is a more general term than a DSO.
For the purpose for the purpose of the use case, the term DSO is more
appropriate, as it concerns the operation of energy distribution services,
while the more general term is applicable to the motivation above. This use
case focusses on energy distribution not generation, transmission or
consumption. Though each of these energy system components has relevant
aspects for \'smart energy,\' this use case focuses on distribution, where
communication availability is absolutely critical for stability and recovery
of service to customers.
## C.3.2 Details
**Use case I: Energy System Service Provider Network Problem Report**
Problem Management processes, by which the DSO works with the MNO to address
such communication issues as observed erratic or declining performance occurs
very infrequently today, with resolution and improvements for processes such
as capacity planning and adjustments to service level agreements taking months
or years. The opportunities to analyse problems that emerge from time to time
in energy utility service provider networks essentially have to be analysed by
the energy utility service providers independently, without cooperation with
the MNOs to ascertain the root cause of failure. This network problem
discovery, trend analysis and identification of root causes of problems is
very labour intensive for energy utility service providers.
**Use case actors:**
**DSO network operations centre engineer:** The DSO operations centre engineer
analyses collected information, creates and operates network monitoring tools
including alarms, and seeks to identify areas of potential improvement in
service delivery.
**MNO technical service / account manager:** The MNO operations centre service
representative responds to queries from the energy utility service provider
when needed. Such questions may arise when problems emerge, e.g. as network
performance or availability appears to decline in the customer\'s network.
**Use case service flow:**
1) Using the DSO operational tools, the DSO network operations centre engineer
gathers and analyses data, seeking to identify trends that appear threatening
to the proper function of the energy utility service provider network.
2) When such trends are identified, the DSO network operations centre engineer
uses tools to study the details of the potential problem.
3) The \'root cause\' of the problem may need to be investigated before
identifying a potential remedy is possible, or determining how high a priority
the mitigation has. It is possible at that time that the DSO network
operations centre engineer contacts the MNO technical service representative
with particular questions. The communication between the two organizations is
not based on any standard data model - it requires ad hoc consultation which
is labour intensive for both the MNO technical service and DSO operations
engineers.
**Service flow result:**
The DSO learns about performance problems in their network. With consultation,
it is possible to ascertain whether the issues are also present in the mobile
network. This consultation is complicated by the lack of standard ways to
exchange management information regarding network problems. The MNO does not
benefit from information ascertained by the DSO about network performance
issues except through these consultations.
**Use case II: Energy System Service Provider Network Incident Report**
Incident management is triggered when there is a performance incident - either
a service is delivered below the service level agreement parameters or there
is a service outage. In order to qualify as an \'incident\' some parameters
may apply (how long it is sustained, how frequently it occurs, etc.) according
to the service level agreement, the details of which are out of scope of 3GPP.
When an incident occurs, this triggers processes to end the service
performance failure or service outage as quickly as possible. The DSO needs to
diagnose the root cause of the incident and take the necessary steps to
recover service. To the extent that the service failure is attributed to the
mobile network, or the root cause is unknown and could be due to service
problems in the mobile network, the DSO works together with the MNO to
diagnose the incident and resolve it.
The term \'service desk\' represents the service provider contact that is
available when incidents occur. The service desk can take many forms and
interactions and interfaces are not standardized in current practice.
While resolution is needed on the order of seconds or minutes, communication
and collaboration between the DSO and MNO can take much longer, sometimes
hours even days. A significant amount of time is needed to describe the
incident in terms that enables the MNO to take action. The lack of standards
in this area means that the DSO has to identify the reporting formats of each
MNO separately, which is labour intensive especially for DSOs that operate
across national borders and therefore have large numbers of subscriptions with
each operator in each country they operate.
**Use case actors:**
**DSO network operations centre engineer:** The DSO operations centre engineer
analyses collected information, creates and operates network monitoring tools
including alarms, and seeks to identify areas of potential improvement in
service delivery.
**MNO technical service desk engineer:** The MNO is represented by this actor,
whose role is to capture the incident information, analyse the MNO\'s
management system to find corresponding relevant information and to work with
the customer who reports the incident and MNO operational staff to resolve the
incident if it is indeed an issue in the mobile network.
**Use case service flow:**
1) The DSO network operational management system indicates a service outage in
the DSO network. The DSO operations centre engineer analyses the alarm.
2) The root cause of the service outage is not clear. The DSO network
operations centre engineer initiates a service desk procedure with the MNO
providing service for the network that has a service outage.
3) The MNO technical service desk engineer gathers information from the DSO
network operations centre engineer, partly through tools provided by the MNO
service desk (e.g. web based reporting tools), partly through other forms of
communication (phone, messages, etc.)
4) The MNO technical service desk engineer works with the MNO\'s operational
staff and management tools to identify the corresponding network status.
4a) Sure enough, there is a service outage in the mobile network corresponding
to the service desk \'ticket\' initiated by the DSO.
5a) The MNO technical service desk engineer informs the DSO network operations
centre engineer of the incident and the expected time until resolution.
6a) The DSO network operations centre engineer initiates recovery procedures
using a back up access system, if possible, or otherwise works to mitigate the
impact of the outage.
4b) Alternatively, the MNO network is functioning as expected - there is no
service outage in the mobile network corresponding to the service desk
\'ticket\' initiated by the DSO.
5b) The MNO technical service desk engineer informs the DSO network operations
centre engineer that the incident is not related to MNO network performance
degradation or service failure.
6b) The DSO network operations engineer continues to work to identify the root
cause of the failure, excluding the mobile network as the cause.
7b) Eventually the source of the failure is identified and remedied.
**Service flow result:**
The DSO and MNO work to identify the root cause of the service failure or
performance failure incident. If the incident\'s cause is in the MNO network,
MNO operational staff and tools resolve the problem. If the incident\'s cause
is in the DSO network, the DSO\'s operational staff and tools resolve the
problem. Since there is no standard means for communicating the nature of the
incident, the \'reporting\' process may be complex and varies from operator to
operator. This may result in extended resolution times for incidents.
NOTE: The \'standard means for communicating the nature of the incident\' from
the DSO to the MNO is not part of current practice and is not explained
further in this use case. The point of this use case is to identify the
absence of any such interface to establish a motivation, or \'gap\' that can
be pursued in additional use cases in this study.
## C.3.3 Potential requirements
NOTE: Currently, there is no interface between DSO and MNOs. This means that
both systems work based on their own premises. Through the use of non-
standard, MNO-specific interactions, the DSO can report problems and incidents
and work with the MNO to resolve these.
Since the interaction described above uses non-standard means, this clause
does not imply any requirement on the 3GPP system.
There are however synergies and potential improvements for building an
interface. More investigation and analysis are needed to find appropriate use
cases, see TR 22.867 [11] which includes relevant possible requirements to
address this.
# C.4 Business use case Energy Outage Coordination current practice
## C.4.1 Description
Energy outage incidents occur as a result of storms, accidents (e.g. a
distribution line is broken due to construction work) and other unforeseen
factors beyond the control of the energy utility operator. When an energy
outage occurs, it will affect a specific region. Service contracts and
regulations make a rapid recovery of energy essential.
If the power grid is faulty, then the energy utility operator localizes the
fault to solve the problem and perform necessary recovery actions. Some power
grid equipment may also require \"manual\" actions for equipment that are not
capable of remote management and automatic recovery. Other equipment can be
remotely managed by means of smart energy services that allow recovery
operations without requiring manual intervention.
There are several Smart Energy services that can greatly reduce the recovery
time: SCADA for remote control and monitoring of distribution systems and
Distribution Automation specifically are quite important. Without these
services it is generally necessary to send a technician to affected sites.
While Smart Energy services cannot entirely eliminate the possibility of
manual intervention (e.g. to restore damaged cables, etc.) in many cases,
hours of service interruption can be reduced to minutes or even seconds.
Smart Energy services depend on telecommunications, increasingly. If there is
an energy outage that affects telecommunications services in the same area
where recovery is required, then there is a \'vicious circle\': The energy
system requires telecommunications to support smart energy services for a
rapid recovery. The telecommunication system requires energy services in order
to function at all.
This use case considers how this unfortunate system is addressed today.
NOTE: An energy utility operator is a more general term than a DSO. For the
purpose of the use case, the term DSO is more appropriate, while the more
general term is applicable to the motivation above.
## C.4.2 Details
The ambition of a DSO is to provide an always-on electricity service, with the
agreed quality and the costs fixed by Regulators. DSOs understand the
criticality of some electricity services they provide (e.g., hospitals), and
try to prioritize the availability of these services. This applies not only to
business-as-usual situations, but to disaster recovery circumstances. There
are plans to provide emergency electricity service through ancillary devices,
but also to restore the service in selected areas considering priorities.
MNO services are also considered in these plans. Although in some countries
many institutions (blue light services) do not depend on MNO networks for
disaster recovery other countries use MNO networks for first responder
services, and MNO public service is highly relevant for regular citizens.
Thus, energy utility operators find that helping MNOs to recover their normal
electricity service is relevant for the society.
A second aspect of the above is to be considered with the MNO service for
energy utility operators. DSOs do not rely on MNO service to help recover the
grid from a blackout, as they know that there is no certainty that the MNO
will work when needed in a blackout.
It is acknowledged that it would be of great value, if upon blackout recovery
circumstances, some procedures and supporting management operations existed to
allow DSO service recovery through the MNO network. Unfortunately, these
procedures and standards specifically to support management operations
coordination for recovery from energy outage events between DSO and MNO
networks do not exist. See TR 22.867 [11] for more details.
NOTE: It is acknowledged that 3GPP does not specify procedural standards.
Communication between DSOs and MNOs for resolving incidents might be
necessary. As there are so many actors (DSOs and MNOs) and each DSO has only
information about a limited part in energy sector, resolving the incident
could be very complex.
## C.4.3 Use case actors
**DSO response team member** : A representative of the DSO\'s incident
response team who is responsible for communication with service providers,
officials and key customers during power cuts.
**MNO service desk team member** : A representative of a MNO\'s incident
response team who can be reached by \'enterprise customers.\'
NOTE: In the present document, the role \'MNO\' is to be considered as
equivalent to \'CSP+NOP\' as defined in TS 28.530 clause 4.8.
## C.4.4 Use case service flow
1\. An energy system incident occurs in which a power cut results.
2\. A DSO response team member may contact a MNO service desk team member. The
DSO informs the MNO of the incident and the expected time until its
resolution. It is usually not required by regulations and often not required
by service contract that the DSO inform the MNO except as they would \'any
energy service customer.\'
3\. The MNO may have the capability to continue to operate their network
despite the power cut for a limited time, as they may support an
uninterruptable power supply capability in the affected region. The DSO will
not know this.
4\. The DSO may have the ability to restore energy services rapidly using
Smart Energy Services. However, the DSO does not have any means to identify
this opportunity nor IT support to coordinate their recovery with the MNO so
as to provide communication services for this operation. Without communication
service, the DSO cannot use their Smart Energy Services to accelerate recovery
and has to send a technician to affect manual operations to restore electrical
services.
**Service flow result**
The power cut is resolved manually. Even if there is the possibility to
intervene using Smart Energy Services, lack of telecommunications service
during the power cut prevents this. There is no standard based coordination of
energy system recovery between the MNO and DSO, so only ad hoc communication
regarding energy system recovery is possible.
## C.4.5 Potential requirements
There are no potential requirements.
# C.5 Business use case: MNO exposes Network Alarm
## C.5.1 Description
**Motivation**
In clause C.2, it was explained that DSOs require extremely high availability
for communication in order to provide distribution automation and SCADA
services to prevent energy service outages.
The sooner the DSO obtains information regarding a communication incident the
better. (The term \'incident\' is used in the sense described in Annex A, a
service outage - either where no communication is possible, or the service
levels required cannot be maintained.)
As described in clause C.2, a DSO can determine an outage by means of their
own infrastructure. The DSO has many routers in their network. These provide
networking within substation networks and have wireless access interfaces to
connect the substation network over a wide area. These routers perform
periodic monitoring operations, e.g. sending ICMP echo (ping) messages to
ascertain latency and reachability. If the access fails entirely, it is
impossible for the DSO management operations system to collect this monitoring
information. The failure is only detected after the periodic monitoring
operations fail.
It has to be taken into account that DSO could have tens of thousands of
services like these. So, automation has to be used to improve availability.
Despite response time (including the identification of the root cause) for
these kind of incidents should be less than two hours, DSO has to dedicate
more time (8 hour or more) because there is no information from the MNO and it
is supposed that all incidents that are not solved by their own in 8 hour,
need to be addressed individually. After these 8 hours, DSO generate incidents
automatically with the whole information captured automatically. These
incidents are managed manually. There are remote or onsite operation to solve
the incidents. If DSO was able to receive information from MNO, this response
time could be reduced dramatically to less than 1 hour, an availability of the
network could be improved significantly
This use case considers the exposure of alarm messages from the MNO to the DSO
to reduce this delay.
**Background**
See use case C.2.
## C.5.2 Details
**Use Case Actors**
**DSO network operations centre engineer** : The DSO network operations
engineer is responsible for deploying monitoring and control mechanisms in the
network. The DSO network operations centre engineer determines how to control
and configure the network for resiliency, e.g. when and how to switch between
different accesses to maximize availability.
**DSO electrical system operations centre engineer** : This actor is
responsible for maintaining availability, efficiency and safety of the energy
system.
**Use case service flow**
1\. The energy system is monitored and managed by the DSO electrical system
operations centre engineer. It relies upon a functioning network to
communicate with electrical utility equipment in substation networks.
2\. There are a set of substation networks with routers that include a UE for
wide area communications. The DSO network operations centre engineer is
responsible for this network. The DSO network operations centre engineer
employs monitoring mechanisms to determine when the telecommunications network
is not available. These monitoring mechanisms are exposed by the MNO, so that
authorized third parties (including the DSO) are able to receive alarm
messages.
NOTE 1: It has to be taken into account that the DSO does not need all alarms
received in the MNO network. The DSO only needs to receive these alarms which
could affect to the availability of their services.
NOTE 2: The alarms are provided at the network level, based on the overall
statistical performance of the network. The alarms described here do not
correspond to the performance of individual UEs or sessions.
3\. The DSO network operations centre engineer, using the exposed monitoring
mechanism interface, can request which alarms, under which conditions, will be
provided. The interface provides a means by which the alarms can be
configured, including thresholds and parameters to report. These alarms can
indicate the start and end of incidents.
Table C.5.2-1: Alarm Information
Parameter Configuration Expected Behavior Notes
* * *
latency location (cell ID), incident threshold for \'start\' in msec, incident
threshold for \'stop\' in msec. If average latency for service crosses the
thresholds, an alarm is sent. The alarm is provided by network exposure from
the MNO. The time of the alarm is crucial, so this information is included in
the alarm delivered to the DSO. throughput location (cell ID), incident
threshold for \'start\' in Mbps, incident threshold for \'stop\' in Mbps. If
average throughput for service crosses the thresholds, an alarm is sent. The
alarm is provided by network exposure from the MNO.. As above. packet loss
location (cell ID), incident threshold for \'start\' in packet loss ratio
\'loss per million\', incident threshold for \'stop\' in packet loss ratio
\'loss per million\'. If the average packet loss ratio for service crosses the
thresholds, an alarm is sent. The alarm is provided by network exposure from
the MNO.. As above. Cell outage location (cell ID) If service cannot be
provided in a cell (of interest to the 3^rd^ party) from the MNO. As above
4\. An alarm is triggered because either
\- The 3GPP management system determines that service has degraded with some
KPIs (e.g. throughput, latency, etc.) above the threshold, or recovered so
that they are below a threshold.
\- The 3GPP management system determines that service is no longer available
or has become available after having not been available.
**Service flow result**
When an incident occurs, an alarm is sent. Once the alarm is received, the DSO
network operations centre engineer (or an automated management function) may
trigger a fail-over to a backup network communications facility. This
immediate alarm from the network facilitates a rapid response by the DSO,
reducing or even eliminating the interval in which the DSO substation network
components are unreachable or only reachable with inadequate quality of
service.
## C.5.3 Potential Requirements
PR C.5.3-1. The 3GPP management system shall according to mobile network
operator policy expose interfaces to third parties that provide the ability
to:
a) enumerate alarms;
b) create alarms;
c) remove alarms;
d) configure alarms.
NOTE: The intention of this requirement is to enable DSOs to manage the set of
alarms that the MNO will expose. That is, the DSO can create, configure,
remove and enumerate the alarms that they request that the MNO expose to the
DSO.
PR C.5.3-2. The 3GPP management system shall according to mobile network
operator policy expose interfaces to third parties that provide a mechanism
for the mobile network operator to send alarms to the third party.
PR C.5.3-3. The 3GPP management system shall support the following alarms and
associated configuration:
a) Maximum throughput threshold crossed (where the trigger characteristic
corresponds to measurement of [an average for the third party\'s network
traffic]);
b) Maximum packet loss threshold crossed (where the trigger characteristic
corresponds to measurement of [an average for the third party\'s network
traffic]);
c) Cell outage (where the trigger characteristic corresponds to measurement of
[where communication service is not possible at all on the third party]).
PR C.5.3-4. Authentication of the consumer (3^rd^ party) by the producer (3GPP
management system) shall be possible,
PR C.5.3-5. Authentication of the producer (3GPP management system) by the
consumer (3^rd^ party) shall be possible.
PR C.5.3-6. Authorization of the consumer (3^rd^ party) by the producer (3GPP
management system) shall be possible,
PR C.5.3-7. Communication between the consumer (3^rd^ party) and the producer
(3GPP management system) shall be confidentially protected.
PR C.5.3-8. Communication between the consumer (3^rd^ party) and the producer
(3GPP management system) shall be integrity protected.
# C.6 Business use case: DSO Provides Performance Information indicating
Relevant Changes to its Network
## C.6.1 Description
**Motivation**
As described in clause C.3, DSO reporting to MNO to resolve problems and
incidents, current practice, and Annex A, incident reporting is a vital
component of service management. The reporting of such problems today occurs
very infrequently, e.g. when service agreements are created or renewed. This
exchange of information could be very beneficial to an MNO and lead to
considerations such as adjustment of coverage (e.g. for optimization),
capacity planning (e.g. to react to growth in utilization in some part of the
network), disaster recovery planning, and more.
Providing information from the DSO to the MNO serves a broader set of
motivations as well. As the DSO\'s organization and use of their own network
changes, their measured performance will change. This information may be
important in distinguishing whether differences in network usage arise from
performance problems or instead whether the changes are intentional on the
part of the DSO.
The DSO is in a unique position to provide information to an MNO regarding
their service. The DSO not only has many deployed stationary UEs, but performs
significant performance management for these and requires extremely high
availability. The DSO therefore has a very detailed set of information
gathered over time, across the MNO\'s network. Specifically, the DSO
identifies where there are problems for their own purposes, for the purposes
of proactive response to increase availability. (See clause C.3)
This \'problem\' or \'utilization\' information is in the interest of the DSO
to share, as it could lead the MNO to consider service improvements or to
identify issues that they may not have otherwise detected. Providing problem
analysis information is an example of mutual advantage for both the customer
and the service provider. In any case, if such information is needed by both
sides, a standard interface for providing it will reduce the informal
communication needed by both parties.
**Background**
See clause C.3.
## C.6.2 Details
Problem Management processes, by which the DSO works with the MNO to address
such issues as observed erratic or declining performance, occur very
infrequently today. Problem Management results in concrete proposals for
improvements, essentially as input for processes such as capacity planning and
adjustments to service level agreements. Problem management therefore results
in changes that need to be considered over time, decisions that take months or
years to conclude.
The opportunities to analyse problems that emerge from time to time in energy
utility service provider communication networks can be analysed by the energy
utility service providers in cooperation with the MNOs to ascertain the root
cause of unexpectedly low or declining performance levels. This network
problem discovery, trend analysis and identification of root causes of
problems is, as a result of sharing information and conferring with MNOs, made
easier for energy utility service providers.
**Use case actors:**
**DSO network operations centre engineer:** The DSO network operations centre
engineer analyses collected information, creates and operates network
monitoring tools including alarms, and seeks to identify areas of potential
improvement in service delivery.
**MNO technical service / account manager:** The MNO technical service /
account manager responds to queries from the energy utility service provider
when needed. Such questions may arise when problems emerge, e.g. as network
performance or availability appears to decline in the DSO\'s network.
**Use case service flow:**
1) Using the DSO operational tools, the DSO network operations centre engineer
gathers and analyses data, seeking to identify trends that appear threatening
to the proper function of the energy utility service provider network. An
example of such a trend would be a gradual decline in performance parameters
including observed increasing latency or jitter, or gradual decline in
availability. Note that these parameters\' decline even while remaining within
the expectations of the service level agreement may merit investigation if the
decline is prolonged and pronounced.
2a) When such trends are identified, the DSO network operations centre
engineer uses tools to study the details of the potential problem.
2b) Another goal is to identify where there are not problems, despite data
that appears to indicate problems. In some cases, when less or no traffic is
sent or received over the mobile telecommunications network this may be a
decision of the customer.
3) The DSO network operations centre engineer shares this information with the
MNO by means of a standard interface, including the measured performance,
physical location, Cell ID and other information.
NOTE: The physical location, Cell ID and other information is available to the
MNO. It is given by the DSO in order to provide sufficient information that
the observed performance information provided by the DSO can effectively be
correlated and compared to management information collected by the MNO.
4a) The \'root cause\' of the problem may need to be investigated by the DSO
before identifying a potential remedy is possible, or determining how high a
priority the mitigation has. This process can be accelerated and eased by
collaboration and interaction between the DSO network operations centre
engineer and the MNO technical service representative. The communication
between the two organizations is based on any standard data model which eases
communication and determining answers to essential questions for both the MNO
technical service and DSO operations engineers.
4b) The apparent problem (reduced or zero network utilization) can be flagged
to the MNO as \'intended\'.
**Service flow result:**
The DSO learns about performance problems in their network. By sharing these
problems in a standardized manner with the MNO, it is possible to more
straightforwardly ascertain whether the issues are also present in the mobile
network. The MNO benefits from information ascertained by the DSO about
network performance issues.
The DSO is able to differentiate in the information it provides to the MNO
between reduced performance in the network and intentional reduced utilization
of the network. This will ease interpretation of the data by the MNO.
## C.6.3 Potential Requirements
PR C.6.3-1. Subject to operator policies, regulatory requirements and
contractual obligations, the 3GPP management system may support a means for
authorized third parties to provide network performance information to an MNO.
The data model of the performance information provided by the DSO to the MNO
has to include at least the following elements: {measurement granularity,
location of measurement, latency, packet loss, throughput.}
a) Latency between the DSO\'s device and the DSO\'s server the device is
communicating with [an average for the DSO\'s network traffic];
NOTE 1: Latency measurement end to end will include delay arising from a
network outside the mobile telecommunication system.
b) Throughput [an average for the DSO\'s network traffic];
c) Packet loss [an average for the DSO\'s network traffic];
NOTE 2: Packet loss can be determined by means of observation of ICMP and TCP
control information for traffic, sending probes, etc. This methodology is out
of scope of 3GPP.
NOTE 3: The information elements to include in the incident report will be
further clarified during the \'solution definition\' stage of this study.
NOTE 4: The measurements provided by the DSO can be acquired by means that are
outside the scope of 3GPP. Measurements may be acquired from management MIBs
of routers that are operated by the DSO.
PR C.6.3-2. Authentication of the consumer (3^rd^ party) by the producer (3GPP
management system) shall be possible,
PR C.6.3-3. Authentication of the producer (3GPP management system) by the
consumer (3^rd^ party) shall be possible.
PR C.6.3-4. Authorization of the consumer (3^rd^ party) by the producer (3GPP
management system) shall be possible,
PR C.6.3-5. Communication between the consumer (3^rd^ party) and the producer
(3GPP management system) shall be confidentially protected.
PR C.6.3-6. Communication between the consumer (3^rd^ party) and the producer
(3GPP management system) shall be integrity protected.
# C.7 Business use case: DSO reports an incident to MNO
## C.7.1 Description
**Motivation**
As described in clause C.3, DSO reporting to MNO to resolve problems and
incidents, current practice, and Annex A, incident reporting is a vital
component of service management. Currently incident reporting is done through
diverse mechanisms specific to each MNO, such as a voice call to a service
desk or a web-based form. While such processes are out of scope of 3GPP and
are vital to support of mobile subscribers in general, they are not well
suited to a DSO. The DSO operates 100s of 1000s of UEs often with dual SIM
configurations, in some cases in multiple countries. This results in a high
degree of complexity for the DSO in terms of divergent procedures and manual
effort required. A specific aspect of this challenge for DSOs is that the
terminology, units and other aspects of incident reports differ between
operators. Reporting incidents using \'business to consumer\' oriented
interfaces is not only cumbersome; it does not scale up to the number of
concurrent incidents that can arise for a DSO.
Furthermore, the availability requirements of a mobile consumer are different
from that of an energy utility service provider. It is essential that the DSO
network operations network operations staff be able to ascertain the root
cause of an incident as quickly as possible. If the root cause is an incident
in the mobile telecommunications network, and this information is readily
available, this will help to focus the recovery efforts on the DSO. If on the
other hand, there is no known mobile telecommunications network failure, the
DSO can focus their recovery efforts on their own network.
The intention of this use case is to identify how standardized interfaces can
facilitate large scale, rapid and uniform incident reports from a DSO to an
MNO. This use case does not consider how to automate or standardize the
incident reporting _process_ since process standardization is out of scope of
3GPP and it is recognized that different operators have unique and specific
business processes. As incident reporting mechanisms will vary between
operators, only a \'least common subset\' of reporting information is
identified in the requirement, and a \'least common subset\' of responses to
these reports.
**Background**
See clause C.3.
## C.7.2 Details
Incident management is triggered when there is a performance incident - either
a service is delivered below the service level agreement parameters or there
is a service outage. In order to qualify as an \'incident\' some parameters
may apply (how long it is sustained, how frequently it occurs, etc.) according
to the service level agreement, the details of which are out of scope of 3GPP.
When an incident occurs, this triggers processes to end the service
performance failure or service outage as quickly as possible. The DSO needs to
diagnose the root cause of the incident and take the necessary steps to
recover service. To the extent that the service failure is attributed to the
mobile network, or the root cause is unknown and could be due to service
problems in the mobile network, the DSO works together with the MNO to
diagnose the incident and resolve it.
The term \'service desk\' represents the service provider contact that is
available when incidents occur. The service desk can take many forms and
interactions and interfaces are not standardized in current practice.
While resolution is needed on the order of seconds or minutes, communication
and collaboration between the DSO and MNO can take much longer, sometimes
hours even days. A significant amount of time is needed to describe the
incident in terms that enables the MNO to take action. The lack of standards
in this area means that the DSO has to identify the reporting formats of each
MNO separately, which is labour intensive especially for DSOs that operate
across national borders and therefore have large numbers of subscriptions with
each operator in each country they operate.
**Use case actors:**
**DSO network operations centre engineer:** The DSO network operations centre
engineer analyses collected information, creates and operates network
monitoring tools including alarms, and seeks to identify areas of potential
improvement in service delivery.
**MNO technical service desk engineer:** The MNO is represented by this actor,
whose role is to capture the incident information, analyse the MNO\'s
management system to find corresponding relevant information and to work with
the customer who reports the incident and MNO operational staff to resolve the
incident if it is indeed an issue in the mobile network.
**Use case service flow:**
1) The DSO operational management system indicates a service outage in the DSO
network. The DSO network operations centre engineer analyses the alarm.
2) The root cause of the service outage is not clear. The DSO operations
centre engineer initiates a service desk procedure with the MNO providing
service for the network that has a service outage. This service desk procedure
includes submission of a **standard form for incident reporting** that can be
provided by the DSO by means of an interface exposed by the MNO.
3) The MNO technical service desk engineer obtains information from the DSO
network operations centre engineer, principally by means of the exposed
interface. If needed, other means of communication are also provided by the
MNO service desk (e.g. web based reporting tools), partly through other forms
of communication (phone, messages, etc.)
4) The MNO technical service desk engineer works with the MNO\'s operational
staff and management tools to identify the corresponding network status.
a) Sure enough, there is a service outage in the mobile network corresponding
to the service desk \'ticket\' initiated by the DSO.
a.1) The MNO technical service desk engineer informs the DSO network
operations centre engineer of the incident and the expected time until
resolution, by means of the **standard form for** **incident response**.
a.2) The DSO network operations centre engineer takes the appropriate action,
e.g. initiates recovery procedures using a back up access system, if possible,
or otherwise works to mitigate the impact of the outage.
b) Alternatively, the MNO network is functioning as expected - there is no
service outage in the mobile network
b.1) The MNO technical service desk engineer informs the DSO network
operations centre engineer by means of the **standard form for incident
response** that the incident is not related to MNO network performance
degradation or service failure.
b.2) The DSO network operations engineer continues to work to identify the
root cause of the failure, excluding the mobile network as the cause.
b.3) Eventually the source of the failure is identified and remedied.
NOTE: A quick and standard exchange of information can provide valuable data
to both sides minimising the request for further information during the
troubleshooting of the incident.
## C.7.3 Potential Requirements
PR C.7.3-1. Subject to operator policies, regulatory requirements and
contractual obligations, the 3GPP management system shall support a means to
expose a standard interface for incident reporting by authorized consumer. The
process of incident reporting itself is out of scope of this requirement as
this is a business process. The information that this incident report contains
is intended to be a \'common subset\' supported by incident reporting
procedures and tools today.
NOTE 1: An example of such information elements includes: {UE Identifier e.g.
IMSI, performance characteristics that constitute a service level failure,
time of start of incident, location of UE, cell ID serving the UE, ... }
NOTE 2: More than one incident report may be submitted, e.g. as more
information is learned by the customer.
NOTE 3: The information elements to include in the incident report will be
defined and evaluated during the \'solution description\' phase. These
information elements are expected to include {UE Identifier e.g. IMSI,
performance characteristics that constitute a service level failure, time of
start of incident, location of UE, cell ID serving the UE, . . . }
NOTE 4: This requirement does not imply that the incident reporting interface
required will replace existing tools or processes. The \'common subset\' of
information defined for the incident reporting interface does not limit
incident reporting by the customer to the operator to this subset - additional
information will be collected by tools and/or interfaces as well.
PR C.7.3-2. Subject to operator policies, regulatory requirements and
contractual obligations, the 3GPP management system shall support a means to
expose a standard interface for incident response to authorized DSOs. The
process of responding to incident reports itself is out of scope of this
requirement as this is a business process. The information that this response
contains is intended to be a \'common subset\' supported by incident responses
procedures and tools today.
NOTE 5: An example of such information elements includes: {incident does or
does not correspond to known fault or performance degradation in the mobile
network, expected time of restoration of service, . . .}
NOTE 6: More than one incident reporting response may be sent to the customer,
e.g. as more information is learned by the MNO.
NOTE 7: The information elements to include in the incident report will be
defined and evaluated during the \'solution description\' phase. These
information elements are expected to include {incident does or does not
correspond to known fault or performance degradation in the mobile network,
expected time of restoration of service, . . .}
NOTE 8: This requirement does not imply that the incident response interface
required will replace existing tools or processes. The \'common subset\' of
information defined for the incident response interface does not limit
incident response by the operator to the customer to this subset - additional
information will be provided by tools and/or interfaces as well.
NOTE 9: All requirements above concerning the MNO apply to the site operator.
In some network sharing scenarios the site operator could be an entity other
than an MNO. In active network sharing scenarios the DSO can communicate with
an MNO that operates the site, but can be distinct from the serving MNO.
PR C.7.3-3. Authentication of the consumer (3^rd^ party) by the producer (3GPP
management system) shall be possible,
PR C.7.3-4. Authentication of the producer (3GPP management system) by the
consumer (3^rd^ party) shall be possible.
PR C.7.3-5. Authorization of the consumer (3^rd^ party) by the producer (3GPP
management system) shall be possible,
PR C.7.3-6. Communication between the consumer (3^rd^ party) and the producer
(3GPP management system) shall be confidentially protected.
PR C.7.3-7. Communication between the consumer (3^rd^ party) and the producer
(3GPP management system) shall be integrity protected.
###### ### Annex D: Key issues not pursued
# D.1 Key Issue # 2: DSO reports an incident to the MNO
## D.1.1 Description
In response to the use case C.7 and the potential requirements identified in
C.7.3, new and existing solutions for incident reporting will be considered.
## D.1.2 Potential Solutions
### D.1.2.1 Potential Solution # 1: TMF API 621 (Trouble Ticket)
#### D.1.2.1.1 Introduction
It was suggested to investigate whether and how a DSO could create a Trouble
Ticket to report an incident to satisfy the requirements in clause C.7. This
solution will not be further developed in this version of the present
document.
### D.1.2.2 Potential Solution # 2: MnS-based standardized interface
#### D.2.2.2.1 Introduction
It was suggested to investigate the feasibility of a MnS-based standardized
interface to satisfy the requirements in clause C.7. This solution will not be
pursued in this version of the present document.
#