# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document investigates the potential requirements related to
management of the URLLC features defined in RAN side. It documents key issues
related to configuration management of URLLC features and to the performance
measurements for URLLC service. It provides potential solutions and
recommendations for the normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.104: \"Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.211: \"NR; Physical channels and modulation\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.212: \"NR; Multiplexing and channel coding\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for control\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.214: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for data\".
[8] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.321: \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 38.323: \"NR; Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)
specification\".
[11] 3GPP TR 38.824: \"Study on physical layer enhancements for NR ultra-
reliable and low latency case (URLLC)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[14] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[15] Void
[16] ITU-R M.2410: \"Minimum requirements related to technical performance for
IMT-2020 radio interface(s)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
PI Preemption Indication
CI Cancellation Indication
PB Power Boosting
# 4 Concepts and overview
URLLC, Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communication, is a typical service of 5G
network, which is mainly applicable to the scenarios having high requirements
on latency and reliability. The deployment and commercialization of URLLC
service are of great significance to network operators. Efforts to build URLLC
service oriented to vertical industries may become a potential growth point to
increase revenue.
In order to satisfy the requirements of URLLC service, 3GPP has defined many
features to decrease latency and increase reliability to guarantee the SLA of
URLLC service. However, only principle and implementation mode of each feature
are defined in 3GPP specifications, and it is not indicated that how to manage
the features to enable URLLC service in actual network deployment.
Consequently, the management of URLLC related features need to be studied to
achieve the service requirements of URLLC defined in TS 22.261 [3].
The characteristics of URLLC are mainly reflected in several aspects such as
delay/latency, reliability and availability. The concepts and terms used in
the present document related to management of URLLC service are shown below:
Term Reference Definition
* * *
end-to-end latency TS 22.261 [3] The time that it takes to transfer a given
piece of information from a source to a destination, measured at the
communication interface, from the moment it is transmitted by the source to
the moment it is successfully received at the destination. reliability TS
22.261 [3] In the context of network layer packet transmissions, percentage
value of the packets successfully delivered to a given system entity within
the time constraint required by the targeted service out of all the packets
transmitted. survival time TS 22.261 [3] The time that an application
consuming a communication service may continue without an anticipated message.
communication service availability TS 22.261 [3] Percentage value of the
amount of time the end-to-end communication service is delivered according to
a specified QoS, divided by the amount of time the system is expected to
deliver the end-to-end service.
The present document studies on the management of URLLC related features
defined in RAN groups, including sorting the features from latency,
reliability and multiplexing aspects, investigating the requirements of
configuration management and performance measurements in OAM.
# 5 Key Issues Investigation and Potential Solutions
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: Classification of URLLC related RAN features from
management perspective
### 5.1.1 Description
URLLC is a set of service scenarios which require low-latency and high
reliable communications. Specific SLAs are defined for each scenario
correspondingly. Different scenarios have different requirements, some of
which focus on latency (e.g. Motion control) and some focus on reliability
(e.g. Discrete automation).
In order to satisfy the requirements of URLLC, many features have been defined
by 3GPP to decrease latency and increase reliability to guarantee the SLAs of
different URLLC service scenarios. These features with different functions and
different effects are distributed in different specifications, which bring
complexity to the invocation and management when deploying URLLC service.
Features related to URLLC need to be classified from the perspective of
management, so that different features can be invoked according to different
SLAs, and the management of URLLC-related features can be achieved.
### 5.1.2 Potential solutions
#### 5.1.2.1 Classification of URLLC related RAN features
The present document sorts out the features related to URLLC defined in RAN
and classifies them from a management perspective. According to the
characteristics of URLLC service, features are classified into the following
two categories based on their effects: low latency and ultra reliability.
Features belonging to low-latency category are mainly used to reduce data
transmission delay, and reliability features are mainly used to improve the
reliability of transmission. Among the features belonging to low-latency
category, some of them reduce the transmission latency from the effective
mechanism and other features improve service priority to reduce URLLC latency
in multi-service scenario.
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Feature | Category | Reference | +=======================+===================+=======================+ | Mini-slot | Low latency | TS 38.214 [7] | | transmission | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Numerology/SCS | Low latency | TS 38.211 [4] | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | UL configured grant | Low latency | TS 38.214 [7] | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | DL SPS | Low latency | TS 38.213 [6] | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | PDCCH monitoring | Low latency | TS 38.213 [6] | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Logical channel | Low latency | TS 38.321 [9] | | priority | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Short PUCCH | Low latency | TS 38.211 [4] | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | UE processing | Low latency | TS 38.214 [7] | | capability#2 | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Span based PDCCH | Low latency | TS 38.212 [5]/TS | | monitoring | | 38.213 [6] | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | UL configured grant | Low latency | TS 38.214 [7] | | enhancements | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | DL SPS enhancements | Low latency | TS 38.213 [6] | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Sub-slot level | Low latency | TS 38.213 [6] | | HARQ-ACK | | | | | | | | (UCI enhancements) | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Two HAQR-ACK | Low latency | TS 38.213 [6] | | codebooks | | | | | | | | (UCI enhancements) | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Low SE MCS/CQI table | Ultra reliability | TS 38.214 [7] | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | PDSCH repetitions | Ultra reliability | TS 38.214 [7] | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | PUSCH repetitions | Ultra reliability | TS 38.214 [7] | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | PUCCH repetitions | Ultra reliability | TS 38.213 [6] | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | PDCCH aggregation | Ultra reliability | TS 38.213 [6] | | level 16 | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | PDCP duplication | Ultra reliability | TS 38.323 [10] | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | PUSCH repetitions | Ultra reliability | TS 38.214 [7] | | enhancements | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | DCI format 0_2 and | Ultra reliability | TS 38.213 [6] | | DCI format 1_2 | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | DL Multi-TRP for | Ultra reliability | TS 38.213 [6] | | URLLC data channel | | | | repetitions | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | PDCP duplication | Ultra reliability | TS 38.323 [10] | | enhancements | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | DL Preemption | Low latency | TS 38.213 [6] | | Indication (PI) | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Code Block Group | Low latency | TS 38.214 [7] | | (CBG) | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Inter UE: UL | Low latency | TS 38.213 [6] | | Cancellation | | | | Indication(CI) | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Inter UE: Power | Low latency | TS 38.213 [6] | | Boosting | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Intra UE: UL | Low latency | TS 38.213 [6] | | Prioritization | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
#### 5.1.2.2 Candidates of features to be studied in management
There are nearly 30 features classified in the clause 5.1.2.1. The mechanisms
of the features above are various and the protocol layers where they have
effects are different. Different features have different effects and they also
show different performance in improving the characteristics of URLLC service.
The amount of RAN features related to URLLC service is large. In order to
ensure the accuracy and efficiency of the subsequent study, it is necessary to
select some important features as candidates for the study of management. The
potential results could be configuration parameters, feature switches,
performance measurements, etc. Based on the conclusions made in TR 38.824 [11]
and TS 38.300 [8] together with the mechanisms of features, the following
features are selected as candidates for management investigation.
**PDCCH enhancements**
UE processing capability#2
Span based PDCCH monitoring
DCI format 0_2 and DCI format 1_2
**UCI enhancements**
Sub-slot level HARQ-ACK
Two HAQR-ACK codebooks
**PUSCH enhancements**
PUSCH repetitions/PUSCH repetitions enhancement
Mini-slot
**PDSCH enhancements**
PDSCH repetitions
Mini-slot
**Inter-UE multiplexing**
UL Cancellation Indication
UL Power Boosting
DL Pre-emption Indication
**Scheduling**
UL configured grant transmission
DL SPS
Low SE MCS/CQI table
**Layer 2 enhancements**
Logical Channel Priority Restrictions
PDCP Duplication
## 5.2 Issue #2: Support for performance management related on URLLC resource
load
### 5.2.1 Description
#### 5.2.1.1 It exists URLLC and eMBB coexistence scenarios
Under the new definition of 5G application scenarios, there are coexistence
scenarios of URLLC and eMBB services, and 3GPP specifications also contains
related contents of eMBB and URLLC multiplexing mechanisms.
**Co-existence Scenario**
URLLC UEs and eMBB UEs can co-exist in a cell when the cell provides both
services, which can be achieved by different slices. According to TS 38.300
[8], hardware/software resource isolation is up to implementation. Each slice
may be assigned with either shared, prioritized or dedicated radio resource up
to RRM implementation and SLA as in TS 28.541 [12]. Consequently, URLLC UEs
and eMBB UEs can share the resource in the same cell even the two kinds of
services allocated to different slices.
**Resource Multiplexing/Pre-emption**
URLLC service has more stringent requirement on latency and pre-emption may
happen when the resource for URLLC is not enough under co-existence scenario.
When URLLC service arrives, gNB can reuse the radio resource which is already
allocated for eMBB to URLLC in order to guarantee the on-demand transmission
of URLLC service.
Several features are defined in TS 38.213 [6] for URLLC to achieve inter-UE
resource multiplexing, such as CI(cancellation indication), PB(power boosting)
and PI(preemption indication). Detailed description about the features are
listed in the following paragraph.
Taking the uplink service scenario as an example, TR 38.824 [11] evaluates the
performance of URLLC and eMBB services under enhanced UL inter UE Tx
prioritization/multiplexing mechanisms, and proposes potential enhancements
for UL inter UE Tx prioritization/multiplexing, which includes UE UL
cancelation mechanisms and enhanced UL power control.
Corresponding to the UE UL cancelation mechanisms, there is a definition of
Cancellation Indication (CI) in TS 38.213 [6]. The Cancellation Indication
instructs other UE services to cancel their transmissions, which can realize
resource preemption for different services in the uplink transmissions.
Corresponding to enhanced UL power control, there is a related definition of
power boosting (PB). By increasing the uplink transmission power of the UE, it
can resist the interference caused by the transmission of other UEs.
At the same time, preemption indication (PI) is also defined for resource
preemption of different services in the downlink transmission, and PI can be
used to indicate to other UEs that their resources are preempted.
#### 5.2.1.2 Support for performance management related on URLLC resource load
At present, the network resource load is mainly evaluated through resource
usage-related measurements. Referring to TS 28.552 [13], the evaluation
measurements are mainly PRB usage rate-related measurements, which measures
usage (in percentage) of physical resource blocks (PRBs). Although these
measurements can evaluate the overall resource load of the cell, they cannot
effectively evaluate the resource load of the URLLC service under the eMBB and
URLLC multiplexing scenarios considering the on-demand transmission
requirement.
For example, in a statistical time period, the PRB usage rate of the network
is low. Because the URLLC service has high requirements for latency, it needs
to be transmitted immediately. If the URLLC service has data transmission
requirements on the resources scheduled by eMBB, the URLLC service will
preempt eMBB service resources. In this case, since the PRB usage rate only
reflects the overall resource load of the cell, it cannot reflect the
situation that the resources of the URLLC service are insufficient at this
time.
Therefore, the existing PRB related measurements cannot effectively evaluate
the actual congestion of URLLC services at the transmission occasion under
eMBB and URLLC multiplexing scenarios. And what this issue needs to solve is
to propose measurement method for evaluating the resource load of URLLC
services at the transmission occasion in eMBB and URLLC multiplexing
scenarios.
### 5.2.2 Potential Solution
#### 5.2.2.0 General
The existing resource load measurements only reflect the overall resource load
of a cell and they cannot be counted separately for URLLC. When resource
preemption occurs under eMBB and URLLC multiplexing scenarios, they cannot
effectively evaluate the resource load of URLLC services. Therefore, this
solution proposes an approach to better evaluate the resource load of URLLC
services under co-existence scenario by counting the ratio of multiplexing
features (CI, PB and PI).
#### 5.2.2.1 URLLC resource load measurements
The requirements for performance management of radio network providing URLLC
services is:
\- The OAM should have the capability of performing measurement on DL
(DownLink) and UL(UpLink) resource load of URLLC services under eMBB and URLLC
multiplexing scenarios.
In Downlink, PI (Preemption Indication) in TS 38.213 [6] is defined for URLLC
to achieve inter-UE multiplexing when radio resource is not sufficient. If the
feature is triggered, it indicates that downlink resource for URLLC is not
enough. So it proposes to calculate the ratio of PI to representing the
resource load of URLLC. The detailed description is as follows: Calculate the
ratio between the number of time domain resource that uses PI feature and the
number of time domain resource with DL data transmitted.
In Uplink, CI (Cancellation Indication) in TS 38.213 [6] is defined for URLLC
to achieve inter-UE multiplexing when radio resource is not sufficient. If the
feature is triggered, it indicates that uplink resource for URLLC is not
enough. So it proposes to calculate the ratio of CI to representing the
resource load of URLLC. The detailed description is as follows: Calculate the
ratio between the number of time domain resource that uses CI feature and the
number of time domain resource with UL data transmitted.
In Uplink, PB (Power Boosting) in TS 38.213 [6] is defined for URLLC to
achieve inter-UE multiplexing when radio resource is not sufficient. If the
feature is triggered, it indicates that uplink resource for URLLC is not
enough. So it proposes to calculate the ratio of PB to representing the
resource load of URLLC. The detailed description is as follows: Calculate the
ratio between the number of time domain resource that uses PB feature and the
number of time domain resource with UL data transmitted.
**Use case:** One usage of this measurement is for evaluating resource load of
URLLC services under eMBB and URLLC multiplexing scenarios.
## 5.3 Issue #3: Support for URLLC Performance management on reliability in
RAN
### 5.3.1 Description
#### 5.3.1.0 General
As a new service deployed in 5G, URLLC is significantly different from
traditional eMBB service in terms of service requirement. In order to
guarantee the performance of URLLC, the performance of 5G network which
provides URLLC service needs to meet certain target for reliability
accordingly.
Annex F in TS 22.104 [2] depicts relation of reliability and communication
service availability. It has the following description, \"Communication
service availability addresses the availability of a communication service.
This definition follows the vertical standard IEC 61907 [7]. On the other
hand, reliability is a 3GPP term and addresses the availability of a
communication network.\"
The issue mainly focuses on the 5G RAN network that provides URLLC service. In
particular, the measurements on communication network performance need to be
investigated.
#### 5.3.1.1 Support for network performance on reliability in RAN
Reliability is a typical network performance measurement used to evaluate
whether the 5G network which provides URLLC services meets the corresponding
performance requirements. As for 5G network, it is the radio network including
air interface that mainly restricts the reliability and latency performance.
Therefore, more attentions should be paid to the reliability and latency
performance measurement for radio network from the perspective management.
However, the reliability performance measurements for radio network are not
totally enough.
The definition of reliability is specified in TS 22.261 [3]:
**\- reliability** : in the context of network layer packet transmissions,
percentage value of the packets successfully delivered to a given system
entity within the time constraint required by the targeted service out of all
the packets transmitted.
According to the above definition, when trying to calculate the reliability of
a network, time constraint (a required maximum time) needs to be considered.
Neither PER defined in TS 28.552 [13] nor reliability KPIs defined in TS
28.554 [14] seem to totally match the definition of URLLC reliability in RAN.
URLLC performance management on reliability and latency should be supported by
5G management system and the measurement method should be studied.
### 5.3.2 Potential Solution
Ultra-Reliable is a typical characteristic of URLLC service, thus reliability
is an important metric of network which provides URLLC service. The
measurement of reliability can be used to evaluate the performance of URLLC
network. So the requirements for performance management of radio network
providing URLLC services is:
\- The OAM should have the capability of providing the reliability of NG-RAN
with specific delay threshold.
Since the existing measurements and KPIs cannot match the definition of
reliability in RAN considering delay threshold well, a new approach needs to
be studied to measure the reliability performance in RAN. According to the
definition of reliability, this contribution proposes an algorithm in RAN,
which is as follows: Calculate the ratio between the number of successfully
transmitted packets with a delay threshold and the total number of packets
between UE and gNB, and the result is reliability in RAN.
## 5.4 Issue #4: Configuration of reliability in slice profiles and service
profile
### 5.4.1 Description
URLLC is a set of service scenarios which require low-latency and high
reliable communications. TS 22.261 [3] specifies service requirements for the
5G system. There are use cases of different reliability requirement between UL
and DL, like in 1st use case of table 7.6.1-1 in TS 22.261 [3]. However, the
NRM for slice profiles in TS 28.541 [12] does not support reliability to
distinguish between UL and DL configuration. Based on the above description,
the configuration of reliability in slice profiles and service profile need to
be studied.
### 5.4.2 Potential solutions
1\. The ServiceProfile \> defined in TS 28.541 [12] adds
dLReliability and uLReliability attributes. The original reliability attribute
shall be replaced by these two new attributes.
The dLReliability and uLReliability attributes is added as follows:
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
dLReliability O T T F T uLReliability O T T F T
2\. The CNSliceSubnetProfile\> defined in TS 28.541 [12] adds
dLReliability and uLReliability attributes. The original reliability attribute
is replaced by these two new attributes.
The dLReliability and uLReliability attributes is added as follows:
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
dLReliability O T T F T uLReliability O T T F T
3\. The RANSliceSubnetProfile\> defined in TS 28.541 [12] adds
dLReliability and uLReliability attributes. The original reliability attribute
is replaced by these two new attributes.
The dLReliability and uLReliability attributes is added as follows:
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
dLReliability O T T F T uLReliability O T T F T
4\. The TopSliceSubnetProfile\> defined in TS 28.541 [12] adds
dLReliability and uLReliability attributes. The original reliability attribute
is replaced by these two new attributes.
The dLReliability and uLReliability attributes is added as follows:
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
dLReliability O T T F T uLReliability O T T F T
5\. The dLReliability and uLReliability attributes is defined in TS 28.541
[12] as follows.
+----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and Allowed | Properties | | | Values | | +================+=============================+=====================+ | dLReliability | An attribute specifies in | type: Real | | | the context of network | | | | layer DL packet | multiplicity: 1 | | | transmissions, percentage | | | | value of the amount of sent | isOrdered: N/A | | | network layer packets | | | | successfully delivered to a | isUnique: N/A | | | given system entity within | | | | the time constraint | defaultValue: False | | | required by the targeted | | | | service, divided by the | isNullable: True | | | total number of sent | | | | network layer packets, see | | | | TS 22.261 [3]. | | +----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------+ | uLReliability | An attribute specifies in | type: Real | | | the context of network | | | | layer UL packet | multiplicity: 1 | | | transmissions, percentage | | | | value of the amount of sent | isOrdered: N/A | | | network layer packets | | | | successfully delivered to a | isUnique: N/A | | | given system entity within | | | | the time constraint | defaultValue: False | | | required by the targeted | | | | service, divided by the | isNullable: True | | | total number of sent | | | | network layer packets, see | | | | TS 22.261 [3]. | | +----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------+
## 5.5 Issue #5: Configuration of latency for URLLC in RAN including the air
interface
### 5.5.1 Description
URLLC is a service with requirement of ultra-reliability and low latency. End
to end latency is an important attribute used to describe the requirement for
URLLC service. Latency in RAN is part of end to end latency and the
corresponding attribute can be used to specify the maximum allowed delay in
RAN including the air interface. The definition of latency in RAN is specified
in ITU-R M.2410. The description is as follows:
_4.7.1 User plane latency_
_User plane latency is the contribution of the radio network to the time from
when the source sends a packet to when the destination receives it (in ms). It
is defined as the one-way time it takes to successfully deliver an application
layer packet/message from the radio protocol layer 2/3 SDU ingress point to
the radio protocol layer 2/3 SDU egress point of the radio interface in either
uplink or downlink in the network for a given service in unloaded conditions,
assuming the mobile station is in the active state. This requirement is
defined for the purpose of evaluation in the eMBB and URLLC usage scenarios._
According to the definition above, the latency in RAN should contain the delay
over the air interface which is a crucial part of end to end latency. In TS
28.541 [12], the attribute \"dlLatency\" and \"ulLatency\" in
RANSliceSubnetProfile only represent the packet processing latency in gNB
excluding that of air interface. The performance of delay over the air
interface cannot be evaluated simply through the existing latency
configuration. Consequently, the issue is that the existing attributes in
RANSliceSubnetProfile cannot match the configuration requirement for latency
when taking air interface into consideration.
### 5.5.2 Potential Solution
The requirement for configuration management of radio network providing URLLC
services is:
\- The OAM should have the capability of configuring the maximum allowed
downlink and uplink latency in RAN including the delay over air interface.
According to the requirement above, the attributes \"dlLatency\" and
\"ulLatency\" of RANSliceSubnetProfile defined in TS 28.541 should be modified
to contain the latency over the air interface. The specific changes are
proposed.
1\. The attributes \"dlLatency\" and \"ulLatency\" of
RANSliceSubnetProfile\> defined in TS 28.541 are modified as
follows:
+-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +=======================+=======================+====================+ | RANSliceSu | An attribute | type: Real | | bnetProfile.dlLatency | specifies the | | | | required DL packet | multiplicity: 1 | | | transmission latency | | | | (millisecond) in RAN | isOrdered: N/A | | | including the air | | | | interface of the | isUnique: N/A | | | network slice and is | | | | used to evaluate the | defaultValue: None | | | delay between NG-RAN | | | | and UE, e.g. time | allowedValues: N/A | | | between received DL | | | | packet from UPF the | isNullable: False | | | packet successfully | | | | received by UE. See | | | | clause 5.1.1.1.6 in | | | | TS 28.552 [13]. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | RANSliceSu | An attribute | type: Real | | bnetProfile.ulLatency | specifies the | | | | required UL packet | multiplicity: 1 | | | transmission latency | | | | (millisecond) in RAN | isOrdered: N/A | | | including the air | | | | interface of the | isUnique: N/A | | | network slice and is | | | | used to evaluate the | defaultValue: None | | | delay between UE and | | | | NG-RAN, e.g. time | allowedValues: N/A | | | between the UL packet | | | | scheduled in UE and | isNullable: False | | | the packet | | | | successfully sent to | | | | UPF. See clause | | | | 5.1.1.1.7 in TS | | | | 28.552 [13]. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
NOTE 1: Even though this study is about URLLC, the two attributes are also
applicable for latency requirement for non URLLC services.
NOTE 2: The two attributes represent maximum latency allowed or target latency
of RAN slice subnet.
# 6 Conclusion and Recommendation
## 6.1 Issue #1: Classification of URLLC related RAN features from management
perspective
This issue and corresponding solution have investigated the features designed
for URLLC and try to classify the RAN features related to URLLC into two
categories based on the effects: low latency and ultra-reliability from
management perspective. Some important features are identified as candidates
for the investigation of URLLC management. Features to implement inter-UE
multiplexing, PDSCH enhancement, PDCP duplication, etc. are selected as
examples. The detailed classification method and candidate features are
described in clause 5.1.2.
The above work is concluded as the summary of existing features related to
URLLC and preparation the follow-up issues of this study and no further
normative work needs to be recommended.
## 6.2 Issue #2: Support for performance management related on URLLC resource
load
This issue identifies that existing measurements and KPIs cannot evaluate
URLLC resource load well under URLLC and eMBB co-existence scenario and the
corresponding solution tries to address the issue proposing a new approach to
measure the resource load performance in RAN.
It is recommended to make some enhancement on performance management referred
to algorithm in this solution in the future normative work.
## 6.3 Issue #3: Support for URLLC Performance management on reliability in
RAN
This issue identifies that existing measurements and KPIs cannot match the
definition of reliability in RAN considering delay threshold well and the
corresponding solution tries to address the issue by proposing a new approach
to measure the reliability performance in RAN. Detailed description about the
solution is in clause 5.3.2.
It is recommended to make some enhancement on performance management referred
to algorithm in this solution in the future normative work.
## 6.4 Issue #4: Configuration of reliability in slice profiles and service
profile
This issue identifies a misalignment between the different requirements for UL
and DL defined on reliability in TS 22.261 [3] and the single reliability
attribute used in slice and service profiles defined in TS 28.541 [12].
TS 22.261 [3] specifies service requirements for the 5G system. Clause 7.6.1
defines some use cases of URLLC. The first use case of table 7.6.1-1 has
different requirements for uplink and downlink reliability. However, the
existing service profile and slices profiles in TS 28.541 [12] cannot support
for configuring different reliabilities for UL and DL because there is only
one reliability attribute in either service or slice profiles.
The corresponding solution tries to addresses the above issue by enhancing the
reliability related attribute used in slice and service profiles from one
single reliability attribute to two separate reliability attributes
representing UL and DL respectively for URLLC. Detailed description about the
solution is in clause 5.4.2. It is recommended to make some enhancement on NRM
referred to this solution in the future normative
NOTE: Even though this study is about URLLC, the attributes are also
applicable for reliability requirement for non URLLC services.
## 6.5 Issue #5: Configuration of latency for URLLC in RAN including the air
interface
This issue identifies that \"RANSliceSubnetProfile.dLLatency\" and
\"RANSliceSubnetProfile.uLLatency\" in TS 28.541 [12] only representing the
latency within gNB cannot cover the requirement for configuration of RAN
latency between gNB and UE. The corresponding solution tries to address the
issue by modifying the existing attributes defined in TS 28.541 [12] to cover
the whole RAN latency between gNB and UE. Detailed description about the
solution is in clause 5.5.2. It is recommended to make some enhancement on NRM
referred to this solution in the future normative work.
#