# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the concept, use cases, requirements, and
potential solutions for collecting the measurement data to support AI/ML
enabled RAN with the AI/ML functions residing in OAM.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 37.817: \"Study on enhancement for data collection for NR and
ENDC\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols, and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply:
NOTE: A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply.
NOTE: An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over
the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Concepts and overview
## 4.1 Overview
The present document is intended to study the mechanisms needed to collect the
measurement data that will be used as the input to AI/ML functions residing in
OAM [2]. Figure 4.1-1 depicts that the measurement data includes the UE
measurements (i.e. MDT and RRM measurements), and actor feedback from the NG-
RAN serving node, and the input information from the NG-RAN neighbouring nodes
[2].
Figure 4.1-1: Measurement data collection
## 4.2 Concept
Figure 4.2-1 shows the management framework for measurement data connection
needed to support RAN intelligence. Consumers may invoke management services
to request 3GPP management system to collect measurement data from the NFs of
NG-RAN serving node and neighbouring nodes. The NG-RAN serving node contains
actors associated with AI enabled intelligent RAN use cases (e.g. network
energy saving, mobility optimization, and load balancing) that may generate
actions directed to the NG-RAN nodes and feedbacks to monitor the performance
of the AI/ML Model (see clause 4.2 in TR 37.817 [2]). The NG-RAN serving node
may collect the measurement reports from the UEs to which it is connected.
Figure 4.2-1: Management framework for measurement data collection
# 5 Use cases, requirements, and potential solutions
## 5.1 Use cases
### 5.1.1 Mobility optimization
Mobility management is the scheme to guarantee the service-continuity during
the UE mobility by minimizing the call drops, RLFs, unnecessary handovers, and
ping-pong. The objective of mobility optimization is to dynamically improve
the UE handover performance with aims to improve end-user experience and
increase network capacity. The mobility optimization use case in TR 37.817 [2]
utilizes the AI/ML techniques with model training residing in OAM and model
inference residing in the gNB to enhance the SON function in the following
aspects:
\- Reduction of the probability of unintended events.
\- UE Location/Mobility/Performance prediction.
\- Traffic Steering.
Clause 5.3.2.2 in TR 37.817 [2] describes a solution of AI/ML Model Training
in OAM and AI/ML Model Inference in NG-RAN node, where OAM will collect input
data from the serving RAN node and neighbouring RAN nodes to train the
mobility optimization model, and then deploy the model to the serving RAN node
to perform the inference function that will recommend actions to enable gNB to
perform the mobility optimization / handover procedure to hand over UE(s) from
serving NG-RAN node to the target NG-RAN node.
Therefore, to support the model training residing in OAM, 3GPP management
service producer should be able to collect the following input data (see
clause 5.3.2.4 in TR 37.817 [2]):
\- From the UE:
\- UE location information (e.g. coordinates, serving cell ID, moving
velocity) interpreted by gNB implementation when available.
\- Radio measurements related to serving cell and neighbouring cells
associated with UE location information, e.g. RSRP, RSRQ, SINR.
\- UE Mobility History Information.
\- From the neighbouring RAN nodes:
\- UE\'s history information from neighbour.
\- Position, QoS parameters and the performance information of historical HO-
ed UE (e.g. loss rate, delay, etc.).
\- Current/predicted resource status.
\- UE handovers in the past that were successful and unsuccessful, including
too-early, too-late, or handover to wrong (sub-optimal) cell, based on
existing SON/RLF report mechanism.
\- Feedbacks from the target node:
\- Resource status information updates from target NG-RAN.
\- Performance information from target NG-RAN. The details of performance
information are to be discussed during normative work phase.
\- From the serving node:
\- UE trajectory prediction.
\- Current/predicted resource status.
\- Current/predicted UE traffic.
\- Feedback: QoS parameters such as throughput, packet delay of the handed-
over UE, etc.
### 5.1.2 Network energy saving
It has been a global concern that the energy consumption of ICT (Information
and Communication Technology) equipment is impacting the environment and
contributing to the global warming. Energy efficiency for mobile networks is
very important, since 5G networks will consume more energy due to the vast
number of mmWave small cells. The network energy saving use case in TR 37.817
[2] utilizes the AI/ML techniques with model training residing in OAM and
model inference residing in the gNB, where OAM will need to collect input data
from RAN nodes to enable the network energy saving model training, and then
deploy the model to the gNB to perform the inference function that will
determine the energy saving actions based on the input data received from the
serving node.
Therefore, to support the model training residing in OAM, 3GPP management
service producer should be able to collect the following input data (see
clause 5.1.2.4 in TR 37.817 [2]):
\- From serving node:
\- UE mobility/trajectory prediction.
\- Current/Predicted Energy efficiency.
\- Current/Predicted resource status.
\- From the UE:
\- UE location information (e.g. coordinates, serving cell ID, moving
velocity) interpreted by gNB implementation when available.
\- UE measurement report (e.g. UE RSRP, RSRQ, SINR measurement, etc.),
including cell level and beam level UE measurements.
\- From neighbouring NG-RAN nodes:
\- Current/Predicted energy efficiency.
\- Current/Predicted resource status.
\- Current energy state (e.g. active, high, low, inactive).
To optimize the performance of AI/ML-based network energy saving model,
following feedback can be considered to be collected from NG-RAN nodes:
\- Resource status of neighbouring NG-RAN nodes.
\- Energy efficiency.
\- UE performance affected by the energy saving action (e.g. handed-over UEs),
including bitrate, packet loss, latency.
\- System KPIs (e.g. throughput, delay, RLF of current and neighbouring NG-RAN
node).
Note: The data of resource status and energy efficiency are to be defined in
the stage 2 and stage 3 solutions for Network energy saving use case.
### 5.1.3 Load balancing
With the rapid traffic growth, multiple frequency bands were utilized in the
commercial network. It is quite challenging to steer the traffic in a balanced
distribution so that the network performance could be assured. Load balancing
had been proposed to address the issue. The objective of load balancing is to
distribute load evenly among cells and among areas of cells, or to transfer
part of the traffic from congested cells or from congested areas of cells, or
to offload users from one cell, cell area, carrier or RAT to improve network
performance. This can be done by means of optimization of handover parameters
and handover actions. AI/ML capabilities, e.g. traffic load prediction,
prediction of selected UE and/or target cell for handover, could be introduced
to improve the load balance performance, in terms of the quality user
experience and system capacity. It also enables the network automation which
would help to reduce human intervention in the network management and
optimization tasks. _To support the AI/ML based load balancing in RAN, the
related AI/ML Model can be trained, validated and tested in OAM while AI/ML
Model inference could be done in the gNB. In case of CU-DU split
architecture,_ AI/ML _Model_ Training can be located in the OAM and AI/ML
_Model_ Inference can be located in the gNB-CU.
To facilitate the AI/ML Model Training, validation and testing in OAM, 3GPP
management service producer should be able to collect the input data, output
data as well as the feedback of AI/ML based load balancing. (see clause 5.2.2.
in TR 37.817 [2]). Note that the output data can be used as the label for the
supervised learning. The feedback of AI/ML based load balancing data could be
used to re-tune the AI/ML model and optimize the AI/ML model for load
balancing.
To support the model training residing in OAM, 3GPP management service
producer should be able to collect the following input data:
\- From serving node:
\- Current and predicted resource status.
\- UE trajectory prediction.
\- Current and predicted UE traffic.
\- Predicted resource status information of neighboring NG-RAN node(s).
\- Inter-gNB conditional handovers.
\- Intra-gNB conditional handovers.
\- From neighbouring NG-RAN nodes:
\- Current and predicted resource status.
\- UE performance measurement at traffic offloaded neighbouring cell.
\- From the UE:
\- UE location information (e.g. coordinates, serving cell ID, moving
velocity) interpreted by gNB implementation when available.
\- UE Mobility History Information.
\- UE measurement report (e.g. UE RSRP, RSRQ, SINR measurement, etc.),
including cell level and beam level UE measurements.
To support the model training residing in OAM, 3GPP management service
producer should be able to collect the following output data. The output data
could serve as the supervised learning label data:
\- From serving node:
\- Selection of target cell for load balancing.
\- The predicted UE(s) selected to be handed over to target NG-RAN node (will
be used by RAN node internally).
To optimize the performance of AI/ML-based load balancing, following feedback
can be considered to be collected from NG-RAN nodes:
\- UE performance information from target NG-RAN.
\- Resource status information updates from target NG-RAN.
\- System KPIs, e.g. throughput, delay, RLF of current and neighbor cells.
## 5.2 Requirements
**REQ-DATA-COLLECT-FUN-1:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability allowing authorized consumers to collect the serving node input
data required for model training.
**REQ-DATA-COLLECT -FUN-2:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability allowing authorized consumers to collect the UE input data required
for model training.
**REQ-DATA-COLLECT -FUN-3:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability allowing authorized consumers to collect the neighbouring node [
]{.underline} input data required for model training.
## 5.3 Potential solutions
### 5.3.0 General
This clause contains the potential solutions to support the requirements
listed in clauses 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3.
NOTE: The solutions will only result in new measurements to support defined
data in the normative work.
### 5.3.1 Measurement data collected from NG-RAN neighbouring nodes
#### 5.3.1.0 Measurement collection from NG-RAN neighbouring nodes
RAN intelligence use cases defined in TR 37.817 [2] require input data and
feedbacks from the neighbouring nodes. Figure 5.3.1-1 shows that MnF of
performance assurance (see clause 4.5 in TS 28.533 [8]) can be used by
consumers to collect the measurement data from NG-RAN neighbouring nodes.
Figure 5.3.1.0-1: Measurement data collected from NG-RAN neighbouring nodes
#### 5.3.1.1 Measurement collection via performance job control
Figure 5.3.1.1-1 depicts a solution to describe how a consumer can utilize the
MnS produced by MnF of performance assurance to collect the measurement data
from neighbouring nodes via the performance job control.
Figure 5.3.1.1-1: Measurement data collection via performance job control
1\. A consumer invokes the createMeasurementJob operation (see TS 28.550 [5])
provided by the MnF of performance assurance to create a measurement job for
collecting measurement data. The operation includes the following, but not
limited to, attributes:
> \- iOCInstanceList: the DN(s) of NRCellRelation MOI (see TS 28.541 [3]).
>
> \- measurementCategoryList: the measurement type(s) (see TS 28.550 [5]) that
> include new measurements for RAN3 defined data, such as Current/predicted
> resource status, historical successful and unsuccessful UE handovers from
> neighbouring nodes (see clause 5.3.2.4 in TR 38.817 [2]).
>
> \- reportingMethod: file or streaming based reporting.
2\. MnF of Performance assurance returns the output parameter with jobId to
indicate the measurement job been created.
3\. If the measurement job is based on performance file reporting service,
then
> 3.1. The consumer invokes the subscribe operation (see clause 12.6.1.1.1 in
> TS 28.532 [6]) to subscribe to receive notifications when the measurement
> data is ready for collection.
>
> Otherwise, (performance data streaming service).
>
> 3.2. The consumer invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation to
> establish a streaming connection for sending the streaming data.
4\. Neighbouring gNB-CU NF reports the measurement data to serving gNB-CU NF
via the Xn interface.
5\. Serving gNB-CU NF reports the measurement data to the MnF of performance
assurance (see note).
6\. MnF of performance assurance playing the producer role to collect the
measurements, according to the performance job.
7\. If the measurement job is based on performance file reporting service,
then:
> 7.1. MnF of performance assurance sends a notifyFileReady notification (see
> clause 11.6.1.1 in TS 28.532 [6]) to the consumer to indicate the
> performance data file is ready.
>
> 7.2. The consumer fetches the measurement data from the MnF of performance
> assurance.
>
> Otherwise, (performance data streaming service)
>
> 7.3. MnF of performance assurance invokes the reportStreamData operation to
> send the streaming measurement data to the consumer.
NOTE: The interface between performance assurance MnS for NF and serving gNB
CU is not subject to standardization.
#### 5.3.1.2 Measurement collection via configurable measurement control
Figure 5.3.1.2-1 depicts a solution to describe how a consumer can utilize the
MnS produced by MnF of performance assurance to collect the measurement data
via the configuration measurement control.
Figure 5.3.1.2-1: Measurement data collection via configurable measurement
control
1\. A consumer invokes the createMOI operation (see TS 28.532 [6]) for
PerfMetricJob IOC (see clause 4.3.31 in TS 28.622 [7]) to request the MnF of
performance assurance to create a measurement job for collecting measurement
data from the neighbouring node. The operation includes the following, but not
limited to, attributes:
> \- objectInstances: the DN(s) of NRCellRelation MOI(s) indicating the NR
> cell CU of the neighbouring node.
>
> \- performanceMetrics: the list of performance metrics.
>
> \- reportingCtrl: file or streaming based reporting.
2\. MnF of performance assurance returns the output parameter with the status
of PerfMetricJob MOI creation.
3\. If the measurement job is based on performance file reporting service,
then:
> 3.1. The consumer invokes the subscribe operation to subscribe to receive
> notifications when the measurement data is ready for collection.
>
> Otherwise, (performance data streaming service).
>
> 3.2. The consumer invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation to
> establish a streaming connection for sending the streaming data.
4\. Neighbouring gNB-CU NF reports the measurement data to serving gNB-CU NF
via the Xn interface.
5\. Serving gNB-CU NF reports the measurement data to the MnF of performance
assurance (see note).
6\. MnF of performance assurance generates the measurement for the object
instance of NRCellRelation MOI(s) referring to the neighbouring gNB CU NF.
7\. If the measurement job is based on performance file reporting service,
then:
> 7.1. MnF of performance assurance sends a notifyFileReady notification to
> the consumer to indicate the performance data file is ready.
>
> 7.2. The consumer fetches the measurement data from the MnF of performance
> assurance.
>
> Otherwise, (performance data streaming service).
>
> 7.3. The consumer collects the measurement data and invokes the
> reportStreamData operation to send the 5GC NF streaming data to the
> consumer.
NOTE: The interface between performance assurance MnS for NF and serving gNB
CU is not subject to standardization.
### 5.3.2 Measurement data collected from NG-RAN serving node
#### 5.3.2.0 General
The existing performance assurance MnS can be reused to collect the
measurement data, including feedbacks from actors, from the NG-RAN serving
node. The actors are distributed SON functions that are modelled as
DMROFunction, DLBOFunction, and DESManagementFunction IOCs (see TS 28.541
[3]).
#### 5.3.2.1 Measurement collection via performance job control
Figure 5.3.2.1-1 depicts a solution to describe how a consumer can utilize the
MnS produced by MnF of performance assurance to collect the measurement data
(e.g. feedbacks from the actors) via the performance job control.
Figure 5.3.2.1-1: Measurement data collection via performance job control
1\. A consumer invokes the createMeasurementJob operation provided by the MnF
of performance assurance to create a measurement job for the collection of
measurement data to create a measurement job for collecting the feedback data
from the actors. The operation includes the following, but not limited to,
attributes:
> \- iOCInstanceList: the DN(s) of DMROFunction, DLBOFunction, and
> DESManagementFunction MOI.
>
> \- measurementCategoryList: the measurement type(s) that include new
> measurements for RAN3 defined data, such as UE trajectory prediction,
> current/predicted UE traffic from serving nodes (see clause 5.3.2.4 in TR
> 38.817 [2]).
>
> \- reportingMethod: file or streaming based reporting.
2\. MnF of performance assurance returns the output parameter with jobId to
indicate the measurement job been created.
3\. If the measurement job is based on performance file reporting service,
then:
> 3.1. The consumer invokes the subscribe operation to subscribe to receive
> notifications when the measurement data is ready for collection.
>
> Otherwise, (performance data streaming service).
>
> 3.2. The consumer invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation to
> establish a streaming connection for sending the streaming data.
4\. The actor of network energy saving reports the measurement data to the
performance assurance MnS-P for NF (see note).
5\. The actor of mobility optimization reports the measurement data to the
performance assurance MnS-P for NF (see note).
6\. The actor of load balancing reports the measurement data to the
performance assurance MnS-P for NF (see note).
7\. MnF of performance assurance generates the measurement for the object
instance of NRCellRelation MOI(s) referring to the neighbouring gNB CU NF.
8\. If the measurement job is based on performance file reporting service,
then:
> 8.1. MnF of performance assurance sends a notifyFileReady notification to
> the consumer to indicate the performance data file is ready.
>
> 8.2. The consumer fetches the measurement data from the MnF of performance
> assurance.
>
> Otherwise, (performance data streaming service).
>
> 8.3. The consumer collects the measurement data and invokes the
> reportStreamData operation to send the 5GC NF streaming data to the
> consumer.
NOTE: The interface between performance assurance MnS for NF and serving gNB
CU is not subject to standardization.
#### 5.3.2.2 Measurement collection via configurable measurement control
Figure 5.3.2.2-1 depicts a solution to describe how a consumer can utilize the
MnS produced by MnF of performance assurance to collect the measurement data
(e.g. feedbacks from the actors) via the configuration measurement control.
Figure 5.3.2.2-1: Measurement data collection via configurable measurement
control
1\. A consumer invokes the createMOI operation for PerfMetricJob IOC to
request the MnF of performance assurance to create a measurement job for
collecting measurement data from the actors. It includes the following, but
not limited to, attributes:
> \- objectInstances: the DN(s) of DMROFunction, DLBOFunction, and
> DESManagementFunction MOI(s).
>
> \- performanceMetrics: the list of performance metrics.
>
> \- reportingCtrl: file or streaming based reporting.
2\. MnF of performance assurance returns the output parameter with the status
of PerfMetricJob MOI creation.
3\. If the measurement job is based on performance file reporting service,
then:
> 3.1. The consumer invokes the subscribe operation to subscribe to receive
> notifications when the measurement data is ready for collection.
>
> Otherwise, (performance data streaming service).
>
> 3.2. The consumer invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation to
> establish a streaming connection for sending the streaming data.
4\. The actor of network energy saving reports the measurement data to the
performance assurance MnS-P for NF (see note).
5\. The actor of mobility optimization reports the measurement data to the
performance assurance MnS-P for NF (see note).
6\. The actor of load balancing reports the measurement data to the
performance assurance MnS-P for NF (see note).
7\. MnF of performance assurance generates the measurement.
8\. If the measurement job is based on performance file reporting service,
then:
> 8.1. MnF of performance assurance sends a notifyFileReady notification to
> the consumer to indicate the performance data file is ready.
>
> 8.2. The consumer fetches the measurement data from the MnF of performance
> assurance.
>
> Otherwise, (performance data streaming service).
>
> 8.3. MnF of performance assurance invokes the reportStreamData operation to
> send the streaming measurement data to the consumer.
NOTE: The interface between performance assurance MnS for NF and serving gNB
CU is not subject to standardization.
### 5.3.3 Measurement data collected from UEs
#### 5.3.3.0 Measurement report configuration
Figure 5.3.3-1 depicts that the gNB may configure the RRC_CONNECTED UE to
report NR measurements, inter-RAT measurements of E-UTRA frequencies, inter-
RAT measurements of UTRA-FDD frequencies, and NR sidelink measurements of L2
U2N Relay UEs (see clause 5.5.1 in TS 38.331 [4]) that are neded to support
handover, carrier aggregation, or dual connectivity. The gNB sends the
RRCReconfiguration message with measConfig IE to determine the type of
measurements to be collected by UE. UE returns the measurement in the
MeasurementReport message.
Figure 5.3.3.0-1: UE measurement report configuration
Therefore, gNB already receives UE measurement report (e.g. RSRP, RSRQ, SINR,
etc.) that can be used as input data for the model training without any
additional trigger.
Figure 5.3.3-2 shows that MnF of performance assurance management can be used
to collect the UE measurements. A measurement can be created when one or more
UE measurement reports are received. The measurement should refer to NRCellCU
IOC with sub-counter for each UE measurements. The sub-counter index should be
based on C-RNTI that is associated with the RRC Connection.
Figure 5.3.3-2: UE measurement data collection
#### 5.3.3.1 Measurement collection via performance job control
Figure 5.3.3.1-1 depicts a solution to describe how a consumer can utilize the
MnS produced by MnF of performance assurance to collect the UE measurement
data via the performance job control.
Figure 5.3.3.1-1: Measurement data collection via performance job control
1\. gNB CU sends a RRC message RRCReconfiguration message with measConfig IE
to request UE #1 to report UE measurements.
2\. gNB CU sends a RRC message RRCReconfiguration message with measConfig IE
to request UE #2 to report UE measurements.
3\. A consumer invokes the createMeasurementJob operation provided by the MnF
of performance assurance to create a measurement job for collecting UE
measurements. It includes the following, but not limited to, attributes:
> \- iOCInstanceList: the DN(s) of NRCellCU MOI.
>
> \- measurementCategoryList: the measurement type(s) that include new
> measurements for RAN3 defined data, such as UE location information, UE
> Mobility History Information from UEs (see clause 5.3.2.4 in TR 38.817 [2]).
>
> \- reportingMethod: file or streaming based reporting.
4\. MnF of performance assurance returns the output parameter with jobId to
indicate the measurement job been created.
5\. If the measurement job is based on performance file reporting service,
then:
> 5.1. The consumer invokes the subscribe operation to subscribe to receive
> notifications when the measurement data is ready for collection.
>
> Otherwise, (performance data streaming service).
>
> 5.2. The consumer invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation to
> establish a streaming connection for sending the streaming data.
6\. UE #1 returns a RRC message MeasurementReport to report the UE
measurements.
7\. UE #2 returns a RRC message MeasurementReport to report the UE
measurements.
8\. gNB-CU NF reports the UE measurements to the MnF of performance assurance
(see note).
9\. MnF of performance assurance generates the measurement with sub-counter
identified by C-RNTI for each UE measurements.
10\. If the measurement job is based on performance file reporting service,
then:
> 10.1. MnF of performance assurance sends a notifyFileReady notification (see
> clause 11.6.1.1 in TS 28.532 [6]) to the consumer to indicate the
> performance data file is ready.
>
> 10.2. The consumer fetches the measurement data from the MnF of performance
> assurance.
>
> Otherwise, (performance data streaming service).
>
> 10.3. The consumer collects the measurement data and invokes the
> reportStreamData operation to send the 5GC NF streaming data to the
> consumer.
NOTE: The interface between performance assurance MnS for NF and serving gNB
CU is not subject to standardization.
#### 5.3.3.2 Measurement collection via configurable measurement control
Figure 5.3.3.2-1 depicts a solution describing how a consumer can utilize the
MnS produced by MnF of performance assurance to collect the UE measurements
via the configuration measurement control.
Figure 5.3.3.2-1: Measurement data collection via configurable measurement
control
1\. gNB CU sends a RRC message RRCReconfiguration message with measConfig IE
to request UE #1 to report UE measurements.
2\. gNB CU sends a RRC message RRCReconfiguration message with measConfig IE
to request UE #2 to report UE measurements.
3\. A consumer invokes the createMOI operation for PerfMetricJob IOC to
request the MnF of performance assurance to create a measurement job for
collecting UE measurements. It includes the following, but not limited to,
attributes:
> \- objectInstances: the DN(s) of NRCellCU MOI(s).
>
> \- performanceMetrics: the list of performance metrics.
>
> \- reportingMethod: file or streaming based measurements.
4\. MnF of performance assurance returns the output parameter with the status
of PerfMetricJob MOI creation.
5\. If the measurement job is based on performance file reporting service,
then:
> 5.1. The consumer invokes the subscribe operation to subscribe to receive
> notifications when the measurement data is ready for collection.
>
> Otherwise, (performance data streaming service).
>
> 5.2. The consumer invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation to
> establish a streaming connection for sending the streaming data.
6\. UE #1 returns a RRC message MeasurementReport to report the UE
measurements.
7\. UE #2 returns a RRC message MeasurementReport to report the UE
measurements.
8\. gNB-CU NF reports the UE measurements to the MnF of performance assurance
(see note).
9\. MnF of performance assurance generates the measurement with sub-counter
identified by C-RNTI for each UE measurements.
10\. If the measurement job is based on performance file reporting service,
then
> 10.1 MnF of performance assurance sends a notifyFileReady notification (see
> clause 11.6.1.1 in TS 28.532 [6]) to the consumer to indicate the
> performance data file is ready.
>
> 10.2. The consumer fetches the measurement data from the MnF of performance
> assurance.
>
> Otherwise, (performance data streaming service).
>
> 10.3. MnF of performance assurance invokes the reportStreamData operation to
> send the streaming measurement data to the consumer.
NOTE: The interface between performance assurance MnS for NF and serving gNB
CU is not subject to standardization.
# 6 Conclusions and recommendations
## 6.1 Conclusions
The present document describes the use cases with derived requirements and
potential solutions for collecting measurement data required for **supporting
RAN3 defined AI/ML functions in OAM. It concludes that the existing
performance assurance MnS can be reused with enhancements to collect
measurements sourced from neighboring cells and UEs**.
## 6.2 Recommendations
It is recommended to start the normative work to define the measurements
required to implement RAN3 defined AI/ML training functions supporting
intelligent RAN use cases in OAM**.**
#