# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies potential use cases, requirements and solutions
for the management of cloud-native virtualized network function and the
impacts on the 3GPP management system. The present document provides
conclusions and recommendations on the next steps in the standardization.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] NGMN Cloud Native Enabling Future Telco Platforms v5.2. 17. May 2021.
[3] ETSI GR NFV-IFA 029: \"Report on the Enhancements of the NFV architecture
towards cloud-native and Paas\".
[4] ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019: \"Report on VNF generic OAM functions\".
[5] ETSI GR NFV-IFA 037: \"Report on further NFV support for 5G\".
[6] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 040: \"Requirements for service interfaces and object
models for OS container management and orchestration specification\".
[7] ETSI GS NFV-EVE 011 \"Specification of the Classification of Cloud Native
VNF implementations\".
[8] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 V4.3.1 (2022-05): \"Network Functions Virtualisation
(NFV) Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm reference point -
Interface and Information Model Specification\".
[9] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 V4.3.1 (2022-06) \"Network Function Virtualization
(NFV); Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo Reference Point - Interface
and Information Model Specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.526: \"Life Cycle Management (LCM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Procedures\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[12] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 V4.3.1 (2022-06): \"Network Functions Virtualisation
(NFV) Release 4; Management and Orchestration; VNF Descriptor and Packaging
Specification\".
[13] Void
[14] 3GPP TS 28.516: \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include
virtualized network functions; Procedure\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and TS 28.526 [10]. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1] or
in TS 28.526 [10].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CM Configuration Management
FM Fault Management
LCM Lifecycle Management
NF Network Function
NFV Network Functions Virtualization
NFVO Network Functions Virtualization Orchestrator
NS Network Service
OSS Operations Support System
PM Performance Management
SBMA Service Based Management Architecture
VNF Lifecycle Management
VNFC Virtualized Network Function Component
VNFM Virtualized Network Function Manager
# 4 Concepts and background
Concepts relevant to cloud native VNFs are defined in various standardization
bodies and industry fora, including \"cloud-native network function\" in CNCF
and \"cloud-native VNF\" in ETSI.
In [2] transformation toward cloud-native in the main domains of the
telecommunication infrastructure is analysed as an important driver for
internal optimization, cost saving, and enablement of vertical solutions.
Clause 6.2 of ETSI GS NFV-EVE 011 [7] describes a set of characteristics which
relate to cloud-native virtualized network functions (VNFs) including:
redundancy -- resiliency, fault monitoring and failure detection, scaling
in/out, decomposition, automated instantiation and configuration, load
balancing, and automated resource management.
Potential impact of providing \"PaaS\"-type capabilities and supporting VNFs
which follow cloud-native design principles on the NFV architecture is studied
in [3]. Annex A in [3] also provides a comprehensive overview of the cloud-
native related industry initiatives.
Requirements on the list of services offered by architectural elements
providing the container management related functions described in [3] are
specified in [6].
In [4] the types of VNF management functions which can be generalized and
provided as \"generic OAM functions\" are analysed and defined. Possible
solutions for realizing such generic functions are also described.
In [5] NFV architectural capabilities and features are profiled based on their
utility in addressing the 5G network capabilities and features and
enhancements to NFV architectural framework are recommended to further support
5G network characteristics
# 5 Potential use cases and requirements
## 5.1 Use case# 1: Configuration of the cloud-native VNF using generic OAM
functions
### 5.1.1 Description
This use case is about the configuration of cloud-native VNFs that are
implemented to use \"VNF configuration manager function\", which is one of the
generic OAM functions proposed in [4] and can handle changes to the
configuration of a VNF/VNFC, such as obtaining configuration files, managing
configuration versions, storing configuration files, implementing
configurations, etc.
When configuring cloud-native VNFs, the proposed new generic OAM function
would allow the 3GPP management system to send a request with the cloud-native
VNF/VNFC instance(s) configuration to the VNF configuration manager, then the
VNF configuration manager performs the required configuration to the target
VNF/VNFC instance(s), and finally the 3GPP management system will receive the
configuration results from the VNF configuration manager. In this use case
scenario, the 3GPP management system can use the VNF configuration manager
function to deliver configuration requirements to multiple VNFs in a more
unified way. That can reduce the duplication of work in the configuration of
the 3GPP management system.
### 5.1.2 Issues
The APIs related to the VNF configuration manager have not been published yet
as an ETSI NFV solution. ETSI NFV may publish new APIs as a result of
normative work, as a result 3GPP specifications may need to be updated to
refer to the new APIs.
### 5.1.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-CVNF_CM_CON-1:** The 3GPP management system shall be able to send a
configuration request for a cloud-native VNF/VNFC to the VNF configuration
manager.
**REQ-CVNF_CM_CON-2:** The 3GPP management system shall be able to receive
responses from the VNF configuration manager about the completion of the
cloud-native VNF configuration request.
## 5.2 Use case# 2: Traffic management of the cloud-native VNF using generic
OAM functions
### 5.2.1 Description
This use case is about the traffic management of cloud-native VNFs using the
\"traffic enforcer function\", which is one of the generic OAM functions
proposed in [4] and can block and reroute the traffic of VNFC instances.
When there is a problem with one of the VNFCs of the cloud-native VNF, the
proposed new generic OAM function would allow the 3GPP management system to
send a traffic management request to the traffic enforcer, then the traffic
enforcer performs the required blocking operations on the VNFC instances and
reroutes the traffic by using the APIs exposed by MANO, and finally the 3GPP
management system will receive the management results from the traffic
enforcer.
### 5.2.2 Issues
The APIs related to the traffic enforcer function have not been published yet
as an ETSI NFV solution. ETSI NFV may publish new APIs as a result of
normative work, as a result 3GPP specifications may need to be updated to
refer to the new APIs.
### 5.2.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-CVNF_TM_CON-1:** The 3GPP management system shall be able to send a
traffic management request for a cloud-native VNF/VNFC to the traffic
enforcer.
**REQ-CVNF_TM_CON-2:** The 3GPP management system shall be able to receive a
returned result from the traffic enforcer about the traffic management of
cloud-native VNFs.
## 5.3 Use case# 3: Performance monitoring of the cloud-native VNF using
generic OAM functions
### 5.3.1 Description
This use case is about the performance monitoring of cloud-native VNFs using
the \" VNF metrics aggregator function and VNF metrics analyser function\",
which belongs to generic OAM functions proposed in [4]. The VNF metrics
aggregator function can collect the metrics from the VNF/VNFC/NFV-MANO, the
VNF metrics analyser function can analyse the metrics provided by the VNF
metrics aggregator and can be configured to send notifications based on e.g.
statistical processing, abnormal behaviour detection, or threshold crossing.
The 3GPP management system sends a performance monitoring request to the VNF
metrics analyser, then the VNF metrics analyser retrieves the metrics of the
VNF/VNFC/NFV-MANO from the VNF metrics aggregator.
The VNF metrics analyser processes and evaluates the metrics (e.g. analysis
and identifies possible issues), the 3GPP management system will receive the
metrics analytics result from VNF metrics analyser function.
### 5.3.2 Issues
The APIs related to the VNF metrics aggregator function and VNF metrics
analyser function have not been published yet as an ETSI NFV solution. ETSI
NFV may publish new APIs as a result of normative work, as a result 3GPP
specifications may need to be updated to refer to the new APIs.
### 5.3.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-CVNF_PM-1:** The 3GPP management system shall be able to send a
performance monitoring request for a cloud-native VNF to the VNF metrics
analyser function.
**REQ-CVNF_PM-2:** The 3GPP management system shall be able to receive the
notify from VNF metrics analyser function about the performance monitoring of
cloud-native VNFs.
## 5.4 Use case# 4: Failure of VNFC within cloud-native VNF
### 5.4.1 Description
Figure 5.4-1 (copied from ETSI GR NFV-IFA 029 [3] clause 5.2.2.1) shows a
cloud-native VNF which is composed of multiple VNFCs. Load balancing is done
over several VNFC instances. In the case of a failing VNFC instance, fail-over
can happen to another VNFC instance.
{width="6.69375in" height="4.43125in"}
Figure 5.4-1: Cloud-native VNF load balancing and failover
As a pre-condition to this use case, the network is running normally. The 3GPP
management system has initiated collection of measurements from the cloud-
native VNF.
The use case begins when a VNFC instance (for example VNFC-1) fails.
As described in ETSI GR NFV-IFA 029 [3], the VNFM, the failover agent, and the
load balancer may work together to execute failover to a replacement VNFC
instance.
In case the failover is too slow or the failover is unsuccessful, the VNF may
experience an overload situation. This overload situation will result in
abnormal values in the performance measurements which are collected by the
3GPP management system. In some cases, this may result in notifications from
the 3GPP management system if pre-defined thresholds are crossed. Depending on
the impact to the VNF functionality, the 3GPP management system may issue
alarms to indicate that functionality is lost or impaired.
The end result is that the 3GPP management system may issue alarms or
performance data indicating a VNF overload situation if the failover is too
slow or if the failover is unsuccessful.
### 5.4.2 Potential requirements
None.
## 5.5 Use case# 5: NF creation as a cloud native VNF
### 5.5.1 Description
As described in clause 5.3.1 in ETSI GR NFV-IFA 029 [3], Container as a
Service (CaaS) is widely applied in the industry for improving the efficiency
of enterprise DevOps activities, and it has the characteristics of both PaaS
and Cloud-native. One of the recommendations from ETSI GR NFV-FA 029 [3] is to
introduce support for container management in ETSI NFV MANO, such as
introducing support for MCIOP (Managed Container Infrastructure Object
Package) and CISM (Container Infrastructure Service Management).
The use case begins when the 3GPP management system decides to deploy a NF as
a containerised VNF.
The 3GPP management system requests to interact with ETSI NFV MANO for
instantiation of the VNF (See in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 V4.3.1 [8] and ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 013 V4.3.1 [9]). NFV MANO inspects the relevant VNF Descriptor (as
defined in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 V4.3.1 [12]) to get the required containerised
resource information.
NFV MANO will request CISM for containerised resource creation ( as defined in
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 040 V4.3.1 [6]). When the VNF instance has been created, NFV
MANO sends a notification to the 3GPP management system to notify the VNF has
been instantiated.
### 5.5.2 Issues
TS 28.526 [10] describes the procedures to be used by the 3GPP management
system to request instantiation of a VNF. However, TS 28.526 [10] is not
compatible with 5G/SBMA architecture and only contains reference of the
release 2 specifications from ETSI NFV which do not support containerized VNF
LCM.
### 5.5.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-CVNF_NF_CREATION-1:** The 3GPP management system shall have a capability
to interact with ETSI NFV MANO for creation of NF as a containerised VNF.
## 5.6 Use case# 6: Scaling of cloud-native VNF
### 5.6.1 Description
As a pre-condition to this use case, the network is running normally. The 3GPP
management system has subscribed to VNF instance lifecycle notifications from
ETSI NFV MANO.
The use case begins when the 3GPP management system decides to scale a VNF.
The 3GPP management system requests ETSI NFV MANO to scale the VNF (as defined
in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [8] for the case where EM communicates with VNFM, and
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 V4.3.1 [9] for the case where OSS communicates with NFVO).
ETSI NFV MANO inspects the relevant VNF Descriptor (as defined in ETSI GS
NFV‑IFA 011 [12]) to find the VNF components (VNFCs).
ETSI NFV MANO will add or remove VNFC instances as needed for the desired
scaling level of the VNF. When the VNFCs have been added or removed, ETSI NFV
MANO sends a notification to the 3GPP management system to notify that the VNF
has been scaled. This notification includes information on the changes to
VNFCs.
### 5.6.2 Issues
TS 28.526 [10] describes the procedures to be used by the 3GPP management
system to request scaling. However, TS 28.526 [10] is written in terms (for
example Network Manager and Element Manager) which are not compatible with the
5G architecture as described in TS 28.533 [11] and do not support scaling for
containerized VNF.
### 5.6.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-CVNF_SCALING-1:** The 3GPP management system shall have a capability to
interact with ETSI NFV MANO for scaling a cloud-native VNF.
## 5.7 Use case# 7: Healing of cloud-native VNF
### 5.7.1 Description
As a pre-condition to this use case, the 3GPP management system has subscribed
to VNF instance lifecycle notifications from ETSI NFV MANO.
The use case begins when a faulty virtualization-specific aspect of the VNF
has been notified to the 3GPP management system.
the 3GPP management decide to initiate a healing procedure to recover the
faulty virtualization-specific aspects of the VNF.
The 3GPP management system requests ETSI NFV MANO to execute healing VNF with
indication of VNF Components to recover and indication of the healing
procedure to execute (as defined in clause 7.2.10 ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [8] for
the case where EM communicates with VNFM, and ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 V4.3.1 [9]
for the case where OSS communicates with NFVO).
ETSI NFV MANO sends a notification to 3GPP management system about the start
of the VNF healing execution.
ETSI NFV MANO identifies the VNF instance and executes the procedure to heal
the VNF instance.
ETSI NFV MANO sends a notification to 3GPP management system about the end and
the result of the VNF Healing execution, this notification includes success or
failure. In case of success, the VNF/VNFC has been healed, and the associated
instance of a VnfInfo information element has been updated. In case of
failure, appropriate error information is provided in the notification.
### 5.7.2 Issues
TS 28.516 [14] describes the procedures to be used by the 3GPP management
system to request healing. However, TS 28.516 [14] is written in terms (for
example Element Manager) which are not compatible with the 5G architecture as
described in TS 28.533 [11].
### 5.7.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-CVNF_Healing-1** The 3GPP management system shall have a capability to
interact with ETSI NFV MANO for healing a cloud-native VNF.
**REQ-CVNF_Healing-2** The 3GPP management system shall have a capability to
interact with ETSI NFV VNFM for healing a cloud-native VNF.
## 5.8 Use case# 8: VNF package update of the cloud-native VNF
### 5.8.1 Description
As a pre-condition to this use case, the network is running normally. The 3GPP
management system has subscribed to VNF instance lifecycle notifications from
ETSI NFV MANO.
The use case begins when the 3GPP management system decides to update VNF
package for a VNF instance.
The 3GPP management system requests ETSI NFV MANO to change current VNF
package (as defined in clause 7.2.24 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 V4.3.1 [8]) for
the case where EM communicates with VNFM, and clause 7.3.5 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA
013 V4.3.1 [9] for the case where OSS communicates with NFVO).
ETSI NFV MANO inspects the current and target VNF Descriptor (as defined in
clause 7.1.15 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 V4.3.1 [12]) to differentiate possible
changing values that concern to some VNF component (e.g. VDU, internal VLD,
etc.) or property (e.g. a Scaling Aspect, etc.).
The ETSI NFV MANO will change of both the VNF software version and the VNF
virtualised resources, including terminating the virtualised resource
instances running the current software version and instantiating new
virtualised resource instances with the target VNF software version.
When the VNF software version and the VNF virtualised resources have been
changed, ETSI NFV MANO sends a notification to the 3GPP management system to
notify that the VNF package has been updated. This notification includes
information on the changes to VNF package.
### 5.8.2 Issues
TS 28.526 [10] describes the procedures to be used by the 3GPP management
system to update. However, TS 28.526 [10] is not compatible with 5G/SBMA
architecture and only contains reference of the release 2 specifications from
ETSI NFV which do not support containerized VNF LCM.
### 5.8.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-CVNF_Updating-1:** The 3GPP management system shall be able to send a
request for VNF package update of the cloud-native VNF to ETSI NFV MANO.
**REQ-CVNF_Updating-2:** The 3GPP management system shall be able to receive
notification from ETSI NFV MANO about VNF package update of cloud-native VNF.
## 5.9 Use case# 9: VNF package management of the cloud-native VNF
### 5.9.1 Description
VNF package procedure involves VNF package on-boarding, VNF Package enabling,
VNF Package disabling, VNF Package deleting, Abort VNF package deletion, VNF
Package querying, fetch VNF Package, notify operation on VNF Package
management interface, subscribe operation on VNF Package management interface
and fetch on-boarded VNF Package artifacts, as described in clause 4.3 in TS
28.526 [10].The VNF package management operations (as defined in clause 7.7 in
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 V4.3.1 [9]) used by procedures of VNF Package enabling,
VNF Package disabling and Abort VNF package deletion have been voided. VNF
package on-boarding of the cloud-native VNF is taken as an example to describe
the VNF package management of the cloud-native VNF.
ETSI GR NFV-IFA 029 [3] clause 5.3.7 provides descriptions of use cases for
the onboarding of VNF Packages for containerized workloads. It covers two
different use cases, where the container images are either included or not
included in the VNF Package to be onboarded and introduce MCIOP (Managed
Container Infrastructure Object Package) and CIR (Container Image Registry).
As a pre-condition to this use case, the network is running normally. The 3GPP
management system has subscribed to VNF instance lifecycle notifications from
ETSI NFV MANO.
The use case begins when the 3GPP management system decides to on-board a
containerized VNF package which is used to instantiate the VNF instance.
The 3GPP management system requests ETSI NFV MANO to on-board a containerized
VNF package (as defined in clause 7.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 V4.3.1 [9])
ETSI NFV MANO will upload all managed container infrastructure object packages
which contain declarative descriptors and configuration files (as defined in
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 040 V4.3.1 [6]).
ETSI NFV MANO sends a notification to the 3GPP management system to notify the
result of on-boarding of containerized VNF package. The result indicates if
the uploading and processing, including validation, of the VNF Package has
been successful or not with a standard success/error result.
### 5.9.2 Issues
TS 28.526 [10] describes the procedures to be used by the 3GPP management
system to request VNF package management. However, TS 28.526 [10] is written
in terms (for example Network Manager) which are not compatible with the 5G
architecture as described in TS 28.533 [11] and do not support VNF package
management for containerized VNF.
### 5.9.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-CVNF_VNF_PKG-1:** The 3GPP management system shall have a capability to
interact with ETSI NFV MANO for VNF package management of the cloud-native
VNF.
# 6 Potential solutions
# 6.1 Potential solution for management of the cloud-native VNF using generic
OAM functions
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This clause provides a potential solution for Configuration, Traffic
management and Performance monitoring of the cloud-native VNF using generic
OAM functions.
### 6.1.2 Description
For the functional architecture framework aspect, \"Solutions A and C\" in
clause 6 of ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019 [2] have similar benefits in terms of being
independent functional parts and are recommended to be considered for
normative work. This clause provides possible solutions related to the 3GPP
management system based on these two solutions. The interface for
Configuration, Traffic management and Performance monitoring of the cloud-
native VNF are for further study and not addressed in the present document.
\- Potential solution option 1 related to \"Solutions A\": Introducing
Configuration, Traffic management functions and Performance monitoring of the
cloud-native VNF as a new functional block. In this scenario, the 3GPP
management system is able to add related functions for the life cycle
management of Configuration, Traffic management and Performance monitoring
functions. The 3GPP management system is able to have interfaces to interact
with the Configuration, Traffic management and Performance monitoring
functions using generic OAM functions.
\- Potential solution option 2 related to \"Solutions C\": Configuration,
Traffic management and Performance monitoring functions of the cloud-native
VNF are generalized as VNF. The lifecycle management of the management
functions can be accomplished by network operators using existing management
mechanisms.
## 6.2 Potential impact of allocation of functionality about generic OAM
functions
### 6.2.1 Introduction
ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019 [4] proposes 4 general solutions (A, B1, B2, and C). This
clause explores how the 3GPP Management System may be impacted by the proposed
allocation of functionality for these solutions.
### 6.2.2 ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019 Solution A
In ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019 [4] Solution A, it is proposed to introduce a new
functional block \"Generic OAM\". This new functional block would not be
contained by any existing functional block. Figure 6.2.2-1 (copied from Figure
6.3.3-1 in [4]) shows an overview of the solution.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="3.6597222222222223in"}
Figure 6.2.2-1: Allocation of functionality for Solution A
According to this proposal, there will be a new touchpoint from OSS/BSS to the
Generic OAM functional block. Work is ongoing to define the services or APIs
which are exposed via this new touchpoint, therefore it is not possible at
this time to analyse the impacts to the 3GPP Management System.
### 6.2.3 ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019 Solution B1
In ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019 [4] Solution B1, it is proposed to allocate the new
functionality to existing functional blocks. Figure 6.2.3-1 (copied from
Figure 6.4.2-1 in [4]) uses arrows to show where the functions should be
placed.
{width="6.696527777777778in" height="4.754861111111111in"}
Figure 6.2.3-1: Allocation of functionality for Solution B1
According to this proposal, it is proposed to allocate the following functions
within the Element Manager:
\- Network Configuration Manager
\- VNF Configuration Manager
\- Upgrade VNF
\- VNF Metrics Manager
\- VNF Metrics Aggregator
The conclusion of ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019 [4] states that Solution B \"is not
recommended to be further considered during the normative work\". Therefore,
the implications of Solution B1 are not analysed.
### 6.2.4 ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019 Solution B2
In ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019 [4] Solution B2, it is proposed to allocate the new
functionality to existing functional blocks. Figure 6.2.4-1 (copied from
Figure 6.4.3-1 in [4]) uses arrows to show where the functions should be
placed.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="4.7659722222222225in"} Figure 6.2.4-1:
Allocation of functionality for Solution B2
According to this proposal, it is proposed to allocate the following functions
within the Element Manager:
Network Configuration Manager
\- VNF Configuration Manager
\- Upgrade VNF
The conclusion of ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019 [4] states that Solution B \"is not
recommended to be further considered during the normative work\". Therefore,
the implications of Solution B2 are not analysed.
### 6.2.5 ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019 Solution C
In ETSI GR NFV-EVE 019 [4] Solution C, it is proposed that each generic OAM
function should be a VNF.
According to this proposal, there will be multiple new external management
functions. Work is ongoing to define the services or APIs which are exposed by
these new functions, therefore it is not possible at this time to analyse the
impacts to the 3GPP Management System.
## 6.3 Potential solution for cloud native VNF creation with ETSI NFV MANO
### 6.3.1 Introduction
_The_ following solution corresponds to the use case # 5 on NF creation as a
cloud native VNF.
_In this solution, 3GPP management system (_ Network Function Management
Service Provider (NFMS_P)) interacts with ETSI NFV MANO when initiating a NF
as a cloud native VNF.
### 6.3.2 Description
The Figure 6.3.2-1 illustrates the procedure of creating a new network
function instance by interacting with ETSI NFV MANO. It is proposed that the
existing procedure in clause 7.10 in TS 28.531 can be re-used, however the
latest Release 4 specifications from ETSI NFV should be used.
Figure 6.3.2-1: Network Function Instance Creation procedure
\- Network Function Management Service Provider (NFMS_P) receives a create
network function request (createMOI) from a consumer.
\- If NF instance to be created contains virtualized part and containerized
resource needs to be allocated, NFMS_P interacts with ETSI NFV MANO for VNF
instance creation by using the operation produced by ETSI NFV MANO as
specified in ETSI NFV release 4 specifications. For example:
\- if needed the NFMS_P invokes corresponding VNF Package management procedure
as described in clause 7.7 in ETSI NFV-IFA013 V4.3.1 [9]. The VNF package
which support designing a VNFD for a containerized VNF is complied with ETSI
GS NFV-IFA 011 V4.3.1 [12].
\- the NFMS_P invokes VNF lifecycle management procedure by interworking with
ETSI NFV MANO as described in clause 7.3.5 (update NS operation) in ETSI NFV-
IFA013 V4.3.1 [9] or in clause 7.2.3 (Instantiate VNF operation) in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 008 V4.3.1 [8].
## 6.4 Potential solution for scaling of cloud-native VNF with ETSI NFV MANO
### 6.4.1 Introduction
_The_ following solution corresponds to the use case # 6 on Scaling of cloud-
native VNF.
_In this solution, 3GPP management system_ interacts with ETSI NFV MANO when
initiating scale a NF as a cloud native VNF.
### 6.4.2 Description
The 3GPP management system invokes the Scale NS operation (see clause 7.3.4 in
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [9]) to request NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface to scale
a cloud-native VNF with ScaleVnfData as included. When the NFVO receives the
Scale NS operation of a cloud-native VNF from the 3GPP management system, the
NFVO sends the NS Lifecycle Change notification to the 3GPP management system
indicating the result of Scale NS operation (see clause 7.3.12 of ETSI GS NFV-
IFA 013 [6]).
## 6.5 Potential solution for healing of cloud-native NFV
### 6.5.1 Solution for healing of cloud-native NFV with ETSI NFV MANO
#### 6.5.1.1 Introduction
_The_ following solution corresponds to the use case # 7 Healing of cloud-
native VNF.
_In this solution, 3GPP management system_ interacts with ETSI NFV MANO when
initiating healing a cloud-native VNF.
#### 6.5.1.2 Description
3GPP management system determines to initiate a healing procedure to recover
the faulty virtualization-specific aspects of the cloud-native VNF. The 3GPP
management system invokes the heal NS operation (see clause 7.3.9 in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 013 [9]) to request NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface to heal a cloud-
native VNF with HealVnfData as included. When the NFVO receives the heal NS
operation of a cloud native VNF from the 3GPP management system, the NFVO
sends the NS Lifecycle Change notification to the 3GPP management system
indicating the result of Heal NS operation (see clause 7.3.12 of ETSI GS NFV-
IFA 013 [6]).
### 6.5.2 _Solution for healing of cloud-native NFV with ETSI NFV VNFM_
#### 6.5.2.1 Introduction
_The_ following solution corresponds to the use case # 7 Healing of cloud-
native VNF.
_In this solution, 3GPP management system_ interacts with ETSI NFV VNFM when
initiating healing a cloud-native VNF.
#### 6.5.2.2 Description
3GPP management system determines to initiate a healing procedure to recover
the faulty virtualization-specific aspects of the cloud-native VNF. The 3GPP
management system invokes the heal VNF operation (see clause 7.2.10 in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 008 [8]) to request VNFM via the Ve-Vnfm-em interface to heal a cloud-
native VNF. When the VNFM receives the heal VNF operation of a cloud native
VNF from the 3GPP management system, the VNFM sends the VNF Lifecycle Change
notification to the 3GPP management system indicating the result of Heal VNF
operation (see clause 7.2.15 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [8]).
## 6.6 Potential solution for cloud-native VNF package management with ETSI
NFV MANO
### _6.6.1 Introduction_
The following solution corresponds to the use cases # 8 and 9 on cloud-native
VNF package management.
In this solution, 3GPP management system interacts with ETSI NFV MANO when
initiating VNF package onboarding or update operation for a cloud native VNF.
### _6.6.2 Description_
The 3GPP management system invokes the UploadVnfPackageRequest or
UpdateNsRequest operation (see clauses 7.7.2 and 7.3.5 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[9]) to request NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface to upload a new package or
update an existing VNF package of the cloud-native VNF.
In addition, the 3GPP management system can also invoke
ChangeCurrentVnfPackageRequest (see clause 7.2.24 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [8] )
to request VNFM via the Ve-Vnfm interface to update the current VNF package of
a cloud-native VNF.
The new VNF package or updated VNF package, which support the deployment
requirements, should comply with ETSI GS NFV-IFA011 [12].
# 7 Conclusions and recommendations
## 7.1 General
The present document presents use cases related to the management of cloud-
native virtualized network functions, in terms of life cycle management, PM,
FM and CM, and some of these use cases are related to VNF generic OAM
functions. The potential solutions about the VNF generic OAM functions see
clause 6.1 and the potential impact of different solutions on the 3GPP
management system is briefly analysed in clause 6.2. In addition, based on the
analysis of these use cases, it is recommended that the further normative work
should take into account the relevant progress from ETSI NFV.
## 7.2 Issue on NF creation as a cloud native VNF
It is recommended for 3GPP management system to support the capability of
creation a cloud-native VNF by interacting with ETSI NFV MANO. The operation
as defined in release 4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [9] or ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [8]
should be used.
The detailed solution see clause 6.3.
## 7.3 Issue on Scaling of cloud-native VNF
It is recommended for 3GPP management system to support the capability of
scaling a cloud-native VNF by interacting with ETSI NFV MANO. The operation as
defined in release 4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 should be used.
The detailed solution see clause 6.4.
## 7.4 Issue on healing of cloud-native VNF
It is recommended that _3GPP management system_ interacts with ETSI NFV MANO
for healing a cloud-native VNF. The operation as defined in release 4 of ETSI
GS NFV-IFA 013 [9] should be used.
It is recommended that _3GPP management system_ interacts with ETSI NFV VNFM
for healing a cloud-native VNF. The operation as defined in release 4 of ETSI
GS NFV-IFA 008 [8] should be used.
The detailed solution see clause 6.8.
## 7.5 Issue on VNF package management of the cloud-native VNF
It is recommended that _3GPP management system_ interacts with ETSI NFV MANO
for VNF package management procedures of cloud-native VNF. The operation as
defined in release 4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 and ETSI GS NFV‑IFA 008 should be
used.
The detailed solution see clause 6.9.
Published versions of TS 28.526 [1] (from Release-14 to Release-17) should be
corrected to remove references to VNF package management operations that have
been voided in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [9].
#