# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document ...
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] XML Path Language (XPath), Version 1.0, W3C Recommendation 16 November
1999 (Status updated October 2016), (https://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-
xpath-19991116/)
[3] XML Path Language (XPath) 2.0, W3C Recommendation 14 December 2010 (Link
errors corrected 3 January 2011; Status updated October 2016),
(https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath20/)
[4] XML Path Language (XPath) 3.1, W3C Recommendation 21 March 2017
(https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath-31/)
[5] IETF RFC 6901: \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Pointer\".
[6] IETF Internet-Draft: \"JSONPath: Query expressions for JSON\"; draft-ietf-
jsonpath-base-05; April 2022 (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
ietf-jsonpath-base-05).
[7] XML Information Set (Second Edition), W3C Recommendation 4 February 2004
(https://www.w3.org/TR/xml-infoset/)
[8] XQuery and XPath Data Model 3.1, W3C Recommendation 21 March 2017
(https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath-datamodel-31/)
[9] IETF RFC 7950: \"The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language\"
[10] XForms 2.0 (https://www.w3.org/community/xformsusers/wiki/XForms_2.0)
[11] 3GPP TS 32.158: \"Management and orchestration; Design rules for
REpresentational State Transfer (REST) Solution Sets (SS)\"
[12] IETF RFC 787: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs.\"
> [13] 3GPP TS 28.537: "Management and orchestration; Management
> capabilities".
>
> [14] 3GPP TS 28.662: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Radio Access
> Network (RAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
> (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
>
> [15] 3GPP TS 28.533: "Management and orchestration; Architecture framework".
>
> [16] RFC8525: YANG Library
[17] 3GPP TS 32.160: "Management and orchestration; Management service
template".
[18] IETF RFC 7950: "The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language, August 2016".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Issues
## 4.1 Void
## 4.2 Key issue #2: Targeted notification subscriptions
### 4.2.1 Issue description
SA5 is moving to a fully model driven approach. In this architecture all
aspects that are managed are represented in the information model. It is
possible to observe all changes in the network by observing the changes in the
information model. Note the information model covers all fragments:
configuration management, alarm management and performance management.
Many MnS consumers are not interested in all changes in the network. For that
reason, it is important that MnS consumers can subscribe to specific portions
of the information model only. These portions may be described in terms of
object instances, attributes or attribute fields.
The currently specified \"NtfScubscriptionControl\" does not allow to scope
subscriptions with that granularity. Some enhancements seem to be required to
\"NtfScubscriptionControl\". This clause analyses the current situation and
proposes a solution.
### 4.2.2 Current situation
#### 4.2.2.1 Scoping objects based on object classes
For scoping managed objects, the attribute \"scope\" is provided in
\"NtfSubscriptionControl\". It has two attribute fields: \"scopeType\" and
\"scopeLevel\". This scoping mechanism works only on the hierarchical levels
of the information model. For example, you can select the level below
\"SubNetwork\".
Typically, instances of more than one object class can be located on a level.
For example, below \"SubNetwork\" there can be instances of
\"ManagedElement\", \"PerfMetricJob\", \"TraceJob\" and \"AlarmList\". It is
not possible to scope only instances of one or more specific object classes
with the current scoping mechanism.
To reduce the scoped set of object instances to those with a specific object
class, the \"notificationFilter\" attribute can be used. The IS level
parameters \"objectClass\" and \"objectInstance\" are typically mapped to one
stage 3 parameter (\"href\") only. There is no dedicated parameter for the
\"objectClass\" in stage 3. Filtering out notifications related to certain
object classes involves therefore the application of string functions on
\"href\".
The described mechanism applies to CM notifications and non-CM notifications
such as alarm notifications.
[Note on all examples:]{.underline}
The following examples are for the RESTful HTTP-based solution only. For this
solution the \"notificationFilter\" format is XPath 1.0 in Rel-17. In
addition, the JSON instance document sent over the wire is expressed in XML. A
\ element is added as root element to produce a valid XML
document, a necessary manipulation not described yet in Rel-17.
**[Example 1 (alarm notifications):]{.underline}**
Assume the NRM specified in TS 28.622 is supported on a MnS producer. A
subscription scoping (with \"scopeType\" and \"scopeLevel\") the level below
\"SubNetwork\" has been created. No notification filter is specified. The
subscription is for alarm notifications only. On the level below
\"SubNetwork\" there are instances of \"ManagedElement\", \"PerfMetricJob\"
and \"NtfSubscriptionControl\".
The described subscription forwards alarm notifications related to all manged
object classes. For example, all following notifications are forwarded:
\
\example.com/SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1\
...
\
\
\example.com/SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME2\
...
\
\
\example.com/SubNetwork=SN1/PerfMetricJob=PMJ1\
...
\
\
\example.com/SubNetwork=SN1/NtfSubscriptionControl=NSC1\
...
\
The following notification is not related to the set of scoped objects and
hence not forwarded:
\
\example.com/SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1\
...
\
The subscription shall be modified now to include only \"ManagedElement\"
objects. This is realized with an appropriate XPath expression as value of
\"notificationFilter\". Possible XPath expressions include:
**XPath expression 1:**
The following XPath expression returns the \"notification\" node since the
string \"ManagedElement\" is contained in the \"href\" value.
\"/notification[contains(href,\"ManagedElement\")]\"
**XPath expression 2:**
The following expression checks for the presence of \"ManagedElement\" after
\"example.com/SubNetwork=SN1\".
\"/notification[starts-with\
(substring-after(path,\"example.com/SubNetwork=SN1/\"),\
\"ManagedElement\")]\"
**[Example 2 (alarm notifications):]{.underline}**
Assume again the NRM specified in TS 28.622 is supported on a MnS producer.
\"PerfMetricJob\" instances have been created below \"SubNetwork\" and below
some \"ManagedElement\" instances. A MnS consumer wishes to create a
subscription related to all \"PerfMetricJob\" instances.
The notification scope needs to include the complete object tree starting at
\"SubNetwork\". In case a \"PerfMetricJob\" instance is always a leaf object,
then checking for the presence of the sub-string \"PerfMetricJob\" in \"href\"
does the job. In case a \"PerfMetricJob\" instance is not always a leaf
object, then it is necessary to check, if the last path segment of \"href\"
identifies a \"PerfMetricJob\". A simple test on if the \"href\" value
includes the sub-string \"PerfMetricJob\" is not sufficient. There is no
obvious Xpath expression to solve this problem, at least not with XPath1.0.
**[Example 3 (\"notifyMOICreation\", \"notifyMOIDeletion\",
\"notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges\")]{.underline}**
The created, dfeleted or updated objerct is specified with the \"href\"
parameter of the notification header. For that reason the same considerations
as for alarm notifications apply.
**[Example 3 (\"notifyMOIChanges\")]{.underline}**
The objects are identifierd with both the \"href\" and \"path\" parameter.
Filtering on these parameters to reduce the scoped set of objects to the sub-
set of interest is not a feasible solution.
#### 4.2.2.2 Scoping attributes
The scoping mechanism allows to select a set of objects. This is good enough
for notification types related to the complete object, such as alarm
notifications, or when a MnS consumer is interested in receiving attribute
value change notifications for all attributes of an object. It is not possible
to target specific attributes of an object only using the scoping mechanism.
When a MnS consumer is interested only in value changes of one or more
specific attributes of an object, then the MnS consumer needs to configure
into the subscription an appropriate notification filter.
Note the following examples are for the RESTful HTTP-based solution only.
**Example 1 (\"notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges\"):**
Assume a subscription for \"notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges\" includes the
instance of \"XyzFunction\" identified by \"XYZF1\". A notification reporting
the value change of \"attrA\" and \"attrB\" looks like
\
\example.com/SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1\
...
\
\123\
\abc\
\
\
\456\
\def\
\
\
If a MnS consumer is interested only in value changes of \"attrA\", then he
needs to specify a notification filter testing on the presence of \"attrA\",
for example:
\"/notification/attributeListValueChanges[attrA]\"
Note that the complete notification including also \"attrB\" is forwarded in
case the test evaluates to true. The \"attrB\" cannot be removed from the
notification. With filtering either the complete notification is forwarded, or
the complete notification is not forwarded.
Note also that for \"notifyMOIChanges\" the situation is more complicated.
Changes of multiple managed object instances can be reported using a single
\"notifyMOIChanges\" notification. Even worse, the object instance in the
notification header may not even be an instance that has changed, but only a
common ancestor of the instances that have changed. This means that not only
the \"href\" property of the notification header needs to be checked but also
the \"path\" properties of the notification body.
#### 4.2.2.3 Scoping objects or attributes based on conditions
It is currently not possible to specify a conditional scope. A conditional
scope could be based for example on the presence of an attribute or on an
attribute with a specific value. Note that scoping based on object classes can
be considered as conditional scope.
For example, a MnS consumer might be interested only in changes of
\"AlarmInformation\" instances (reported with alarm notifications) with a
perceived severity equal to \"CRITICAL\".
### 4.2.3 Analysis
Scoping capabilities are currently limited.
### 4.2.4 Potential requirements
Potential requirements to address the issues identified above are
[Req-1] A subscription shall enable to select a single object instance.
[Req-2] A subscription should enable to select a complete subtree of objects
starting at a specified base object.
[Reg-3] A subscription shouldenable to select the objects on a specified level
below a specified base object.
[Req-4] A subscription shouldenable to select the objects starting at a
specified base object down to and including a specified level below the base
object.
[Req-5] A subscription shouldenable to select multiple object instances based
on object instance identifiers.
[Req-6] A subscription shouldenable to select multiple object instances based
on object classes.
[Req-7] A subscription shouldenable to select multiple object instances based
on filter conditions.
The following potential additional requirements apply for subscriptions to CM
notifications:
[Req-8] A subscription shouldenable to select attributes within selected
object instances.
[Req-9] A subscription shouldenable to select attribute fields within selected
object instances.
[Req-10] A subscription shouldenable to select attribute elements within
selected object instances.
[Req-11] A subscription shouldenable to select attributes, attribute fields
and attribute elements based on filter conditions.
Note only [Req-1] is mandatory. All other requirements are optional. This
allows for implementations of different complexity that are tailored for
different deployment needs.
The MnS consumer should be able to get the information which exact
subscription capabilities are supported by a MnS producer, or more
specifically by \"NtfSubscriptionControl\". This may require the introduction
of capability identifiers that can be retrieved by MnS consumers.
### 4.2.5 Potential solutions
#### 4.2.5.1 Introduction
Solutions to the potential requirements in clause 4.2.4 need to be able to
conditionally select nodes in node trees.
Note: The NRM is a node tree. Node types are objects and attributes. The tree
is defined by the name-containment relationships.
The target is to use an existing notation as solution, ideally without any
modifications. The following notations are analyzed for use with JSON defined
NRMs:
  * XPath 1.0 [2]
  * XPath 2.0 [3]
  * XPath 3.1 [4]
  * JSON Pointer [5]
  * JSONPath [6]
The following notations are analyzed for use with YANG defined NRMs:
  * XPath 1.0 [2]
  * XPath 2.0 [3]
  * XPath 3.1 [4]
All notations listed above are quite powerful. Only a subset is required to
support the potential requirements documented in clause 4.2.4. This subset is
identified in the following clauses.
_Editor\'s note: It is ffs if a stage 2 definition is required, that is more
detailed than the requirements, and from which the subset can be identified in
a direct mapping._
_Editor\'s note: XPath does not work on XML. Instead, it works on an own data
model defined in XPath 1.0 [2], clause 5. This clause also describes the
mapping of an XML document to the XPath model. The mapping of a JSON document
to the XPath model is ffs. Alternatively, some mapping between a JSON document
to a XML document needs to be looked at._
#### 4.2.5.2 XPath 1.0
##### 4.2.5.2.1 General considerations
XPath 1.0 [2] has been designed primarily to select one or more nodes of an
XML document. However, XPath is a notatition that is not tied to XML and
\"operates on the abstract, logical structure of an XML document or JSON
object, rather than its surface syntax.\", as clarified in XML Path Language
(XPath) 3.1 [4], clause 1. This is because an XPath expression operates on
documents with an own XPath specific data model, and not on the XML or JSON
surface syntax. This data model is specified in XPath 1.0 [2], clause 5. Note
the data model for XPath 2.0 [3] and XPath 3.1 [4] is described in XQuery and
XPath Data Model 3.1 [8].
Since an XPath expression works on an own data model, it is necessary to
translate XML of JSON input documents into that data model.
For XML this translation is clearly defined by W3C. It is a two-step process.
The mapping from the information in an XML document to the XML Information Set
is described in XML Information Set [7]. The mapping from the XML Information
Set to the XPath data model is described in XPath 1.0 [2], annex B. The
mapping from YANG to XML is defined in RFC 7950 [9].
However, W3C did not define a clear mapping of a JSON document into the XPath
data model, see the following clause for more details.
XPath models an XML or JSON document as a tree of nodes. NRM objects and NRM
attributes are both mapped to a specific node type of the XPath data model,
the element node. XPath 1.0 does hence not distinguish between element nodes
representing NRM objects and element nodes representing NRM attributes.
Furthermore, XPath 1.0 does not distinguish between child element nodes that
represent NRM attributes and those child nodes (at the same level in the the
tree hierarchy) that represent name contained objects.
These two observations have some important implications when using XPath 1.0
for selecting NRM objects:
The first implication is that it is not possible to select all NRM attributes
of an NRM object unless some measures are taken. Assume the XPath expression
\"SubNetwork/*\", it selects all attributes of SubNetwork, but also the name
contained objects. Fortunately, the attributes are embedded in an
\"attributes\" container in the YANG and JSON defined NRMs. Therefore, it is
easy to construct an XPath expression selecting all attributes of an object.
The XPath expression is \"SubNetwork/attributes\" (when the \"attributes\"
element node and the attribute element nodes are selected) or
\"SubNetwork/attributes/*\" (when only the attribute element nodes are
selected).
The second implication is that when selecting the child objects of an object,
for example with the XPath expression \"SubNetwork/ManagedElement\", which
selects all \"ManagedElement\" childs of \"SubNetwork\", then also the objects
name contained by the \"ManagedElement\" childs are selected, and so forth. In
other words, the child axis works based on element nodes and not on NRM
objects as desired. XPath 1.0 does not offer any solution for this problem.
Only the attributes container may be used again to select only the attributes
of the \"ManagedElement\" childs, the XPath expression to select the
\"ManagedElement\" childs is hence \"SubNetwork/ManagedElement/attributes\".
Note XPath 1.0 is verbose and does not allow for compact expressions in many
cases. For example, to select a subset of all attributes of an object, each
attribute needs to be selected individually with the complete location path:
/SubNetwork/attributes/attrA \| /SubNetwork/attributes/attrB
And when multiple objects shall be selected based on object instance names,
then the complete location path and predicate needs to be repeated for each
instance
//*[objectInstance=\"DN1\"]/attributes \| //*[objectInstance=
\"DN2\"]/attributes
An XPath expression is evaluated within a context. The context consists of:
  * a node (the context node)
  * a pair of non-zero positive integers (the context position and the context size)
  * a set of variable bindings
  * a function library
  * the set of namespace declarations in scope for the expression
The context needs to be clearly defined.
**XPath expression examples (assuming the presence of an \"attributes\"
container in the info model):**
Select the specified base object
/*/attributes
Select all objects in the tree starting at the specified base object:
//attributes
Select all objects on a specific level below a specified base object, in this
case the second level below the base object:
/*/*/*/attributes
Select the objects starting from a specified base object down to and including
the objects on a specific level below the base object:
/*/attributes \| /*/*/attributes \| /*/*/*/attributes
Select objects based on their object instance identifiers in the tree starting
at the base object:
//*[objectInstance=\"DN1\"]/attributes \| //*[objectInstance=
\"DN2\"]/attributes
Select objects based on their object class
/SubNetwork/attributes
/SubNetwork[id=\"SN1\"]/ManagedElement/attributes
//*[objectClass=\"NtfSubscriptionControl\"]/attributes
Select specific attributes and attribute fields:
\/attrA \| \/attrB/subAttrB1
\/attributes/attrA \|
\attributes/attrB/subAttrB1
Select objects and attributes based on predicates (conditions):
\[\]
\/attributes\[\]
##### 4.2.5.2.2 Special considerations for JSON
As stated in the previous clause W3C did not provide a real mapping from JSON
to the XPath data model. It is possible though to use a mapping from JSON to
XML defined in XForms2.0 [10], clause 5.2.2. The resulting XML document can
then be mapped to the XPath data model.
Note, XForms2.0 is a W3C draft from 2010 and not a W3C standard. The produced
XML document contains in XML attributes information about the original JSON
data taypes. JSON arrays are mapped in a very specific way to XML (see example
below). These mapping rules preserve all information for mapping the XML
document again back to the original JSON document.
For example, the JSON snippet
\"load\": [0.31, 0.33, 0.32]
is mapped according to XForms2.0 to
\
\0.31\
\0.33\
\0.32\
\
Other best practices propose to map the JSON snippet as follows:
\0.31\
\0.33\
\0.32\
There is hence not one and only one standard specifying the mapping from a
JSON document to an XML document. One could argue that the XML document is
anyway a conceptual document only that is not visible on the wire and used
only internally in the MnS producer helping to apply the XPath expression to a
JSON document. However, the exact way how JSON is mapped to XML has
implications on the XPath expression to select nodes.
For example, when the first mapping method is used, the XPath expression
snippet to select the first array item is
/load/_[1]
When the second mapping method is used, the XPath expression snippet is
/load/[1]
For a really interoperable solution, the MnS consumer needs to know the exact
way the MnS producer maps JSON to XML. This means in turn, that the mapping
method needs to be standardized by SA5.
A second option is to provide a mapping from the information elements in a
JSON document to the XPath data model directly without an XML mapping in-
between. Such a mapping is not provided at all by W3C.
The XPath data model has seven types of nodes: root nodes, element nodes, text
nodes, attribute nodes, namespace nodes, processing instruction nodes, comment
nodes. Each node has multiple properties.
Here after, a proposal to directly map a JSON document to the XPath data
model:
  * The JSON document is mapped to the root node.
  * The name of a name/value pair is mapped to an element node. The element node coming from the name is a child of the root node. Vice versa, the root node is the parent of the element node coming from the name.
  * The value of a name/value pair is mapped to a text node if the value is a string, a number, or one of the tree literal names: false, true, null. The element node coming from the name is the parent of the text node coming from the value. Vice versa, the text node coming from the value is the child of the element node coming from the name.
  * The value of a name/value pair is mapped to one or more element nodes if the value is an object. There is one element node for each name/value pair contained in the object. The names of the element nodes are equal to the names of the name/value pairs the element nodes are coming from. The element node coming from the name is the parent of the element nodes coming from the value. Vice versa, the element nodes coming from the value are the children of the element node coming from the name.
  * The value of a name/value pair is mapped to one or more element nodes if the value is an array. There is one element node for each array item contained in the array. The names of the element nodes are all identical and equal to the name of the name/value pair they are coming from. The element node coming from the name is the parent of the element nodes coming from the value. Vice versa, the element nodes coming from the value are the children of the element node coming from the name.
We can conclude that only root nodes, element nodes and text nodes are used.
Attribute nodes, namespace nodes, processing instruction nodes, and comment
nodes are not used.
As to node properties, only name, children and parent are used.
In case XPath is chosen as node selection language, then it is necessary to
specify in normative fashion either the JSON to XML mapping, or the JSON to
XPath data model mapping.
Now we will look at if due to some inherent properties of JSON all XPath
concepts are applicable, when the original document from which nodes are
selected, is a JSON document.
A JSON object is an unordered collection of zero or more name/value pairs.
This is why the concept of document order (clause 5 of XPath 1.0 [2]) is not
applicable when an XPath expression is applied to an XPath data model that was
generated from a JSON document. This has the following implications:
  * The following axes cannot be used: following, following-sibling, preceding, preceding-sibling.
  * The following functions cannot be used: position, local-name, namespace-uri, name.
JSON does not have a namespace concept. This is why XPath concepts related to
name spaces are not applicable. This has the following implications:
  * The following axes cannot be used: namespace
  * The following functions cannot be used: local-name, namespace-uri, name
JSON does not have a concept similar to XML attributes. This is why XPath
concepts related to attributes are not applicable. This has the following
implications:
  * The following axes cannot be used: attribute
Out of the seven node types specified in XPath 1.0 [2] only the root node,
element node and text node are used. The attribute nodes, namespace nodes,
processing instruction nodes and comment nodes are not used.
The name of the root element node is the class name of the base object. The
base object is the node that contains the \"NtfSubscriptionControl\" instance
(that in turn has an attribute whose value is the XPath expression).
Note that the root element node (document element) is not the same as the root
node. The root element node is the mapping of the top-level name/value pair in
the JSON document, whereas the root node is the (conceptual) parent of that
object. The root node is the mapping of the JSON document.
When the value of the top-level name/value pair is an array, which is always
the case for JSON defined NRMs in SA5, this array can contain only one item,
which is the base object, in the special context of notification subscription.
Considerations on how to handle the case where a top-level array can contain
multiple items are hence not required.
For example, assume the information model is described by annex A.1 in TS
32.158 [11]. Further assume that the \"ManagedElement\" with the id \"ME1\"
contains a \"NtfSubscriptionControl\" instance for which a node selection
XPath expression shall be constructed. The base object is the
\"ManagedElement\" with the id \"ME1\". The JSON document, to which the XPath
expression is applied to, is as follows:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": \"SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 1\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"TV Tower\" | | | | }, | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1,XyzFunction=XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1,XyzFunction=XYZF2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"abc\", | | | | \"attrB\": 552 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
or
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": \"SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 1\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"TV Tower\" | | | | }, | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1,XyzFunction=XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": | | \"SubNetwork=SN1,ManagedElement=ME1,XyzFunction=XYZF2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"abc\", | | | | \"attrB\": 552 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Since a well formed XML document has one and only one root elemet the first
alternative is preferred. It contains the key \"ManagedElement\" that maps to
the name of the XML root element. The XPath expression to identify the base
object only is then
/MangedElement/attributes
or
/*/attributes
##### 4.2.5.2.3 Special considerations for YANG
The mapping from YANG to XML is defined in RFC 7950 [9]. No special
considerations are required.
#### 4.2.5.3 XPath 2.0
XPath 2.0 [3] introduces sequence expressions which help to render Xpath
expressions more compact. For example, multiple attributes of an object can be
selected by
/SubNetwork/(attrA, attrB)
and multiple objects based on instance names with
//*[objectInstance=(\"DN1\", \"DN2\")]/attributes
Other concepts added in XPath 2.0 like quantified expressiuons provide no
obvious value for the use cases analysed.
##### 4.2.5.2.4 XPath 1.0 profiles
_Editor\'s note: The content of this clause is work in progress and subject to
change._
An XPath expression matches the production \"Expr\" defined in XPath 1.0 [2],
clause 3.1. However, the general expression is much too generic for selecting
nodes of an input document. For example, it allows also expressions like
(5, 256)[2]
which selects the second item in the sequence (5, 256), hence 256. This
expression does not work at all on an input document. Even if \"5\" and
\"256\" is replaced by some XPath expression evaluating to numbers, the
expression cannot be used for selecting nodes.
This is why only one or more XPath profiles are needed.
Two XPath profiles are proposed:
  * Basic profile: Supporting limited features allowing XPath to browse the document from one element node to another. The XPath EBNF is detailed in annex A.1. In this profile a location path is defined as an absolute location path. An absolute location path consists of a sequence of one or more location steps separated by / and preceded by /. The location steps in an absolute location path are composed together from left to right. Each step-in turn selects a set of nodes relative to a context node. Note that a / by itself selects the root node of the document. The basic profile supports a predicate that filters on the \"id\".
Example: /SubNetwork[id=\"SN1\"]/ManagedElement[id=\"ME2\"]/attributes
A location step is composed of
  * an axis specifier, which specifies the tree relationship between the nodes selected by the step and the context node
  * a node name which specifies the node name of the node selected by the location step. The node name can be a wildcard \"*\".
The axis specifier includes two axes:
  * Child: axis containing the children of the context node
> Example (unabbreviated syntax): /child::SubNetwork/child::*
>
> Example (abbreviated syntax): /SubNetwork/*
  * Descendant: axis containing the descendants of the context node; a descendant is a child or a child of a child and so on
> Example: /SubNetwork/descendant::*
The predicate
  * is an equality expression with the \"=\" operator, the relative location path \"id\" on the left side and a literal string on the right side.
Note that the axis specifier \"child::\" can be omitted from a location step,
because child is the default axis. For example, a location path
/SubNetwork/ManagedElement is short for
/child::SubNetwork/child::ManagedElement.
Regarding the asterisk character \"*\", it is reserved to denote a wildcard
when used in the location path. It selects all element children of the context
node. In the the EBNF notation, the character \"*\" mentions repetition symbol
(it can be also represented inside curly brackets followed by the \"*\").
  * Advanced profile: supporting more advanced features like the usage of the predicates. The XPath EBNF is detailed in annex A.2. In this profile, a relative location path is added as a second option to the location path. A relative location path consists of a sequence of one or more location steps separated by / and it does not need to start from the root node as the absolute path.
Example: / / attributes
In this profile, in addition to the axis specifier and Node Name (same as the
basic profile), a more sophisticated predicate option is added to the location
step. The predicate uses arbitrary expressions to further refine the set of
nodes selected by the step. Predicates are defined by an expression
(PredicateExpr) always embedded in square brackets. A PredicateExpr can be as
follows:
  * An EqualityExpr: expression evaluated by comparing the objects that > result from evaluating the two operands. On the right side, the > operand is a literal string object and on the left side a PathExpr > is introduced as an operand. The PathExpr might be a location path > returning an object having one of the following types: node-set, > boolean, number or string.
> If the PathExpr object is a node-set, then each node in the node-set is
> compared to the literal string defined in the right side. Note that a node
> in the node-set might have one/many descendants nodes. And in such a case
> the comparison expression is evaluated to \"false\". This kind of comparison
> is accepted by Xpath (correct syntax); and it returns an empty result.
> Unfortunately, in the EBNF the PathExpr can not be constrained to avoid such
> a comparison (See more details on handling comparison based on the node-set
> in clause 3.4 [2]).
>
> Examples: /SubNetwork/ManagedElement[id=\"ME1\"]
  * InEqualityExpr: expression defining a comparison of a PathExpr > object to a given number. Here again, the same problem related to > node-set comparison as discussed above is true. Note that here > object to be compared is converted to a number as if by applying > the number function (more details in clause 3.5 [2]).
> Example: //attributes/ThresholdLevels[level>1]
  * A functionCall: evaluated by using the Function Name to identify a > function in XPath function librairy. Each function in the function > library is specified using a function prototype, which gives the > return type, the name of the function, and the type of the > arguments (more details in Clause 4[2]).
> Examples:
>
> /SubNetwork/ManagedElement[starts-with(id,\"ME2\")]
>
> /SubNetwork/ManagedElement[contains(id,\"ME\")]
The rest of the grammar introduced in the EBNF defines additional rules for
the lexical structure (Literal, Number and Name structure). Note also that
some functions are excluded since they are not useful for this profile.
#### 4.2.5.4 XPath 3.1
Concepts added in XPath 3.1 [4] provide no obvious value for the use cases
analysed.
_Editor\'s note: Functions to deal with JSON arrays and maps may need further
analysis._
#### 4.2.5.5 JSON Pointer
JSON Pointer [5] defines a string syntax for identifying a specific value
within a JSON document. A JSON Pointer expression points to one and only one
value. Items of an array are identified based on their index and not key.
These properties do not make JSON Pointer a good candidate for selecting
multiple nodes.
#### 4.2.5.6 JSONPath
JSONPath [6] is still a draft RFC. Its intention is to be a powerful JSON
Pointer.
**Example JSONPath expressions**
Select a subtree starting from the base object
\$
Select all objects with a specific class
\$..*[?(@.objectClass==\"ManagedElement\")]
Select all objects based on their DN
\$..*[?(@.objectInstance==\"DN1\" \|\| @.objectInstance== \"DN2\")]
Select specified attributes and attribute fields:
\$.SubNetwork[?(@.id==\"SN1\")].attributes.userLabel
\$.SubNetwork[?(@.id==\"SN1\")].attributes.plmnId.mcc
\$.SubNetwork[?(@.id==\"SN1\")].attributes[userLabel,userDefinedNetworkType]
\$.SubNetwork[?(@.id==\"SN1\")].attributes[userLabel,plmnId.mcc], does not
work
Select an array element
\$.SubNetwork[?(@.id==\"SN1\")].ThresholdMonitor[?(@.id==\"TM1\")].attributes.thresholdLevels[?(@.level==1)]
Conditional read: return attributes container only when a condition is met,
in this case \"userLabel\" is equal to \"Berlin NW\"
\$.SubNetwork[?(@.id==\"SN1\")][?(@.userLabel==\"Berlin NW\")]
in this case we walk down one level for a test
\$.SubNetwork[?(@.id==\"SN1\")][?(@.plmnId.mcc==456)], does not work
in this case an absolute path is used, that is outside of the current object
\$.SubNetwork[?(@.id==\"SN1\")].attributes[?(\$.SubNetwork[?(@.id==\"SN1\")].ThresholdMonitor[?(@.id==\"TM1\")].attributes.metric==\"Metric1\")],
does not work
Test on the presence of an attribute
\$.SubNetwork[?(@.id==\"SN1\")][?(@.userLabel)]
### 4.2.6 CR proposal
It is proposed to add the following clause to TS 32.158.
****** BEGIN
*********************************************************************************
**Definitions (to be placed in definitions clause)**
**JSON document** : A JSON document contains JSON text. A JSON text is a
serialized JSON value. A JSON value is an object, array, number, or string, or
one of the following three literal names: false, null, true.
**X JPath**
**X.1 Introduction**
Information can be represented in a structured way using markup languages.
Well-known and widely used markup languages are for example XML and JSON.
It is required for numerous purposes to identify distinct portions of XML or
JSON documents. For XML, XPath has been designed for that purpose. XPath is
very powerful and includes capabilities for conditional node selection with
predicates. XPath expressions can select one or more portions of an XML
document.
JSON Pointer serves a similar purpose. However, its capabilities are limited
when compared to XPath. JSON Pointer expressions can identify only one portion
of a JSON document. The idea of introducing conditions into the information
selection process is not supported.
This calls for a notation applicable to JSON documents with more advanced
features than JSON Pointer. This notation is called JPath. It is inspired by
and based on XPath.
Even though XPath was originally designed to select one or more nodes of an
XML document, XPath expressions operate on documents based on a conceptual
data model, the XPath data model. A mapping from the XML Information Set to
the XPath data model is provided in Annex B of XPath 1.0 [15].
The main purpose of the JPath specification is to provide a mapping from a
JSON document to the XPath data model. With this in place XPath expressions
are (indirectly) applicable to JSON.
This specification will also introduce a few profiles for XPath. These
profiles are designed to provide the functionality required for network and
service management.
Clause X.2 provides a short review of the XPath data model. Clause X.3 defines
the mapping of a JSON document to the XPath data model, and clause X.4
introduces a few XPath profiles. Annex A demonstrates to use of JPath for
network management tasks.
Readers should be familiar with XPath 1.0 [15].
**X.2 XPath data model**
The XPath data model is described in clause 5 of W3C Xpath1.0 specification
[15]. It is a conceptual model without formal notation.
The model consists of nodes with relationships between them. There are seven
types of nodes defined: root node, element node, text node, attribute node,
namespace node, processing instruction node, comment node.
Note that the data model for XPath 2.0 [xx] and XPath 3.1 [xy] is described in
XQuery and in XPath Data Model 3.1 [15] and which is out of scope of this
specification.
**X.3 Mapping of JSON to the XPath data model**
**X.3.1 Supported JSON documents.**
Only documents whose value is a JSON object are supported. Multiple name/value
pairs are allowed.
**X.3.2 Mapping of the JSON document**
A JSON document is mapped to the root node. The root node has no name.
_Editor\'s note: Discuss mapping of the \"top-level\" JSON value._
_Edito\'s note: Discuss mapping of numbers and strings._
**X.3.3 Mapping of the name of name/value pairs**
If the value of the name/value pair is a string, a number, one of the tree
literal names, or a JSON object, then the name of the name/value pair is
mapped to one element node. The name of the element node is equal to the name
of the name/value pair.
If the value of the name/value pair is a JSON array, then the name of the
name/value pair is mapped to a specific number of element nodes. The names of
these element nodes are all identical to the name of the name/value pair. The
number of element nodes depends on the data types of the array items and is
determined as follows:
\- For each array item there is an element node if the array item is a scalar
or a JSON object.
\- If the array item is an array itself, then there is an element node for
each array item of the subordinate array.
**X.3.4 Mapping of the value of name/value pairs**
**X.3.4.1 Mapping of scalar values**
A scalar value is a string, a number, or one of the tree literal names. These
values are mapped to text nodes.
A text node coming from the value of a mapped name/value pair is the child of
the element node coming from the name of the mapped name/value pair. Vice
versa, the element node coming from the name of the mapped name/value pair is
the parent of the text node coming from the value of the mapped name/value
pair.
Example:
+------------+--------------+ | > \"a\": 1 | \1\ | +------------+--------------+
**X.3.4.2 Mapping of a JSON object**
A JSON object consists of unordered name/value pairs. These name/value pairs
are mapped as described in this clause. The element nodes coming from the
name/value pairs of a JSON object shall be considered as an unordered list of
element nodes.
An element node coming from the name/value pair of a JSON object is a child of
the element node coming from the name of the name/value pair, whose value is
the JSON object. Vice versa, the element node coming from the name of the
name/value pair, whose value is a JSON object, is the parent of the element
nodes coming from the name/value pairs of the JSON object.
Example:
+-------------+--------------+ | > \"a\": { | \ | | > | | | > \"b\": 1, | \1\\\ | | > | | | > \"c\": 2 | \2\\\ | | > | | | > } | \ | +-------------+--------------+
**X.3.4.3 Mapping of a JSON array**
A JSON array consists of ordered array items. Each array item can be a string,
a number, one of the tree literal names, a JSON object, or a JSON array. The
array items are mapped as described in this clause. The element nodes coming
from the array items shall be ordered in the same way as the array items.
An element node coming from an array item of a JSON array is a child of the
element node coming from the name of the name/value pair, whose value is the
JSON array. Vice versa, the element node coming from the name of the
name/value pair, whose value is a JSON array, is the parent of the element
nodes coming from the array items of the JSON array.
Example:
+-------------+--------------+ | > \"a\": [ | \1\\\ | | > | | | > 1, | \2\\\ | | > | | | > 2 | | | > | | | > ] | | +-------------+--------------+
+-------------+--------------+ | > \"a\": [ | \1\\\ | | > | | | > [1, 2], | \2\\\ | | > | | | > [3, 4] | \3\\\ | | > | | | > ] | \4\ | +-------------+--------------+
+--------------+--------------+ | > \"a\": [ | \1\\\ | | > | | | > 1, | \2\\\ | | > | | | > [2, 3], | \3\\\ | | > | | | > {\"c\": 4} | \ | | > | | | > ] | \4\ | | | | | | \ | +--------------+--------------+
**X.3.5 XPath data model concepts required by JSON**
A JSON document is mapped to root nodes, element nodes and text nodes.
Attribute nodes, namespace nodes, processing instruction nodes and comment
nodes have no equivalent in JSON.
The concept of document order is applicable only for arrays.
_Editor\'s note: It is ffs how the concept of document order for arrays can be
applied._
The concept of variables is not used.
**X.3.6 Additional considerations for JSON definitions of a NRM**
When working with the JSON definitions of a NRM the following statements are
always true:
\- The items of an array have the same type.
\- Array items can be only scalars or JSON objects.
_Editor\'s note: Explain concept of Accessible tree of an NRM_
_Editor\'s note: Explain that difference between object and attributes
disappears in JSON._
**X.4 JPath expressions**
**X.4.1 Introduction**
JPath uses the same syntax, the same concepts and the same definitions as
XPath. JPath expressions are a subset of XPath expressions. All subsets
support only the abbreviated syntax. The output of a JPath expression is
always a node set.
Different subsets are defined in the following clauses. All subsets have the
same allowed location path expression. Subsets differ in the capabilities of
the predicate. A subset is also called JPath profile.
**X.4.1 Evaluation context**
JPath expressions are evaluated in a context, that is a subset of the XPath
evaluation context. The JPath context includes
\- a node (the context node)
\- a pair of non-zero positive integers (the context position and the context
size)
\- a function library
**X.4.3 The location path**
A JPath expression is an absolute location path. An absolute location path
consists of \"/\", optionally followed by a relative location path. A \"/\" by
itself selects the root node of the document.
AbsoluteLocationPath ::= \'/\' RelativeLocationPath
A relative location path consists of a sequence of one or more location steps
separated by \"/\".
RelativeLocationPath ::= Step \| RelativeLocationPath \'/\' Step
Only the child axis is supported. The child axis is the default axis and
omitted in the abbreviated syntax of a location step. The location step
contains only a node test and an optional predicate.
Step ::= NodeTest Predicate?
The node test is a name test. The asterisk \"*\" is supported and selects all
element children of the context node.
NodeTest ::= NameTest
NameTest ::= \'*\' \| QName
The \"QName\" is either a class name, the string \"attributes\", an attribute
name, or an attribute field name.
_Editor\'s note: EBNF for QName tbd._
The predicate is an expression encapsulated in rectangular brackets.
Predicate ::= \'[\' PredicateExpr \']\'
The capabilities of the predicate expression differ for the different JPath
profiles.
_Editor\'s note: Add XPath 2.0 capability to select multiple nodes with a
sequence, e.g._ \"_.../(a,b)_ \".
**X.4.4 JPath basic**
tbd
**X.4.5 JPath advanced**
tbd
### 4.2.7 Conclusion
It is recommended to define a mapping from a JSON document to the XPath data
model and to identify a basic and advanced subset of XPath expressions working
on that model.
This allows to apply a certain subset of XPath expressions safely to JSON
documents.
It is also recommended to use the mechanism not only for targeted notification
subscriptions, but also whenever it is required to identify, when being
located on some object or attribute, other attributes in other objects.
## 4.3 Issue #3: Definition of createMOI
### 4.3.1 Issue description
The operation \"createMOI\" in TS 28.532 is underspecified and needs to be
improved in many aspects.
### 4.3.2 Analysis
The following points need to be clarified in the definition of \"createMOI\":
\- Clarify that the name of the new object is assigned by the MnS consumer.
\- Clarify that the MnS consumer does not need to provide in the creation
request values for all attributes defined for the object class.
\- Clarify that depending on the object class some attribute values have to be
provided in the creation request.
\- Clarify the MnS producer may provide values for attributes, for which no
value is provided in the request.
\- Clarify the operation is synchronous.
### 4.3.3 CR proposal
The existing clause 11.1.1.1 in TS 28.532 shall be replaced as follows:
****** BEGIN
*********************************************************************************
11.1.1.1 createMOI operation
11.1.1.1.1 Description
This operation is invoked by MnS consumers to request a MnS producer to create
a (single) managed object instance on the MnS producer.
The \"managedObjectClass\" parameter in the request specifies the class name
and the \"managedObjectInstance\" parameter the instance name of the object to
be created. Both parameters shall be included in the request.
The MnS consumer shall generate the instance name by first assigning a value
to the naming attribute of the new instance, and then constructing a DN
according to TS 32.300 [25].
The MnS consumer shall provide in \"attributeListIn\" none, some or all values
for the attributes specified by the managed object class definition of the
class to be created. The MnS producer shall not update attribute values or
remove attribute values, that are provided in the request, before creating the
object and returning the \"createMOI\" response.
The properties of an attribute determine if attribute values shall, shall not
or may be provided in the \"createMOI\" request. If no value is provided and a
default value is specified for the attribute, the MnS producer shall set the
attribute value to the default value. For further information on attribute
properties and their impact on the presence or absence of attribute values in
object creation requests and MnS producer behaviour, see TS 32.156 [x], clause
5.2.1 and annex B.
When the MnS producer assigns values, that are not known to the MnS consumer,
to one or more attributes for which no value is included in the \"createMOI\"
request, the MnS producer shall include \"attributeListOut\" in the
\"createMOI\" response, otherwise \"attributeListOut\" may be omitted.
In case of a successful operation, the object shall be created immediately
upon reception of the \"createMOI\" request, and the \"createMOI\" response
shall be returned immediately after the creation of the object. The MnS
producer shall not wait with the creation of the object or returning the
response until some other potentially long-lasting process or activity, that
might be triggered by the reception of the request or the creation of the
object, has completed.
Only objects, whose parent exists, can be created (directly under that
parent). The MnS producer shall consider an attempt to create an object whose
parent object does not exist as an error.
Note, stage 3 protocols represent missing values for attributes, that are
defined by the object class, in the \"createMOI\" request in different ways.
For some protocols just the attribute name may be present, without an
attribute value. For other protocols, the complete attribute name/value pair
may be absent.
Some stage 3 protocols do not support returning \"attributeListOut\". In this
case, the MnS producer shall not modify the attribute list provided in the
request before creating the object. If required by TS 32.156 [x], clause 5.2.1
and annex B, the MnS producer shall assign default values to attributes only
after returning the \"createMOI\" response. Attribute value change
notifications may be used to notify MnS consumers about the changes. Only
default values, that have a specific definitive value may be assigned upon
object creation. This is because the MnS consumer knows the MnS producer will
assign this value when required according to TS 32.156 [x], clause 5.2.1 and
annex B. Default values that are determined by the MnS producer based on
standardized or proprietary selection methods are typically not known to MnS
consumers.
11.1.1.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name S Information Type / Legal Values Comment managedObjectClass M
string Class name of the managed object to be created. managedObjectInstance M
DN Instance name of the managed object to be created. attributeListIn M LIST
OF SEQUENCE\ List of attribute name/value
pairs of the managed object to be created.
* * *
11.1.1.1.3 Output parameters
+------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | Parameter name | S | Matching | Comment | | | | Information / | | | | | Legal Values | | +------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | attributeListOut | O | LIST OF SEQUENCE\ | of the created | | | | | object. | | | | | | | | | | The parameter | | | | | shall be present | | | | | when the MnS | | | | | producer assigns | | | | | values, that are | | | | | not known to the | | | | | MnS consumer, to | | | | | one or more | | | | | attributes, | | | | | otherwise it may | | | | | be absent. | +------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | Status | M | ENUM | | | | | (O | | | | | perationSucceeded, | | | | | OperationFailed) | | +------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+
****** END
***********************************************************************************
### 4.3.4 Conclusion
It is recommended to update the definition of the operation \"createMOI\" in
clause 11.1.1.1 of TS 28.532 as defined in clause 4.3.3 of the present
document.
## 4.4 Issue #4: Definition of modifyMOIAttributes
### 4.4.1 Issue description
The operation \"modifyMOIAttributes\" in TS 28.532 is underspecified and needs
to be improved in many aspects.
### 4.4.2 Analysis
### 4.4.3 CR proposal
As a solution for the issue, the existing clause 11.1.1.3 in TS 28.532 could
be replaced as follows:
****** BEGIN
*********************************************************************************
11.1.1.3 modifyMOIAttributes operation
11.1.1.3.1 Definition
This operation is invoked by MnS consumers to request a MnS producer to modify
one or more attributes of one or more manged objects on that MnS producer.
The type of modifications, that can be performed, depend on the attribute
multiplicity.
With the \"multiplicity: 1\", the following modifications are possible:
\- Replacement of an attribute value or attribute field value.
With the \"multiplicity: 0..1\", the following modifications are possible:
\- Replacement of an attribute value or attribute field value, applicable to
attributes or attribute fields that do have a value when performing the
operation.
\- Addition of an attribute value or attribute field value, applicable to
attributes or attribute fields that do not have a value when performing the
operation.
\- Removal of an attribute value or attribute field value, applicable to
attributes or attribute fields that do have a value when performing the
operation.
With the \"multiplicity: 1..n\", the following modifications are possible:
\- Replacement of an existing attribute element or existing attribute field
element.
\- Addition of a new attribute element or attribute field element.
\- Removal of an attribute element or attribute field element, applicable to
attribute or attribute fields that do have at least two elements.
With the \"multiplicity: 0..n\", the following modifications are possible:
\- Replacement of an existing attribute element or existing attribute field
element.
\- Addition of an attribute element or attribute field element.
\- Removal of an attribute element or attribute field element, applicable to
attribute or attribute fields that do have at least one element.
The selection of the objects to be modified is achieved with the parameters
\"baseObjectInstance\", \"scopeType\", \"scopeLevel\" and \"filter\". If no
\"scopeType\" is specified, the value defaults to \"BASE_ONLY\". Also, when no
scoping is supported by the MnS producer, the value in \"baseObjectInstance\"
identifies the object to be modified.
A protocol may choose to split the selection of objects with scoping and
filtering and the modification of the attributes of the selected objects into
different operations.
The modifications to be applied to the selected objects are described in the
\"modifications\" parameter. This is a multi-valued parameter. Each value is a
structure composed of the \"modifyOperator\", the \"nodeIdentifier\" and the
\"nodeValue\". The values of \"modificationList\" are ordered and shall be
applied in the sequence as they occur in the list.
The parameter \"nodeIdentifier\" is used to identify the attributes or
attribute fields to which modifications shall be applied. For simple
attributes this can be just the attribute name. For structured attributes,
however, attribute fields need to be identified. Different attribute fields
pertaining to the same attribute may have the same name. For that reason,
unambiguous identification of attribute fields is not possible with their
names only. The identification needs to be based e.g. on global or local
identifiers, or on the specification of a path allowing to navigate to the
attribute field. Details are protocol specific.
For the modification of multi-valued attributes or multi-valued attribute
fields two cases are distinguished:
\- All values (elements) are considered as a single value. Elements cannot be
addressed individually. If replaced, all existing elements are replaced with
the new elements received in the modification request. If deleted, all
existing elements are deleted. Addition of new elements to existing elements
is not possible.
\- Each element can be addressed individually. Single elements can be added,
replaced, and deleted.
The first case does not need any further considerations. The second case
requires the identification of attribute elements and attribute field elements
in the modification request, when replacing and deleting elements in ordered
and unordered lists, and when adding elements to ordered lists. Details are
not defined at stage 2. They are protocol specific and include identification
by the element value, identification by a positional index or identification
by an auxiliary key added at stage 3. Note that the concept of element keys is
not defined at stage 2\. Identification of elements may be provided also by
the \"nodeIdentifier\" parameter.
The \"modifyOperator\" parameter specifies the modification to be applied to
the value of the attribute or attribute field, or the attribute element or
attribute field element identified by the \"nodeIdentifier\". The parameter
can have the values \"replace\", \"add\", \"remove\" or \"setToDefault\":
\- For \"replace\", the \"nodeValue\" specifies the attribute value, attribute
field value, attribute element or attribute field element that shall replace
the existing value.
\- For \"add\", the \"nodeValue\" specifies the attribute value or attribute
field value to be added to an attribute or attribute field without value, or
the new attribute element or attribute field element to be added to a multi-
valued attribute.
\- For \"remove\", the \"nodeValue\" is absent when an attribute value or
attribute field value is removed. When an attribute element or attribute field
element is removed, \"nodeValue\" may carry the element to be removed,
depending on how on protocol level attribute elements and attribute field
elements are identified.
\- For \"setToDefault\", the \"nodeValue\" is absent.
Attributes and attribute fields without value can be represented in different
protocol specific ways, for example by an attribute name without attribute
value, by an absent attribute name/value pair, or by a specific attribute
value (such as \"null\" or \"nil\").
The \"modifyMOIAttributes\" operation allows to modify one or more attributes
in one or more objects. When not all attribute modifications can be applied
successfully, the MnS producer has different options how to proceed. He may
not perform any of the modifications and roll back to the state at the
reception of the modification request. He may apply the changes that can be
applied, so that some of the requested modifications are applied and some are
not applied. He may stop processing the modification request when the first
error occurs. The stage 2 definition of this operation does not include any
provisions on how to proceed in case an error occurs. These provisions are
left to stage 3.
When attribute properties as defined in clause 5.2.1 of TS 32.156 [?] are
used, then a MnS consumer should take into account the properties \"type\",
\"allowedValues\", \"multiplicity\", \"isOrdered\", \"isUnique\",
\"isNullable\" and \"passedById\" when constructing the attribute modification
request. If ignored, the MnS producer shall reject the request and generate an
error response.
Furthermore, when attribute properties are used, then a MnS consumer can
modify an attribute with \"modifyMOIAttributes\" only if \"isInvariant:
False\" and \"isWritble: True\". Any permission to modify attributes as
determined by these attribute properties may be overridden by access control.
11.1.1.3.2 Input parameters
+--------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | Parameter Name | S | Matching | Comment | | | | Information / | | | | | Legal Values | | +--------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | baseObjectInstance | M | ManagedEnt | Base object used | | | | ity.objectInstance | for scoping the | | | | | target objects of | | | | | the operation. If | | | | | no scoping is | | | | | applied, the base | | | | | object is the only | | | | | target object. | +--------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | scopeType | O | See corresponding | See corresponding | | | | parameter in | parameter in | | | | \"g | \"g | | | | etMOIAttributes\". | etMOIAttributes\". | +--------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | scopeLevel | O | See corresponding | See corresponding | | | | parameter in | parameter in | | | | \"g | \"g | | | | etMOIAttributes\". | etMOIAttributes\". | +--------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | filter | O | See corresponding | See corresponding | | | | parameter in | parameter in | | | | \"g | \"g | | | | etMOIAttributes\". | etMOIAttributes\". | +--------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | modificationsIn | M | LIST OF SEQUENCE | Set of | | | | \ | \"nodeIdentifier\" | | | | | specifies the | | | | | target attribute | | | | | or target | | | | | attribute field of | | | | | the sub-operation. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | \"modifyOperator\" | | | | | specifies the | | | | | operation to be | | | | | applied to the | | | | | target attribute | | | | | or target | | | | | attribute field . | | | | | The parameter can | | | | | have the values | | | | | \"replace\", | | | | | \"add\", | | | | | \"remove\" or | | | | | \"setToDefault\". | | | | | | | | | | The \"nodeValue\" | | | | | specifies the | | | | | value used by the | | | | | sub-operation. | | | | | This parameter is | | | | | absent for | | | | | \"remove\" | | | | | operations. | +--------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+
11.1.1.3.3 Output parameters
+------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | Parameter name | S | Matching | Comment | | | | Information / | | | | | Legal Values | | +------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | modificationsOut | M | LIST OF SEQUENCE | Provides for each | | | | \ | | | | | | If all requested | | | | > | modifications are | | | | | applied, the | | | | | parameter may be | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | If no requested | | | | | modification is | | | | | applied and an | | | | | error response is | | | | | returned, the | | | | | parameter may be | | | | | absent, too.. | +------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | status | M | ENUM ( | Indicates if all, | | | | | some or none of | | | | SUCCEEDED, | the requested | | | | | modifications were | | | | PARTIALLY_FAILED, | applied. Details | | | | | on the error, such | | | | FAILED | as which | | | | | modification could | | | | ) | not be applied and | | | | | the corresponding | | | | | reason, may be | | | | | returned as well. | +------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+
****** END
***********************************************************************************
### 4.4.4 Conclusion
It is recommended to update the definition of the operation
\"modifyMOIAttributes\" in clause 11.1.1.3 of TS 28.532 as defined in clause
4.4.3 of the present document.
## 4.5 Issue #5: HTTP error response format
### 4.5.1 Issue description
When a MnS producer cannot fulfil a HTTP request, the MnS producer should
provide in the error response detailed information about what exactly failed
and for what reason. Ideally the error response body returned is standardized.
### 4.5.2 Analysis
The error response of CRUD operations is currently defined as
ErrorResponse:
description: >-
Default schema for the response message body in case the request
is not successful.
type: object
properties:
error:
type: object
properties:
errorInfo:
type: string
The error response is a JSON object with a single property \"errorInfo\" that
is of type string. Vendors can provide error information in \"errorInfo\" and
extend the object with addition properties. The standard provides hence just a
container for vendor specific error information. Error details cannot be
provided in a standardized way. An error response format should be
standardized.
IETF RFC 7807 [12] provides an example how the issue has been approached in
the industry.
### 4.5.3 CR proposal
The following clause shall be added to TS 32.158.
****** BEGIN
*********************************************************************************
X Error responses
_Editor\'s note: Interaction with access control is to be studied._
X.1 HTTP error codes
In case of an error on the MnS Producer an error response status code of the
classes 4xx (Client Error) or 5xx (Server Error) is returned to the MnS
Consumer in the response status line. A complete list of error status codes is
maintained by IANA.
Table X.1-1 and Table X.1-2 list the status codes that shall be supported by
MnS Producer and MnS Consumer implementations compliant to this specification.
Table X.1-1: Supported 4xx client error status codes
* * *
Error status code Reference Description 400 Bad Request IETF RFC 7231 [2]
indicates that the server cannot or will not process the request due to
something that is perceived to be a client error (e.g., malformed request
syntax, invalid request message framing, or deceptive request routing). 403
Forbidden IETF RFC 7231 [2] indicates that the server understood the request
but refuses to authorize it. 404 Not Found IETF RFC 7231 [2] indicates that
the origin server did not find a current representation for the target
resource or is not willing to disclose that one exists. 405 Method Not Allowed
IETF RFC 7231 [2] indicates that the method received in the request-line is
known by the origin server but not supported by the target resource. 406 Not
Acceptable IETF RFC 7231 [2] indicates that the target resource does not have
a current representation that would be acceptable to the user agent, according
to the proactive negotiation header fields received in the request (Section
5.3), and the server is unwilling to supply a default representation. 408
Request Timeout IETF RFC 7231 [2] indicates that the server did not receive a
complete request message within the time that it was prepared to wait. 410
Gone IETF RFC 7231 [2] indicates that access to the target resource is no
longer available at the origin server and that this condition is likely to be
permanent. 411 Length Required IETF RFC 7231 [2] indicates that the server
refuses to accept the request without a defined Content-Length field
containing the length of the message body in the request message. 413 Payload
Too Large IETF RFC 7231 [?2 indicates that the server is refusing to process a
request because the request payload is larger than the server is willing or
able to process. 414 URI Too Long IETF RFC 7231 [2] indicates that the server
is refusing to service the request because the request-target is longer than
the server is willing to interpret. 415 Unsupported Media Type IETF RFC 7231
[2] indicates that the origin server is refusing to service the request
because the payload is in a format not supported by this method on the target
resource. 422 Unprocessable Entity IETF RFC 4918 [?] indicates the server
understands the content type of the request entity (hence a 415(Unsupported
Media Type) status code is inappropriate), and the syntax of the request
entity is correct (thus a 400 (Bad Request) status code is inappropriate) but
was unable to process the contained instructions. 426 Upgrade Required IETF
RFC 7231 [2] indicates that the server refuses to perform the request using
the current protocol but might be willing to do so after the client upgrades
to a different protocol. 429 Too Many Requests IETF RFC 6585 [?] indicates
that the user has sent too many requests in a given amount of time (\"rate
limiting\").
* * *
Table X.1-2: Supported 5xx server error status codes
* * *
Error status code Reference Description 500 Internal Server Error IETF RFC
7231 [2] Indicates that the server encountered an unexpected condition that
prevented it from fulfilling the request. 501 Not Implemented IETF RFC 7231
[2] indicates that the server does not support the functionality required to
fulfill the request. 502 Bad Gateway IETF RFC 7231 [2] indicates that the
server, while acting as a gateway or proxy, received an invalid response from
an inbound server it accessed while attempting to fulfill the request. 503
Service Unavailable IETF RFC 7231 [2] indicates that the server is currently
unable to handle the request due to a temporary overload or scheduled
maintenance, which will likely be alleviated after some delay. 504 Gateway
Timeout IETF RFC 7231 [2] indicates that the server, while acting as a gateway
or proxy, did not receive a timely response from an upstream server it needed
to access in order to complete the request. 505 HTTP Version Not Supported
IETF RFC 7231 [2] indicates that the server does not support, or refuses to
support, the major version of HTTP that was used in the request message.
* * *
A MnS Producer may use other error response codes as well. However, there is
no guarantee that a MnS Consumer understands the semantics beyond what is
specified in clause 6 of IETF RFC 7231 [2]: \"A client MUST understand the
class of any status code, as indicated by the first digit, and treat an
unrecognized status code as being equivalent to the x00 status code of that
class\".
X.2 Error response body
X.2.1 Overview
HTTP status codes provide high level error information. This is often not
sufficient, for example in situations where the MnS Producer wants to convey
error information to aid the MnS Consumer in generating a valid request. In
these cases, the MnS Producer needs to include an error response body in the
response.
The error response body specified in the present document is derived from IETF
RFC 7807 [??], clause 3.1. The following definitions are re-used and shall be
supported:
\- The \"status\" property contains the status code for the error..
\- The \"type\" property provides high level error information.
\- The \"title\" provides a short, human-readable summary of the problem type.
It shall not change from occurrence to occurrence of the problem.
The \"details\" and \"instance\" properties defined in IETF RFC 7807 [??] are
not re-used. Potential support is outside of the provisions of the present
document.
The three re-used properties are extended with the following property that
shall be supported.
\- The \"reason\" (string) property\" provides more details on the error
conditions than \"type\".
The \"status\", \"type\", \"title\" and \"reason\" property are applicable to
all HTTP methods and request media types. In addition, the following method
specific properties are defined:
\- The \"badQueryParams\" property provides information about bad query
parameters in GET requests.
\- The \"badOp\" property specifies the operation in JSON Patch and 3GPP JSON
Patch requests, that cannot be satisfied.
\- The \"badAttributes\" property provides information about bad attributes in
PUT, POST, JSON Merge Patch and 3GPP JSON Merge Patch requests.
\- The \"badObjects\" property provides information about bad objects in 3GPP
JSON Merge Patch requests.
An error response provides details on one or more problems in the request.
Each problem is described by a subset of the seven properties specified above.
Each problem is related to a specific problem type that is identified by the
value of the \"type\" property.
A single request may have more than one problem. This situation may occur for
example when a GET request has multiple query parameters, or when a PATCH
request contains multiple operations to be applied to the information model on
the MnS Producer.
The MnS Producer shall include at least details on one problem in the error
response. A MnS Consumer cannot assume that the returned list of problems is
exhaustive and includes all problems in the request. A MnS producer may stop
processing the request upon detection of the first problem and return an error
response.
If all problems have the same error status code, that code shall be used in
the status line of the error response. The \"status\" property of each problem
description may repeat that code. However, if the problems have different
error codes, the \"207 Multi-Status\" (IETF RFC4918 [???]) code shall be used
in the response status line. The \"status\" property related to each problem
shall contain the specific status code.
The concrete format of the error response body depends on the request. The
media type for all error response formats is
\"application/vnd.3gpp.error+json\". The following clauses provide the
details.
X.2.2 Error response format for GET requests
For a successful GET request all query parameters in the request need to be
understood, accepted and satisfied by the MnS Producer. In case one or more
bad query parameters are present in the request an error response shall be
returned.
The error response is a JSON array of JSON objects with \"status\", \"type\",
\"title\", \"reason\", and \"badQueryParams\" properties. The \"type\"
property shall be present. The \"status\" property shall be present under the
conditions specifed in clause X.2.1. The \"title\", \"reason\" and
\"badQueryParams\" properties may be present.
The MnS Producer shall include at least one bad query parameter in the
\"badQueryParams\" property. A MnS Consumer cannot assume that the returned
list of bad query parameters includes all bad parameters in the request. A MnS
producer may stop processing the request upon detection of the first bad query
parameter and return an error response.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"status\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"type\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"reason\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"title\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"badQueryParams\": {\"type\": \"array\",\"items\": {\"type\": | | \"string\"}} | | | | }, | | | | \"required\": [\"type\"] | | | | } | | | | } | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
X.2.3 Error response format for PUT, POST and DELETE requests
The error response is a JSON array of JSON objects with \"status\", \"type\",
\"title\", and \"reason\" properties. The \"type\" property shall be present.
The \"status\", \"title\" and \"reason\" properties may be present.
+-------------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"status\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"type\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"reason\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"title\": {\"type\": \"string\"} | | | | }, | | | | \"required\": [\"type\"] | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
X.2.4 Error response format for JSON Patch and 3GPP JSON Patch requests
For a successful JSON Patch or 3GPP JSON Patch request all operations in the
patch request need to be understood, accepted, and satisfied by the MnS
Producer. In case one or more operations in the request cannot be applied, no
operation shall be applied, and an error response shall be returned. JSON
Patch and 3GPP JSON Patch are atomic, as described in clause 6.3.1.
The error response is a JSON array of JSON objects with \"badOp\", \"status\",
\"type\", \"title\" and \"reason\" properties. The \"badOp\" and \"type\"
properties shall be present. The \"status\" property shall be present only
under the conditions specified in clause X.2.1.
Each object provides information about one bad patch operation. The patch
operation, that cannot be satisfied, is identified with \"badOp\", whose value
is a JSON Pointer identifying the object with the bad patch operation in the
request. Successful patch operations are not included in the response. The
order of the operations in the response shall be the same as in the request.
The MnS Producer shall include at least one bad operation in the error
response. A MnS Consumer cannot assume that the returned list of bad
operations includes all bad operations in the request. A MnS Producer may stop
processing the request upon detection of the first bad operation and return an
error response.
+---------------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"badOp\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"status\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"type\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"reason\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"title\": {\"type\": \"string\"} | | | | }, | | | | \"required\": [\"badOp\", \"type\"] | | | | } | | | | } | +---------------------------------------+
X.2.5 Error response format for JSON and 3GPP JSON Merge Patch requests
Like JSON Patch and 3GPP JSON Patch, JSON and 3GPP JSON Merge Patch are
atomic.
The error response is a JSON array of JSON objects with \"status\", \"type\",
\"title\", \"reason\", \"badAttributes\", and \"badObjects\" properties. The
\"type\" property shall be present. The \"status\" property shall be present
only under the conditions specified in clause X.2.1. The \"badObjects\"
property is applicable only for 3GPP JSON Merge Patch.
The path to the bad attributes or bad objects is a relative URI and
constructed according to the rules defined in clause 6.4.3 for the \"path\"
property of 3GPP JSON Patch.
The MnS Producer shall include at least one bad attribute in the
\"badAttributes\" property, or one bad object in the \"badObjects\" property.
A MnS Consumer cannot assume that the returned list of bad attributes or
objects includes all bad attributes or objects in the request. A MnS producer
may stop processing the request upon detection of the first bad attribute or
object and return an error response.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"status\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"type\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"reason\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"title\": {\"type\": \"string\"}, | | | | \"badAttributes\": {\"type\": \"array\",\"items\": {\"type\": | | \"string\"}}, | | | | \"badObjects\": {\"type\": \"array\",\"items\": {\"type\": | | \"string\"}}, | | | | }, | | | | \"required\": [\"type\"] | | | | } | | | | } | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
X.3 The \"type\" property
The \"type\" property provides high level error information allowing to
complement HTTP 4xx and 5xx error codes in case this is necessary or desired.
It provides more details on the nature of the problem than the HTTP error
codes. Problem types are specified for the following error response codes.
\- 400 Bad Request
\- 403 Forbidden
\- 422 Unprocessable Content
\- 500 Internal Server Error
\- 503 Service Unavailable
Note that some error codes convey already all information that can be
conveyed. For example, the 404 Not Found status code indicates that the target
resource does not exist or has no current representation. It is hard to see
which information should be added to make the error response more helpful for
the MnS Consumer.
The \"type\" property is an enumeration of string values. A MnS Producer
should use the following values in error situations. Other values may be used
as well if deemed more appropriate for specific errors.
\- VALIDATION_ERROR (HTTP error code: 400 Bad Request): The request message
does not validate and cannot be processed. Validation refers to two aspects:
Validation of the received request message against the JSON schema definition
of the request message, and validation of the information model state after
applying the requested changes against the JSON schema definition of the
information model, for example, if a new instance of a certain object class is
allowed to be contained under the class of the specified parent object. The
\"reason\" property may be present and specify more detailed error
information.
\- REQUEST_OBJECT_TREE_MISMATCH (HTTP error code: 422 Unprocessable Entity):
The request message is well formed and understood but cannot be completed due
to the current state of the object tree on the MnS Producer. For example, this
reason is used when an object is requested to be created below a parent object
that does not exist. The \"reason\" property may be present and specify more
detailed error information.
\- IE_NOT_FOUND (related error code: 400 Bad Request): The information element
(object, attribute, attribute field, attribute element) requested to be
modified does not exist. The \"reason\" property may specify more detailed
error information. The \"reason\" property may be present and specify more
detailed error information.
\- MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED (HTTP error code: 403 Forbidden): The requested
modification is understood but not allowed. The \"reason\" property may be
present and specify more detailed error information.
\- RETRIEVAL_NOT_ALLOWED (HTTP error code: 403 Forbidden): The retrieval of
the specified information is not allowed. The \"reason\" property may be
present and specify more detailed error information.
\- SERVER_LIMITATION (HTTP error code: 500 Internal Server Error): The request
is correct and understood by the MnS Producer, but the MnS Producer cannot
satisfy the request due to server limitations. The \"reason\" property may be
present and specify more detailed error information.
\- SERVICE_DISABLED (HTTP error code: 503 Service Unavailable): The MnS
Producer has disabled itself and is currently unable or unwilling to handle
the request. This condition may occur, for example, in overload situations.
The \"reason\" property shall be absent.
\- APPLICATION_LAYER_ERROR (HTTP error code: 500 Internal Server Error): The
request is correct and understood by the MnS Producer, but the MnS Producer
cannot satisfy the request due to application layer issues. The \"reason\"
property may be present and specify more detailed error information.
X.4 The \"reason\" property
X.4.1 Overview
The \"reason\" property provides more details on the error conditions than the
\"type\" property. For client-side errors, these reasons may provide hints to
the MnS Consumer on how to generate a request without errors. For server-side
errors, they may help the MnS Consumer to generate requests that may be
satisfied by the MnS Producer.
When multiple reasons apply, the most fundamental reason shall be put in the
\"reasons\" property. For example, when a MnS Consumer attempts to replace an
invariant attribute, and - in addition - the attribute value is invalid, then
only the information that the attribute is invariant shall be contained in the
\"reason\" property.
The \"reason\" property may be omitted when the MnS Producer does not want to
disclose details on the error to the MnS Consumer.
Detailed error reasons are specified by the \"reason\" property for the
following error codes:
\- 400 Bad Request
\- 403 Forbidden
\- 422 Unprocessable Entity
\- 500 Internal Server Error
Error reasons depend on the HTTP method and on if attributes or objects are
manipulated. The following clauses specify the details.
X.4.2 Error reasons for GETValid values for the \"reason\" property for an
error response related to HTTP GET are:
\- RESPONSE_TOO_LARGE (related type: SERVER_LIMITATION, 500 Internal Server
Error): The content requested to be returned exceeds the response body size
limit of the MnS Producer.
\- NO_DATA_ACCESS (related type: SERVER_LIMITATION, 500 Internal Server
Error): The request is correct and understood by the MnS Producer, but the MnS
Producer cannot access the requested data.
\- QUERY_MALFORMED (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad Request): The
syntax of the query component is malformed. The \"badQueryParams\" property
shall be absent.
\- QUERY_PARAM_NAMES_INVALID (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad
Request): One or more query parameter names are invalid. The
\"badQueryParams\" property shall indicate the names of the invalid
parameters.
\- QUERY_PARAM_VALUES_INVALID (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad
Request): One or more query parameters have an invalid value. The
\"badQueryParams\" property shall indicate the names of the parameters with
invalid value.
\- QUERY_PARAMS_MISSING (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad Request): One
or more query parameters, that shall be present in the request or that shall
be present in case another parameter is present, are missing in the query
component. The \"badQueryParams\" property shall indicate the names of the
missing parameters.
\- QUERY_PARAMS_INCONSISTENT (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad
Request): Query parameters with mutual dependency constraints do not respect
these constraints. The \"badQueryParams\" property shall indicate the names of
the parameters not respecting the dependency constraints.
\- ATTRIBUTES_NOT_READABLE (related type: RETRIEVAL_NOT_ALLOWED ,403
Forbidden): One or more attributes or attribute fields identified by the query
parameters are not readable, according to the attribute property
\"isReadable\". The \"badQueryParams\" property shall indicate the names of
the parameters identifying attributes that are not readable.
\- QUERY_PARAMS_TOO_COMPLEX (related type: SERVER_LIMITATION, 500 Internal
Server Error): The query parameters and their values are valid but one or more
of them cannot be processed as requested because complexity limits of the MnS
Producer are reached, for example, a filter expression is syntactically
correct but cannot be evaluated and yields no results since the expression is
longer or more complex than the MnS producer can or is willing to process. The
\"badQueryParams\" property shall indicate the names of the parameters that
cannot be processed.
The list of valid values is not exhaustive. Other values may be used as well.
The name style of these enumeration literals shall follow clause 5.3.5.3 of TS
32.156 [?].
Note that is not an error when query parameters do not identify any resource
or attribute to be returned.
Note that the following query parameters are currently specified in the
present document: \"scopeType\", \"scopeLevel\", \"filter\", \"attributes\",
and \"fields\".
**Example:**
For the following request
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1?scopeType=COMPLETE_SUBTREE&scopeLevel=HIGHEST&\ | | | | attributeFields=userLabel HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
the error response may look like
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.error+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"QUERY_PARAM_VALUES_INVALID\" | | | | \"title\": \"The value of one or more query parameters is invalid.\", | | | | \"badQueryParams\": [\"scopeType\", \"scopeLevel\"] | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"QUERY_PARAM_VALUES_INVALID\", | | | | \"title\": \"The name of one or more query parameters is invalid.\", | | | | \"badQueryParams\": [\"attributeFields\"] | | | | } | | | | ] | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
When the sub-errors have a different HTTP error code, \"207 Multi-Status\" is
used in the response status line. The \"status\" property is present for each
sub-error and specifies the status code for this sub-error.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 207 Multi-Status | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.error+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"status\": 404, | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"QUERY_PARAM_VALUES_INVALID\", | | | | \"title\": \"The value of one or more query parameters is | | invalid.\", | | | | \"badQueryParams\": [\"attributes\", \"fields\"] | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"status\": 404, | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"QUERY_PARAM_NAMES_INVALID\", | | | | \"title\": \"The name of one or more query parameters is unknown.\", | | | | \"badQueryParams\": [\"attributeFields\"] | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"status\": 500, | | | | \"type\": \"SERVER_LIMITATION\", | | | | \"reason\": \"QUERY_PARAMS_TOO_COMPLEX\", | | | | \"title\": \"The semantics of one or more query parameters is too | | complex to be processed.\", | | | | \"badQueryParams\": [\"fields\"] | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
X.4.3 Error reasons for attribute manipulations
X.4.3.1 JSON Patch and 3GPP JSON Patch
This clause specifies reasons for errors that may occur when attempting to
manipulate attributes of existing resources with JSON Patch and 3GPP JSON
Patch. JSON Patch and 3GPP JSON Patch are used for partial resource updates.
This specification defines the following error reasons for use with JSON Patch
and 3GPP JSON Patch:
\- NEW_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE_INVALID (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad
Request): The attribute, attribute field or attribute element, as specified in
the \"path\" property, cannot be added, or its value cannot be replaced, as
requested, because the value, as specified in the \"value\" property, is
invalid. Valid values are determined by the attribute properties \"type\",
\"allowedValues\", \"multiplicity\", \"isOrdered\", \"isUnique\", and
\"isNullable\".
\- NEW_ATTRIBUTE_NAME_INVALID (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad
Request): The attribute or attribute field cannot be added as requested,
because its name, as specified in the \"path\" property, is invalid.
\- NEW_ATTRIBUTE_PARENT_NOT_FOUND (related type: REQUEST_OBJECTS_MISMATCH, 422
Unprocessable Entity): The attribute or attribute field cannot be added as
requested, because its parent, as specified in the \"path\" property, does not
exist.
\- ATTRIBUTE_NOT_FOUND (related type: IE_NOT_FOUND, 400 Bad Request): The
attribute or attribute field cannot be removed, moved, copied, or is value
cannot be replaced, as requested, because the \"path\" or \"from\" property
identifies an attribute or attribute field, that does not exist.
\- ATTRIBUTE_ELEMENT_NOT_FOUND (related type: IE_NOT_FOUND, 400 Bad Request):
The attribute element cannot be replaced, removed, moved, or copied, because
the \"path\" or \"from\" property identifies an attribute element, that does
not exist.
\- ATTRIBUTE_INDEX_BAD (related type: IE_NOT_FOUND, 400 Bad Request): The
attribute element cannot be added at the specified array location as
requested, because the array element index specified in the \"path\" property
is greater than the number of elements in the array.
\- FINAL_MV_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE_INVALID (related type: REQUEST_OBJECTS_MISMATCH,
422 Unprocessable Entity): The attribute element, as specified in the
\"value\" property cannot be added to or removed from the multi-valued
attribute as requested, because this would result in an invalid value,
according to the attribute properties \"multiplicity\" or \"isUnique\". The
attribute element itself is valid.
\- ATTRIBUTE_NOT_WRITABLE (related type: MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED, 403
Forbidden): The attribute or attribute field cannot be added, removed, or
moved, or its value cannot be replaced, as requested, because the attribute or
attribute field is not writable by MnS Consumers, according to the attribute
property \"isWritable\".
\- ATTRIBUTE_INVARIANT (related type: MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED, 403
Forbidden): The attribute or attribute field cannot be added, removed, or
moved, or its value cannot be replaced, as requested, because the attribute or
attribute field is invariant, according to the attribute property
\"isInvariant\".
\- OP_UNKNOWN (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad Request): The patch
operation specified by the \"op\" property is not known by the MnS producer.
This situation may occur, for example, when a patch operation is not supported
or wrongly spelled.
The list of error reasons is not exhaustive. Other values may be defined and
used as well. The name style of these enumeration literals shall follow clause
5.3.5.3 of TS 32.156 [?].
X.4.3.2 JSON Merge Patch, 3GPP JSON Merge Patch and PUT
This clause specifies reasons for errors that may occur when attempting to
manipulate attributes of existing resources with JSON Merge Patch, 3GPP JSON
Merge Patch and PUT. JSON Merge Patch and 3GPP Merge JSON Patch are used for
partial resource updates. PUT is used for complete resource updates.
The following error reasons are defined for use with JSON Merge Patch, 3GPP
JSON Merge Patch, and PUT:
\- NEW_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE_INVALID (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad
Request): One or more attributes or attribute fields cannot be added, or their
values cannot be replaced, as requested, because the received value is
invalid. Valid values are determined by the attribute properties \"type\",
\"allowedValues\", \"multiplicity\", \"isOrdered\", \"isUnique\", and
\"isNullable\". The \"badAttributes\" property provides the path to these
attributes and attribute fields.
\- NEW_ATTRIBUTE_NAME_INVALID (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad
Request): One or more attributes or attribute fields cannot be added as
requested, because the received attribute or attribute field name is invalid.
The \"badAttributes\" property provides the path to these attributes and
attribute fields.
\- ATTRIBUTE_NOT_WRITABLE (related type: MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED, 403
Forbidden): One or more attributes or attribute fields cannot be added or
removed, or their values cannot be replaced, as requested, because the
attributes or attribute fields are not writable by MnS Consumers, according to
the attribute property \"isWritable\". The \"badAttributes\" property provides
the path to these attributes and attribute fields.
\- ATTRIBUTE_INVARIANT (related type: MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED, 403
Forbidden): One or more attributes or attribute fields cannot be added or
removed, or their values cannot be replaced, as requested, because the
attributes or attribute fields are invariant, according to the attribute
property \"isInvariant\". The \"badAttributes\" property provides the path to
these attributes and attribute fields.
The following additional error reasons are defined for use with JSON Merge
Patch and 3GPP JSON Merge Patch:
\- ATTRIBUTE_NOT_FOUND (related type: IE_NOT_FOUND, 400 Bad Request): One or
more attribute or attribute fields cannot be removed as requested, because
they do not exist. The \"badAttributes\" property provides the path to these
attributes and attribute fields.
The list of error reasons is not exhaustive. Other values may be defined and
used as well. The name style of these enumeration literals shall follow clause
5.3.5.3 of TS 32.156 [?].
X.4.3.3 Examples
**JSON Patch example 1 (\"add\"):**
In the first example an attribute field is requested to be added.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrA/attrB\", | | | | \"value\": \"def\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
When \"attrA\" is invariant, the error response might look like.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.error+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 403, | | | | \"type\": \"MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED\", | | | | \"reason\": \"ATTRIBUTE_INVARIANT\", | | | | \"title\": \"The attribute field, whose value is requested to be | | replaced, is invariant.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Other responses may look as below. Note that information not essential for
illustrating the examples is left out (referred to as \"...\")
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 400, | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"NEW_ATTRIBUTE_NAME_INVALID\", | | | | \"title\": \"The name of the attribute, that is requested to be | | added, is invalid.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"attrB\" is not known or supported.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 400, | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"NEW_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE_INVALID\", | | | | \"title\": \"The value of the attribute, that is requested to be | | added, is invalid.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
when the value \"def\" for \"attrB\" is invalid, for example when \"attrB\" is
of type \"number\".
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 403, | | | | \"type\": \"MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED\", | | | | \"reason\": \"ATTRIBUTE_NOT_WRITABLE\", | | | | \"title\": \"The attribute, that is requested to be added, is not | | writable.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"attrB\" is not writable by MnS Consumers.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 403, | | | | \"type\": \"MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED\", | | | | \"reason\": \"ATTRIBUTE_INVARIANT\", | | | | \"title\": \"The attribute, that is requested to be added, is | | invariant.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"attrB\" is invariant and cannot be added after object creation time
anymore.
\"reason\": [\"ATTRIBUTE_NOT_FOUND\"],
not applicable
+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 400, | | | | \"type\": \"REQUEST_OBJECTS_MISMATCH\", | | | | \"reason\": \"NEW_ATTRIBUTE_PARENT_NOT_FOUND\", | | | | \"title\": \"The patch operation remove is not supported.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +-------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"attrA\" does not exist
\"reason\": [\"FINAL_MV_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE_INVALID\"],
not applicable.
+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 400, | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"OP_UNKNOWN\", | | | | \"title\": \"The patch operation remove is not supported.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +-------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"add\" is not supported.
**JSON Patch example 2 (\"remove\"):**
In the next example an attribute field is requested to be removed.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"remove\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrA/attrB\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
Error responses may look like:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 403, | | | | \"type\": \"MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED\", | | | | \"reason\": \"ATTRIBUTE_NOT_WRITABLE\" | | | | \"title\": \"The attribute, that is requested to be removed, is not | | writable.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"attrB\" is not writable by MnS Consumers.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 403, | | | | \"type\": \"MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED\", | | | | \"reason\": \"ATTRIBUTE_INVARIANT\", | | | | \"title\": \"The attribute, that is requested to be removed, is | | invariant.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"attrB\" is invariant and cannot be removed after object creation time.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 400, | | | | \"type\": \"IE_NOT_FOUND\", | | | | \"reason\": \"ATTRIBUTE_NOT_FOUND\", | | | | \"title\": \"The attribute, that is requested to be removed, does | | not exist.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"attrA/attrB\" does not exist.
+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 400, | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"OP_UNKNOWN\", | | | | \"title\": \"The patch operation remove is not supported.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +-------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"remove\" is not supported.
**JSON Patch example 3 (\"replace\"):**
In the next example the current value of an attribute field is requested to be
replaced by a new value.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrA/attrB\", | | | | \"value\": \"def\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
Error responses may look like:
+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 400, | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"OP_UNKNOWN\", | | | | \"title\": \"The patch operation replace is not supported.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +--------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"replace\" is not supported.
\"reason\": \"NEW_ATTRIBUTE_NAME_INVALID\"
not applicable.
\"reason\": \"NEW_ATTRIBUTE_PARENT_NOT_FOUND \"
not applicable.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 400, | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"ATTRIBUTE_VALUE_INVALID\", | | | | \"title\": \"The value, that is requested to replace an existing | | attribute value, is invalid.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
when the value \"def\" for \"attrB\" is invalid, for example when \"attrB\" is
of type \"number\".
\"reason\": [\"FINAL_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE_INVALID\"],
not applicable.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 403, | | | | \"type\": \"MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED\", | | | | \"reason\": \"ATTRIBUTE_NOT_WRITABLE\", | | | | \"title\": \"The attribute, whose value is requested to be replaced, | | is not writable.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"attrB\" is not writable by MnS Consumers.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 403, | | | | \"type\": \"MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED\", | | | | \"reason\": \"ATTRIBUTE_INVARIANT\", | | | | \"title\": \"The attribute, whose value is requested to be replaced, | | is invariant.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"attrB\" is invariant, and its value cannot be replaced after object
creation time.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 400, | | | | \"type\": \"IE_NOT_FOUND\", | | | | \"reason\": \"ATTRIBUTE_NOT_FOUND\", | | | | \"title\": \"The attribute, whose value is requested to be replaced, | | does not exist.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"attrA/attrB\" does not exist.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 422, | | | | \"type\": \"REQUEST_OBJECTS_MISMATCH\" | | | | \"reason\": \"NEW_ATTRIBUTE_PARENT_NOT_FOUND\", | | | | \"title\": \"The parent of the attribute field, that is requested to | | be added, does not exist.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
when \"attrA\" does not exist.
+----------------------------------------------------------+ | ... | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/0\", | | | | \"status\": 400, | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"OP_UNKNOWN\", | | | | \"title\": \"The patch operation add is not supported.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------+
when the operation \"add\" is not supported.
**JSON Merge Patch example 1:**
Assume a resource where the attributes \"attrA\" and \"attrB\" exist. The
following message requests to replace the current value of \"attrB\" with
\"def\".
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": { | | | | \"attrB\": \"def\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
When \"attrB\" is invariant the MnS Producer might respond as follows.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.error+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"type\": \"MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED\", | | | | \"reason\": \"ATTRIBUTE_INVARIANT\", | | | | \"title\": \"The attribute field, whose value is requested to be | | replaced, is invariant.\", | | | | \"badAttributes\": [\"#/attributes/attrA/attrB\"] | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
X.4.4 Error reasons for object manipulations
The following reasons are defined for errors that may occur when attempting to
create objects with PUT, POST. 3GPP JSON Merge Patch and 3GPP JSON Patch, or
when attempting to delete objects with DELETE, 3GPP JSON Merge Patch and 3GPP
JSON Patch:
\- OBJECT_CREATION_NOT_ALLOWED (related type: MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED, 403
Forbidden): One or more objects cannot be created as requested because objects
of this class cannot be created by MnS Consumers.
\- OBJECT_DELETION_NOT_ALLOWED (related type: MODIFICATION_NOT_ALLOWED, 403
Forbidden): One or more objects cannot be deleted as requested, because
objects of this class cannot be deleted by MnS Consumers.
\- NEW_OBJECT_CLASS_NAME_INVALID (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad
Request): One or more objects cannot be created as requested, because the
receive object class name is unknown to the MnS Producer.
\- NEW_OBJECT_REPRESENTATION_INVALID (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad
Request): One or more objects cannot be created as requested, because the
received object representation does not validate.
\- NEW_OBJECT_CONTAINMENT_INVALID (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad
Request): One or more objects cannot be created under the specified parent as
requested, because this containment is not allowed.
\- NEW_OBJECTS_ID_EXISTS (related type: REQUEST_OBJECTS_MISMATCH, 422
Unprocessable Content): One or more objects cannot be created as requested,
because the received \"id\" exists already under the specified parent.
\- NEW_OBJECTS_PARENT_NOT_FOUND (related type: REQUEST_OBJECTS_MISMATCH, 422
Unprocessable Content): One or more objects cannot be created as requested,
because their specified parents do not exist.
\- NEW_OBJECT_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE_MISSING (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad
Request): One or more objects cannot be created as requested, because
attribute or attribute field values, that shall be provided in the creation
request, are not provided.
\- OBJECTS_CARDINALITY_INVALID (related type: REQUEST_OBJECTS_MISMATCH, 422
Unprocessable Content): One or more objects cannot be created or deleted as
requested, because this would result in violating cardinality constraints.
\- OBJECT_NOT_A_LEAF (related type: REQUEST_OBJECTS_MISMATCH, 422
Unprocessable Content): One or more objects cannot be deleted as requested,
because they are not leaf objects.
\- OBJECT_NOT_FOUND (related type: IE_NOT_FOUND, 400 Bad Request): One or more
objects cannot be deleted as requested, because they do not exist.
\- OP_UNKNOWN (related type: VALIDATION_ERROR, 400 Bad Request): The patch
operation specified by the \"op\" property is not known by the MnS Producer.
This situation may occur, for example, when a patch operation is not supported
or wrongly spelled.
The list of error reasons is not exhaustive. Other values may be defined and
used as well. The name style of these enumeration literals shall follow clause
5.3.5.3 of TS 32.156 [?].
The error reason \"NEW_OBJECT_REPRESENTATION_INVALID\" provides no information
on why the representation of the resource requested to be created is invalid.
A MnS Producer may decide to provide more details by specifying the error
reasons related to attributes defined in clause X.4.3.2 instead of the general
reason \"NEW_OBJECT_REPRESENTATION_INVALID\". The attributes or attribute
fields with problems are specified by the \"badAttributes\" property.
**PUT example:**
In this example a MnS Producer requests the creation of a resource using PUT.
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PUT /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF3 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"ghi\", | | | | \"attrB\": 553 | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
When the resource representation provided in the request is invalid the MnS
Producer may send the following error response.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.error+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"NEW_OBJECT_REPRESENTATION_INVALID\", | | | | \"title\": \"The object cannot be created because its representation | | is invalid.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
The MnS Producer may also choose to provide information on why the resource
representation is invalid. For example, when an attribute name or attribute
field name is invalid, the MnS Producer may return the following error
response.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.error+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"NEW_ATTRIBUTE_NAME_INVALID\", | | | | \"title\": \"The object representation is invalid because an | | attribute field name is invalid.\", | | | | \"badAttributes\": [\"#/attributes/attrA/attrB\"] | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
It is possible that the request fails for multiple reasons. For example, the
object representation might be invalid, and the \"id\" of the resource
requested to be created does already exist.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 207 Multi-Status | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.error+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"status\": 400, | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"NEW_OBJECT_REPRESENTATION_INVALID\", | | | | \"title\": \"The object cannot be created because its representation | | is invalid.\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"status\": 422, | | | | \"type\": \"REQUEST_OBJECTS_MISMATCH\", | | | | \"reason\": \"NEW_OBJECTS_ID_EXISTS\", | | | | \"title\": \"The object cannot be created because the object id | | exists already.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
**3GPP JSON Patch example:**
Assume the following patch is applied to an object tree, that has one
\"SubNetwork\" instance only. The first operation requests to create a
\"ManagedElement\". This operation is successful. The second operation
requests to create a \"HuhuFunction\" object under the new object. The
\"HuhuFunction\" is not known to the MnS Producer. This operation fails. The
third operation fails as well, since it requests to create a new object under
an object that does not exist.
+--------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/3gpp-json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"ME3\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \" Berlin NW 3\", | | | | \"vendorName\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Spandau\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1/HuhuFunction=HUHUF1\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 771 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME3/XyzFunction=XYZF1\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"abc\", | | | | \"attrB\": 772 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +--------------------------------------------------------+
The error response may look like:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 207 Multi-Status | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.error+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/1\", | | | | \"status\": 400, | | | | \"type\": \"VALIDATION_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"NEW_OBJECT_CLASS_NAME_INVALID\", | | | | \"title\": \"The class of the new object to be created is invalid.\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"badOp\": \"/2\", | | | | \"status\": 422, | | | | \"type\": \"REQUEST_OBJECTS_MISMATCH\", | | | | \"reason\": \"NEW_OBJECTS_PARENT_NOT_FOUND\", | | | | \"title\": \"The parent object of the new object to be created does | | not exist.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
**3GPP JSON Merge Patch example:**
Assume the \"ManagedElement\" with the identifier \"ME3\" does not exist. Then
the following message requests to create two new objects under a non-existent
object. This request cannot be satisfied.
+-------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/3gpp-merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME3\", | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 771 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"XyzFunction\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"abc\", | | | | \"attrB\": 772 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-------------------------------------------------+
The error message may look like:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 422 Unprocessable Content | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.error+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"type\": \"REQUEST_OBJECTS_MISMATCH\", | | | | \"reason\": \"NEW_OBJECT_PARENT_NOT_FOUND\", | | | | \"title\": \"The object, below which new objects are requested to be | | created, does not exist.\", | | | | \"badObjects\": [\"/ManagedElement=ME3\"] | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
X.4.5 Error reasons for application layer errors
Error reasons for the error type \"APPLICATION_LAYER_ERROR\" are very
dependent on the specific application. Therefore, it is almost impossible to
define application layer error reasons that are applicable to more than one
application.
This specification defines the following values for the \"reason\" property:
\- RESOURCE_LOCKED (related type: RETRIEVAL_NOT_ALLOWED ,403 Forbidden): The
resource was locked by administrative action and cannot be accessed.
\- SERVICE_LOCKED (HTTP error code: 503 Service Unavailable): The MnS Producer
has been locked by administrative action and is currently unable to handle the
request. This condition may occur, for example, due to scheduled maintenance.
The \"reason\" property shall be absent.
_Editor\'s note: When other values for \"reason\" are used they should follow
a certain pattern (capital letters only, short, ...). This aspect should be
clarified here or by referencing to some general rules for string enums
somewhere else._
In the following example a MnS Consumer requests the creation of a
\"PerfMetricJob\" instance indicating that \"metric1\" and \"metric2\" shall
be collected for \"obj1\" and \"obj2\" with a granularity period if 5min.
+------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/3gpp-json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/PerfMetricJob=PMJ1\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"PerfMetricJob\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"PMJ1\", | | | | \"objectClass\": \"PerfMetricJob\", | | | | \"objectInstance\": \"SubNetwork=SN1,PerfMetricJob=PMJ1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"granularityPeriod\": \"5\", | | | | \"perfMetrics\": [ | | | | \"metric1\", | | | | \"metric2\" | | | | ], | | | | \"objectInstances\": [ | | | | \"obj1\", | | | | \"obj2\" | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +------------------------------------------------------------+
When the requested granularity period is not supported, the \"PerfMetricJob\"
instance is not created. The MnS Producer might answer with the following
error response.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/vnd.3gpp.error+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"type\": \"APPLICATION_LAYER_ERROR\", | | | | \"reason\": \"GRANULARITY_PERIOD_NOT_SUPPORTED\", | | | | \"title\": \"The requested granularity period for metric collection | | is not supported.\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
X.4.6 Security considerations
When the MnS Consumer is not trustworthy or the MnS Producer does not want to
disclose error details, just the \"type\" property may be included in the
error response. The response body may be omitted also completely, and just the
error status code be returned in the response status line.
****** END
************************************************************************************
## 4.6 Issue#6: Operation for multiple MOI updates (stage 2)
### 4.6.1 Issue description
The stage 2 definitions of the Provisioning MnS contain only specific
operations for creation of new objects, and the deletion or manipulation of
(existing) objects:
\- The operation \"createMOI\" for requesting the creation of one object.
\- The operation \"deleteMOI\" for requesting the deletion of one object, or
of multiple objects identified by scoping and filtering.
\- The operation \"modifyMOIAttributes\" for requesting the replacement of
attribute values of one object, or of multiple objects identified by scoping
and filtering.
Stage 2 does not include an operation allowing to create, delete and
manipulate multiple objects using a single request. Note that stage 3 includes
capabilities to create, delete and manipulate multiple objects using a single
request for both HTTP/JSON and NETCONF/YANG solutions already.
### 4.6.2 Analysis
The definitions at stage 2 do not reflect the situation at stage 3. This is
misleading to readers not concerned with stage 3. They may be left with the
impression that the Provisioning MnS offers only limited capabilities. At
stage 2 there should be an operation for creating, deleting, and manipulating
multiple objects using a single request, too.
Note that no stage 3 changes are targeted by the issue in this clause.
### 4.6.3 CR proposal
As a solution for the issue, the following clause could be added to TS 28.532.
****** BEGIN
*********************************************************************************
11.1.1.4a changeMOIs operation
11.1.1.4a.1 Definition
This operation is invoked by MnS consumers to request a MnS producer to
create, delete, and update multiple objects using a single request. The
request contains an ordered set of sub-operations. Each sub-operation creates
an object, deletes an object, or updates attribute or attribute field values.
Sub-operations should be executed in the order they appear in the request.
The \"baseObjectInstance\" parameter is common for all sub-operations and
identifies the root of the object tree where changes can be made. Each sub-
operation is defined by the \"path\", \"modifyOperator\" and \"nodeValue\"
parameters. The \"path\" parameter specifies the offset from the root object
to the target object, the target attribute or the target attribute field of
the sub-operation. The \"modifyOperator\" specifies the operation to be
applied. Valid values are \"replace\", \"add\", remove, and for attributes and
attributes fields also the value \"setToDefault\". The \"replace\" operator is
not applicable when \"path\" identifies an object.
The \"nodeValue\" provides the value for the sub-operation. The parameter
shall be absent for \"remove\" operations.
For operations on attribute values or attribute field values the same
provisions as in clause 11.1.1.3 apply.
When adding (creating) objects, the \"nodeValue\" contains the object
representation.
Note that the parameters introduced and used in this clause just serve the
purpose of explaining the functionality. Specific stage 3 solutions may
implement the functionality in very different ways.
11.1.1.4a.2 Input parameters
+--------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | Parameter Name | S | Matching | Comment | | | | Information / | | | | | Legal Values | | +--------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | baseObjectInstance | M | ManagedEnt | Identifies the | | | | ity.objectInstance | base object, that | | | | | together with the | | | | | \"pat\" identify | | | | | the | +--------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | modificationsIn | M | LIST OF SEQUENCE | Set of | | | | \ | | | | | | The | | | | | \"modifyOperator\" | | | | | specifies the | | | | | operation to be | | | | | applied to the | | | | | target attribute | | | | | node. The | | | | | parameter can have | | | | | the values | | | | | \"replace\", | | | | | \"add\", | | | | | \"remove\" or | | | | | \"setToDefault\". | | | | | The value | | | | | \"replace\" is not | | | | | applicable, when | | | | | the target node is | | | | | an object. The | | | | | value | | | | | \"SetToDefault\" | | | | | is applicable only | | | | | to attributes and | | | | | attribute fields. | | | | | | | | | | The \"nodeValue\" | | | | | specifies the | | | | | value for the | | | | | sub-operation. | | | | | This parameter is | | | | | absent for | | | | | \"remove\" | | | | | operations. | +--------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+
11.1.1.4a.3 Output parameters
+------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | Parameter name | S | Matching | Comment | | | | Information / | | | | | Legal Values | | +------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | modificationsOut | M | LIST OF SEQUENCE | Provides for each | | | | \ | If all requested | | | | | modifications are | | | | > | applied, the | | | | | parameter may be | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | If no requested | | | | | modification is | | | | | applied and an | | | | | error response is | | | | | returned, the | | | | | parameter may be | | | | | absent, too. | +------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+ | status | M | ENUM ( | Indicates if all, | | | | | some or none of | | | | SUCCEEDED, | the requested | | | | | modifications were | | | | PARTIALLY_FAILED, | applied. Details | | | | | on the error, such | | | | FAILED | as which | | | | | modification could | | | | ) | not be applied and | | | | | the corresponding | | | | | reason, may be | | | | | returned as well. | +------------------+---+--------------------+--------------------+
****** END
*************************************************************************************
### 4.6.4 Conclusion
It is recommended to add the operation \"changeMOIs\" as defined in clause
4.6.3 of the present document to clause 11.1.1 of TS 28.532. This requires as
well the update of some mapping tables in clause 12.1 of TS 28.532, but no
change of the real stage 3 functionality.
## 4.7 Issue#7: Advertising communication options (REST SS)
### 4.7.1 Issue description
TS 32.158 describes no mechanism allowing to advertise the communication
options a resource supports. Communication options include supported HTTP
methods, supported patch formats, and supported query parameters.
This issue applies only the HTTP/JSON solution.
### 4.7.2 Analysis
The OPTIONS method defined in IETF RFC 7231 [x], and the \"Accept-Patch\"
header defined in IETF RFC 5789 [x] can be used to advertise the supported
HTTP methods and the supported patch formats.
For advertising supported query parameters there is no method standardized
yet, nor in 3GPP or other standard bodies. It is proposed to introduce the new
header \"Accept-Get\" for that purpose.
### 4.7.3 CR proposal
The following clause shall be added to TS 32.158 [x].
****** BEGIN
*********************************************************************************
6.6 Advertising communication options
6.6.1 The HTTP OPTIONS method
The OPTIONS method is used to request communication options that are supported
for the target resource identified in the OPTIONS request. A MnS Consumer can
specify the target resource with a URI to refer to a specific resource on a
MnS Producer, or with an asterisk (\"*\") to refer to a MnS Producer in
general.
The target resource must exist for an OPTIONS request to be successful,
otherwise a \"404 Not Found\" error response shall be returned. The target URI
in the OPTIONS request shall identify the URI subsequently used for sending
requests. Note that this is normally not the canonical URI, as described in
clause 4.4.4.
The OPTIONS method shall be supported for all resources.
_Editor\'s note: What is returned when the target resource is \"*\" is ffs._
6.6.2 Advertising supported HTTP request methods
The \"Allow\" response header (IETF RFC 7231 [2], clause 7.4.1) allows a MnS
Producer to specify a comma-separated list of HTTP request methods supported
for a resource.
The MnS Producer shall include an \"Allow\" response header (IETF RFC 7231
[2], clause 7.4.1) in the response to an OPTIONS request.
Note that, according to IETF RFC 7231 [2], clause 7.4.1, the \"Allow\" header
shall be included as well in a \"405 Method Not Allowed\" response.
For example, to find out which request methods are supported by a specific
\"SubNetwork\" instance a MnS Consumer may send the following request.
+-----------------------------------------------+ | OPTIONS ProvMnS/v1600/SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | +-----------------------------------------------+
The \"Allow\" header in the answer indicates the supported request methods.
+------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 204 No Content | | | | Allow: GET,PUT,DELETE,HEAD,OPTIONS | +------------------------------------+
6.6.3 Advertising supported patch request formats
The \"Accept-Patch\" response header (IETF RFC 5789 [11], clause 3.1) allows a
MnS Producer to specify patch document formats accepted for a resource
supporting the PATCH request method. The accepted patch formats are identified
using their media types, followed by one or more optional parameters. Media
types are separated by a comma.
Resources that support PATCH shall include the \"Accept-Patch\" header in the
OPTIONS response.
A server receiving a PATCH request with an unsupported media type in the
message body shall reply with a \"415 Unsupported Media Type\" response and
include an \"Accept-Patch\" header referencing one or more supported patch
document formats. Note that when the PATCH method is not supported, a \"405
Method Not Allowed\" error response shall be returned.
The patch formats that may be supported according to this specification are
listed in Table 6.6.3-1.
Table 6.6.3-1: Media types for patch document formats
* * *
**Media type** **Definition** application/merge-patch+json clause 6.3.2
application/json-patch+json clause 6.3.3 application/vnd.3gpp.merge-patch+json
clause 6.4.2 application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json clause 6.4.3
* * *
The following example demonstrates the use of the \"Accept-Patch\" header in
an OPTIONS response. Assume that the target resource supports, besides other
methods, the PATCH method.
+-----------------------------------------------+ | OPTIONS ProvMnS/v1600/SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | +-----------------------------------------------+
The \"Allow\" header in the answer indicates the supported request methods.
The \"Accept-Patch\" header lists the patch formats supported for the target
resource.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 204 No Content | | | | Allow: GET,PUT,PATCH, DELETE,HEAD,OPTIONS | | | | Accept-Patch: application/json-patch+json, | | application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
In the next example the MnS Consumer sends a patch format, that is not
accepted by the MnS Producer.
+---------------------------------------------+ | PATCH ProvMnS/v1600/SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/merge-patch+json | | | | [patch document] | +---------------------------------------------+
The error response indicates that the media type in the request is not
supported and suggests to use another one.
+-------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 415 Unsupported Media Type | | | | Accept-Patch: application/json-patch+json | +-------------------------------------------+
6.6.4 Advertising supported query parameters
This specification introduces the new \"Accept-Get\"response header. It is
used by MnS Producers to specify the query parameters supported by the GET
method on a specific resource. It is a comma-separated list of query parameter
names.
Resources that support GET shall include the \"Accept-Get\" header in the
OPTIONS response.
A server receiving a GET request with unsupported query parameters in the
query component of the URI shall reply with a \"400 Bad Request\" response and
include an \"Accept-Get\" header referencing all supported query parameters.
Note that when the GET method is not supported, a \"405 Method Not Allowed\"
error response shall be returned.
This specification defines the query parameters listed in Table 6.6.4-1.
Table 6.6.4-1: Query parameter names
* * *
**Query parmeter name** **Definition** scopeType clause 6.1.2 scopeLevel
clause 6.1.2 filter clause 6.1.3 attributes clause 6.2.2. fields clause 6.2.2.
* * *
The following example demonstrates the use of the \"Accept-Get\" header in an
OPTIONS response.
+-----------------------------------------------+ | OPTIONS ProvMnS/v1600/SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | +-----------------------------------------------+
The response includes an \"Accept-Get\" header with the supported query
parameter names.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 204 No Content | | | | Allow: GET,PUT,PATCH, DELETE,HEAD,OPTIONS | | | | Accept-Patch: application/json-patch+json, | | application/vnd.3gpp.json-patch+json | | | | Accept-Get: attributes, fields, scopeType, scopeLevel | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
****** END
*************************************************************************************
### 4.7.4 Conclusion
It is recommended to add to TS 32.158 the methods for advertising supported
communication options, that are described in the CR proposal in clause 4.7.3
of the present document.
## 4.8 Issue #8: Logging
### 4.8.1 Issue description
Logging is a crucial functionality of the OAM systems. It assists in several
functionalities e.g troubleshooting. The functionality of logging is available
in IRP framework in TS 32.332. However, the SBMA lacks the ability of Logging.
The SBMA (service based management architecture) principle call for a
management system where the MnS (management services) are defined for all
management tasks e.g provisioning, performance assurance. The authorized
consumer can access the MnSes as per their requirements. The current SBMA
framework do not provide any mechanism to control and produce the logs for
consumed management services.
The logging in IRP framework is restricted to only to logging of
notifications. However, logging of Management Service require logging of all
Component A, B and C i.e what operation and notifications were accessed, what
were the related MIBs and what PM/KPI data was collected.
The MnS can be accessed from within the management system and from outside the
management system. The logging may support both the scenarios.
### 4.8.2 Analysis
The logging mechanism for SBMA framework need to be defined.
### 4.8.3 Potential Requirements
  * The 3GPP Management System shall have the capability to enable logging including recording of the operations invoked.
  * The 3GPP Management System shall have the capability to enable logging including recording of the notifications produced.
  * The 3GPP Management System shall have the capability to enable logging including recording of the MIBs accessed.
  * The 3GPP Management System shall have the capability to enable logging including recording of the performance measurements reporting. This implies logging the measurement job contents, but excludes logging the individual measurement results.
  * The 3GPP Management System shall have the capability to enable logging including recording of the KPIs produced. This implies logging the KPI generated, but excludes logging the individual KPI results.
  * The 3GPP Management System shall provide a way for the consumer to retrieve the logs.
  * The 3GPP Management System shall have the capability to manage log overflow situation.
  * The 3GPP Management System shall include a timestamp for each log record.
  * The 3GPP Management System shall include the user/consumer identity for each log record.
### 4.8.4 Potential Solutions
The potential solutions are left for the normative phase of the work.
### 4.8.5 CR proposal
The concrete CR is left for the normative phase of the work.
## 4.9 Issue#9: Harmonized approach for node selection
### 4.9.1 Issue Description
Nodes (objects, attributes, attribute fields, attribute elements) need to be
selected by a MnS Consumer in many situations.
The following examples show where nodes are selected with attributes of
managed objects.
\- In subscriptions to alarm notifications a MnS Consumer needs to specify the
objects from which he wants to get alarm notifications (using the \"scope\"
attribute of \"NtfSubscriptionControl\").
\- In subscriptions to CM notifications a MnS Consumer needs to specify the
nodes from which he wants to get CM notifications (using the \"scope\"
attribute of \"NtfSubscriptionControl\").
\- When requesting measurement collection, a MnS consumer needs to specify the
measured objects (using the \"objectInstances\" and \"rootObjectInstances\"
attributes of \"PerfMetricJob\").
\- When requesting threshold monitoring, a MnS consumer needs to specify the
monitored objects (using the \"objectInstances\" and \"rootObjectInstances\"
attributes of \"ThresholdMonitor\").
The following examples show where nodes are selected in operations:
\- In read requests a MnS Consumer needs to specify the nodes to be returned.
Note that with NETCONF/YANG nodes are specified in the get-config operation
using subtree filtering or using an XPath expression that yields a node set as
output. In the HTTP/JSON solution a query parameter is defined for GET, that
uses the old ITU-T defined scope mechanism for node selection, that is less
powerful than XPath expressions for node selection. The node set selected by
scoping can be further refined by the \"filter\" query parameter. This
parameter uses an XPath expression.
### 4.9.2 Analysis
#### 4.9.2.1 Node selection in read operations
NETCONF/YANG supports already XPath (besides subtree filtering) for selecting
nodes to be returned in get-config. No action is required.
HTTP/JSON uses scoping and filtering for node selection. Filtering cannot be
used without scoping. It would be possible to select with scoping a complete
subtree and filter an that subtree, but the scope could be also omitted in
that case. The subtree is already defined by the target URI. For that reason,
it should be possible to use the \"filter\" query parameter also without the
\"scope\" query parameter.
At stage 2, the definition of the operation \"getMOIAttributes\" may be
updated as well to include the possibility to achieve node selection based on
some node selection expression only.
#### 4.9.2.2 Node selection with NRM attributes
As described in the previous clause, node selection with NRM attributes is
achieved based on different mechanisms.
At stage 2 node selection could be aligned by introducing a common node
selection mechanism based on some node selection notation. This node selection
mechanism could be described at stage 2 only in a generic way, like the
\"filter\" parameter in clause 11.1 of TS 32.532. The notation is stage 3
specific:
\- For NETCONF/YANG XPath can be used.
\- For HTTP/JSON XPath can be used.
XPath profiles may be defined.
### 4.9.3 Potential requirements
[Req-1] The read operation shall support node selection based on some node
selection notation.
[Req-2] The 3GPP management system shall support one harmonized method for
node selection with NRM attributes, that is based on a node selection
notation.
### 4.9.4 Potential solution
**Enhancements at stage 2 for read operations:**
Clarify that a node selection mechanism based on some node selection notation
is optionally supported.
**Enhancements at stage 3 for read operations:**
NETCONF/YANG: Clarify that the NETCONF XPath capability is optionally
supported.
HTTP/JSON: Clarify that the \"filter\" query parameter can be used optionally
without the \"scope\" query parameter for node selection.
**Enhancements at stage 2 for NRM attributes selecting nodes:**
Clarify that node selection may optionally use some node selection notation.
**Enhancements at stage 3 for NRM attributes selecting nodes:**
Clarify that an optional stage 3 solution for the node selection notation is
Xpath for NETCONF/YANG and HTTP/JSON.
### 4.9.5 Conclusion
It is recommended to implement the enhancements described in clause 4.X.4 in
TS 32.532, 28.622/3, and potentially also in other specifications where
functionality to select nodes is specified.
## 4.10 Issue#10: OAS definition versioning (HTTP/JSON only)
### 4.10.1 Issue Description
The version of an OAS definition is currently identical to the version of the
TS where the OAS definition is documented. For example, the OAS definition
\"TS28532_ProvMnS.yaml\" in TS 32.532 V17.5.0 has the version string
\"v1750\".
OAS is the abbreviation for OpenAPI Specification.
Note that a MnS is composed of MnS component type A, and MnS component type B
or MnS component type C. Each component may have one or more OAS definition
modules.
For example, a MnS might be composed of the following modules
\- TS28532_ProvMnS.yaml
\- TS28623_GenericNRM.yaml
\- TS28623_ComDefs.yaml
\- TS28.541_NrNRM.yaml
All these modules have independent and potentially different OAS definition
versions. The issue in this clause is about versioning of all OAS definition
modules.
Note also that the OAS definition version is currently used in different
places:
\- Each OAS definition has an \"info\" property in its header, where the
version of the module is documented.
\- It is used in the target URI
\- {scheme}://{URI-DN-prefix}/{root}/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}/{URI-LDN}
\- {scheme}://{authority}/{root}/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}/{MnSResourcePath}
\- The OAS definition version used in the target URI is also included as an
attribute in \"MnsInfo\".
The version used in the target URI is for the usual MnS, based on CRUD
operations and a NRM, the version of the module \"TS28532_ProvMnS.yaml\", that
contains the OAS definition of the CRUD operations and imports the OAS
definition of the NRM.
For legacy MnS like the Fault Supervision MnS it is the version of the module
\"TS28532_FaultMnS.yaml\".
### 4.10.2 Analysis
The version of the OAS definition is incremented not only when the OAS
definition is updated, but also when other changes to the TS are applied that
have no impact on the OAS definition. This leads to a situation where the same
OAS definition may have multiple version numbers. This in turn would require
the introduction of a register where the information about which version
numbers are identifying the same OAS definition is maintained.
A more practical solution seems to be to decouple the TS version number and
OAS definition version number and to allow them to evolve independently.
### 4.10.3 Potential requirements
Potential requirements to address the issue of this clause are:
[Req-1] The numbering scheme of OAS definition shall be independent from the
TS numbering scheme documenting the OAS definition.
[Req-2] The numbering scheme of OAS definition shall be based on rules for
incrementing the version number that take backwards compatibility and
interoperability considerations into account.
### 4.10.4 Potential solutions
The OAS definition version should be determined based on rules for
incrementing the version number. These rules should take backwards
compatibility and interoperability considerations into account.
### 4.10.5 CR proposal
The concrete CR is left for the normative phase of the work.
### 4.10.6 Conclusion
It is recommended to start normative work for this issue and develop rules for
OAS definition versioning.
## 4.11 Issue #11: Advertising NRM properties by MnS producer
### 4.11.1 Issue description
SA5 Provisioning MnS defines NRMs with IOCs with attributes along with
attribute properties and Provisioning APIs for CRUD operations. Different MnS
producers may support different NRMs, for example there might be one MnS
producer that is dedicated for configuration management while an another MnS
producer that is dedicated for performance management. Hence the NRM
properties supported by each MnS producers in a multi-vendor environment could
be different, and the MnS producer implementing an NRM might support all or
only a subset of the attributes for the IOCs defined in SA5. A mechanism for
the MnS consumer to be aware of such the NRM properties of the MnS producer is
necessary.
This key issue is to study the current situation and propose solution to
provide a mechanism for the MnS producer to advertise the following NRM
properties to the MnS consumers.
\- Advertise the list of IOCs supported by the MnS producer.
\- Advertise the attributes of each IOC that is supported by the MnS Producer.
The following aspects of an MnS producer NRM properties are analysed as part
of this key issue:
\- A MnS producer might not support an IOC since the underlying functionality
is not supported. For example, a MnS producer that does not have the
capability to support performance metrics collection and reporting would not
support PerfMetricJob IOC (defined in clause 4.3.31 of TS 28.622[14]).
Note: This key issue analyses advertising the list of IOCs supported by the
MnS producer. This key issue does not address a MnS producer advertising the
list of instantiated MOIs.
\- A MnS producer might not support all attributes (i.e., the attributes with
the support qualifier defined as optional or conditional mandatory or
conditional optional) of an IOC.
This clause analyses the current situation and proposes a solution where the
NRM properties related schema may be advertised by MnS producer.
### 4.11.2 Current situation
Discovery of Management Services use cases and procedures are defined in
clause 5 of TS 28.537[13]. It has been defined that MnS producers need to
register themselves with their management capabilities in the 3GPP management
system. The data describing a MnS producer, and their capabilities is called
MnS information or MnS profile.
The related NRMs MnSRegistry and MnsInfo is defined in clause 4.3.42 and
4.3.41 of TS 28.622[14] respectively. MnSInfo hold the information related to
the MnS label (attribute mnsLabel), type (attribute mnsType), version
(attribute mnsVersion), address (attribute mnsAddress) and scope (attribute
mnsScope).
The MnS producer profile is defined in clause 4.2.4 of TS 28.533[15]. This is
described as follows:
\-- Start of quote from TS 28.533[15] clause 4.2.4:
"
_4.2.4 MnS producer profile_
A MnS producer is described by a set of meta data called MnS producer profile.
The profile holds information about the supported MnS components and their
version numbers. This may include also information about support of optional
features. For example, a read operation on a complete subtree of managed
object instances may support applying filters on the scoped set of objects as
optional feature. In this case the MnS profile should include the information
if filtering is supported.
"
\-- End of quote from TS 28.533[15] clause 4.2.4 --
These existing mechanisms however do not define the mechanism for the MnS
consumer to be aware of the MnS producer NRM properties described in clause
4.x.1, and hence a mechanism to advertise this needs to be studied and
specified.
Further, any MnS producer using YANG-Netconf solution set are required to use
the YANG Library (ietf-yang-library defined in reference [16]) to advertise
supported IOCs, attributes and constrains to the MnS consumers.
However, any MnS producer based on OpenAPI solution set does not advertise the
supported IOCs, attributes and constrains to the MnS consumers. The MnS
consumers may expect that the complete NRM defined in SA5 is supported by
every MnS producer. There is no mechanism currently defined where the MnS
consumer can get this information. Hence, a mechanism to advertise such NRM
properties in OpenAPI needs to be studied and specified.
### 4.11.3 Analysis
### 4.11.4 Potential requirements
Potential requirements to address the issue are:
[Req-1] MnS producer shall be able to advertise supported IOCs to the MnS
consumers.
[Req-2] MnS producer shall be able to advertise supported attributes for the
supported IOCs to the MnS consumers.
### 4.11.5 Potential solution
4.11.5.1 Introduction
Solution for potential requirements in clause 4.11.4 needs the MnS producer to
advertise the following NRM properties to the MnS consumers:
\- list of IOCs supported by the MnS producer.
\- list of supported attributes of each IOC that is supported by the MnS
Producer.
The MnS producer may advertise the address (URL) from where the MnS consumer
can retrieve the advertised NRM properties for each MnS that the producer
supports.
4.11.5.2 Extension to MnSInfo with address information to retreive NRM
properties
MnSInfo IOC (defined in TS 28.622 clause 4.3.42) represents an available
Management Service (MnS) and provides the data required to support its
discovery. This IOC has information is used by the consumer to discover the
producers of specific Management Services and to derive the addresses of the
Management Service.
This potential solution proposes to enhance MnSInfo with a new
mnsAddressForNrmProperties attribute. Attribute mnsAddressForNrmProperties is
used to provide addressing information for the NRM properties schema of the
Management Service producer.
Following table describe the description of mnsAddressForNrmProperties
attribute proposed for MnSInfo IOC.
* * *
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
mnsAddressForNrmProperties M T F F T
* * *
+-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | mnsAd | Addressing | type: String | | dressForNrmProperties | information for the | | | | schema containing NRM | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | properties of the | | | | Management Service | isOrdered: N/A | | | producer. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
4.11.5.3 MnS Producer based on OpenAPI solution set
This clause proposes a mechanism for MnS producer, based on OpenAPI solution
set, to advertise the supported NRM properties to the MnS consumer.
The MnS producer advertises the schema, with the OpenAPI description in the
YAML file format, that it supports, along with the information related to the
corresponding 3GPP defined standard schema. The schema advertised by the MnS
producer contains the IOCs and attributes supported. The MnS consumer(s)
requiring this information can query this schema from the URL (in MnSInfo
attribute mnsAddressForNrmProperties) to retrieve the information about the
NRM properties supported by the MnS producer.
This potential solution does not propose the schema advertised by the MnS
producer to advertise the information related to supported cardinality, name-
containment, and vendor extensions.
4.11.5.4 MnS Producer based on YANG-Netconf solution set
Clause 6.2.1.5 of TS 32.160 [17] specifies that the MnS producer using YANG-
Netconf solution set uses YANG version 1.1. YANG 1.1 (RFC7950 [18]) requires
support for YANG Library (ietf-yang-library defined in RFC8525 [16]). Hence
the MnS producer using YANG-Netconf solution set is required to advertise
supported IOCs, attributes and constrains or deviations, from the 3GPP defined
standard NRM schema, to the MnS consumers using the YANG Library (ietf-yang-
library defined in RFC8525 [16]).
### 4.11.6 CR proposal
The concrete CR is left for the normative phase of the work.
### 4.11.7 Conclusion
It is recommended to implement the enhancements described in clause 4.11.5 in
TS 28.622, 28.623, and potentially also in other specifications where
templates related to YANG SS and OpenAPI SS definitions are defined.
## 4.12 Issue #12: Multiple alarms subscription mechanism
### 4.12.1 Issue description
As per the existing mechanism, a consumer can subscribe to receive a newly
raised alarm as part of \"notifyNewAlarm\" notification using two alternate
mechanism a) using subscribe operation defined in clause 11.2.1.1.1 of TS
28.532 b) using \"NtfSubscriptionControl\" defined in clause 4.3.22 of TS
28.622.
It is confusing for the industry to have alternate subscription mechanism to
get the same notification. It also entails burden on the implementers when
they are asked to support both the mechanism.
### 4.12.2 Analysis
The subscribe/notify mechanism defined in 28.532 is not needed.
### 4.12.3 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP Management System shall have a single mechanism to subscribe for the
alarms and get notifications accordingly.
### 4.12.2 Potential Solutions
Deprecate or remove (make it Void.) clause 11.2.1.1.1 of TS 28.532 defining
operation subscribe. (Make it Void.)
Deprecate or remove (make it Void.) clause 11.2.1.1.2 of TS 28.532 defining
operation unsubscribe. (Make it Void.)
### 4.12.3 Change Request proposal
The concrete change request is left for the normative phase of the work.
## 4.13 Issue #13: Partial success for update operations (HTTP/JSON only)
### 4.13.1 Issue description
TS 32.158 describes numerous HTTP methods for manipulating attributes and
objects (CRUD operations). All these methods share a common property: they are
atomic. This means that the update request is either satisfied in its entirety
or not at all. Partial success is not supported.
This issue refers only to the HTTP/JSON solution. For NETCONF the error-option
parameter allows to request partial success modes, though most implementations
support only the rollack-on-error behavior.
### 4.13.2 Analysis
Partial success of update operations is currently not supported for HTTP/JSON,
though stage 2 definitions in TS 28.532 require that. Partial success means
that some updates in the request are satisfied, and some are not satisfied.
Processing on the MnS producer may follow three modes:
\- atomic: When no error occurs, all modifications are applied. When an error
occurs, no modification is applied. In case some modifications were already
applied when an error is encountered, the configuration needs to be rolled
back to the state prevailing before processing of the request started.
\- stop-on-error: Processing of the request stops when the first error is
encountered. The first modification resulting in an error and all remaining
modifications are not applied. All other modifications are applied
\- best effort: The complete request is processed until the end.
Modifications, that can be applied, are applied. Modifications, that cannot be
applied, are not applied.
For the stop-on-error no use cases are seen.
### 4.13.3 Potential requirements
Potential requirements to address the issue of this clause are:
[Reg-1] The MnS producer shall support atomic mode and should support best-
effort mode of processing.
[Reg-2] A MnS consumer shall be able to indicate to a MnS producer if the
update request shall be processed in atomic or best effort mode. If the
requested mode is not supported, the MnS producer shall return an error
response. If the same operation is used for atomic and best effort mode and no
mode is indicated in the request, the default shall be atomic handling.
[Reg-3] The response to update requests processed in best effort mode shall
include detailed information on which parts of the update request failed and
which parts succeeded.
[Req-4] The configuration after processing the update request shall be valid
according to the NRM model and related constraints in both atomic and best
effort mode.
### 4.13.4 Potential solutions
HTTP Patch is defined by IETF as atomic method. It is recommended not to
change this basic property. The same is true for HTTP Put. Operations for
attribute and object manipulations supporting a best effort mode could be
implemented with HTTP Post. The request body specifying the requested
attribute and object manipulations could be inspired by or fully aligned to
JSON Patch.
The error response format specified in clause 4.5 for atomic operations allows
to report problem details for each sub-operation that failed. It is at the MnS
producer discretion to report all failed sub-operations or only one failed
sub-operation. For the best effort mode, the MnS producer needs to include all
failed sub-operations in the error response. If a suboperation is not
included, that indicates it was successful.
### 4.13.5 CR proposal
The concrete CR is left for the normative phase of the work.
### 4.13.6 Conclusion
It is recommended to start normative work for this issue and to add support
for partial success to the UPDATE operations of the HTTP/JSON solution.
# 5 Recommendations and conclusions
Conclusions are given for each issue above.
###### ### Annex A: Profiles
# A.1 EBNF for basic XPath profile
LocationPath ::= AbsoluteLocationPath
AbsoluteLocationPath ::= Step
\| AbsoluteLocationPath \'/\' Step
Step ::= AxisSpecifier NodeName Predicate*
AxisSpecifier ::= AxisName \'::\'
\|
AxisName ::= \'descendant\'
\| \'child\'NodeName ::= \'*\'
\| Name
Predicate ::= \'[\' \'id\' \'=\' Literal \']\'
Literal ::= \'\"\' [\^\"]* \'\"\'
\| \"\'\" [\^\']* \"\'\"Name ::= NameStartChar (NameChar)*
NameChar ::= NameStartChar \| \"-\" \| \".\" \| [0-9]
NameStartChar ::= [A-Z] \| \"_\" \| [a-z]
# A.2 EBNF for advanced XPath profile
LocationPath ::= RelativeLocationPath
\| AbsoluteLocationPath
AbsoluteLocationPath ::= \'/\' RelativeLocationPath?
\| \'//\' RelativeLocationPath
RelativeLocationPath ::= Step
\| RelativeLocationPath \'/\' Step
\| RelativeLocationPath \'//\' Step
Step ::= AxisSpecifier NodeName Predicate*
AxisSpecifier ::= AxisName \'::\'
\|
AxisName ::= \| \'descendant\'
\| \'child\'
NodeName ::= \'*\'
\| Name
Predicate ::= \'[\' PredicateExpr \']\'
PredicateExpr ::= EqualityExpr
\| InEqualityExpr
\| PathExpr
EqualityExpr ::= PathExpr \'=\' Literal
InEqualityExpr ::= PathExpr \'\\' Number
\| PathExpr \'\=\' Number
PathExpr ::= LocationPath
\| FunctionCall
FunctionCall ::= FunctionName \'(\' ( Argument ( \',\' Argument )* )? \')\'
Argument ::= EqualityExpr
\| InEqualityExpr
\| PathExpr
\| Number
\| Literal
Literal ::= \'\"\' [\^\"]* \'\"\'
\| \"\'\" [\^\']* \"\'\"
Number ::= Digits (\'.\' Digits?)?
\| \'.\' Digits
Digits ::= [0-9]+
FunctionExcluded ::= \'position()\'
\| \'last()\'
\| \'comment\'
\| \'processing-instruction\'
\| \'node\'
FunctionName ::= Name - FunctionExcluded
Name ::= NameStartChar (NameChar)*
NameChar ::= NameStartChar \| \"-\" \| \".\" \| [0-9]
NameStartChar ::= [A-Z] \| \"_\" \| [a-z]
#