# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies on potential requirements, impact on interaction
between MOP and POP/NEP, and management architecture and more potential
performance measurements of 5G MOCN network sharing.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"5G Network Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"5G performance measurements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.130: \"Network sharing; Concepts and requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.533: \" Architecture framework\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.622: \" Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.658: \"Telecommunications management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.532: \" Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Concepts and overview
5G network sharing, especially the 5G MOCN scenario, is essential to save
construction costs for network operators. So far, requirements of
configuration, management authority and performance measurement for network
sharing have been covered in TS 32.130 [4]. The NRM and part of performance
measurement for 5G MOCN network sharing have been defined in TS 28.541 and TS
28.552 [3]. With the deployment and operation of 5G MOCN network sharing, more
and more new detailed management requirements need be investigated for 5G MOCN
network sharing. For example, preventing data modification by MOP-NM and
ensuring data fairness per POP, MOP-NM needs to get different data from MOP-
SR-DM, and put different data to different POP-NM. The performance measurement
in TS 28.552 [3] cannot fully evaluate the network performance of 5GMOCN
network sharing.
To enhance the sharing mechanism, the present document studies on management
aspects of 5G MOCN network sharing, including potential requirements, impact
on interaction between MOP and POP/NEP, and management architecture, and more
potential performance measurements in management system.
# 5 Key issues and potential solutions
## 5.1 Issue #1: Management requirement for different POP\'s network operation
### 5.1.1 Description
For 5G MOCN Networking Sharing, different POP needs different data for
personalized operation and maintenance services (e.g. mobility management
measurements focused by POP A, packet delay measurements focused by POP B).
POP-NM needs to get different data from MOP-NM for POPs\' network operation.
### 5.1.2 Potential solution
1\. In NG-RAN, according to different POPs\' operation requirements, the 3GPP
management system of the MOP shall have capability to report different
operator-specific configuration (e.g. NROperatorCellCU) and performance
measurement jobs (e.g. job containing mobility management measurements focused
by POP A, job containing packet delay measurements focused by POP B) for each
POP.
2\. In NG-RAN, ensuring alarm continuity, the 3GPP management system of the
MOP shall have capability to provide full operator-specific alarm data for
each POP.
## 5.2 Issue #2: Performance measurements without PLMN ID at NRCellCU
### 5.2.1 Description
In TS 28.541 [2], the NRCellCU IOC with pLMNInfoList attribute can naturally
distinguish PLMN granularity. However, some performance measurements that do
not contain PLMN information are collected at NRCellCU in TS 28.552 [3]. These
measurements, which are based on the message without PLMN Id information, are
inappropriate to be collected from NRCellCU. For example, the NRCellCU which
distinguishes PLMN granularity cannot collect RRC.ConnEstabAtt and
RRC.ReEstabAtt (See TS 28.552 [3]) measurements.
For 5G MOCN network sharing, some potential solutions need to be studied to
support above performance measurements without PLMN ID.
### 5.2.2 Potential solutions
#### 5.2.2.1 Solution 1
1\. The following enhanced NR NRM solution is proposed:
Introduce new OperatorCU \> name-contained by GNBCUCPFunction\>
to represent operator specific gNB level information (including operator
specific gNB Id, gNBIdlength, pLMNId), and new NROperatorCellCU\> name-
contained by OperatorCU\> to represent operator specific cell level
information (including operator specific CelllocalId, PLMNInfoList). Which
means individual OperatorCU instance and NROperatorCellCU needs to be created
and configured for each POP.
{width="6.69375in" height="2.811111111111111in"}
Figure 5.2-1: NR NRM enhancement to support NG-RAN sharing MOCN network
sharing
The OperatorCU \> contains attributes to support operator specific gNB-
CU level information (including gNB Id, gNBIdLength, PLMNId) to support 5G
Multi-Operator Core Network (5G MOCN) network sharing. Individual instance of
OperatorCU \> should be created and configured for each POP. When
configured the attributes override those in parent GNBCUCPFunction instance.
The OperatorCU\> is only used to support MOCN. If the MOCN is not
supported, this IOC is not used.
The OperatorCU\> includes attributes inherited from TOP IOC and the
following attributes:
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
**isNotifyable**
* * *
gNBId M T T F T gNBIdLength M T T F T pLMNId M T T F T
NROperatorCellCU\>
The NROperatorCellCU \> contains attributes to support operator
specific cell level information (including cellLocalId, pLMNInfoList) to
support 5G Multi-Operator Core Network (5G MOCN) network sharing. Individual
instance of NROperatorCellCU \> should be created and configured for
each POP. When configured the attributes override those in associated NRCellCU
instance.
The NROperatorCellCU \> is only used to support MOCN. If the MOCN is
not supported, this IOC is not used.
The NROperatorCellCU \> includes attributes inherited from TOP IOC and
the following attributes:
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
**isNotifyable**
* * *
cellLocalId M T T F T pLMNInfoList M T T F T **Attribute related to role**  
nRCellCURef M T T F T
Some updates are needed for NRCellCU IOC, NRCellRelation IOC and
ExternalNRCellCU IOC in the existing NR NRM.
\- The Support Qualifier for attribute \"cellLocalId \" and \"pLMNInfoList\"
in existing NRCellCU IOC needs to be changed to \"CM\", the condition is \" If
MOCN Network Sharing is configured the value is not used \".
\- The define of existing NRCellRelation IOC needs to be added: In the MOCN
networking sharing scenario, the NRCellCU instance of the target cell and
source cell need to be changed an NROperatorCU instance.
\- The define of existing ExternalNRCellCU IOC needs to be added: In the MOCN
networking sharing scenario, ExternalNRCellCU IOC represents the properties of
an NROperatorCellCU controlled by another Management Service Provider.
\- Operator specific measurements can be collected and reported within
OperatorCU\> and NROperatorCellCU\>, Operator agnostic
measurements can be collected and reported within GNBCUCPFunction\> and
NRCellCU\>.
\- The following NR NRM fragments need to be added.
{width="6.69375in" height="1.4791666666666667in"}
Figure 5.2-2 NRM for Eps to support \>OperatorCU for NG-RAN MOCN
network sharing
For the scenario of individual interfaces for NG-RAN MOCN network sharing,
EP_XnC, EP_E1, EP_F1C, EF_NgC and EP-X2C name contained by OperatorCU can be
used to represent individual interfaces for each POP.
#### 5.2.2.2 Solution 2
In this solution, NRCellDU is added as the measurement object class to the
attempt and failure measurements of RRC connection related measurements.
Detailedly, the following modification is applied to the measurements
\"5.1.1.15.1 Attempted RRC connection establishments\", \"5.1.1.15.3 Failed
RRC connection establishments\", \"5.1.1.17.1 Number of RRC connection re-
establishment attempts\", \"5.1.1.17.4 Number of RRC connection re-
establishment attempts followed by RRC Setup\", \"5.1.1.18.1 Number of RRC
connection resuming attempts\", \"5.1.1.18.4 RRC connection resuming followed
by network release\", \"5.1.1.18.5 RRC connection resuming followed by network
suspension\", \"5.1.1.18.6 Number of RRC connection resuming attempts followed
by RRC Setup\".
******** the proposed modification: *********
f) NRCellCU (for all scenarios except MOCN network sharing with multiple Cell
Identity broadcast scenario),
NRCellDU (for MOCN network sharing with multiple Cell Identity broadcast
scenario).
******** the proposed modification end *********
Based on the above mentioned modifications, for MOCN network sharing with
multiple Cell Identity broadcast scenario, the corresponding KPI formulas can
be:
1) RRC connection setup success rate
> RRC connection setup success rate =
> ∑NRCellCU.RRC.ConnEstabSucc/NRCellDU.RRC.ConnEstabAtt.
That is RRC connection setup success rate on NRCellDU level the measurement
shall be the averaged over all NRCellCUs Associated NRCellDU where
NRCellCU.cellLocalId equeals NROperatorCellDU.cellLocalId and
NROperatorCellDU.nRCellDURef equeals NRCellDU
2) RRC connection re-establishment success rate
RRC connection re-establishment success rate =
(∑NRCellCU.RRC.ReEstabSuccWithUeContext+∑NRCellCU.RRC.ReEstabSuccWithoutUeContext
\+ NRCellDU. RRC.ReEstabFallbackToSetupAtt) / NRCellDU.RRC.ReEstabAtt.
That is RRC connection re-establishment success rate on NRCellDU level the
measurement shall be the averaged over all NRCellCUs Associated NRCellDU where
NRCellCU.cellLocalId equeals NROperatorCellDU.cellLocalId and
NROperatorCellDU.nRCellDURef equeals NRCellDU
3) RRC connection resuming success rate
RRC connection resuming success rate = (∑NRCellCU.RRC.ResumeSucc +
∑NRCellCU.RRC.ResumeSuccByFallback+
NRCellDU.RRC.ResumeFollowedbyNetworkRelease
+NRCellDU.RRC.ResumeFollowedbySuspension +NRCellDU.ResumeFallbackToSetupAtt) /
NRCellDU.RRC.ResumeAtt.
That is RRC connection resuming success rate on NRCellDU level the measurement
shall be the averaged over all NRCellCUs Associated NRCellDU where
NRCellCU.cellLocalId equeals NROperatorCellDU.cellLocalId and
NROperatorCellDU.nRCellDURef equeals NRCellDU.
## 5.3 Issue #3: Management requirement between MOP-NM and MOP-SR-DM
### 5.3.1 Description
For 5G MOCN Networking Sharing, different POP needs different data for
personalized operation and maintenance services (e.g. mobility management
measurements focused by POP A, packet delay measurements focused by POP B).
MOP-NM needs to sent different data to POP-NM for POPs\' network operation.
Preventing data modification by MOP-NM and ensuring data fairness per POP,
different configuration and performance measurements for each POP on MOP-SR-DM
need to be forwarded to MOP-NM. Then the MOP-NM sent these data to POP-NM
directly. Ensuring alarm ID continuity, different alarm data for each POP on
MOP-NM need to be forwarded to each POP. The existing specifications do not
provide some descriptions of these data flows and interface details for NG-RAN
MOCN network sharing scenario.
### 5.3.2 Potential solution
1\. The use cases of configuration, performance measurements for NG-RAN MOCN
network sharing scenario can be added in TS 32.130 [4]. For example, the data
flow of configuration and performance measurements is depicted in figure
5.3-1.
Figure 5.3-1: Data flow of configuration and performance measurements for NG-
RAN MOCN network sharing scenario
1\. The use case of alarm data for NG-RAN MOCN network sharing scenario can be
added in TS 32.130 [4]. For example, the data flow of alarm data is depicted
in figure 5.3-2.
Figure 5.3-2: Data flow of alarm data for NG-RAN MOCN network sharing scenario
1\. Individual PerfMetricJob instance can be created and configured for each
POP.
2\. The following attribute pLMNId can be added to PerfMetricJob IOC defined
in TS 28.622 [6] and used to identify the POP.
The optional attribute pLMNId can be used to establish operator-instance of
PerfMetricJob IOC. The attribute performanceMetrics and optional attribute
pLMNId together define the performance metrics to be produced according to
individual POP\'s requirements for MOCN scenario.
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
pLMNId CO T T F T
The attribute constraint of pLMNId shall be added as follows:
Name Definition
* * *
pLMNId This attribute should be supported, when the MnS producer supports the
PLMN specific jobs for MOCN scenario.
The definition of pLMNId can see in the following table.
+----------------+------------------------------+--------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and Allowed | Properties | | | Values | | +================+==============================+====================+ | pLMNId | This parameter defines the | type: PLMNId | | | information of a PLMN | | | | identification and is used | multiplicity: 1 | | | to distinguish operator | | | | granularity. It is defined | isOrdered: N/A | | | in TS 28.658 [7]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+------------------------------+--------------------+
1\. The getMOIAttribute operation defined in TS 28.532 [8] shall have
capability to filter operator-specific managed objects.
The optional parameter \"filter\" shall support operator-instance filtering.
The pLMNId can be one filter criteria, which is applied to the objects in the
sub-tree of baseObjectInstance.
2\. The getAlarmList operation defined in TS 28.532 [8] shall have capability
to filter operator-specific alarms.
The optional parameter \"filter\" shall support operator-instance filtering.
The pLMNId can be one filter criteria, which is applied to the objects
selected by the \"baseObjectInstance\" parameter. MnS producer shall apply
pLMNId on AlarmInformation instances in AlarmList when constructing its output
parameter AlarmInformationList.
## 5.4 Issue #4: Service-based management architecture for MOCN
### 5.4.1 Description
The management architecture of network sharing in TS 32.130 [4] is not
service-based management architecture, which cannot meet the management
requirements of 5G MOCN network sharing. The Service Based Management
Architecture (SBMA) need to be provided for MOCN networking sharing.
### 5.4.2 Potential solution
An example of the service-based management architecture for MOCN is depicted
in figure 5.4-1. It is compliant with 3GPP management reference models (TS
28.533 [5] and TS 32.130 [4]).
Figure 5.4-1: An example of service-based management architecture for MOCN
The service-based management architecture for MOCN shows that management
functions may interact by consuming management services produced by other
management functions:
\- POP 3GPP Mgmt. System can consume MnS(s) provided by MOP OSS.
\- MOP OSS provides a set of MnS(s) for POP 3GPP Mgmt. System and consumes
MnS(s) provided by MOP 3GPP Mgmt. System.
\- MOP 3GPP Mgmt. System provides a set of MnS(s) for MOP OSS.
## 5.5 Issue #5: Use of MSAC for MOCN sharing scenarios
### 5.5.1 Description
For MOCN Networking Sharing and _POP\'s network operation requirements_ , each
POP needs to get and view some individual requirement data from MOP-SR-DM
directly. In TS 32.130 [4], the data of MOP-SR-DM is transmitted to POP-NM
through MOP-NM, which cannot meet the real-time acquisition and viewing data
requirements of each POP. This data of MOP-SR-DM contain configuration data,
performance data and alarms here. According to the POP\'s real-time data
requirements, MOP-SR-DM needs to allow each POP to be able to access and
provide relevant system user permissions for each POP.
### 5.5.2 Potential solution
The MOP-SR-DM shall allow authorized POP users to access, read and download
data of configuration, performance measurements and alarms.
Editor\'s note: The remote access requirement of MOP-SR-DM could reuse the
solution from the role-based access control capability of work item MSAC
(which will be updated with a specification clause in the future).
## 5.6 Issue #6: PLMN-related attribute requirement for operator specific IOC
### 5.6.1 Description
For MOCN networking sharing and _POP\'s network operation requirements_ , each
POP needs to get some individual operator-specific data from MOP-SR-DM or MOP-
NM. Some IOCs defined in TS 28.541 [2] should create and configure an instance
for each POP, but the PLMN-related attribute of these IOCs are not defined.
Some of the operations defined in TS 28.532 [8] shall have capability to
filter operator-specific object instances via the PLMN-related attribute.
According to the POP\'s data requirements and supporting the operation PLMN-
filtering capability, some operator specific IOCs need to add PLMN-related
attribute for creating different POPs\' object instances. In addition, the
operator specific IOCs mainly include two categories: specific IOCs for NRM
NG-RAN MOCN network sharing(e.g. OperatorDU) and operator-related IOCs whose
instances or attributes can be configured for each POP(e.g.
configurable5QISet).
### 5.6.2 Potential solution
1\. The OperatorDU IOC defined in TS 28.541 [2] shall add PLMN-related
attributes.
The pLMNId attribute shall be added as follows:
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant **isNotifyable**
* * *
pLMNId M T T F T
2\. The GNBDUFunction IOC defined in TS 28.541 [2] shall add PLMN-related
attributes.
The pLMNId attribute shall be added as follows:
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant **isNotifyable**
* * *
pLMNId O T T F T
## 5.7 Issue #7: 5QI-related attribute requirement for operator specific IOC
### 5.7.1 Description
For MOCN RAN network sharing and _POP\'s network operation requirements_ ,
each POP needs to get some individual operator-specific data from MOP-SR-DM or
MOP-NM.
### 5.7.2 Potential solutions
#### 5.7.2.0 General
To configure operator specific 5QI an optional attribute can be added to the
Configurable5QISet to identify the operator to which the 5QI set applies.
#### 5.7.2.1 Solution 1
1\. The Configurable5QISet IOC defined in TS 28.541 [2] could be updated to
include PLMN-related attributes identifying each POP.
2\. The potential NRM changes to support above could include:
New attribute added to Configurable5QISet:
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant **isNotifyable**
* * *
pLMNId CM T T F T
with constraint:
Name Definition
* * *
pLMNId S Condition: The NG-RAN Multi-Operator Core Network (NG-RAN MOCN)
network sharing with multiple Cell Identity broadcast feature is supported.
1\. Such updated Configurable5QISet could be used to create a 5QI set for each
POP\'s pre-configured 5QIs in MOCN networking sharing scenario.
#### 5.7.2.2 Solution 2
To configure operator specific 5QI sets, new attributes could be added to the
OperatorDU to refer to operator specific 5QI sets.
This would not impact the Configurable5QISet definition and keeps the 5QI set
configuration the same for RAN MOCN network sharing, and non-sharing
scenarios.
1\. The OperatorDU IOC defined in TS 28.541 [2] could be updated to include a
reference to a specific 5QI set.
2\. The potential NRM changes to support above could include:
New attributes added to OperatorDU:
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant **isNotifyable**
* * *
configurable5QISetRef CO T T F T dynamic5QISetRef CO T F F T
with constraints:
Name Definition
* * *
configurable5QISetRef Condition: The NG-RAN Multi-Operator Core Network (NG-
RAN MOCN) network sharing with operator specific 5QI is supported.
dynamic5QISetRef Condition: The NG-RAN Multi-Operator Core Network (NG-RAN
MOCN) network sharing with operator specific 5QI is supported.
1\. One instance of Configurable5QISet IOC defined in TS 28.541 [2] is created
for each POP to support different POP\'s pre-configured 5QIs in MOCN RAN
network sharing scenario.
2\. The Configurable5QISet instance should be contained under the same
GNBDUFunction MOI as the operator specific OperatorDU is contained.
3\. Each operator\'s OperatorDU instance references their specific 5QI set via
the new reference attribute (configurable5QISetRef).
#### 5.7.2.3 Solution 3
To configure operator specific 5QI sets, new attributes could be added to the
Configurable5QISet to refer to operator specific DUs.
This would impact the Configurable5QISet definition and make the 5QI set
configuration different for RAN MOCN network sharing, and non-sharing
scenarios.
1\. The Configurable5QISet IOC defined in TS 28.541 [2] could be updated to
include a reference to a specific OperatorDU instance.
2\. The potential NRM changes to support above could include:
New attributes added to Configurable5QISet:
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant **isNotifyable**
* * *
operatorDURef CO T T F T
with constraints:
Name Definition
* * *
operatorDURef Condition: The NG-RAN Multi-Operator Core Network (NG-RAN MOCN)
network sharing with operator specific 5QI is supported.
1\. One instance of Configurable5QISet IOC defined in TS 28.541 [2] is created
for each POP to support different POP\'s pre-configured 5QIs in MOCN RAN
network sharing scenario.
2\. Each Configurable5QISet instance should be contained under the same
GNBDUFunction MOI as the operator specific OperatorDU is contained.
3\. Each operator\'s Configurable5QISet instance references their specific
OperatorDU instance via the new reference attribute (operatorDURef).
## 5.8 Issue #8: PLMN granularity requirement of performance measurements for
MOCN
### 5.8.1 Description
For management requirements of MOCN networking sharing, MOP-NM needs to get
some PLMN granularity performance measurements to support the POP\'s network
operation. For an operator in a shared network, cell-level metrics cannot meet
the requirements of a single operator for network evaluation and optimization.
The 3GPP management system of the MOP has the capability to collect and report
some measurements in PLMN granularity for each POP. However, in TS 28.552 [3],
some measurements(e.g. PDU session management measurements, DRB related
measurements) have not yet been differentiated the PLMN granularity. So some
non-PLMN performance measurements need add PLMN granularity in MOCN networking
sharing scenario.
### 5.8.2 Potential solution
1\. At NRCellCU, some performance measurements defined in TS 28.552 [3] need
to add PLMN granularity.
The PLMN granularity need to be added in the following performance
measurements:
Category Measurement Name
* * *
RRC connection number Max number of stored inactive RRC Connections PDU
Session Management Number of PDU Sessions requested to setup Number of PDU
Sessions successfully setup Number of PDU Sessions failed to setup DRB related
measurements Mean number of DRBs being allocated Peak number of DRBs being
allocated QoS flow setup Number of QoS flow attempted to setup Number of QoS
flow successfully established Number of QoS flow failed to setup QoS flow
modification Number of QoS flows attempted to modify Number of QoS flows
successfully modified Number of QoS flows failed to modify QoS flow release
Number of released active QoS flows 5QI 1 QoS Flow Duration Monitoring Average
Normally Released Call (5QI 1 QoS Flow) Duration Average Abnormally Released
Call (5QI 1 QoS Flow) Duration Distribution of Normally Released Call (5QI 1
QoS Flow) Duration Distribution of Abnormally Released Call (5QI 1 QoS Flow)
Duration
2\. At NRCellDU, some performance measurements defined in TS 28.552 [3] need
to add PLMN granularity.
The PLMN granularity need to be added in the following performance
measurements:
Category Measurement Name
* * *
Number of Active Ues Max number of Active UEs in the UL per cell Paging
Measurement Number of paging records received by the NRCellDU
# 6 Conclusion and Recommendation
## 6.1 Issue #1: Management requirement for different POP\'s network operation
The study has identified management requirements and solutions for different
POP\'s network operation in NG-RAN.
In NG-RAN, to manage different POP\'s data for personalized operation and
maintenance services, the study has identified that the management system of
MOP has the capability to report different operator-specific configuration and
performance measurements and to provide operator-specific alarm data for each
POP.
For MOCN network sharing, it is recommended to start further normative work in
TS 32.130 [4] for NG-RAN.
## 6.2 Issue #2: Performance measurements without PLMN ID at NRCellCU
The study has identified the issue and solutions for NRCellCU to collect
performance measurements without PLMN ID. There are two solutions to address
key issue#2 in the present document. These solutions propose the principle
that the new or existing IOCs are able to support the collection of these
common and operator specific measurements.
\- Solution 1 proposes that new IOCs (i.e. OperatorCU, NROperatorCellCU) could
be added to the NR NRM to support NG-RAN sharing MOCN network sharing. The
OperatorCU and NROperatorCellCU to represent the operator specific part can
collect PLMN related measurements. The NRCellCU to represent the common part
of the CU can collect these common measurements (i.e. RRC.ConnEstabAtt and
RRC.ReEstabAtt ).
\- Solution 2 proposes that NRCellDU is added as the measurement object class
to the attempt and failure measurements of RRC connection related
measurements.
The comparison of solutions is shown in the following table.
Table 6.2-1: Comparison of solutions of Issue#2
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Dimensions | Solution 1 | Solution 2 | +======================+======================+======================+ | Measurement object | No change. | NRCellDU. | | impact | | | | | The object of these | The measurement | | | measurements is | object is NRCellDU, | | | still NRCellCU. | and the statistical | | | | point (such as RRC | | | | signalling) is in | | | | CU. The protocol | | | | layers of the two do | | | | not match. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Compatibility | The solution can | Only resolve issues | | evaluation | meet potential new | with the attempt and | | | common performance | failure measurements | | | measurement | of RRC connection | | | requirements of the | related | | | NRCellCU. | measurements. | | | | | | | | The solution cannot | | | | meet potential new | | | | common performance | | | | measurement | | | | requirements of the | | | | NRCellCU. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The impacts of | TS 28.541 | TS 28.552 | | technical | | | | specifications | Higher impact on the | Higher impact on the | | | NR NRM to support | measurement object | | | NG-RAN sharing MOCN | class of existing | | | network sharing. | performance | | | | measurements. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ROI | Complex for | Simple solution for | | | collecting non-PLMN | collecting non-PLMN | | | measurements, | measurements | | | causing big | | | | migration of | | | | configurations | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
For key issue #2 and two solutions, they need further study and no normative
work.
## 6.3 Issue #3: Management requirement between MOP-NM and MOP-SR-DM
The study has identified management requirements and solutions for
personalized operation and maintenance services between MOP-NM and MOP-SR-DM.
MOP-NM needs to sent different data to POP-NM for POPs\' network operation.
It is recommended to start further normative work focusing on the following
main aspects in TS 32.130 [4] for stage 1.
\- Adding use cases for operator-specific configuration, performance
measurements and alarm data for NG-RAN MOCN network sharing scenario in TS
32.130.
It is recommended to clarify how existing IOCs could be used in the context of
network sharing scenarios in TS32.130[4].
## 6.4 Issue #4: Service-based management architecture for MOCN
The study has identified Service-based management architecture for MOCN.
To meet the management requirements of 5G MOCN network sharing, the study has
depicted the overall picture of an example of service-based management
architecture for MOCN compliant with 3GPP management reference models and
specified management function interactions based on the architecture.
For MOCN network sharing, it is recommended to add the potential solution \"An
example of the service-based management architecture for MOCN\" as informative
annex to TS 32.130 [4].
## 6.5 Issue #5: Use of MSAC for MOCN sharing scenarios
The study has identified use of MSAC for MOCN sharing scenarios.
To get and view some individual requirement data from MOP-SR-DM directly, the
study has identified that the management system of MOP-SR-DM has the
capability to allow authorized POP users to access, read and download data of
configuration, performance measurements and alarms. The access requirement of
MOP-SR-DM could use the role-based access control solution of MSAC (which will
be updated with a specification clause in the future). The existing general
solutions in MSAC will be used.
For MOCN network sharing, recommendations will be added describing how to use
existing access control solution of MSAC in TS 32.130 [4]. No new normative
work is required for MSAC.
## 6.6 Issue #6: PLMN-related attribute requirement for operator specific IOC
The study has identified PLMN-related attribute requirement for operator
specific IOC.
For MOCN networking sharing and POP\'s network operation requirements, each
POP needs to get some individual operator-specific data from MOP-SR-DM or MOP-
NM. The study has specified pLMNId of OperatorDU IOC and GNBDUFunction IOC.
For MOCN networking sharing, it is recommended to start further normative work
in TS 28.541 [2].
## 6.7 Issue #7: 5QI-related attribute requirement for operator specific IOC
The study has identified 5QI-related attribute requirements and solutions for
configuring operator specific 5QI. There are three solutions to address key
issue#7 in the present document. These solutions propose the principle that
operator related IOCs whose instances or attributes can be configured for each
POP.
The comparison of solutions is shown in the followings.
Table 6.7-1: Comparison of solutions of Issue#7
Solution Solution Summary Solution Evaluation
* * *
1 Solution 1 proposes that the existing Configurable5QISet IOC be updated to
include optional PLMN information. The solution would result in 5QI sets being
defined differently for RAN sharing and non-sharing scenarios. 2 Solution 2
proposes that new attributes could be added to the OperatorDU to refer to
operator specific 5QI sets. The solution provides a clear association between
operator specific IOCs (i.e. OperatorDU) and associated 5QI (i.e.
Configurable5QISet). This would not impact the Configurable5QISet definition
and keeps the 5QI set configuration the same for RAN MOCN network sharing, and
non-sharing scenarios. 3 Solution 3 proposes that new attributes could be
added to the Configurable5QISet to refer to operator specific DUs. The
solution provides a clear association between operator specific IOCs (i.e.
OperatorDU) and associated 5QI (i.e. Configurable5QISet). This would impact
the Configurable5QISet definition and make the 5QI set configuration different
for RAN MOCN network sharing, and non-sharing scenarios.
For key issue #7, it is concluded that solution 2 is used as the baseline for
further normative work in TS 28.541 [2].
## 6.8 Issue #8: PLMN granularity requirement of performance measurements for
MOCN
The study has identified PLMN granularity requirements and solutions of
performance measurements for MOCN.
For management requirements of MOCN networking sharing, the study has
identified the management system of MOP has the capability to collect and
report some measurements in PLMN granularity for each POP.
For MOCN networking sharing, it is recommended to add PLMN granularity in some
performance measurements at NRCellCU and NRCellDU defined in TS 28.552 [3].
#