# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies on management aspects of IoT NTN enhancements. It
investigates specific IoT NTN related parameters which should be considered by
O&M, investigates NRM enhancement, performance measurement and related new
KPIs of IoT NTN. It studies the key issues associated with service and network
management of IoT NTN enhancements (whether as NG-RAN or E-UTRAN) and
potential solutions, and provides recommendations for the further normative
work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall description; Stage-2 \".
[4] 3GPP TR 28.808: \"Study on management and orchestration aspects of
integrated satellite components in a 5G network\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.501: \" System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TR 38.821: \"Solutions for NR to support non-terrestrial networks
(NTN)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.313: \"Self-Organizing Networks (SON) for 5G networks\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Geostationary (GEO) satellites:** located precisely in the plane of the
Equator at an altitude of 35,786 km, these satellites rotate at the same rate
as the Earth\'s rotation.
NOTE: A GEO satellite stands still with respect to Earth Thanks to this
property, a single GEO satellite is sufficient to create a continuous
coverage.
**Highly-Eccentric Orbiting (HEO) satellites:** satellites with a range of
operational altitudes between 7,000 km and more than 45,000 km.
NOTE: The inclination angle is selected so as to compensate, completely or
partially, the relative motion of Earth with respect to the orbital plane,
allowing the satellite to cover successively different parts of Northern land
masses (e.g. Western Europe, North America, and Northern Asia).
**Low-Earth Orbiting (LEO) satellites:** satellites typically deployed in
constellations with altitude ranging from 500 km to 2,000 km.
NOTE: The inclination angle of the orbital plane is ranging from 0 to more
than 90 degrees. These constellations are placed above the International Space
Station and debris, and below the first Van Allen belt.
**Medium-Earth Orbiting (MEO) satellites:** with altitude ranging from 8,000
to 20,000 km.
NOTE: The inclination angle of the orbital plane ranges from 0 to more than 90
degrees. These constellations are placed above the Van Allen belts.
**Non-Geostationary Orbiting (NGSO) satellites:** These satellites do not
stand still with respect to Earth.
NOTE: Should service continuity be required over time, a number of satellites
(a constellation) is required to meet this requirement; the lower the altitude
the higher the number of satellites.
**Satellite coverage availability information:** This refers to location and
time information related to expected coverage availability of
satellite/satellite constellation that provides discontinuous coverage.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AN Access Network
BL Bandwidth reduced Low complexity
5GC 5G Core Network
CN Core Network
eMTC enhanced Machine-Type Communication
GEO Geostationary satellite Orbit
gNB generic Node B
gNB-CU gNB-Central Unit
gNB-DU gNB-Distributed Unit
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
HEO Highly-Eccentric Orbiting satellites
LEO Low-Earth Orbiting satellites
IoT Internet of Things
MEO Medium-Earth Orbiting satellites
NCR Neighbour Cell Relationship
NGSO Non-geostationary Satellite Orbit
NOP Network Operator
NS Network Slice
NSI Network Slice Instance
NSSI Network Slice Subnet Instance
SON Self-organized Network
QoS Quality of Service
RAN Radio Access Network
RAT Radio Access Technology
RU Radio Unit
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Reference management architecture for integrated satellite components
### 4.1.1 Management architecture #1 for integrated satellite NBIoT/LTE-M RAT
The reference architecture (according to TS 36.300 [2] and TS 38.300 [3]) [
]{.underline} depicted in figure 4.1.1 below considers the case of a 3GPP RAN
integrating a satellite NBIoT/LTE-M RAT, possibly together with a Terrestrial
RAT. The NOP operates the 5G network interfacing through API\'s with
Communication Service Customers or Verticals on the one hand and delivers
services to UEs on the other hand. The 3GPP Management system manages the 3GPP
RAN aspect.
Figure 4.1.1: Reference architecture #1 for the management of a satellite
NBIoT/LTE-M RAT
### 4.1.2 Management architecture #2 for integrated satellite NBIoT/LTE-M -RAT
and satellite NR-RAT
The reference architecture (according to TS 36.300 [2] and TS 38.300 [3])
depicted in figure 4.1.2 considers another case of a 3GPP RAN integrating a
satellite NBIoT/LTE-M -RAT, possibly together with a Terrestrial RAT and a
satellite NR-RAT. The NOP operates the 5G network interfacing through API\'s
with Communication Service Customers or Verticals on the one hand and delivers
services to UEs on the other hand. The 3GPP Management system manages the 3GPP
RAN aspect.
Figure 4.1.2: Reference architecture #2 for the management of a satellite
**NBIoT/LTE-M -** RAT and satellite NR-RAT
### 4.1.3 Management architecture #3 for integrated non-3GPP satellite RAN
The reference architecture depicted in figure 4.1.3 considers the case of a
non-3GPP satellite RAN integrated in a EPS/5GS. The NOP operates the 5G
network interfacing through API\'s with Communication Service Customers or
Verticals on the one hand and delivers services to UEs on the other hand. The
3GPP management system manages the 3GPP RAN and the non-3GPP RAN.
Figure 4.1.3: Reference architecture for the management of a non-3GPP
satellite RAN
## 4.2 Architecture Scenarios for integrated satellite components
### 4.2.1 scenario #1: A 3GPP network with access networks and terrestrial
access networks
In this scenario, a 3GPP network is composed of a 3GPP core network, a
satellite IoT 3GPP access network, a satellite NR 3GPP access network and a
terrestrial 3GPP access network, where the satellite component is also
integrated as a 3GPP access network. The satellite IoT network, satellite NR
network and the terrestrial network share the same PLMN and access networks
are managed by the same 3GPP management system. This architecture scenario
follows the Satellite access class scenario in clause 4.2.2 from TR 28.808
[4].
{width="6.054166666666666in" height="2.5229166666666667in"}
**Figure 4.2.1: Architecture of 3GPP network with a satellite IoT 3GPP access
network, a satellite NR 3GPP access network and a satellite NR 3GPP access**
**network**
Note: All access networks are in the same management domain.
### 4.2.2 scenario #2: Satellite enabled 3GPP network as a roaming network for
terrestrial network operators
In this scenario, consider two separate 3GPP networks, one 3GPP network with a
satellite IoT access network and satellite NR access network, another 3GPP
network with a terrestrial access network. Both networks have their own PLMN
ID and have a roaming agreement in place with each other. Roaming is used by
the terrestrial operator to use the 3GPP network with a satellite access. Both
the satellite and terrestrial networks have their own separate 3GPP management
domain. This architecture scenario follows the Satellite access class scenario
in clause 4.2.1 from TR 28.808 [4].
{width="6.361805555555556in" height="2.8541666666666665in"}
**Figure 4.2.2: Architecture of satellite 3GPP network (green)\ as roaming
network to a terrestrial 3GPP network (blue)**
NOTE: The green and blue networks are separate management domain.
# 5 Use cases and key issues
## 5.1 Use cases
### 5.1.1 Use case #1: Management of satellite components
#### 5.1.1.1 Use case for NGSO regenerative satellite components
##### 5.1.1.1.1 Pre-conditions
A NOP operates a non-terrestrial network for BL UEs, UEs in enhanced coverage
and NB-IoT UEs.
The NOP manages the NB-IoT/eMTC Non-Terrestrial Networks in accordance with
the 5G specifications. The functionality is largely aligned with that of NR
Non-Terrestrial Networks.
##### 5.1.1.1.2 Description
The NOP integrates a satellite component based on NGSO regenerative
satellites. NGSO regenerative satellites embark eNBs.
The network management is implemented in such a way that moving eNBs can be
managed.
##### 5.1.1.1.3 Post-description
The NOP operates a non-terrestrial network for BL UEs, UEs in enhanced
coverage and NB-IoT UEs that manages the satellite component.
#### 5.1.1.2 Use case for NGSO transparent satellite components
##### 5.1.1.2.1 Pre-conditions
A NOP operates a non-terrestrial network for BL UEs, UEs in enhanced coverage
and NB-IoT UEs.
The NOP manages the NB-IoT/eMTC Non-Terrestrial Networks in accordance with
the 5G specifications and wants to integrate one or multiple NGSO transparent
satellites into a NB-IoT/eMTC Non-Terrestrial Networks.
##### 5.1.1.2.2 Description
The NOP integrates a satellite component based on NGSO transparent satellites.
A SaT/BL UE/UE in enhanced coverage/NB-IoT UE will connect to an EPC/5GC via a
NGSO transparent satellite component. A eNB may use a special remote radio
unit to connect via one or multiple transparent satellite(s) to the NB-
IoT/eMTC Non-Terrestrial Networks, as illustrated in clause B.
The network management is implemented in such a way that moving transparent
satellite components could be managed.
##### 5.1.1.2.3 Post-description
The NOP operates a non-terrestrial network for BL UEs, UEs in enhanced
coverage and NB-IoT UEs that manages a 5GS with transparent satellite
component(s).
#### 5.1.1.3 Use case for NTN Mobility Management
##### 5.1.1.3.1 Pre-conditions
Support for IoT NTN discontinuous coverage was introduced in TS 23.401 [5].
The UE is assumed to know how the NTN coverage varies with time based on
information defined in TS 36.331 [6] and TS 36.304 [7] (e.g. from the
ephemeris data of a satellite access system that the UE is using).
A NOP operates a non-terrestrial network for BL UEs, UEs in enhanced coverage
and NB-IoT/ eMTC UEs.
The NOP manages the NB-IoT/eMTC Non-Terrestrial Networks providing
discontinuous coverage for NTN MEO/LEO satellite or satellite constellation,
which is considered as the satellite access in 5GS/EPS, wants to support
modelling of mobility management enhancement related to discontinuous coverage
for the power saving enhancement.
##### 5.1.1.3.2 Description
The NOP integrates a satellite component based on NGSO transparent satellites.
For a UE using a Non-Terrestrial Network that provides discontinuous coverage
(e.g. for satellite access with discontinuous coverage), the UE may be out of
network coverage at a certain time. The UE may then deactivate its Access
Stratum functions in order to optimize power consumption until coverage
returns.
3GPP management system can help to provide the satellite coverage availability
information defined in TS 23.501 [8]to both the UE and AMF/MME.
The network management is implemented in such a way that mobility management
enhancement and/or power saving could be supported.
##### 5.1.1.3.3 Post-description
The NOP operates a non-terrestrial network for BL UEs, UEs in enhanced
coverage and NB-IoT UEs, modelling of mobility management enhancement related
to discontinuous coverage and the power saving could be supported.
### 5.1.2 Use case #2: Monitoring of satellite components
#### 5.1.2.1 Use case for monitoring of average delay on DL-Air Interface for
MEO and GEO satellite components
##### 5.1.2.1.1 Goal
The goal is to allow the monitoring of the delay on the DL-Air Interface when
a MEO or GEO satellite component for which the HARQ process has been modified
with respect to a terrestrial RAN.
##### 5.1.2.1.2 Pre-conditions
A NOP operates a non-terrestrial networks for BL UEs, UEs in enhanced coverage
and NB-IoT UEs.
The 5G network as operated by the NOP satellite RAN supporting NB-IoT/eMTC.
##### 5.1.2.1.3 Description
To cope with the effects of satellite delay and associated RTT, the HARQ
operation is disabled or modified when compared to terrestrial RAN.
The management system of the NB-IoT/eMTC Non-Terrestrial Network is designed
to provide a measured of the average delay on DL-Air Interface for MEO and GEO
satellite components without an HARQ process.
##### 5.1.2.1.4 Post-description
The management system monitors the average delay on the DL-Air Interface for
MEO and GEO satellite components.
## 5.2 Potential requirements
### 5.2.1 Use case #1 Management of satellite components
#### 5.2.1.1 Management of NGSO regenerative satellite components
[REQ-FS_IoT_NTN_mgmt_NGSO_reg] In a NB-IoT/eMTC Non-Terrestrial Network
integrating an NGSO regenerative satellite RAT, the 5G network shall have the
capability of managing moving eNBs.
#### 5.2.1.2 Management of NGSO transparent satellite components
[REQ-FS_IoT_NTN_NGSO_tra] In a NB-IoT/eMTC Non-Terrestrial Network integrating
an NGSO transparent satellite RAT, the 5G network shall have the capability to
manage one or multiple moving regenerative satellite component(s).
#### 5.2.1.3 Mobility Management enhancement
[REQ-FS_IoT_NTN_MM_enh] In an NB-IoT/eMTC Non-Terrestrial Network integrating
an NGSO transparent satellite RAT, the 3GPP management system shall have the
capability to support mobility management enhancement and/or power-saving for
discontinuous coverage.
### 5.2.2 Use case #2 Monitoring of satellite components
#### 5.2.2.1 Monitoring of average delay on DL-Air Interface with MEO or GEO
satellite components
[REQ-FS_IoT_NTN-mon] In a NB-IoT/eMTC Non-Terrestrial Network integrating a
MEO or GEO satellite components, it shall be possible to monitor the average
delay on the DL-Air Interface.
## 5.3 Potential solutions
### 5.3.1 Use case #1 potential solutions for the management of NGSO
regenerative and transparent satellite components
#### 5.3.1.1 Solution #1: Prevent PCI conflicts, PCI confusion and continuous
NCR-reconfigurations by using SON functions
Satellite RAN can be comprised out of either LEO, MEO, GEO satellites or a
combination of these three. LEO and MEO satellites do not have a fixed
position relative to the earth and travel at high speed in trajectories around
the earth. The possible satellite beam coverage area may therefore change in a
continuous fashion, as can also be seen in Figure 5.3.1.1. This is also
described in more detail in clause A.2.
A LEO, MEO or GEO satellite can either be working in transparent mode or in
regenerative mode. When a satellite is configured in transparent mode, no data
processing will be done locally in the satellite. The incoming signal will be
received, amplified, and transmitted back to earth. A regenerative satellite
may actually demodulate/decode and process the incoming signal before sending
data back to earth. A regenerative satellite may therefore embark a
eNB/gNB/gNB-DU/gNB-CU and use inter satellite links to communicate with other
satellite eNB/gNBs. A transparent satellite may be coupled to an eNB/gNB which
is located on earth, this eNB/gNB will use a satellite gateway to transmit to
the satellite which reflects the signal back to earth.
In case of MEO and LEO satellites with moving beams the cell coverage may not
be fixed to a specific location on earth, and since the possible coverage area
of a satellite may even span multiple countries, it would be possible that the
neighbouring (terrestrial) cells of the satellite eNB/gNB will change
continuously. This may result in continuous NCR reconfigurations and PCI
conflicts and/or PCI confusion since the NTN cell coverage may overlap with
terrestrial RAN. This effect is also described in clause 8.5.3 from TR 38.821
[9].
NOTE: Here it is assumed that the TAC will be fixed on earth.
Figure 5.3.1.1: Example of a MEO or LEO satellite flying over multiple
geographical areas
To prevent these issues, it would be possible to use/extent the SON ANR and
SON PCI re-configuration functions from TS 28.313 [10] and adapt these to
support continuously moving cells. This way, the PCI re-configuration
procedure may deconflict PCI\'s when an PCI conflict happens between an NTN
cell and a terrestrial cell. The ANR could be used to automatically configure
new neighbouring cells when the NTN cell coverage moves over the earth
atmosphere. The SON ANR and SON PCI functions should be fast enough to keep up
with the moving satellites which may have new neighbouring cells every 5 - 30
seconds.
In case of GEO satellites or MEO and LEO satellites with earth fixed beams,
there is no need to adapt the SON ANR and SON PCI re-configuration functions
since the coverage area of the satellite RAN will be fixed to a geographical
area on earth\'s surface.
#### 5.3.1.2 Solution #2: Potential solution for NTN Mobility Management
enhancement with discontinuous satellite coverage
NTN MEO/LEO satellite or satellite constellation that provides discontinuous
coverage is considered as the satellite access in 5GS and EPS. Satellite
assistance information (e.g. ephemeris information), can be used for the
handling of coverage holes or discontinuous satellite coverage in a power
efficient way. For a UE, it should be possible to predict discontinuous
coverage based on the satellite assistance information.
The 3GPP management system should provide the following IoT-NTN satellite
ephemeris parameters to the eNB providing non-terrestrial access as outlined
in TS 38.300 [3], which the NR NTN agreements can be used as the baseline.
This solution uses the instances of following IOCs or attributes representing
the Ephemeris information, for example, named as ephemerisInformation, and it
contains the following attributes:
\- Ephemeris information describing the orbital trajectory information or
coordinates for the NTN vehicles. This information is provided on a regular
basis or upon demand to the eNB/gNB;
\- Two different sets of ephemeris formats are supported:
\- Set 1: Satellite position and velocity state vectors:
\- Position;
\- Velocity.
\- Set 2: At least the following parameters in orbital parameter ephemeris
format:
\- Semi-major axis;
\- Eccentricity;
\- Argument of periapsis;
\- Longitude of ascending node;
\- Inclination;
\- Mean anomaly at epoch time to.
\- The explicit epoch time associated to ephemeris data;
\- The location of the NTN-Gateways;
NOTE: The name of the IOCs and attributes are to be decided in the normative
phase.
Besides satellite ephemeris data, 3GPP management system can provide satellite
coverage availability information to. The satellite coverage availability
information provisioned to the AMF describes when and where satellite coverage
is expected to be available in an area. The satellite coverage availability
information is not UE specific and can be applied by the AMF for any UE in the
affected area.
This solution uses the instances of following IOCs or attributes representing
satellite coverage availability information to provide when and where
satellite coverage is expected to be available in an area, , for example named
as coverageInformation, and it contains the following attributes:
\- Wait range, which is the location information and is based on network
configuration (e.g. TA list);
\- expected coverage available time, which indicates the timing information
related to expected coverage availability of satellite/satellite
constellation.
### 5.3.2 Use case #2 potential solutions for the monitoring of satellite
components
#### 5.3.2.1 Solution to monitor delay on the DL-Air Interface with MEO or GEO
satellite components
Solution #1: Adapt the Average delay DL air-interface measurement and
Distribution of delay DL air-interface measurement to support cases where HARQ
feedback is disabled.
The round-trip delay between a NB-IoT/eMTC UE and a MEO or GEO satellite can
be very large when compared to a traditional terrestrial case. This effect
requires changes to the HARQ process, so that it is able to cope with these
high latencies. In TR 38.821 [9] it is proposed to optimise the HARQ process
for MEO and GEO satellites by increasing the number of HARQ processes and to
add an option to disable or enable HARQ feedback for the cases when the
increased number of HARQ processes is still not sufficient.
The Average delay DL air-interface measurement (clause 5.1.1.1.1 of TS 28.552
[11]) and Distribution of delay DL air-interface measurement (clause 5.1.1.1.2
of TS 28.552 [11]) use the HARQ feedback ACK message to verify that the
transmitted and timed RLC SDU packet was received successfully by the NB-
IoT/eMTC UE. This HARQ ACK may not be transmitted when the HARQ feedback is
disabled for MEO and GEO satellite links.
# 6 Conclusions and recommendations
In conclusion, the following issues are identified in this study:
\- Reference management architectures and scenarios for integrated satellite
components;
\- Use cases and solutions related to the general management of satellite RAN
with regenerative/transparent satellite components;
\- Use cases and solutions related to the monitoring of satellite RAN.
It is recommended to consider the following aspects for normative work:
\- Specify/extend SON concepts to allow for moving non-terrestrial NBs.
\- Adapt the performance measurements which make use of the HARQ process,
which may be unavailable when using satellite RAN.
\- Introduce the NRM based on solutions to support handling of coverage holes
or discontinuous satellite coverage in a power efficient way.
###### ### Annex A: Characteristics of satellite systems
# A.1 General
This annex describes the main characteristics of satellite systems when
considering their integration with the 5G system.
# A.2 Class of orbit
On the one hand, our planet attracts as a main body the much smaller
satellite, which motion is dictated as a consequence by the laws of Kepler. On
the other hand, the environment of Earth can be also constraining: the higher
density of the atmosphere, debris from launchers and former satellites in the
lower altitudes, as well as higher energy particles trapped in the Van Allen
belts between 2,000 and 8,000 km\'s altitudes are to be avoided. These two
constraints contribute to defining several classes of orbits that are used for
communication satellites:
**\- Geostationary (GEO)** satellites, located precisely in the plane of the
Equator at an altitude of 35,786 km, these satellites rotate at the same rate
as the Earth\'s rotation: a GEO satellite stands still with respect to Earth.
Thanks to this property, a single GEO satellite is sufficient to create a
continuous coverage.
**\- Non-Geostationary Orbiting (NGSO)** satellites: NGSO satellites do not
stand still with respect to Earth. Should service continuity be required over
time, a number of satellites (a constellation) is required to meet this
requirement; the lower the altitude the higher the number of satellites.
Different classes of NGSO satellites are listed below:
\- **Low-Earth Orbiting (LEO)** satellites, with altitude ranging from 500 km
to 2,000 km, and with inclination angle of the orbital plane ranging from 0 to
more than 90 degrees. These constellations are placed above the International
Space Station and debris, and below the first Van Allen belt.
\- **Medium-Earth Orbiting (MEO)** satellites, with altitude ranging from
8,000 to 20,000 km. The inclination angle of the orbital plane ranges from 0
to more than 90 degrees. These constellations are placed above the Van Allen
belts.
\- **Highly-Eccentric Orbiting** **(HEO)** satellites, with a range of
operational altitudes (the orbit of such satellites being designed for the
spacecraft to be exploited when the vehicle is closer to its apogee \- the
higher part of the orbit -) between 7,000 km and more than 45,000 km. The
inclination angle is selected so as to compensate, completely or partially,
the relative motion of Earth with respect to the orbital plane, allowing the
satellite to cover successively different parts of Northern land masses (e.g.
Western Europe, North America, and Northern Asia).
{width="2.463888888888889in" height="1.5375in"}
Figure A.2-1: Illustration of the classes of orbits of satellites
###### ### Annex B: Reference architecture with satellite enabled RAN
# B.0 General
This annex depicts a reference architecture for a direct access with a
satellite enabled RAN.
E-UTRAN supports radio access over non-terrestrial networks for BL UEs, UEs in
enhanced coverage and NB-IoT UEs. Non-terrestrial networks encompassed
platforms that provide radio access through satellites in Geosynchronous
Orbits (GSOs) as well as Non-Geosynchronous Orbiting (NGSO), which includes
Low-Earth Orbiting (LEO) and Medium Earth Orbiting (MEO).
Knowing the possible nature of satellite payloads (transparent or re-
generative), the instantiation of this architecture can have several forms.
# B.1 CIoT EPS with transparent satellite enabled RAN
In this implementation, the satellite is transparent, the signals are
generated from eNB\'s from a satellite enabled RAN that are located on ground.
The satellite is equivalent to a Radio Frequency (RF) Remote Unit, and is full
transparent to the IoT protocols, including the physical layer (see below).
This implementation uses CIoT-Uu interface to transport signals between UEs
and eNBs, and uses SGi between 5GC/EPC and CIoT services.
{width="6.69375in" height="1.5631944444444446in"}
Figure B.1: CIoT EPS with transparent satellite enabled RAN
# B.2 CIoT EPS with regenerative satellite enabled RAN and on-board eNB
In this implementation, the satellite is regenerative. The satellite payload
implements a full eNB supporting a satellite enabled RAN. A Satellite Radio
Interface (SRI) transports the S1 interface between the on-ground EPC/5GC and
the on-board eNB (see below). This implementation uses SGi between 5GC/EPC and
CIoT services.
{width="6.69375in" height="1.4430555555555555in"}
Figure B.2: CIoT EPS with regenerative satellite enabled RAN and on-board eNB
One can note that with a regenerative implementation a CIoT EPS can have a
global coverage, providing a single EPC/5GC with global or regional
(continental or sub-continental) coverage as well. This is valid for GEO or
LEO.
#