# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the charging aspects to better support vertical
scenarios, which is different with the existing customer charging baseline,
specified in TS 32.240 [2], and makes the evolution of charging specifications
clearer, which focuses on studying the charging principles and references of
verticals charging, and aims to provides an guideline for other charging
management TSs that specify the verticals charging.
All terms, definitions and abbreviations used in the present document, that
are common across 3GPP TSs, are defined in the 3GPP Vocabulary, TR 21.905 [1].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.254: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Exposure function Northbound Application Program Interfaces (APIs) charging\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.257: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; Edge
computing domain charging\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.201: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Network slice performance and analytics charging in the 5G System (5GS); Stage
2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.202: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Network slice management charging in the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.203: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Network slice admission control charging in the 5G System (5GS)\".
[8] 3GPP TR 28.828: \"Study on charging aspects for enhanced support of non-
public networks\".
[9] 3GPP TR 28.839: \"Study on time sensitive networking charging\".
[10] 3GPP TR 32.847: \"Study on Charging Aspects for Network Slicing Phase
2\".
[11] 3GPP TR 28.827: \"Study on 5G charging for additional roaming scenarios
and actors\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.104: \"Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[14] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.255: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; 5G
data connectivity domain charging; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Nchf Service based interface exhibited by CHF
N40 Reference point between SMF and the CHF
N47 Reference point between SMF and the CHF
N2 Reference point between the (R)AN and the AMF
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
5G LAN 5G Local Area Network
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
API Application Programming Interface
B2B Business to Business
B2C Business to Consumer
B2B2X Business to Business to Everything
CCS Converged Charging System
CDR Charging Data Record
CEF Charging Enablement Function
CIoT Cellular Internet of Things
CSC **Communication Service Customer**
CSP **Communication Service Provider**
DDNMF Direct Discovery Name Management Function
EAS Edge Application Server
ECSP Edge Computing Service Provider
MNO Mobile Network Operator
MnS Management Service
MVNO Mobile Virtual Network Operator
NEF Network Exposure Function
NOP Network Operator
NPN Non-Public Network
NPN-SP NPN Service Provider
NSACF Network Slice Admission Control Function
NSSAAF Network Slice-specific and SNPN Authentication and Authorization
Function
NSM Network Slice Management
**NSP Network Slice Provider**
NSPA Network Slice Performance and Analytics
SMF Session Management Function
SMSF Short Message Service Function
S-NSSAI Single Network Slice Selection Assistance Information
TSN Time Sensitive Networking
TS Time Synchronization
TSC Time Sensitive Communication
TSN-SP Time Sensitive Networking Service Provider
TS-SP Time Sensitive Service Provider
# 4 Background
## 4.1 General
For 5GS, there are several charging specifications focus on the charging
aspects about wholesale and business to business for Industry verticals.
Corresponding charging specifications needs to be studied on how it could be
documented, including but not limited to the charging aspect of Network Slice,
Non-Public Network, Time Sensitive Network, Edge Computing, and 5G LAN etc.
The charging architecture and principles of vertical scenarios are different
from those of subscriber charging scenarios which specified in the TS 32.240
[2].
## 4.2 Charging specifications reference considerations
A set of charging specific TSs covers the 5GS domains and 5G service levels
(e.g. Network slice, 5G LAN and TSN, etc.) respectively, in the TS 32.2xx and
TS 28.2xx TS number ranges. These TSs describe the mapping of the common
charging architecture, charging requirements and charging principles onto the
specific services, scenarios, for converged online and offline charging. They
are commonly referred to as the middle tier charging TSs.
The following charging technical specifications reference for vertical
charging are:
\- NEF Charging is specified in the TS 32.254 [3].
\- 5G LAN Charging is specified in the TS 32.254 [3].
\- Edge Computing is specified in the TS 32.257 [4].
\- Network Slicing is specified in the TS 28.201 [5], TS 28.202 [6] and TS
28.203 [7].
\- Data connectivity charging is specified in the TS 32.255 [15].
The following charging technical report reference for vertical charging are:
\- NPN Charging is studied in the TR 28.828 [8].
\- TSN Charging is studied in the TR 28.839 [9].
\- Network slice charging is studied in the TR 32.847 [10].
\- Wholesale charging is studied in the TR 28.827 [11].
A set of TSs in the TS 32.29x range covers common aspects, such as CDR
parameter and syntax descriptions, online and offline charging applications,
and the charging interactions within the network (CDR transfer) as well as
between the network and the Billing Domain (CDR file transfer).
## 4.3 The concept clarification
The **vertical** domain is an industry or group of enterprises in which
similar products or services are developed, produced, and provided, specified
in the TS 22.104 [12]. For example, the typical vertical domains can be the
factories of the future; electric-power distribution and central power
generation; and connected hospitals or medical facilities.
The **enterprise** is an [organization]{.underline}, a [company]{.underline},
or a [business]{.underline}. For example, the typical enterprises can be the
[manufacturing]{.underline}/[catering]{.underline}/[farming]{.underline}
enterprise, a [large]{.underline}/[small]{.underline}/medium-sized enterprise.
The **Tenant** in 3GPP management system is a group of 3GPP management system
users associated with the management capabilities they are allowed to access
and consume, described in clause 4.8 the TS 28.533 [13]. The tenant in
charging aspect can be the network slice subscriber, i.e. the party for which
the network slice instance(s) is(are) created, satisfying the requirements of
subscribed-to service(s), specified in the TS 28.202 [6].
The **Subscriber** is used to identify the enterprise based on the
subscription relationship between enterprise and MNO, for example, which can
be the Tenant id for the network slice charging.
# 5 Business Roles
## 5.1 General
To support the 5G and further service charging, the business roles for the
current supported special service charging in the specifications which is
related with the vertical charging are listed:
Network Slicing:
  * Communication Service Provider (CSP): who provides the Provides communication services to **Communication Service Customer (** CSC). e.g. tenant, vertical.
  * **Network Slice Provider (NSP):** The CSP or NOP who provides Network Slice as a Service.
Edge Computing:
  * ECSP (Edge Computing Service Provider) who provides edge data network environment.
Network Exposure Charging:
  * External 3^rd^ party service provider: Who hosting an Application(s) and consumers the services provided by 3GPP network via Network Capability Exposure, such as the 5G LAN.
NPN Charging:
  * NPN Service Provider (NPN-SP): a Communication Service Provider (CSP) which provides communication services for non-public use, e.g. vertical, tenant, NOP.
TSN Charging:
  * TSN Service Provider (TSN-SP): provides communication services for TSN Bridge use, e.g. enterprise.
  * TS Service Provider (TS-SP): provides communication services for time-sensitive communication and time synchronization, e.g. enterprise.
Wholesale charging:
  * Additional actor: This is a retailer or a wholesaler of mobile services but does not own licensed radio spectrum, an additional actor that is a retailer is often referred to as Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO).
## 5.2 High level business roles
Based on the investigation of business roles and charging scenarios for
existing 5G and further service charging in the clause 5.1, the high-level
business roles can be categorized to the B2B (Business to Business), B2C
(Business to Customer) and B2B2X:
\- The B2B (Business to Business) describes a type of business relationship in
which businesses provide goods or services to other businesses.
\- The B2C (Business to Consumer) describes a type of business relationship in
which businesses provide goods or services to consumer. e.g. individual
subscriber.
\- The B2B2X is the combinations of the B2B and B2C which will not be
described in more details.
The first Letters in the \"**B** \"2B and \"**B** \"2C is the charging party,
the MNO.
The second letters in the B2\"**B** \" and B2\"**C** \" is the charged party,
e.g. the network slice tenant or the individual subscriber.
## 5.3 Business relationship based on business roles
To support the 5G services charging, the relationship based on business roles
for example is described as the following. The following examples are
targeting a particular business model in order to describe the business
relationship based on whether inter-providers or end user as charged party.
Potential business relationship may be involved multiple business models at
the same time, both B2B and B2B2C, which is not described in the document.
The B2B is applicable but not limited for:
\- Network exposure domain charging: NEF charging per API
invocation/notification.
\- Data connectivity domain charging: SMF charging per S-NSSAI for network
slice and SMF charging for usage reporting of Edge computing/CIoT.
\- Connection and mobility domain charging: AMF charging for registration,
location, N2 connection.
\- Short message charging: SMSF charging for IoT.
\- Prose charging: ProSe Function or DDNMF for prose discovery and prose
communication charging.
\- Edge charging: CEF based charging and EAS deployment charging.
\- 5G LAN charging: NEF charging/CEF based charging for 5G LAN management and
configuration.
\- Network slice charging: NSPA, NSM, NSACF and NSSAAF charging per S-NSSAI
for network slice.
\- NPN charging: SMF and AMF charging for the inter-provider charging of NPN.
\- TSN charging: NF charging for TSN Bridge management and configuration, NEF
charging for the enabler of TSC and TS.
\- Wholesale charging: Wholesale charging between MNO and MVNO.
The B2C is applicable but not limited for:
\- Short message charging: SMSF charging per UE for short message.
\- Edge charging: SMF charging for 5GS capability usage charging for edge
computing.
\- Network slice charging: SMF charging for network slice per UE per PDU
session per S-NSSAI.
\- NPN charging: SMF and AMF charging for the subscriber-based charging or
NPN.
\- TSN charging: SMF charging for the TSN communications per UE.
In deployments, there could be business scenarios where one or more of the
business relationships based on business roles are supported by a single
enterprise. The present document does not impose any restrictions to the
possible deployment scenarios.
# 6 Key issues
## 6.1 Key issues and solutions mapping
The high level of key issues for the vertical charging covers the following:
**\- Key Issues-01:** Clarify the charging principles for vertical-oriented
charging.
**\- Key Issues-02:** Determine the charging architecture mapping for
vertical-oriented Charging.
The mapping between the key issues and the potential solutions are present as
shown below.
Table 6.1-1: Mapping of Potential Solutions to Key Issues
Solutions Key Issues
* * *
                                                                       1            2
Solution #7.1 New TS for the charging architecture and principles √  
Solution #7.2 Restructure for the charging principle √  
Solution #7.3 Converged charging architecture √ Solution #7.4 Network slice
tenant charging architecture √ Solution #7.5 Converged tenant charging
architecture √ Solution #7.6 NF to CHFs communication √ Solution #7.7 CHF to
CHF communication √ Solution #7.8 Separated charging architecture √
## 6.2 Key issue #1: Clarify the charging principles for vertical-oriented
charging
### 6.2.1 General
#### 6.2.1.0 Introduction
The high-level requirements for charging are specified in TS 22.115 [14] and
the common charging architecture and framework are specified in the TS 32.240
[2]. The detailed requirements for service charging (e.g. network slice
charging) and service specified charging architecture are specified in the
service charging specifications, such as the TS 28.201 [5] and TS 28.202 [6],
The charging principles on the basis of the charging architecture and
framework and charging requirements are present.
#### 6.2.1.1 Use Case #1.1 Charging Principle Applicability
The common charging principle specified in the TS 32.240 [2] is designed for
legacy charging system, i.e. online charging system and offline charging
system in 2G/3G/4G, and is also used for the enhanced charging system, i.e.
converged online and offline charging system in 5G or future). With the
development of the 5G or future advanced network, the B2B and B2C charging
scenarios focus on the special requirements from the vertical (various
industries) in the charging principle, for example, the CHF selection options.
The consistent charging principle template which is applicable to the
different 5G or future services charging should be investigated, based on the
all the existing charging principles in the separated charging service TSs
(e.g. TS 28.201 [5], TS 28.202 [6]) and common.
Describe the charging principles template to apply to B2B and B2C separately
and structure the document outline to understand the reference the of charging
principle in the multiple services TSs and common, that will help internal and
external stakeholder to find the information about the charging principle they
need in the common and special.
The corresponding key issue for this use case is the key issue #1.
### 6.2.2 Key issues description
The following key issues are identified:
> \- Investigates the existing charging principles for the vertical-oriented
> charging.
>
> \- Determine the documents structure of charging principles for the vertical
> charging.
## 6.3 Key issue #2: Determine the charging architecture applicable for
vertical-oriented Charging
### 6.3.1 General
#### 6.3.1.0 Introduction
The high-level requirements for charging are specified in TS 22.115 [14] and
the common charging architecture and framework are specified in the TS 32.240
[2]. The detailed requirements for service charging (e.g. network slice
charging) and service specified charging architecture are specified in the
service charging specifications, such as e.g. the TS 28.201 [5], TS 28.202 [6]
and TS 28.203 [7].
#### 6.3.1.1 Use Case # 2.1 Charging Architecture Applicability
The charging architecture specified in the TS 32.240 [2] is the common and
applicable for the legacy and enhanced charging system. With the development
of the 5G or future advanced network, the B2B and B2C charging scenarios focus
on the special requirements from the vertical (various industries) in the
charging architecture, for example, the separated UE CCS and Tenant CCS
charging architecture for the network slice charging.
The description of multiple charging architecture should be investigated,
based on all of the existing charging architectures in the TS or TR, to
clearly describes which charging architecture is applicable for B2B or B2C
separately, structure the document outline to understand the relationship
among the different charging architecture options in the single TS or clause,
that will help internal and external stakeholder to find the information about
the charging architecture applicability they need.
The corresponding key issue for this use case is the Key issue #2.
### 6.3.2 Key issues description
The following key issues are identified:
\- Investigates the existing service specified charging architecture for
vertical-oriented charging.
\- Determine the currently defined charging architecture applicable for
vertical-oriented charging.
\- Determine the document structure for the common charging architecture for
vertical-oriented charging.
# 7 Solutions
## 7.1 Solution #1: New TS for the charging architecture and principles
### 7.1.1 Solution description
#### 7.1.1.1 General
The potential solution #1 solves the key issues #1.
The general and common charging principle for charging are specified in the TS
32.240 [2], the service specified charging principle for the vertical are
specified in the service specifications.
The charging specifications structure specified in the Figure 1.1 in clause 1
the scope of TS 32.240 [2] is outlined for the complete document structure for
the set of domain/subsystem/service specific charging TSs, crossing the 2G,
3G, 4G and 5G and covering the customer charging per UE (e.g. 5G data
connectivity) and vertical charging (e.g. network slice performance charging).
The umbrella for the better reference of the common charging principle and
service specified charging principle is present.
#### 7.1.1.2 Solution
The new TS 32.24x specifies the common architecture and principle for the
vertical charging as the umbrella.
A set of charging specific TSs covers the 5GS domains and 5G service levels
(e.g. Network slice charging, 5G LAN, Edge computing charging, TSN charging,)
respectively, in the TS 32.2xx and TS 28.2XX TS number ranges. These TSs
describe the mapping of the common architecture onto the specific services,
scenarios, and charging information for converged online and offline charging.
They are commonly referred to as the middle tier charging TSs.
A set of TSs in the TS 32.29x range covers common aspects, such as CDR
parameter and syntax descriptions, converged online and offline charging
applications, and the charging interactions within the network (CDR transfer)
as well as between the network and the billing domain (CDR file transfer).
The complete document structure for these related vertical TSs is outlined in
figure 7.1.1.2-1.
Figure 7.1.1.2-1: Charging specifications structure
## 7.2 Solution #2: Restructure for the charging principle
### 7.2.1 Solution description
#### 7.2.1.1 General
The solution #2 solves the key issues #1.
Compared to the general and common charging principle for subscriber charging
specified in the TS 32.240 [2], the service specifications provide the
detailed service specified charging principle for the vertical charging,
including the Edge Computing Charging, TSN charging and so on.
Provide the unified document structure for charging principle is suggested.
#### 7.2.1.2 Solution
The suggested document structure for charging principle is present.
Add the new chapter for the charging principle in the TS 32.240 [2].
Clause X or Annex Charging Principle
> _X.1 General_
>
> _The high-level service description for charging are specified in the clause
> 6:_
_\- 5G LAN Charging_
_\- Edge Computing Charging._
_\- Network slice charging (To be added)_
_..._
> _X.2 Charging principle and reference_
>
> _The following details the example of charging principles on the basis of
> the common architecture and framework and should be adapted in the
> corresponding charging service specification in respect of:_
_\- General:_
_\- Charging data generation and quota supervision._
_\- Aspects of charging information transfer:_
_\- The charging information is transferred for the B2B._
_\- Charging levels and charging data correlation:_
_\- Charging levels on B2B._
_\- Charging data correlation for internal relationship._
_\- Charging requirement (Optional)._
_\- Charging information utilization:_
_\- The subscriber id for the B2B charging, e,g. tenant id._
_\- CHF selection._
## 7.3 Solution #3: Combined charging architecture
### 7.3.1 Solution description
#### 7.3.1.1 General
This solution #3 resolves the key issues 2. Based on network slice performance
and analytics charging architecture and network slice management charging
architecture, UE charging and network slice tenant charging are combined in
one Converged Charging System (CCS). Based on the edge computing charging, the
subscriber based charging and inter-provider based charging are in the
converged charging.
#### 7.3.1.2 Solution
Figure 7.3.1.2-1 is the general high-level charging architecture from the
NSPA, NSM converged charging architecture and other service specification,
specified in the TS 28.201 [5], TS 28.202 [6] and TS 32.257 [4]:
\- Figure 4.2.2-1 specified in the TS 28.201 [5] and figure 4.2.2.2 specified
in the TS 28.202[6], present the interaction between CEF and CHF.
\- Figure 4.2.2.1 specified in the TS 28.202 [6], present the interaction
between MnS (embedding with CTF) and CHF.
\- Figure 4.2.3-1 specified in the TS 32.257 [4], present the interaction
between NF (embedding with CTF) and CHF.
Figure 7.3.1.2-1: Combined charging architecture
## 7.4 Solution #4: Network slice tenant charging architecture
### 7.4.1 Solution description
#### 7.4.1.1 General
This solution #4 resolves the key issues #2. Based on the network slice tenant
charging, the separated UE converged charging and network slice tenant
converged charging are present.
#### 7.4.1.2 Solution
Figure 7.4.1.2-1: Network slice tenant charging architecture option
Two types of subscribers are considered in the context of network slice tenant
charging:
\- The Tenant the Network Slice is assigned to, which is referred to as \"NS-
Tenant\", which can be considered as the charged party of B2B.
\- The individual end-user \"UE\" served under the Network Slice, which can be
considered as the charged party of B2C.
Each type of subscriber is handled under a separated Converged Charging System
(CCS): \"Tenant CCS\" and \"UE CCS\" respectively.
\"UE CCS\" performs charging functionalities for individual UEs (i.e. B2C),
see the clause 6.3.2.1 General description in TR 32.847 [10].
\"Tenant CCS\" performs charging functionalities for NS-Tenant (i.e. B2B), see
the clause 6.3.2.1 General description and clause 6.6 in TR 32.847 [10].
The Nchf exposed by the CHF (Tenant CCS) is defined for enabling two cases:
\- Association between individual UE charging and NS tenant charging. This
association is achieved by UE CCS responsible for individual UE charging
consuming the Nchf exposed by the Tenant CCS.
\- Charging for the NS Tenant charging only.
## 7.5 Solution #5: Converged tenant charging architecture
### 7.5.1 Solution description
#### 7.5.1.1 General
This solution #5 resolves the key issues #2. Based on the possible solutions
#4 network slice tenant charging architecture in clause 7.4, NF(CTF) interacts
with the UE CCS and NF (CTF) interacts with the Tenant CCS separately, and the
UE CCS interacts with the Tenant CCS solution #3 Converged charging
architecture in the clause 7.3, CEF and NF (CTF) interact with the UE CCS, the
converged tenant charging architecture is present to combined all the
architectures into one in figure 7.5.1.2-1.
#### 7.5.1.2 Solution
Figure 7.5.1.2-1: Converged tenant charging architecture option in reference
point representation
Two types of charging are considered in the context of converged vertical
charging architecture:
\- The subscriber-based charging (i.e. B2C) via NF(CTF), e.g. SMF.
\- The inter-provider charging (i.e. B2B) via NF(CTF)/MnS and/or CEF, e.g.
EES.
\- Interaction between UE CCS and CCS supports the B2B charging scenarios,
which provides the interaction between CHFs, including but not limited to
support the UE converged charging impacted by vertical charging.
The Tenant CCS supports the B2B charging scenarios can be applicable in the
following different charging scenarios:
\- Network slice charging: The CCS is the Network slice Tenant CCS.
\- NPN Charging: The CCS is the NPI-NPN/SNPN Tenant CCS.
\- 5G LAN Charging: The CCS is the LAN Tenant CCS.
\- Edge Computing Charging: The CCS is the ECSP Tenant CCS.
\- TSN Charging: The CCS is the TSN Tenant CCS.
## 7.6 Solution #6: CHF-to-CHF Communication
### 7.6.1 Solution description
#### 7.6.1.1 General
This solution #6 resolves the key issues #2. Based on the study about
wholesale and roaming charging, CHF-to-CHF communication is supported.
#### 7.6.1.2 Solution
Figure 7.6.1.2-1: CHF to CHF communication for MVNO Charging
Two types of charging are considered in the context of vertical charging:
\- the retail charging (i.e.B2C) by A-CHF is out of 3GPP SA5 scope, the Ny
reference point is in the scope;
\- the wholesale charging (i.e.B2B) by CHF for MVNO, see the details of
solution #4.3 in the TR 28.827 [11].
## 7.7 Solution #7: NF to CHFs communication
### 7.7.1 Solution description
#### 7.7.1.1 General
This solution #7 resolves the key issues #2. Based on the MVNO (owning a CHF
referred to as A-CHF) non-roaming scenario, the N40 reference point is defined
for the interactions between SMF and CHF owned by MNO, the N47 reference point
is used for the interactions between SMF owned by the MNO and A-CHF owned by
the MVNO, NF‑to-CHF communication for MVNO charging.
#### 7.7.1.2 Solution
Figure 7.7.1.2-1: NF(V-SMF) to CHF communication for MVNO Charging
N47 used by A-CHF owned by an additional actor (i.e. MVNO) to perform retail
charging for its own subscribers is operator specific, specified in the TS
32.255 [15].
## 7.8 Solution #8: Separated charging architecture
### 7.8.1 Solution description
#### 7.8.1.1 General
This solution #8 solves the key issues #2. The separated charging architecture
for B2B, B2C and the internal relationship are described in the different
causes.
In the charging architecture for B2C, the interaction for the NF and UE CCS is
present, and the related NF (e.g. SMF) and the corresponding reference (i.e.
TS 32.255 [15]) will be detailed.
In the charging architecture for the B2B, the interaction for the NF and
Tenant CCS is present, and the related NF (e.g. NWDAF) and the corresponding
reference (i.e. TS 28.201 [5]) will be detailed.
In the charging architecture for the internal relationship, the interaction
for the UE CCS and Tenant CCS is present, and the related scenarios (e.g. SMF
for the volume based charging impacted by the tenant charging) and the
corresponding reference (i.e. TS 32.255 [15]) will be detailed.
#### 7.8.1.2 Solution
The suggested separated charging architecture and document structure for
charging principle is present.
Add the new chapter for the charging principle template and charging
architecture in the TS 32.240 [2].
Clause X or Annex X
> _X.1 General_
>
> _The high-level service description for charging is specified in the clause
> 6:_
>
> _\- 5G LAN Charging_
>
> _\- Edge Computing Charging._
>
> _\- Network slice charging (To be added)_
>
> _..._
>
> _X.2 Charging principle and references (Proposed in the solution 7.x
> Restructure for the charging principle)_
>
> _X.3 Charging architecture and references_
>
> _X.3.1 General_
>
> _In the charging architecture, the CCS may be described in the Tenant CCS
> and UE CCS from the view of business charging scenario support, for B2B or
> B2C or B2B2X._
>
> _X.3.2 Business to Business Charging_
_In the charging architecture for the B2B, the interaction for the NF and
Tenant CCS and the interaction for the UE CCS and Tenant CCS are present, and
the related NF and the corresponding reference will be described as
following._
_Figure X.3.2-1_
> _X.3.3 Business to Consumer Charging_
>
> _In the charging architecture for B2C, the interaction for the NF and UE CCS
> is present, and the related NF and the corresponding reference will be
> described as the following._
_Figure X.3.3-1_
## 7.9 Solution Evaluation
The Solution #1 and #2 solve the key issue #1:
\- Solution #1 proposed to create the new TS for the business to business
charging scenarios which can provide the umbrella clearly for the vertical
charging. In that way, B2B and B2C are separated which brings some trouble for
the internal and external stakeholder to search required information and the
internal relationship between B2B and B2C is difficult to covered.
\- Solution #2 proposed to add the new clause in the existing TS 32.240 [2],
which can present the charging principle for the B2C and B2B in the same TS.
In that way, understand the common charging principle as the whole charging
system and the special charging principle for the certain services in the
charging service specifications.
The new annex also can include the charging architecture applicability for
B2B, B2C.
The Solution #3, #4, #5, #6 #7 and #8 solve the key issue #2:
\- Solution #3 about existing converged charging architecture is applicable
for the general charging capabilities and B2B charging scenarios, which
distributed in the different charging service TSs.
\- Solution #4 about existing network slice tenant charging architecture is
applicable for the network slice charging, can support the B2B, B2C charging,
\- Solution #5 about existing converged tenant charging architecture merged
the solution #x for network slice tenant charging and solution #x converged
charging architecture is applicable for all the charging scenarios, can
support B2B and B2C charging.
\- Solution #6 about the existing NF to CHFs communication is applicable for
roaming and MVNO charging, can support B2B and B2C charging, which distributed
in the different charging service TSs.
\- Solution #7 about the existing CHF to CHF communication is applicable for
roaming and MVNO charging, can support B2B and B2C charging, which distributed
in the different charging service TSs.
\- Solution #8 about existing separated charging architecture describes the
different business relationship for B2B, B2C, which can clearly present the
charging architecture applicability in the different charging scenarios via
the different NF referred to the different special charging service
specifications. In that way, the internal and external stakeholder can
understand the charging scenarios and reference for the NF charging in the
common way, which is easy to find the required information distributed in the
multiple TSs.
# 8 Conclusions and recommendations
For key issue #1, the solution #2 proposed to add the Annex (Normative) in the
existing TS 32.240 [2] should be selected to the normative work.
For key issues #2, the solution #8 proposed to add the Annex (Normative) in
the existing TS 32.240 [2] for the separated charging architecture should be
selected to the normative work.
#