# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
3GPP introduces basic management and orchestration aspects of non-public
networks in TS 28.557 [2].
The present document studies enhanced management aspects of non-public
networks.
# 1 Scope
TS 28.557 [2] introduces management support for non-public networks based on
stage 1 service requirements in TS 22.261 [3]. The present document is studies
further enhancements to management of non-public networks including the
following aspects:
\- Study enhanced management of SNPN and PNI-NPN. For example, study new
requirements and potential solutions of management capability exposure for
SNPN and PNI-NPN, and how the mobile network operator and vertical customer
cooperate to realize management and orchestration of network in MNO-Vertical
Managed Mode in TS 28.557 [2].
\- Study management of vertical as an authorized NPN service customer, e.g.
the management of authorized capability of utilizing management services and
management data.
\- Study requirements and potential solutions to support end to end network
management (including RAN domain and CN domain) in NPN scenarios.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.557: \"Management and orchestration; Management of Non-Public
Networks (NPN); Stage 1 and stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.867: \"Study on 5G Smart Energy and Infrastructure\".
[5] 5G-ACIA: Exposure of 5G Capabilities for Connected Industries and
Automation Applications, https://5g-acia.org/whitepapers/exposure-
of-5g-capabilities-for-connected-industries-and-automation-applications-2/
[6] 3GPP TS 22.104: \"Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace: Trace control and configuration management \"
[10] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[12] 3GPP TR 28.824: \"Management and orchestration; Study on network slice
management capability exposure\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.104: \"Management and orchestration; Management Data Analytics
(MDA)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.423: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace data definition and management\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.536: \"Management and orchestration; Management services for
communication service assurance; Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"5G end to end Key Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[17] 3GPP TR 28.817: \"Study on access control for management service\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Non-Public Network:** See definition in TS 22.261 [3].
**Public network integrated NPN:** See definition in TS 23.501 [8].
**Stand-alone Non-Public Network: See** definition in TS 23.501 [8].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
NPN Non-Public Network
NPN-OP NPN Operator
NPN-SC NPN Service Customer
NPN-SP NPN Service Provider
OT Operation Technology
PLC Programmable Logic Controller
PNI-NPN Public Network Integrated NPN
SLS Service Level Specification
SNPN Stand-alone NPN
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 General
The management of non-public networks (NPNs) is introduced in TS 28.557 [2]
which focuses on the basic management and orchestration aspects of NPN. The
present document is based on the fundamental concepts, management modes, roles
related to NPN management and basic solutions mainly including provisioning of
SNPN and PNI-NPN as specified in TS 28.557 [2].
# 5 Key Issues and potential solutions
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: E2E fault management
### 5.1.1 Description
In TS 28.557 [2], the deployment scenarios and solutions for management of
Standalone NPN (SNPN) and public network integrated NPN (PNI-NPN) have been
specified. However, fault supervision management which is very important for
NPN operators is not specified in detail. Furthermore, in some vertical
scenarios, 5G industry terminal, e.g. camera, programmable logic controller
(PLC) and Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal and so on, are widely
deployed. These large quantity 5G industry terminals which may be provided by
multiple vendors are managed by multiple standalone terminal management
systems and this increases the complexity and difficulty of NPN management,
especially for E2E fault location. For example, if an NPN goes down, it is
difficult to locate rapidly where the fault occurred or to determine whether
the fault is caused by the industry terminal.
5G-ACIA has described the functional requirements for exposing the
capabilities of non-public 5G systems to industrial factory applications in
[5]. 3GPP should also provide potential solutions to support the use cases and
requirements from 5G-ACIA. The requirements given in clause 4.3 of 5G-ACIA
white paper in [5] are aspects of network management, as following:
_\"[R-4.3.1-07] The 5G exposure reference points must allow monitoring of
errors and other alarms from physical/logical network components and
connections._
_[R-4.3.1-08] The 5G exposure reference points must provide the monitoring
information in such a way that it can be effectively used for error detection,
localization, root-cause analysis, and error resolution.\"_
Therefore, for vertical industry scenarios, 3GPP management system needs to
provide fault management capabilities scoping NPN and UEs representing 5G
industry terminals. These capabilities need to be integrated with the ones
scoping OT domain (non-3GPP domain), to allow for E2E fault location.
### 5.1.2 Potential solutions
#### 5.1.2.1 Potential solution #1: fault management of NPN and 5G industry
terminals
##### 5.1.2.1.1 Introduction
This clause provides a potential solution for fault management capabilities
scoping NPN and 5G industry terminals.
##### 5.1.2.1.2 Description
In order to provide fault management capabilities scoping NPN and UEs
representing 5G industry terminals, an NPN management system should monitor
the fault of NPN and large quantity of 5G industry terminals which may be
deployed in an enterprise:
\- For the fault management of NPN, the network alarm can be discovered by
analysing performance data or network alarm event reporting. In this case, the
generic fault supervision management service and performance assurance
management service in clause 11 of TS 28.532 [7] can be re-used to collect the
network performance data and alarm data. For network failure prediction, the
MDA capability described in clause 7.2.3.1 of TS 28.104 [13] can be reused.
\- For the fault management of 5G industry terminals deployed in an
enterprise, the NPN management system should support to performance monitoring
and fault diagnosis for 5G industry terminals. NPN management system can
collect the performance data and then execute data analysis for alarm
detection, localization and/or resolution. The performance data collected from
industry terminal may include UL/DL throughput volume, UL/DL throughput time
used for calculation of UL/DL throughput, UL/DL packet delay per QoS level,
UL/DL packet loss rate per QoS level, etc., defined in clause 4.34.1 of TS
32.423 [14]. The trace control and configuration of MDT in clauses 4.1, 4.2
and 6 of TS 32.422 [9] can be reused for trace/UE measurements
activation/deactivation and MDT report to collect MDT data from 5G industry
terminals.
### 5.1.3 Conclusion
The potential solution #1 introduces the management services and performance
data which are reused to achieve fault management of NPN and 5G industry
terminals.
The management services include:
\- Generic fault supervision management service defined in clause 11.2 of TS
28.532 [7].
\- Performance assurance management service defined in clause 11.3 of TS
28.532 [7].
\- MDA assisted fault management service (e.g. failure prediction) defined in
clause 7.2.3 of TS 28.104 [13].
\- Trace control and configuration management service defined in TS 32.422
[9].
The performance data collected at 5G industry terminals level includes:
\- MDT data (e.g. UL/DL throughput time used for calculation of UL/DL
throughput, UL/DL throughput volume, UL/DL packet delay per QoS level, UL/DL
packet loss rate per QoS level, etc.) defined in clause 4.34.1 of TS 32.423
[14].
Consequently, it is proposed to introduce the potential solution #1 in further
normative work.
## 5.2 Key Issue #2: Management of NPN service customer
### 5.2.1 Description
As description in TS 28.557 [2], an NPN service customer is used to represent
the role of communication service customer in NPN environment. NPN service
customer can request and consume the management capabilities exposed by the
mobile network operator. The mobile network operator would restrict the types
(e.g. provisioning, fault supervision, performance assurance) of management
capabilities and corresponding managed network resource exposed to an NPN
service customer. The management of NPN service customers is not considered in
TS 28.557 [2], including management of authorized capability of utilizing
management services and management data. On the other hand, in some vertical
industries, NPN service customer may be authorized to manage the terminal
members of their own private network, e.g. monitoring smart distribution
transformer terminal in smart grid.
3GPP management system may need to support the management of NPN service
customer including:
\- -Maintaining of the related information for NPN service customer, including
identity of NPN service customer, available management capabilities and other
attributes (e.g. service area).
\- Member management of NPN service customer, e.g. state monitoring of
terminal members, group management of terminal members.
### 5.2.2 Potential solutions
#### 5.2.2.1 Potential solution #1: Management of the related information for
NPN service customer
##### 5.2.2.1.1 Introduction
This clause briefly describes the potential solution for management of the
related information for NPN service customer.
##### 5.2.2.1.2 Description
An NPN is provided to a vertical (playing the role of NPN-SC) for private use.
Before an NPN is created, an MNO (playing the role of NPN-SP/NPN-OP) needs to
authenticate the vertical. If the authentication is passed, the MNO management
system should manage the related information for NPN service customer, for
example, allocating a new identity of the vertical which can be used in MNO
management system and creating the context of the vertical to keep the new
identity, authorized available management capabilities, required coverage area
and so on.
The procedure of management of the related information for NPN service
customer is following. The pre-condition of the procedure is the business
agreements between MNO and NPN-SC is reached.
{width="3.4930555555555554in" height="1.6180555555555556in"}
Figure 5.2.2.1.2-1: Procedure of management of the related information for NPN
service customer
1) NPN-SC provides the vertical information (e.g. human readable name of
vertical, subscribed management capabilities exposed to vertical, etc.) to
register a vertical to NPN-SP/NPN-OP through an NPN-SC registration request
message. This message may be interacted with BSS layer. But the BSS layer
should forward the subscription data to OSS layer to authorize the exposure of
management capabilities and corresponding managed resources to NPN-SC.
2) NPN-SP/NPN-OP receives the vertical information from NPN-SC and executes
the authentication and authorization for a vertical. The NPN-SP/NPN-OP
allocates a new identity which is associated with the vertical identity and
creates the context information of the vertical in local. The context
information can be managed in form of NRM IOCs. The NPN-SP/NPN-OP uses the
allocated new identity in MNO management system to identify the corresponding
vertical.
> The details of the context information, as example, are:
\- consumerID: It is used to identify the MnS consumer (e.g. NPN-SC).
\- authorizedMnS: It gives a list of management services that are allowed to
be exposed to the NPN-SC. The MnS components Type A, Type B and/or Type C
should be specified in this attribute. The attribute authorizedMnS defined in
Table 7.1.4-1 of TR 28.817 [17], which gives list of management services and
its capabilities the consumer is authorized to access, can be used to for
holding this information.
\- validDuration: It specifies a time period during which the NPN-SC can
consume the exposed management capabilities. The NPN-SC is banned to consume
exposed management capabilities when it is out of the valid duration. The
attribute Validity defined in Table 7.1.4-1 of TR 28.817 [17] can be used to
for holding this information.
3) The NPN-SP/NPN-OP sends NPN-SC registration response message to the NPN-SC
including the authentication result (e.g. success or failure), the new
identity, authorized available management capabilities information and other
attributes which are part of the context information of the vertical.
### 5.2.3 Conclusion
The potential solution #1 introduces the procedure of creating NPN-SC context
information, which can be applied by NPN-SP/NPN-OP to restrict the management
capabilities and corresponding managed network resources exposed to NPN-SC.
The details of the context information can be managed in form of NRM IOCs and
it is proposed to introduce the potential solution #1 in further normative
work for Rel-18 to update the NRM IOCs in TS 28.541 [11].
## 5.3 Key Issue #3: Resource isolation demand for Smart Grid Utilities
### 5.3.1 Description
Smart Grid is a representative utility with NPN. A power grid consists of four
building blocks: power generation, transmission, distribution and consumption.
These different phases require different services, and these services have
distinct communication requirements.
As description in clause 5.9 of TS 22.867 [4]:
According to the regulation of China Grid industry, the power grid business is
mainly divided into two working categories: production control and information
management. The production control can be further divided into safety zone I
and safety zone II. The information management also can be further divided
into safety zone III and safety zone IV.
Different kinds of safety isolation requirements are applied to different
safety zones:
a) The energy applications belong to production control category i.e. safety
zones I and II need to be physically isolated from other applications which do
not belong to production control working category.
b) The energy applications belong to information management working category
i.e. safety zone III and IV can be logically isolation from other applications
including non-energy applications.
c) The energy applications belong to a same working category can be logically
isolated each other.
d) The energy applications belong to a same safety zone can be logically
isolated each other.
NPN may be deployed to support the different use cases and service
requirements for multiple Smart Grid applications. For example, multiple NPNs
(e.g. multiple PNI-NPNs, each having on-prem NFs and a dedicated portion of
PLMN NFs as a slice of the PLMN) may be deployed to meet the requirements of
physical isolation communication service. The logical isolation communication
service on the other hand may be supported by shared network element or shared
network resource in one NPN for Smart Grid.
To provide management mechanism to assurance resource isolation for different
isolation modes, 3GPP management system may need to configure different
network parameters whose purpose is for energy applications with different
isolation modes.
Therefore, 3GPP management system needs to have the capability to meet the
distinct communication requirements with different resource isolation demands
for some smart grid applications supported by NPNs.
### 5.3.2 Potential solutions
#### 5.3.2.1 Introduction
This clause provides a potential solution to satisfy the resource isolation
demand described in clause 5.3.1.
#### 5.3.2.2 Description
A resource isolation-sharing policy, which contains the logical and physical
isolation policies among different safety zones, can be sent to NPN-OP.
The logical resource isolation-sharing policy includes several groups of
safety zones. Energy applications belonging to the safety zones within the
same group use the shared logical resources (e.g. a network slice), while
energy applications categorized into different safety zones across different
groups use isolated logical resources. An example of the division of safety
zones into groups is shown in Figure 5.3.2.2-1.
{width="6.69375in" height="2.1354166666666665in"}
Figure 5.3.2.2-1: Example of logical isolation-sharing policy - groups cross
multiple safety zones
In case that the applications belonging to the same safety zone require to be
logically isolated with each other, the groups can reflect the resource
isolation-sharing policy at a more granular level, such as specifying the
applications. An example of the division of applications into groups is shown
in Figure 5.3.2.2-2. Application 1-1 and Application 2-1 are further divided
into different subgroups as they cannot share same logical network resources
event though they are both categorized into safety zone 1.
{width="4.977725284339457in" height="1.789935476815398in"}
Figure 5.3.2.2-2: Example of logical isolation-sharing policy - subgroups
within one safety zone
Similarly, the physical resource isolation-sharing policy includes several
groups of safety zones. Energy applications belonging to the safety zones
within the same group use the shared physical resources, while energy
applications categorized into different safety zones across different groups
use isolated physical resources. An example of the division of safety zones
into groups is shown in Figure 5.3.2.2-3.
{width="6.69375in" height="2.15in"}
Figure 5.3.2.2-3: Example of physical isolation-sharing policy
All logical and physical isolation-sharing relations (i.e. shared or isolated)
between every two safety zones could be figured out with the resource
isolation policy, and the NPN-OP should take it into consideration when
allocating network resources for each safety zone. When Smart Grid Utilities
requests the network resources allocation for energy applications, the safety
zone type and the related logical and/or physical resource isolation lists
could be attached in the request to show the logical and/or physical resource
isolation-sharing relations between one safety zone and other safety zones, so
that the network resources allocation for energy applications belonging to
certain safety zones satisfies the resource isolation demand. Detailed
explanation of the safety zone type, logical and physical resource isolation
lists are as following:
\- The safety zone type is used to identify which safety zones the energy
applications are categorized into.
\- The subgroup identifier is used to identify the subgroups of energy
applications within one safety zone. It is only applicable when applications
belonging to a same safety zone requires to be logically isolated each other.
\- The logical resource isolation list is derived from the logical isolation-
sharing policy and contains safety zones that are required to be logical
isolated with the current safety zone. Safety zones which are out of this list
are ones that sharing the same logical network resources with the current
safety zone. When the subgroup identifier is specified, the other subgroups of
the current safety zone should also be included in the logical resource
isolation lists.
\- The physical resource isolation list is derived from the physical
isolation-sharing policy and contains safety zones that are required to be
physical isolated with the current safety zone. Safety zones which are out of
this list are ones that sharing the same physical network resources with the
current safety zone.
### 5.3.3 Conclusion
To satisfy the resource logical and/or physical isolation demand for Smart
Grid Utilities, the potential solution #1 introduces a resource isolation-
sharing policy which contains the grouping information based on division of
safety zones. It is proposed to use the potential solution #1 as an input for
the ongoing normative work item network slicing provisioning rules to discuss
the normative solutions for Rel-18.
## 5.4 Key Issue #4: SLA monitoring and evaluation
### 5.4.1 Description
A service-level agreement (SLA) consists of a technical part and a non-
technical part (i.e., pricing and billing conditions, penalties, etc.). The
technical part, referred to as SLS, capture service requirements which are
input to 3GPP management system. For example, TS 22.104 [6] presents service
requirements of cyber-physical control applications (e.g. motion control,
process automation, etc.) in vertical domains, which require very high levels
of communication service availability and/or very low end-to-end latencies.
The end-to-end latency is also very important for the applications of smart
Grid, e.g. differential protection in power distribution grid.
From network management perspective, the network management service provider
allocates network resource to provide communication service based on related
service requirements, monitoring the network performance to evaluate the SLA
fulfilment. Therefore, the NPN management system may need to study how to
assure whether the service and network requirements are achieved. Some related
KPIs/KQIs like communication service availability, communication service
reliability, end-to-end latency, UE speed, are clarified to continually
monitoring the network performance to evaluate the assurance of the SLA. If
the SLA is not fulfilled, the network optimization contributing to SLS
assurance, e.g. reconfigure the resources should be adopted to resolve the
performance degradation.
### 5.4.2 Potential solutions
#### 5.4.2.1 Potential solution #1: high level process for NPN SLA management
##### 5.4.2.1.1 Introduction
This clause briefly describes the potential solution for SLA monitoring and
evaluation.
##### 5.4.2.1.2 Description
The high-level process for NPN SLA management in figure 5.4.2.1.2-1.
{width="2.5076388888888888in" height="2.95625in"}
Figure 5.4.2.1.2-1: high level process for NPN SLA management
In figure 5.4.2.1.2-1, steps 1 to 3 describe the workflows of NPN creation or
update which is specified as NPN provisioning procedures in TS 28.557 [2] in
detail. The steps 4, 5 and 6 are the NPN SLS monitoring and SLA assurance
loop.
The NPN management system (e.g. NPN-SP/NPN-OP/NEP) collects performance data
(e.g. packet delay in TS 28.552 [10] and reliability in TS 28.541 [11]) to
monitor the NPN status through performance assurance MnS. The typical
categories of KPI include Accessibility, Integrity, Utilization,
Retainability, Mobility, Energy Efficiency and Reliability as defined in TS
28.554 [16].
Based on the network KPIs, the NPN management system evaluates the network
availability and reliability to assure the SLA fulfilment. If the SLA is not
fulfilled, the NPN management system adopts some optimization methods to
promote the network performance, such as SLA parameter coordination among RAN
NEs, RAN resource and priority scheduling adjustment. For SLS fulfilment
information monitoring, assurance closed control loop introduced in TS 28.536
[15] may be applied to achieve the SLS assurance control.
### 5.4.3 Conclusion
The potential solution #1 introduces the high level process for NPN SLA
monitoring and evaluation. Four NPN roles (i.e. NPN-SC, NPN-SP, NPN-OP and
NEP) are involved in the NPN SLA monitoring and evaluation. To achieve SLA
monitoring and evaluation, NPN management system (e.g. NPN-SP/NPN-OP/NEP)
performs network monitoring and evaluation for SLS fulfilment monitoring. For
the details of SLA assurance, the closed control loop described in TS 28.536
[15] can be reused.
Consequently, it is proposed to introduce the potential solution #1 in further
normative work for Rel-18.
## 5.5 Key Issue #5: Exposure of management capabilities and corresponding
managed resources under MNO-Vertical Managed Mode
### 5.5.1 Description
TS 28.557 [2] specifies two management modes for PNI-NPN and three management
modes for SNPN. Under MNO-Vertical Managed Mode for PNI-NPN and MNO-Vertical
Managed Mode for SNPN, the vertical also plays the role of NPN operator shared
with mobile network operator, to achieve management on the NPN served for the
vertical. Therefore, a bundle of management capabilities and corresponding
managed resources should be exposed to the vertical from the mobile network
operator according to the business agreement between the two parties under
MNO-Vertical Managed Mode.
{width="6.69375in" height="3.9930555555555554in"}
Figure 5.5.1-1: Vertical managing PNI-NPN through exposure
Figure 5.5.1-1, as an example, illustrates how the PLMN operator and the
vertical manage the PNI-NPN under the MNO-Vertical Managed Mode. The PNI-NPN,
which is deployed across one PLMN and the vertical\'s premises (e.g. factory),
can be seen as an end-to-end network composed of two differentiated segments:
one public, consisting of a (R)AN and network functions built upon public 5GC
network resources; and one private, consisting of network functions deployed
using non-public 5G network resources. The vertical can realize the management
of PNI-NPN through management capabilities exposure.
{width="6.69375in" height="3.202777777777778in"}
Figure 5.5.1-2: Vertical managing SNPN through exposure
Figure 5.5.1-2, as an example, illustrates how the PLMN operator and the
vertical manage the SNPN under the MNO-Vertical Managed Mode. The SNPN is
deployed as an independent, isolated network. All SNPN network elements are
located inside the logical perimeter of the vertical\'s premises (e.g.
factory) and the SNPN is separate from the PLMN. The PLMN operator and the
vertical play the role of SNPN operator together, and the vertical can realize
the management of SNPN through management capabilities exposure.
Exposing what kind of management capability and managed resources (e.g. local
UPF, gNBs belong to vertical covering specific geographic areas, etc.) for
vertical relies on specific cases, such as:
\- As described in clause 5.1.1, the capability of monitoring network errors
and alarms could be exposed to vertical to support its fault root-cause
analysis, localization, etc., on NPN.
\- According to the issue described in clause 5.3.1, the capability of
configuring the NPN network resources (especially for those assets belong to
the vertical e.g. local UPF or local gNBs covering specific geographic areas
for a specific vertical) could further be exposed to vertical to satisfy the
specific logical and/or physical resource isolation requirements for energy
applications categorized into different safety zones.
\- According to the issue described in clause 5.4.1, the capability of
monitoring KPIs/KQIs, like communication service availability, end-to-end
latency, etc., could further be exposed to vertical to detect performance
degradation and support performance optimization on NPN.
### 5.5.2 Potential solutions
#### 5.5.2.1 Potential solution #1: Exposure via OSS under MNO-Vertical
Managed Mode
##### 5.5.2.1.1 Description
Systems and layers related to this solution are introduced in clause 5.6.1 of
[12] and also explained as follows:
\- BSS: Business Support System
\- OSS: Operations Support System, made up of the three following sub-systems:
\- SML: Service Management Layer
\- NML: Network Management Layer
\- EML: Element Management Layer{width="4.986111111111111in"
height="4.145833333333333in"}
Figure 5.5.2.1.1-1: Exposure via OSS
An illustration of the \"product - service - network resource\" layering in
the context of NPN could be the following:
\- NPN Service Provider offers an NPN Product as SNPN or PNI-NPN, for example:
\- There can be several ways to implement this Product, one of them being via
network slicing.
\- Two possible services to support this NPN product:
\- URLLC type network slicing over 5G NSA
\- URLLC type network slicing over 5G SA
\- Network resource
\- For PNI-NPN network resource: The network resources include the PNI-NPN
which is deployed across one PLMN and the vertical\'s premises (e.g. factory),
can be seen as an end-to-end network composed of two differentiated segments:
one public, consisting of a (R)AN and network functions built upon public 5GC
network resources; and one private, consisting of network functions deployed
using non-public 5G network resources.
\- For SNPN network resource: The network resources include the SNPN which is
deployed as an independent, isolated network. All SNPN network elements are
located inside the logical perimeter of the vertical\'s premises (e.g.
factory) and the SNPN is separate from the PLMN.
Figure 5.5.2.1.1-1 illustrates the generic exposure process for NPN management
via OSS under MNO-Vertical Managed Mode for PNI-NPN and MNO-Vertical Managed
Mode for SNPN:
1\. The product order request/respond between NPN-SC and NPN-SP via BSS. The
product order may contain the requirements on the exposure of management
capabilities and corresponding managed resources.
2\. The service orders request/respond between NPN-SP BSS and NPN-SP OSS/SML.
The service orders are decomposed from product order.
3\. The exposed MnS consumption request/respond between NPN-SC and NPN-SP via
OSS. The NPN-SC can consume the exposed management services directly from
OSS/SML of NPN-SP to realize the management of NPN. A dedicated MnF (e.g.
EGMF) may be responsible for the control of exposure governance.
4\. According to the exposed MnS consumption request, the OSS/SML of NPN-SP
may request the consumption of corresponding MnS provided by OSS/NML of NPN-
OP.
###### ### Annex A: Plant UML source code
# A.1 Procedure for management of the related information for NPN service
customer
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
management of the related information for NPN service customer, as depicted by
Figure 5.2.2.1.2-1:
\@startuml
\"NPN-SC\" -> \"NPN-SP/OP\": 1. NPN-SC registration request
\"NPN-SP/OP\" -> \"NPN-SP/OP\":2. NPN-SC information\ncreation, e.g.
allocating ID.
skinparam responseMessageUpArrow true
\"NPN-SP/OP\" -> \"NPN-SC\":3.NPN-SC registration response
skinparam sequenceMessageAlign center
\@enduml
# A.2 Procedure for high level process for NPN SLA management
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the high level process
for NPN SLA management, as depicted by Figure 5.4.2.1.2-1:
\@startuml
\"NPN-SC\" --> [ 1. SLA Requirement\nmapping] \"NPN-SP\"
\--> [ 2. SLS Requirement\ndecomposition] \"NPN-OP/NEP\"
\--> [ 3. Network creation\n/update]\" NPN Network\"
\--> [ 4. Network monitoring\nand assurance]\"NPN-OP/NEP\"
\--> [ 5. SLS\nmonitoring]\"NPN-SP\"
\--> [6. SLS fulfilment \ninformation monitoring]\"NPN-SC\"
\@enduml
#