# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the solutions to support alignment with ETSI MEC
from the management perspective for edge computing.
It also identifies potential issues and solutions to support GSMA OPG [2]
requirement in coordination with ETSI MEC [3].
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] GSMA Operator Platform Telco Edge Requirements -
[https://www.gsma.com/futurenetworks/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/GSMA-Operator-
Platform-Telco-Edge-Requirements-2022-v2.0.pdf]{.underline}.
[3] ETSI GS MEC 010-2 (V2.2.1) (2022-02): \"Multi-access Edge Computing (MEC);
MEC Management; Part 2: Application lifecycle, rules and requirements
management\".
[4] ETSI GS MEC 003: \"Multi-access Edge Computing (MEC); Framework and
Reference Architecture\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.558: \"Architecture for enabling Edge Applications\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.538: \"Management and orchestration; Edge Computing Management
(ECM)\".
[7] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 (V4.3.1): \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV)
Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo reference point -Interface
and Information Model Specification\".
[8] GSMA Operator Platform -- East-Westbound Interface APIs -
[https://www.gsma.com/futurenetworks/resources/platform-group-4-0-federation-
api-1-0-0-yaml/]{.underline}.
[9] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic Management
Service\".
[11] 3GPP TR 28.817: \"Management and orchestration; Study on access control
for management service\".
[12] 3GPP TR 28.824: \"Management and orchestration; Study on network slice
management capability exposure\".
[13] 3GPP TR 23.700-98 (V1.0.0): \"Study on Enhanced architecture for enabling
Edge Applications\".
[14] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 (V4.3.1): \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV)
Release 3; Management and Orchestration; VNF Descriptor and Packaging
Specification\".
[15] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 (V4.3.1): \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV)
Release 4; Management and Orchestration; Network Service Templates
Specification\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Related Work in Other SDOs
## 4.1 ETSI MEC
Multi-access Edge Computing (MEC) framework as specified in ETSI GS MEC 003
[4] enables the implementation of MEC applications as software-only entities
that run on top of a Virtualisation infrastructure, which is located in or
close to the network edge.
{width="4.9319444444444445in" height="4.363888888888889in"}
Figure 4.1-1: Multi-access Edge Computing framework
Figure 4.1-1 shows the MEC framework as defined in [4], it mainly contains
several components,
The MEC host is an entity that contains a MEC platform and a Virtualisation
infrastructure which provides compute, storage, and network resources, for the
purpose of running MEC applications.
The MEC platform is the collection of essential functionality required to run
MEC applications on a particular Virtualisation infrastructure and enable them
to provide and consume MEC services. The MEC platform can also provide
services.
MEC applications are instantiated on the Virtualisation infrastructure of the
MEC host based on configuration or requests validated by the MEC management.
The MEC system level management includes the MEC orchestrator as its core
component, which has an overview of the complete MEC system. When relying on
the NFV Orchestrator (NFVO) for resource orchestration and for orchestration
of the set of MEC application VNFs, the MEC Orchestrator (MEO) is replaced by
a MEC Application Orchestrator (MEAO), the architecture is described in clause
6.2.2 of [4].
The MEC host level management comprises the MEC platform manager and the
Virtualisation infrastructure manager, and handles the management of the MEC
specific functionality of a particular MEC host and the applications running
on it.
In Annex C of TS 23.558 [5], both EDGEAPP and ETSI MEC can provide support for
hosting different edge applications, it further indicates that \"Both EAS and
MEC application are application servers and can provide similar application
specific functionalities. EAS utilizes the services of EES as specified in the
present document whereas MEC application utilizes the services provided by MEC
platform as specified in ETSI GS MEC 003 [4]. The EAS and MEC application can
be collocated in an implementation.\".
## 4.2 GSMA OPG
The Operator Platform (OP) is defined by GSMA OPG [2], it facilitates access
to the Edge Cloud capability of an Operator or federation of operators and
their partners.
The architecture scope under definition is shown below,
{width="6.270833333333333in" height="2.861111111111111in"}
Figure 4.2-1: OP Roles and Interfaces Reference Architecture
This study is focused on the NBI and E/WBI requirements as defined in [2]. The
NBI is the interface between the application provider and the Capabilities
Exposure Role in the Operator Platform, it allows an OP to advertise the above
cloud capabilities that it can provide to application providers. In addition,
the NBI allows an application provider to reserve a set of resources or
request an Edge Cloud service with the resources and features that they
require and for the OP to accept or reject the request. The E/WBI interface
provides the capabilities with regards to federation management between Ops.
This includes managing the federation relationship between Ops, and other
capabilities applicable between federated Ops, such as EAS deployment,
resource sharing and resource reservation.
In this study, it is assumed that the application provider as described in [2]
maps to ASP in TS 28.538 [6], and the Operator Platform as described in [2]
maps to ECSP management system in TS 28.538 [6].
The table 4.2-1 provides the mapping of concepts (not exhaustive) defined in
TS 28.538 [6] with the concepts defined in GSMA OPG [2].
Table 4.2-1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSMA[2] | ECM(TS 28.538) | Comment/Observations | +======================+======================+======================+ | Edge Application | EAS | Edge Application and | | | | EAS are both | | | | referring to the | | | | application running | | | | in the edge. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Application Provider | Application Service | Application Provider | | | Provider | and Application | | | | Service Provider | | | | both referring to | | | | the application | | | | providers producing | | | | and requesting for | | | | the deployment of | | | | the applications. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Edge Cloud | EDN | The Applications are | | | | instantiated on an | | | | OP managed Edge | | | | Cloud/Cloudlet. The | | | | edge Cloud contain | | | | resources utilized | | | | to provide edge | | | | services. | | | | | | | | EAS are instantiated | | | | on an EDN. Since, | | | | the EAS are mapped | | | | to Applications; EDN | | | | can be mapped to | | | | Edge Cloud. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Operator Platform | ECSP Management | Both Operator | | | System | Platform (Capability | | | | Exposure Role) and | | | | the ECSP Management | | | | System are the | | | | entities which | | | | exposes interface | | | | and management | | | | service towards ASP. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Northbound Interface | Management services | NBI maps to | | | for Edge Computing | management service, | | | lifecycle management | enabling LCM for | | | | EAS, exposed towards | | | | ASP. | | | | | | | | Note: The term | | | | \"NBI\" does not | | | | relates to edge | | | | computing only, | | | | rather it is a | | | | generic term which | | | | can apply elsewhere. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 5 Issue investigations and potential solutions for alignment with ETSI MEC
## 5.1 Key Issue# 1: Management of collocated platforms for EES and MEC
platform
### 5.1.1 Description
As described in [5], one of the deployment option is that the EES and MEC
platform can be collocated in an implementation.
The EES instantiation procedure is described in clause 7.1.4 of TS 28.538 [6],
which the PLMN operator or ECSP requests the EES instantiation via
provisioning MnS to ECSP management system, the simplified procedure is show
in Figure 5.1.1-1.
Figure 5.1.1-1: EES deployment procedure
The MEC platform as described in ETSI GS MEC 003 [4] can be deployed as a VNF
by using ETSI NFV MANO, the simplified procedure is show in Figure 5.1.1-2.
Figure 5.1.1-2: MEC platform deployment procedure
In the collocated scenario, the EES and MEC platform can be deployed in the
same Physical/NFV Infrastructure by the same operator. The MEC platform can be
deployed first, then the operator can deploy the EES at the same Physical/NFV
Infrastructure where the MEC platform is deployed.
### 5.1.2 Potential Requirements
**REQ-EES-deplyment-1:** ECSP management system shall have the capability to
instantiate the EES to a specific Physical/NFV Infrastructure that collocated
with MEC platform.
### 5.1.3 Potential solutions
#### 5.1.3.1 Potential solution#1
In this option, a PLMN operator deploys both EES and MEC platform in the same
EDN.
A NSD (network service descriptor) which contains both EES and MEC platform
information (e.g. VnfdId) is used by the PLMN operator. Within the NSD, the
VnfProfiles (see clause 6.3.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [15]) of EES and MEC
platform contain the same affinityOrAntiAffinityGroupId, which could be
defined as the following:
affinityOrAntiAffinity: AFFINITY
scope: NFVI_NODE
The MEC platform can be deployed first, then for EES instantiation, ECSP
management system uses the NSD as described above for requesting instantiation
of EES VNF to be collocated with the MEC platform by interworking with ETSI
NFV MANO.
#### 5.1.3.2 Solution evaluation
This solution does not have any impact on the current EES deployment
procedure.
## 5.2 Key Issue# 2: Application lifecycle management
### 5.2.1 Description
TS 28.538 [6] specifies the EAS lifecycle management procedure by interworking
with ETSI NFV MANO by invoking InstantiateNsRequest or UpdateNsRequest
operation as specified in ETSI NFV IFA 013 [7]. An NFV Network Service (NS) as
defined by ETSI NFV is a composition of Network Functions (NF) (VNF or PNF).
With ETSI MEC [3], MEO (when ETSI NFV is not involved) or MEAO (when ETSI NFV
is involved) provides the application instance lifecycle management interface,
which is similar to VNF LCM interface. The consumer of MEO or MEAO does not
need to take creation of NS into consideration when requesting creation of an
application instance.
The main issue related to application LCM is the following:
1) When and how ECSP management system create an NS when receiving the
creating EAS request from ASP.
2) Whether the application instance lifecycle management interface produced by
MEO or MEAO could be used for EAS lifecycle management.
### 5.2.2 Potential solutions
#### 5.2.2.1 Potential solution#1
##### 5.2.2.1.1 Description
This solution addresses the first issue for the application lifecycle
management.
In this solution, ECSP management system automatically creates an NSD for EAS
creation. The procedure can refer to Figure 7.1.2.1-1 in TS 28.538 [6]. For
the same ASP, ECSP management system could use a single NS for all its EAS
VNFs instantiation. For example, after step 7 in Figure 7.1.2.1-1 in TS 28.538
[6], when the same ASP requests to deploy another EAS, ECSP management system
could decide to use the same NS as created in step 4, and invokes
UpdateNsRequest operation with NFVO for instantiating a new EAS VNF instance.
##### 5.2.2.1.2 Solution evaluation
This solution does not impact the current EAS deployment procedure, creation
of NSD is only the internal procedure in ECSP management system.
#### 5.2.2.2 Potential solution# mapping application lifecycle management
operation produced by MEO/MEAO with EAS LCM requirements
##### 5.2.2.2.1 Description
This solution addresses the second issue for the application lifecycle
management.
The application lifecycle management interface produced by MEO/MEAO is
described in clause 6.3.1 in ETSI GS MEC 010-2 [3], which contains the
following operations:
\- Create application instance identifier.
\- Application instantiation.
\- Application instance terminate.
\- Delete application instance identifier.
\- Query application instance information.
\- Change application instance state.
\- Query application lifecycle operation Status.
\- Subscribe to notifications relating to application lifecycle management.
The EAS lifecycle management requirements are described in clause 5.1.14 in TS
28.538 [6], the below table describes the mapping between EAS lifecycle
management requirement and appropriate application lifecycle management
operation produced by MEO/MEAO.
Table 5.2.2.2.1-1: Mapping between EAS lifecycle management requirement and
application lifecycle management operation produced by MEO/MEAO
Requirement label Description Related use case(s) Mapping with operation
produced by MEO/MEAO
* * *
**REQ-EAS-INST-FUN-1** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to request the deployment of EAS
based on the given deployment requirements. EAS Deployment Can be achieved by
Application instantiation operation **REQ-EAS-INST-FUN-2** Generic
Provisioning MnS Producer should have the capability to deploy EAS at a
suitable EDN which can support the EAS requirements e.g. serving location,
required latency, affinity/anti-affinity with other EAS, service
continuity**.** EAS Deployment Can be achieved by virtualComputeDescriptor,
osContainerDescriptor, virtualStorageDescriptor, locationConstraints
information included in Application instantiation operation. **REQ-EAS-INST-
FUN-3** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have a capability to inform
the authorized consumer about the progress of instantiation as the response to
the deployment request. EAS Deployment Can be achieved by Query application
lifecycle operation Status operation. **REQ-EAS-INST-FUN-4** Generic
provisioning MnS producer should have a capability to notify the authorized
consumer the result (e.g. success, failure) of instantiation operation. EAS
Deployment Can be achieved by Subscribe to notifications relating to
application lifecycle management **REQ-EAS-TERM-FUN-1** Generic provisioning
MnS producer should have a capability allowing an authorized consumer to
request the termination of the EAS VNF instance. EAS Termination Can be
achieved by Delete application instance identifier operation **REQ-EAS-TERM-
FUN-2** Generic provisioning MnS producer should have a capability to inform
the authorized consumer about the progress of termination as the response to
the termination request. EAS Termination Can be achieved by Query application
lifecycle operation Status operation. **REQ-EAS-TERM-FUN-3** Generic
provisioning MnS producer should have a capability to notify the authorized
consumer the result (e.g. success, failure) of termination operation. EAS
Termination Can be achieved by Subscribe to notifications relating to
application lifecycle management **REQ-EAS-QUERY-FUN-1** Generic provisioning
MnS producer should have a capability allowing an authorized consumer to
obtain the EAS instance information. Query EAS information Can be achieved by
Query application instance information. **REQ-EAS-MOD-FUN-1** Generic
provisioning MnS producer should have a capability allowing an authorized
consumer to request the modification of the EAS instance. EAS Modification Can
be achieved by Change application instance state operation.
This solution proposes the EAS lifecycle management requirements to be
achieved by application lifecycle management operation produced by MEO/MEAO
based on Table 5.2.2.2.1-1.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Solution evaluation
This solution is based on the mapping of EAS lifecycle management requirements
with application lifecycle management operations produced by MEO/MEAO as
described in Table 5.2.2.2.1-1. This solution requires ECSP management system
acts as the consumer of application lifecycle management operation produced by
MEO/MEAO, no required changes for the architecture of ECSP management system.
# 6 Issue investigations and potential solutions for alignment with GSMA OPG
## 6.1 Key Issue# 1: Issue for resource reservation
### 6.1.1 Description
As described in clause 2.2.2.3 of GSMA OPG [2], resource reservation is one of
its NBI requirements, it indicates that,
1) The OP (Operator Platform) shall enable Application Providers to express
the resource (e.g., compute, networking, storage, acceleration) requirements
that the Application Provider wants to be guaranteed.
2) The NBI shall allow an Application provider to request a set of resources
to be booked.
3) The NBI allows an Application Provider to reserve resources ahead of the
application onboarding and unrelated to any specific application, only related
to the Application Provider themselves. The NBI allows an Application Provider
to consume the reserved resources when onboarding a new application, creating
the association between the resources and the application (resources
allocation). The NBI allows an Application Provider to delete their
reservation.
TS 28.538 [6] defines the lifecycle management procedure for EAS with ETSI NFV
MANO, while the resource reservation related to the ASP requirements is not
specified in [6].
It is important to investigate the method for ASP to request the resource
reservation.
### 6.1.2 Potential Requirements
**REQ-resource-reservation-1:** ECSP management system shall have a capability
allowing ASP to request resource reservation related to virtualisation
resources (e.g., compute, networking, storage, acceleration).
**REQ-resource-reservation-2:** ECSP management system shall have a capability
to reserve a set of resources for ASP unrelated to any specific application.
### 6.1.3 Potential solutions
#### 6.1.3.1 Potential solution#1
In this solution, a new IOC called ResourceReservationJob is suggested to be
sent to ECSP management system for resource reservation. Figure 6.1.3.1-1
depicts the main steps for ASP asking for resource reservation.
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="3.36875in"}
Figure 6.1.3.1-1
1\. ECSP management system receives a resource reservation job creation
request (createMOI operation for creation ResourceReservationJob), the
ResourceReservationJob contains the following attributes, but not limited to,
\- Location at which the resource are to be reserved;
\- compute resource for reservation, including GPU resource;
\- storage resource for reservation;
\- networking resource for reservation;
\- Hardware accelerators resource for reservation;
\- expiration time.
2\. ECSP management system sends the ResourceReservationJob creation response
to ASP for the received Job DN.
3\. ECSP management system creates the ResourceReservationJob instance and
configures the attribute from the request and ECSP management system starts
the executing the resource reservation process.
4\. ECSP management system request resource reservation (See clause 7.3.3 in
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [7] by interworking with ETSI NFV MANO.
5\. Response with the progress of the requested resource reservation.
6\. ECSP management system sends notification of the progress of the requested
resource reservation job.
7\. ECSP management system sends the final notification with the reservation
status.
#### 6.1.3.2 Solution evaluation
This solution introduces a new ResourceReservationJob IOC which can be used by
ASP to request resource reservation. ECSP management system needs to support
ResourceReservationJob IOC and create a ResourceReservationJob instance based
on the request from ASP. The information includes in ResourceReservationJob
IOC could be location information, expiration time, reservation statues and
virtualized resource information required for reservation, including compute,
storage, networking, GPU and Hardware accelerators resource.
## 6.2 Key Issue#2: Issue for federation management
### 6.2.1 Description
GSMA requirements related to federation management are divided into E/WBI
requirements and Federation Manager Role requirements, which are introduced in
clause 5.1.2 and clause 5.2.3 of [2] respectively.
\- Based on the description in clause 5.1.2 of [2]:
\- The Federation Management functionality within the Operator Platform (OP)
enables it to interact with other OP instances, often in different
geographies, thereby providing access for the Application Providers to a
larger footprint of Edge Clouds, a more extensive set of subscribers and
multiple Operator capabilities.
\- This Key issue is about enabling two OPs establishing federation
relationship between each other and sharing available location(s) at which the
edge services are provided, resource available at each location, federation
expiry etc.
\- The OP which initiates federation relationship is called leading/originated
OP. The OP which receives federation relationship request is called partner
OP.
The following functionalities are enabled with established federation
relationship:
\- Federated EAS resource reservation management: This is intended for an OP
to reserve resources for an application provider, with the other OP, when the
application provider initiate the reservation using NBI.
\- Federated EAS deployment and termination: This will be used by an OP to
instantiate an application to edge clouds of other OP as requested by
application provider over NBI.
\- EDN sharing: This is intended for OPs to share EDN among each other.
Based on the description in clause 5.2.3 of [2]:
GSMA E/WBI API definition [8] provides information on various API and
associated parameters and data models to achieve GSMA federation requirements.
Table 6.2.1-1 concludes the Federation Manager Role requirements and related
E/WBI APIs, and shows the comparison with 3GPP management capabilities. The
requirement of Settlement is set for charging system and is therefore not
shown in table below.
Table 6.2.1-1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | GSMA | GSMA E/WBI API | 3GPP | Gap analysis | | Federation | | management | | | Manager Role | | capability | | | requirement | | | | | and | | | | | corresponding | | | | | API | | | | +================+================+================+================+ | Federation and | East/West | MnS for | GSMA defines | | platform | Bound | federation | East/West | | i | Interface | requirements | Bound | | nterconnection | Management API | is FFS. | Interface | | -- General: | | | Management API | | | | | (clause 3.1.1 | | _This | | | of [8]) and | | capability is | | | OP data model | | achieved by | | | (clause | | the federation | | | 3.1.1.7 of | | E/WBI | | | [8]) to | | interface; to | | | realize the | | interconnect | | | handshake | | OPs belonging | | | between two | | to different | | | Ops, while TR | | operators, | | | 28.824 [12] | | enterprises or | | | has discussed | | others. The | | | the MnS | | communication | | | consumer (i.e. | | between | | | API invoker) | | federated | | | registration | | entities shall | | | mechanism by | | support a | | | reusing CAPIF. | | distributed | | | There could be | | tracking | | | an enhancement | | mechanism that | | | in 3GPP on | | allows | | | (external) MnS | | end-to-end | | | consumer | | tracking | | | management to | | across these | | | catch OP | | federated | | | features after | | entities._(see | | | evaluating the | | clause | | | East/West | | 5.2.3.1.1 of | | | Bound | | [2]) | | | Interface | | | | | Management | | | | | API. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Federation and | No API | Access control | GSMA E/WBI API | | platform | definition for | between MnS | definition | | i | A | producer and | [8] does not | | nterconnection | uthentication/ | MnS consumer | define API for | | - | authorisation | (TS 28.533 | Authentication | | A | | [9]) | /authorisation | | uthentication/ | | | purpose. 3GPP | | authorisation: | | | describes the | | | | | Access control | | _Federating | | | between MnS | | OPs are likely | | | producer and | | to belong to | | | MnS consumer | | different | | | in clause 4.9 | | entities in | | | of TS 28.533 | | different | | | [9]. TR | | security | | | 28.817 [11] | | domains. | | | and TR 28.824 | | Therefore, the | | | [12] | | capability to | | | discussed the | | exchange | | | access control | | authentication | | | for (external) | | and | | | MnS consumers, | | authorisation | | | of which the | | between | | | normative work | | federated OPs | | | could be used | | is required._ | | | to satisfy | | (see clause | | | this | | 5.2.3.1.2 of | | | requirement. | | [2]) | | | SA5 may | | | | | actively | | | | | coordinate the | | | | | outcome of | | | | | access control | | | | | with GSMA and | | | | | evaluate | | | | | whether the | | | | | work can be | | | | | reused by | | | | | GSMA. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.2.2 Potential Requirements
**REQ-FUN-Federation-1:** ECSP management system shall have a capability to
establishing federation relationship with the (external) MnS consumer (e.g.
partner operator platforms).
**REQ-FUN-Federation-2:** ECSP management system shall enable federation
relationship to include appropriate information including (not limited to)
location(s) at which the edge services are provided, resource available at
each location, federation expiry.
**REQ-FUN-Federation-3** : ECSP management system shall have a capability to
remove existing federation relationship with the (external) MnS consumer(e.g.
partner operator platforms).
### 6.2.3 Potential Solutions
The solution proposes the following set of IOCs to manage the Edge Federation
between multiple ECSP Management systems.
The Participating Operator Platform (P-OP) is the operator who provides its
EDN to be shared with Leading Operator Platform (L-OP). Both P-OP and L-OP are
considered as two different ECSP Management System.
The EdgeFederation IOC is defined as the IOC representing the set of
federation maintained by either the P-OP or L-OP. This IOC when instantiated
represents a set of available federations. This IOC may contain the attributes
related with L-OP and P-OP identifier.
The OperatorEdgeFederation IOC contains attributes to support the edge
federation. An instance of OperatorEdgeFederation IOC should be created and
configured for each federation to be maintained/provided by the P-OP or L-OP.
When configured the attributes override those in parent EdgeFederation
instance. This IOC when instantiated represents a particular available
federation. This IOC may contain attributes related with L-OP and P-OP
identifier, federation identifier, federation expiry, offered edge resources,
accepted edge resources and allocated resource quota of L-OP.
The OperatorEdgeDataNetwork IOC is, optionally defined to contain attributes
to support an available edge data network. An instance of
OperatorEdgeDataNetwork IOC should be created and configured for each EDN
shared with another operator. When configured the attributes override those in
the associated EdgeDataNetwork instance. The attribute of this IOC are same as
defined for EdgeDataNetwork IOC in TS 28.538. This IOC when instantiated
represents a particular EDN shared with the L-OP.
In order to establish the federation, the L-OP request P-OP to create an
instance of EdgeFederation IOC. L-OP can then query for the offered edge
resources and update the accepted edge resources accordingly. Based on the
accepted edge resource, producer instantiate OperatorEdgeDataNetwork IOC to
represent the accepted edge resource which is shared with the L-OP. The
federation relationship established can be updated by the L-OP at any point of
time in future.
In order to remove existing federation relationship, the L-OP request P-OP to
delete an existing instance of EdgeFederation IOC, this will also result in
deletion of related OperatorEdgeDataNetwork MOI.
Note: The agreed federation information (e.g. offered EDN and selected EDN)
should be available to L-OP also so that L-OP can decide if it want to deploy
an EAS on P-OPs network if and when required.
## 6.3 Key Issue#3: EDN Sharing
### 6.3.1 Description
Once the federation relationship is established, the P-OPs can share the EDN
available in its network with L-OP. An OP can select some of the EDN from the
offered list and register that with the other OP. This will imply that the OP
may use the edge resources available in the registered EDN only.
This is crucial to investigate in the method and solutions used for EDN
sharing management. It is to be discussed whether it require enhancement to
edge NRM and the procedures defined in TS 28.538.
### 6.3.2 Potential Requirements
**REQ-FUN-NBI-1:** ECSP management system shall enable sharing of available
EDN with other ECSP management system.
**REQ-FUN-NBI-1:** ECSP management system shall disable sharing of available
EDN with other ECSP management system.
### 6.3.3 Potential Solutions
As part of federation establishment, the P-OP shares its EDN(s) with L-OP in
order to share its edge resources with L-OP. For details please check solution
in clause 6.2.3.
## 6.4 Key Issue#4: Federated EAS resource reservation management
### 6.4.1 Description
This is intended for an OP to reserve resources for an application provider,
with other OP, when the application provider initiate the reservation using
NBI. The application provider can request reservation of resources with
partner OP on per location basis. The partner OP can reserve resources for a
given application provider from the allocated quota for the leading OP. The
partner OP may have allocated resources for the leading OP during the EDN
registration process. Once the resource reservation request is approved by the
partner OP, the reserved resource information is provided to the leading OP
for application provider to use. Application provider can use the reserved
resource while instantiating the application in the partner OP zones.
This is crucial to investigate in the method and solutions used for resource
reservation management. It is to be discussed whether it require enhancement
to edge NRM and the procedures defined in TS 28.538.
### 6.4.2 Potential Requirements
**REQ-FUN-NBI-1:** ECSP management system shall have a capability enabling ASP
to request reservation of resources with other ECSP management system on per
EDN basis.
**REQ-FUN-NBI-1:** ECSP management system shall have a capability enabling ASP
to request deletion and updating of the reservation made with other ECSP
management system.
### 6.4.3 Potential Solutions
The solution proposes to use the resource reservation procedures as described
in clause 6.1.2. After receiving the creation of ResourceReservationJob
request form the ASP, the L-OP (acts as ECSP management system) will check if
there is shared EDN available to use at the particular location as described
in the request based on the established federation relationships with other
OPs (the solution for federation management can refer to clause 6.2.3). The
L-OP will forward the create ResourceReservationJob request to the P-OP. Once
the P-OP receives the request it will follow the resource reservation
procedures as described in clause 6.1.2.
When ASP needs to modify or delete the reserved resources at other OP, the ASP
can use modifyMOIAttributes or deleteMOI operation (see clause 11.1.1.3 and
clause 11.1.1.4 in TS 28.532 [10]) for ResourceReservationJob MOI, then the
L-OP will forward the request to the P-OP.
## 6.5 Key Issue#5: Federated EAS deployment and termination
### 6.5.1 Description
E/WBI controls the launch and termination of applications on a partner OP.
This will be used by a leading OP to instantiate an application to edge clouds
(EDN) of partner OP as requested by application provider over NBI. A leading
OP makes the application instantiation result available on the NBI interface.
Partner OP also providea the application instance status over E/WBI to leading
OP which leading OP may expose to application providers on NBI.
This is crucial to investigate in the method and solutions used for
application management on other OPs. It is to be discussed whether it require
enhancement to edge NRM and the procedures defined in TS 28.538 [6].
### 6.5.2 Potential Requirements
**REQ-FUN-EWBI-EAS-1:** ECSP management system shall have a capability to
deploy the EAS on the edge network owned by other ECSP.
**REQ-FUN-EWBI-EAS-2:** ECSP management system shall have a capability to
terminate the EAS on the edge network owned by other ECSP.
### 6.5.3 Potential Solutions
The solution for REQ-FUN-NBI-1 proposes to use the existing procedures for EAS
deployment with the enhanced EASRequirements IOC. After receiving the EAS
deployment request form the ASP, the L-OP will check if it can deploy the EAS
at one of its own EDN. If not, L-OP will select a P-OP based on the federation
relationships which it maintains with multiple P-Ops. The L-OP will send a
request to deploy an EAS containing attributes indicating the federation. Once
the P-OP receives the request it will follow the EAS deployment procedure as
defined in TS 28.538 [6].
The solution for REQ-FUN-NBI-2 proposes to use the existing procedures for EAS
termination. After receiving the EAS termination request form the ASP, the
L-OP will check the EAS if it belongs to its own EDN. If not, L-OP will send a
request to terminate the EAS to the P-OP based on the federation relationships
with the P-OP. Once the P-OP receives the request it will follow the EAS
termination procedure as defined in TS 28.538 [6].
## 6.6 Key Issue# 6: Virtual Infrastructure Resource Requirements
### 6.6.1 Description
As described in clause 5.1.1.2.2 of GSMA OPG [2], the OP supports the
Infrastructure resource requirements from the Application providers. This
includes CPU, memory, storage, hypervisor and networking definition used by
the application. In relation to this, an ASP can provide required
infrastructure resources for an EAS while requesting to deploy the same.
### 6.6.2 Potential Requirements
**REQ-FUN-NBI-1:** ECSP management system shall have a capability allowing EAS
to declare its requirements on the virtual infrastructure.
### 6.6.3 Potential Solution
The solution requires a capability where ASP can **declare its requirements on
the virtual infrastructure. EAS is considered as a VNF and deployed by
interworking with ETSI NFV MANO as described in TS 28.538 [6]. The VNFD as
specified by ETSI NFV MANO in** ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 [14] contains the virtual
resource requirements information including CPU, memory, storage, hypervisor
and networking resources, it also supports different virtual infrastructure
requirements to realize a VNF, such as virtual machine and containers. So the
information contained in the VNFD can fulfil the requirement from EAS. In this
solution, it requires to add VNFD information in EASRequirements IOC.
## 6.7 Key Issue# 7: Querying Available Edge Services
### 6.7.1 Description
\- As described in Clause 5.1.1.3 of GSMA OPG [2], OP shall provide the
following capabilities to the Application Provider: An OP shall offer a range
of quality policies so that an Application Provider can choose the performance
that their application requires. These policies are defined based on
objectively measured end-to-end parameters that include performance aspects of
both the network and the Cloudlet, such as latency and packet loss (measured
as average statistics).
\- The NBI shall enable a request-response mechanism through which the
Application Provider can state a geographical point where a typical user could
be and get informed of the mean latency performance expected.
\- The OP shall describe the capabilities of the Edge Cloud including the
geographical zones where it is provided and the type and \"granularity\" of
edge cloud and network service (typically generic Compute, memory, storage,
and specialised compute, such as GPU and future resource types).
The above requirements is calling for a mechanism using which the available
edge service and their characteristics (e.g. available SLS, infrastructure
resources) are described. This information could be anchored at a particular
location i.e. edge service and their characteristics available at a particular
location.
### 6.7.2 Potential Requirements
**REQ-FUN-PLOC-1:** ECSP management system shall have a capability allowing
ASP to query the available edge services locations and their capabilities
including available SLA and infrastructure resources.
### 6.7.3 Potential Solution
The solution requires introduction of the following information in the
EdgeDataNetwork IOC.
\- Geographical location
\- Available compute resources
\- Available SLS
The Edge PoP can be queried by ASP to know what edge resources are available
in what locations. ASP can then take a decision on where its EAS to be
deployed.
With regard to available compute resources, the ECSP management system can
interact with ETSI NFV MANO by calling Query NFVI capacity operation as
defined in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [7].
## 6.8 Key Issue# 8: SLA Requirements Key Issue
### 6.8.1 Description
As described in clause 5.1.1.2.2 of GSMA OPG [2], the OP shall support the SLA
requirements from the Application providers. A SLA description allows an
Application Provider to describe the physical constraints in an edge network
that should be met for the application to run successfully and provide a
correct Quality of Experience (QoE) for the end-user at the UE. The SLA
requirements include the following properties:
\- Bandwidth, bidirectional data rate between UE and backend application.
\- Latency, the round trip delay between UE and backend application.
In relation to this, the ASP can declare such requirements for an EAS. The EAS
need to be deployed at an EDN which can satisfy these requirements.
### 6.8.2 Potential Requirements
**REQ-FUN-NBI-1:** ECSP management system shall have a capability allowing EAS
to declare its SLA requirements, in terms of bandwidth and latency, for the
data connection with the UE.
**REQ-FUN-NBI-1:** ECSP management system shall be able to select an EDN based
on the SLA requirements of an EAS.
### 6.8.3 Potential Solution
The solution requires adding SLA requirements in EASRequirements IOC. This
will enable ASP to provide expected SLA from the edge infrastructure. The
following need to be added in the EASREquirements IOC:
\- Bandwidth
\- Latency
## 6.9 Key Issue# 9: EAS relocation policies Key Issue
### 6.9.1 Description
As described in clause 5.2.2.3 of GSMA OPG [2], because of the OP\'s
measurements or knowledge, or hints from the application about performance
degradations, the OP may decide that a different edge compute resource can
better host the Edge Application. The EAS relocation trigger from OP are
related with lifecycle management of its edge compute resources (for example,
the overload of an edge compute resource, a failure or planned maintenance, a
new or expanded edge compute resource, an issue with the network for its edge
compute resource). The OP should be cognisant of the policy indication from
the Application Provider about its sensitivity to a change of the edge compute
resource hosting the Edge Application.
As described in clause 5.1.1.2.2 of GSMA OPG [2], the NBI allows an
Application Provider to specify their support for a stateful or stateless Edge
Application, i.e. whether the Edge Application can be moved from one edge
compute resource to another and this with or without prior notification.
The Application Provider indicates the following policies:
\- Its Edge Application cannot be moved from one edge compute resource to
another;
\- Its Edge Application can be moved from one edge compute resource to
another, without any notification;
\- Its Edge Application can be moved from one edge compute resource to another
with prior notification.
When the policy is that a change of edge compute resource can be done with
prior notification, the OP decides that a change of edge compute resource is
needed and selects the new edge compute resource. In this case, the
application chooses the exact timing of the move and is responsible for
transferring the application state from one edge compute resource to another.
Further, it is stated that when required, notifying the Application Provider
on a recommended change of edge compute resource, the Application Provider is
responsible for determining the exact timing of the change. The application
may indicate that it cannot currently handle mobility. Then, the OP can cancel
the mobility procedure.
TS 28.538 [6] does not support this yet. This requires an EAS to be moved from
one (source) EDN to another (target) EDN. This will involve terminating EAS
from the source EDN and then instantiating EAS on the target EDN. This
involves the following issues to be addressed:
\- How the ASP will provide the policies.
\- How the existing application context is retained from source to target EAS.
### 6.9.2 Potential Requirements
**REQ-FUN-MOB-1:** ECSP management system shall have a capability allowing EAS
to declare its mobility policies indicating whether EAS can be moved from one
EDN to another
**REQ-FUN-MOB-2:** ECSP management system shall have a capability allowing EAS
to declare its mobility policies indicating whether EAS can be moved from one
EDN to another, without any notification.
**REQ-FUN-MOB-3:** ECSP management system shall have a capability allowing EAS
to declare its mobility policies indicating whether EAS can be moved from one
EDN to another, with prior notification.
**REQ-FUN-MOB-4:** ECSP management system shall have a capability allowing ASP
to reject the EAS relocation on receiving the relocation notification.
**REQ-FUN-MOB-5:** ECSP management system shall have a capability allowing
scheduling of an EAS relocation.
### 6.9.3 Potential Solution
The ASP can provide its preferences or policies for EAS relocation as part of
EASRequirement IOC. The policy can dictate whether the EAS can be relocated or
not. If it can be relocated does it require prior notification to be sent to
the authorized entities? The solution also requires relocation trigger
information, decided by ECMS (ECSP Management System), to be included in
EASFunction IOC. This information dictates whether EAS should be relocated
immediately or at some future point of time. ECMS decides to relocate an EAS
for any appropriate purpose e.g. the overload of an edge compute resource, a
failure or planned maintenance, a new or expanded edge compute resource, an
issue with the network for its edge compute resource.
Once decided to relocate the EAS, ECMS considers the relocation policy and
trigger information. If the EAS is to be relocated immediately and the
relocation policy allows it, ECMS selects the appropriate EDN and instantiate
the relocation procedure. That will include instantiating the EAS on the
selected EDN as specified in TS 28.538 [6] and then terminate the existing EAS
instance. If the relocation policy states that a prior notification is to be
provided ECMS notifies all authorized receivers using
notifyMOIAttributeValueChange notification, against updates on relocation
trigger information in EASFunction IOC, as specified in TS 28.532. The
notification will be sent before instantiating the relocation procedure. The
consumer can reject the relocation by updating the value of attribute
RelocationRejectByConsumer to TRUE.
It is proposed to add the following in EASRequirements IOC
\- Attribute RelocationPolicy with allowed values as follows
\- Yes: This dictates that an EAS can be relocated as and when required
\- No: This dictates an EAS cannot be relocated at all
\- YesWNotify: This indicates that an EAS can be relocated with a prior
notification
The solution also requires the following information to be included in the
EASFunction IOC
1) RelocationTriggerInfo
a) ImmediateTrigger: It is a Boolean attribute with default value as FALSE. A
value TRUE would indicate to ECMS that an EAS should be relocated immediately.
b) FuturisticTriggerInfo: It is a complex attribute with
1) A Boolean attribute with default value as FALSE. A value TRUE would
indicate to ECMS that an EAS should be relocated.
2) A time stamp indicating a futuristic time at which the EAS should be
relocated.
Note: Whether ASP should be able to update RelocationTriggerInfo is not
addressed in the present document.
2) RelocationRejectByConsumer: A Boolean attribute which can be updated by the
consumer, on receiving the notifyMOIAttributeValueChange notification, to
indicate its disagreement with the relocation. The value TRUE indicate that
the consumer do not agree with the relocation. The default value is FALSE.
## 6.10 Key Issue# 10: Application Resource Catalogue
### 6.10.1 Description
1) As described in Clause 3.5.1.3 of GSMA OPG [2], OP shall provide ASP with
application resource catalogue with all the available application and their
characteristics. The following requirements relates to application resource
catalogue in GSMA. The NBI shall allow applications providers to access the
resource catalogue. The Resource catalogue shall consider local resources
(CPU, memory, storage).
2) The OP offers Application Providers a registry to store their application
images and update or delete them. The registry may be centralised or
distributed, depending upon the Application Provider\'s needs to reduce boot
time and recovery
TS 28.538 [6] does not address the requirements related with application
resource catalogue. An ASP can first upload all the application related
artifacts (e.g. image) to a catalogue and then query the catalogue to know
what all applications are already available and if there is one which can
satisfy ASPs requirements.
### 6.10.2 Potential Requirements
**REQ-FUN-PLOC-1:** ECSP management system should enable ASP to access the
application (EAS) resource catalogue containing the available applications and
their characteristics.
**REQ-FUN-PLOC-2** : ECSP management system should enable ASP to access the
application (EAS) resource catalogue for uploading, updating, deleting and
querying the application related artefacts (e.g. image).
### 6.10.3 Potential Solution
The solution requires a capability where ASP can upload and manage all the
artifacts (e.g. image) related with the application with the ECSP/3GPP
management system. The uploaded applications can be queried to know the
details of available application inventory. All these functionalities can be
fulfilled by VNF package management interface see clause 7.7 (such as Upload
VNF Package operation, Query VNF package Info operation, Update VNF Package
Info operation and Delete VNF Package operation) in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [7]
defined by ETSI ISG NFV. Hence, it is recommended to refer to the relevant
specifications from ETSI ISG NFV to describe a solution of the use case.
# 7 Conclusion and recommendation
## 7.1 Conclusion and recommendation for alignment with ETSI MEC
### 7.1.1 Issue#1: Management of collocated platforms for EES and MEC platform
It is recommended ECSP management system could use the affinityOrAntiAffinity
policy defined in ETSI NFV MANO when collocated platform for EES and MEC
platform is required.
The detailed solution see clause 5.1.3.1.
### 7.1.2 Issue#2: Application lifecycle management
It is recommended ECSP management system could acts as the consumer of
application lifecycle management operation produced by MEO/MEAO for EAS
lifecycle management.
The detailed solution see clause 5.2.2.2.
## 7.2 Conclusion and recommendation for alignment with GSMA OPG
### 7.2.1 Issue#1: Issue for resource reservation
It is recommended to introduce a new ResourceReservationJob IOC for resource
reservation. The information includes in ResourceReservationJob IOC could be
location information, expiration time, reservation statues and virtualized
resource information required
The detailed solution see clause 6.1.3.
### 7.2.2 Issue#2: EAS federation management
It is recommended to enhance edge NRM to support management of federation
information. For the detailed solution see clause 6.2.3.
### 7.2.3 Issue#3: EDN Sharing
This key issue is addressed as part of federation establishment Key issue. For
the detailed solution see clause 6.3.3.
### 7.2.4 Issue#4: Federated EAS resource reservation management
It is recommended to use the resource reservation solution as described in
clause 6.1.2 together with the federation management solution as described in
clause 6.2.3 to support federated EAS resource reservation management.
The detailed solution see clause 6.4.3.
### 7.2.5 Issue#5: Federated EAS deployment and termination
It is recommended to use the existing procedures for EAS deployment and EAS
termination with the enhanced EASRequirements IOC to support federated EAS
deployment and termination management.
The detailed solution see clause 6.5.3.
### 7.2.6 Issue#6: Virtual Infrastructure Resource Requirements
It is recommended to introduce the VNFD information in EASRequirements IOC for
supporting Virtual Infrastructure Resource Requirements when deploying a EAS.
The detailed solution see clause 6.6.3.
### 7.2.7 Issue#7: Querying Available Edge Services
It is recommended to enhance EdgeDataNetwork IOC and ECSP management system
acts as the consumer to call Query NFVI capacity operation as defined in ETSI
GS NFV-IFA 013 [7] to support allowing ASP Querying Available Edge Services
for a specific location.
The detailed solution see clause 6.7.3.
### 7.2.8 Issue#8: SLA Requirements key issue
It is recommended to introduce the Bandwidth and Latency in the
EASRequirements IOC for supporting SLA requirements when deploying a EAS. New
performance measurements and KPIs related to Bandwidth and Latency between UE
and EAS may need to be added.
The detailed solution see clause 6.8.3.
### 7.2.9 Issue#9: EAS relocation policies
It is recommended to enhance EASRequirements IOC and EASFunction IOC to
support the EAS relocation policies and EAS relocation trigger information
respectively.
The detailed solution see clause 6.9.3.
### 7.2.10 Issue#10: Application Resource Catalogue
It is recommended to refer to VNF package management interface defined by ETSI
ISG NFV IFA 013[7] to support application resource catalogue management.
The detailed solution see clause 6.10.3.
#