# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document investigates new areas for enhancing the intent driven
management services of 5G network. It identifies and documents key issues and
evaluates potential solutions, and provides recommendations for the normative
work.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.312: \"Management and orchestration; Intent driven management
services for mobile networks\"
[3] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.535: \"Management and orchestration; Management services for
communication service assurance; Requirements\"
[6] 3GPP TR 28.908: \"Study on Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning (AI/
ML) management\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.104: \"Management and orchestration; Management Data Analytics
(MDA)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Issue investigations and potential solutions for new capabilities
## 4.1 Issue#4.1: intent driven approach for RAN energy saving
### 4.1.1 Description
Operators are aiming at decreasing power consumption in 5G networks to lower
their operational expense with energy saving management solutions. Energy
saving is achieved by executing the energy saving actions with suitable
parameter configurations, e.g. energy saving state switch, start time and end
time, the energy saving thresholds. However, the various combinations of
energy saving actions can lead to conflicts. For example, different energy
saving actions may be contradictory, or the energy saving actions may conflict
with other activities (e.g. network optimization actions). Moreover, it is not
straightforward to evaluate the influence on service experience (e.g. UL/DL
RAN UE throughput, latency) of energy saving actions beforehand, which makes
it difficult to balance the energy saving effect and service experience, for
example the energy saving actions may deteriorate the service experience. To
avoid affecting the service experience, MnS consumer may express energy saving
target with the maximum value of RAN energy consumption in intent expectation,
and MnS producer is able to choose an optimal value of RAN energy consumption
to save energy as much as possible in the context to satisfy the service
experience.
As TS 28.312 [2] described, an intent focuses more on describing the \"What\"
needs to be achieved but less on \"How\" that outcomes should be achieved,
which not only relieves the burden of the consumer knowing implementation
details but also leaves room to allow the producer to explore alternative
options and find optimal solutions. So, introducing the intent approach for
energy saving, which can enable the 3GPP management system to analyse and
select the optimal balance between the energy saving effect and service
experience by utilizing some intelligence mechanisms. In intent driven
approach, a MnS consumer expresses intent expectation for RAN energy saving in
the specified area to a MnS producer, which may include the RAN energy saving
target (e.g. the maximum value of target RAN energy consumption, reduction
radio of energy consumption) and service experience (e.g. RAN UE throughput,
latency), as well as the frequencies and RATs to be considered for energy
saving. MnS producer analyses and determines the optimal RAN energy saving
solution (i.e. a set of energy saving actions) to satisfy MnS consumer\'s
intent expectation for RAN energy saving.
It is important to investigate the model for intent expectation for RAN energy
saving based on the generic intent model and radio network expectation defined
in TS 28.312 [2].
### 4.1.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-Intent_RAN_EnergySaving:** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to express intent containing an expectation on RAN
energy saving for the specified area to MnS producer.
### 4.1.3 Potential solutions
The RadioNetworkExpectation can be reused for expectation on RAN energy saving
with some extension.
\- Following attributes defined in RadioNetworkExpectation in TS 28.312 [2]
can be reused.
\- The attribute \"coverageAreaPolygonContext\", \"coverageTACContext\" and
\"pLMNContext\" can be used by MnS consumer to specify the area that the
intent expectation for RAN energy saving applied.
\- The attribute \"nRFqBandContext\" and \"rATContext\" can be used by MnS
consumer to specify the frequencies and RATs to be considered for energy
saving.
\- The attribute \"aveULRANUEThptTarget\", \"aveDLRANUEthptTarget\",
\"lowULRANUEThptRatioTarget\" and \"lowDLRANUEThptRatioTarget\" can be used by
MnS consumer to specify the service experience to be assured when achieving
the energy saving target.
\- Following attributes need to be defined in RadioNetworkExpectation for the
expectation on radio network energy saving.
\- Attribute \"RanEnergyConsumptionTarget\" describes the energy consumption
that the intent expectation is applied, which including attributes:
targetName, targetCondition and targetValueRange. The concrete
targetValueRange see corresponding KPI \"EC~NG-RAN~\" definition in clause
6.7.3.4.1 in TS 28.554 [4].
\- Attribute \"RanEnergyEfficiencyTarget\" describes the energy efficiency
that the intent expectation is applied, which including attributes:
targetName, targetCondition and targetValueRange. The concrete
targetValueRange see corresponding KPI \"EEMN,DV\" definition in clause
6.7.1.1 in TS 28.554 [4].
## 4.2 Issue#4.2: Intent conflicts
### 4.2.1 Description
The MnS consumer may create an intent containing two or more intent
expectations, and each intent expectation may contain multiple expectation
targets. For example, a Radio Network related intent may express an intent
with targets on radio network parameters (e.g., downlink transmit power,
remote electrical tilt) or on KPIs (e.g., DL UE throughput target, average
RSRP target, coverage area). On receiving and after analysing the intent, the
MnS producer may realize that the intent expectations or expectation targets
in one intent are contradicted, i.e. the MnS producer may detect conflicts in
the intent. Also, an intent is considered to have conflict with other intents
if the requirements (includes intent expectation and corresponding expectation
targets) stated in one intent is conflicted with the requirements (includes
intent expectation and corresponding expectation targets) stated in another
intent. Following are the intent related conflict scenarios:
\- Target conflict, which represents the conflict between two or more
expectation targets within the same intent expectation.
\- Expectation conflict, which represents the conflict between two or more
intent expectations with the same intent
\- Intent conflict, which represents the conflict between two or more
different intents.
For example, consider two targets target_1=: throughput > threshold_1 and
target_2=: interference \ threshold_1 and target_2=: interference \> with the following attribute:
\- The attribute \"intent priority level\" can be used by MnS consumer to
specify the priority of the intent.
The following two attributes are used for intent management:
\- The attribute \"intent preemption capability\" can be used by MnS consumer
to specify the preemption capability, whether it will triggered, or will not
be triggered,
\- The attribute \"intent preemption protection\" can be used by MnS consumer
to specify the preemption protection, whether it is not preemptable, or
preemptable.
When new intent is created, MnS producer detects new intent and existing
intent are in conflict. MnS producer can handle as follows:
Step 1. check intent priority level of intents which are in conflict.
Step 2.
\- In case intent priority level are different, MnS producer prioritize higher
priority level intent, if the new intent is prioritized, go to step 4
\- In case intent priority level are same, MnS producer check the intent
preemption capability of new intent and intent preemption protection of
existing one, and handle as Step3.
Step 3.
\- If intent preemption protection of existing intent is not preemptable, MnS
producer prioritize existing intent (cannot proceed new intent)
\- If intent preemption protection of existing intent is preemptable and
intent preemption capability of new intent triggers, MnS producer prioritizes
the new intent over the existing intent. (go to step 4)
\- If intent preemption protect of existing intent is preemptable and intent
preemption capability of new intent do not trigger, MnS producer prioritizes
the existing intent (cannot proceed new intent)
Step 4.
When the new intent is prioritized over the existing intent which has conflict
with the new intent, the MnS producer can take the following actions (Either A
or B)
A. Terminate or suspend the existing intent and send notification to the MnS
consumer (for example, in the case of emergency etc.)
B. Notify the conflict and ask for approval of termination or suspension.
Figure 4.2.3-1
The solutions are feasible and should be expanded in the normative phase.
## 4.3 Issue#4.3: Enhancement of radio network intent expectation
### 4.3.1 Description
In TS 28.312 [2], the radio network expectation is defined in clause
6.2.2.1.1, which is used to support the use case and requirements for clause
5.1.1 Intent containing an expectation for delivering radio network, clause
5.1.4 Intent containing an expectation on coverage performance to be assured
and clause 5.1.5 Intent containing an expectation on RAN UE throughput
performance to be assured. Following aspects for radio network expectation
need to be enhanced:
\- Enhancement Aspect1: In existing radio network expectation, only Polygon
Area and TAC are specified to represent the coverage area. However, in some
scenarios, the MnS consumer may express the radio network expectation targets
for the coverage area which is represented by a list of Cell (e.g. CGI).
\- Enhancement Aspect2: In clause 5.1.5 Intent containing an expectation on
RAN UE throughput performance to be assured, the sentence \"optional
performance scope (e.g. specific service type, specific UE groups)\" is
described, which means MnS consumer may express the radio network expectation
targets for the specific service type or UE groups instead of the whole radio
network.
\- Enhancement Aspect3: In existing radio network expectation, only coverage
and RAN UE throughput related expectation targets are defined to support
coverage performance and RAN UE throughput performance assurance use case. The
capacity performance is important for radio network delivering and assurance,
so the corresponding radio network capacity performance requirements need to
be defined in Radio network expectation.
\- Enhancement Aspect4: In clause 5.1.1 Intent containing an expectation for
delivering radio network use case, transport setting parameters (including OM
transport information and NG transport information) are described in the MnS
consumer\'s expectation for delivering a radio network. It means when the MnS
consumer expresses its intent expectation to the MnS producer for delivering a
radio network, MnS consumer needs to specify the expected transport
information for the radio network to be delivered to support the connection
with other network parts (including 5GC network node, transport network node
and management system).
\- Enhancement Aspect5: Radio network may have different distributions of
users in different time periods, and these differences have certain periodic
characteristics in time and space. For example, in the university area, users
are mainly in teaching buildings during the day, and users are mainly in
dormitory buildings at night. In this case, during the day, teaching buildings
are busy while at night, they are idle. Therefore, in view of the difference
in the distribution of users in different time periods in same area, it is
necessary to defined different time periods as contexts.
### 4.3.2 Potential solutions
Regarding the Enhancement Aspect 1, it proposes to add attribute
\"cellContext\" in ObjectContext for RadioNetworkExpectation in Clause
6.2.2.1.1.2 to represent the coverage area.
Regarding the Enhancement Aspect 2, it proposes to add attribute
\"targetedScopeContext\" in ObjectContext for RadioNetworkExpectation in
Clause 6.2.2.1.1.2. The contextValueRange of \"targetedScopeContext\" is
dataType modelled as tuple [SNSSAI, 5QI]. If MnS consumer only expresses the
expectation targets for specific SNSSAI, then the 5QI of the tuple should be
absent. If MnS consumer only expresses targets for specific 5QI, then the
SNSSAI of the tuple should be absent. If MnS consumer expresses the
expectation targets for specific combination of SNSSAI and 5QI, both SNSSAI
and 5QI needs to be present.
Regarding the Enhancement Aspect 3, it proposes to add radio network capacity
related expectation targets in ExpectationTargets for RadioNetworkExpectation,
the radio network capacity related expectation targets can be
highUlPrbLoadRatioTarget, highDlPrbLoadRatioTarget, maxNumberofUETarget
(specifies the maximum number of UEs may access the network) and
activityFactorTarget (specifies the percentage value of the amount of
simultaneous active UEs to the total number of UEs). In case of radio network
delivering scenario, the radio network capacity related expectation targets
can be maxNumberofUETarget and activityFactorTarget. In case of radio network
assurance, the radio network capacity related expectation targets are
highUlPrbLoadRatioTarget and highDlPrbLoadRatioTarget.
Regarding the Enhancement Aspect 4, it proposes to add transport related
contexts (including NgInterfaceContext, OMInterfaceContext and NextHopContext)
in ObjectContexts for RadioNetworkExpectation in Clause 6.2.2.1.1.2.
NgInterfaceContext represents the context of transport connection to 5GC,
which includes a list NGlocalIPaddress and NGremoteIPaddress.
OMInterfaceContext represents the context of transport connection to the
management system, which includes a list of OMlocalIPaddress and
OMremoteIPaddress. The NextHopContext provides information to identify ingress
node (s) which are part of a transport network and the attachment circuit
between the radio network and the transport network, which includes a list of
nextHopInfo defined in TS 28.541[3].
Regarding the Enhancement Aspect 5, it proposes to add attribute
\"timeContext\" in ObjectContext for RadioNetworkExpectation in TS 28.312 [2]
Clause 6.2.2.1.1.2 to represent the expectation is expressed for specific time
periods.
## 4.4 Issue#4.4: 5GC related intent expectation
### 4.4.1 Description
TS 28.312 [2] describes the generic requirements of intent-driven MnS in
clause 5.2. The generic information model definition and scenario specific
IntentExpectation definition are given in clause 6.2 in TS 28.312 [2].
Intent driven management may affect management scenarios of 5G Core network
which include 5G Core NF provisioning, 5G Core network performance management,
5G Core network fault management and 5G Core network optimization. In this key
issue, this study should investigate the potential solution(s) of intent
expression of 5G Core network intent expectation.
The 5GC intent expectation may include the specific Expectation Targets
related to 5GC subnetwork management and Expectation Targets of 5GC NF
management. Intent driven management may affect various management scenarios
of 5G Core network. This study is to investigate potential solution(s) for
intent expression, including defining expectations for a specific set of these
scenarios.
The 5GC intent expectation should investigate the potential solution(s) to
extend the generic information model of intent IOC to support 5GC specific
intent expectation.
### 4.4.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-Intent_GEN_CON_01:** The Intent driven MnS shall have the capability to
allow MnS producer provide the results of the intent fulfilment to MnS
Consumers.
**REQ-Intent_Deploy_NF_CON_01:** The intent driven MnS for 5GC shall have
capability to allow MnS consumer to express Intent expectation for deployment
of 5GC NFs or subnetwork.
**REQ-Intent_Opt_5GC_CON_01:** The intent driven MnS for 5GC shall have
capability to allow MnS consumer to express Intent expectation for 5GC
performance assurance.
### 4.4.3 Potential solutions
#### 4.4.3.1 Potential 5GC specific IntentExpectation
The generic information model for intent should be used to provide specific
IntentExpectation related to 5GC management.
The IntentExpectation for core network is used to represent MnS consumer\'s
expectation for 5GC subnetwork or 5GC NF. The ExpectationObject should
indicate the 5GC subnetwork or 5GC NF:
\- In case of the intent expectation is not for a specific instance or MnS
consumer has no knowledge of the DN of the instance, the attribute of
objecttype need to be specified as 5GC subnetwork or the type of 5GC NF.
\- In case of intent expectation is for a specific instance and MnS consumer
has the knowledge of the DN of the instance, the attribute of objectInstance
needs to be specified.
When IntentExpectation represents an Intent to deliver 5GC subnetwork 5GC
related ExpectationTargets.
It should be provided to describe the information of 5GC subnetwork, such as
network scale, network coverage, etc.
When IntentExpectation represents an Intent to deliver 5GC NF, 5GC related
ExpectationTargets should be provided, such as supported features of 5GC NF,
and related end point interfaces information.
When IntentExpectation represents an Intent for 5GC performance assurance, the
performance KPIs for 5GC subnetwork or NF are considered as network
characteristics, so the performance assurance KPI name and value can be
included as values of ExpectationTargets for IntentExpectation. The
IntentExpectations in service assurance IntentExpectation diverse and depend
on management scenarios. The examples of the performance KPIs related to 5GC
which can be used as ExpectationTargets are Established PDU session number,
maximum registered subscribers and the inter-AMF handover number for 5GC
subnetwork.
#### 4.4.3.2 Potential solution for 5GC fault management
The IntentExpectation for core network is used to represent MnS consumer\'s
expectation for 5GC.
The intent driven management for 5GC fault management can use intent
expectation to express the intent of the fault detection and recovery intent
for 5GC. When IntentExpectation represents an Intent for 5GC fault management,
5GC related ObjectContext should be provided, such as the information of 5GC
NF.
The name and value of ExpectationTargets can be used to provide particular
inputs of fault detection and recovery. The alarm notification of particular
events and fault types are set to be reported. The expectation target for
input requirements of fault detection related to 5GC can be set to support the
alarm notification by particular periodic time.
NOTE: The intent expectation can be enhanced to support the fault recovery
expectations. One example is that the intent of fault recovery expectation can
be expressed to move the traffic to new 5GC NFs which are collocated.
The intent expectation may contain the information related to the 5GC NF or
5GC subnetwork, so the scope the intent expectation applied are provided in
intentExpectation field and fulfilment report.
As an example, in case that the intent driven MnS consumer is to express the
intent expectation for 5GC fault management, the following attributes to
intent driven management of 5GC fault management:
\- The new \"expectationTargets\" for 5GC fault management could be added in
intentExpectation.
\- Attribute \"recoveryResponseTimeTarget\" represents MnS consumer\'s
requirements for reducing recovery response time to a certain value, which is
a Integer value.
\- Attribute \"failureTimeTarget\" represents MnS consumer\'s requirements for
reducing network and service failure time to a certain value within a period
time.
\- The intent expectation may contain the information related to the 5GC NF or
5GC subnetwork, so the scope the intent expectation applied are provided in
intentExpectation field and fulfilment report. The objectContexts can be
enhanced to contain that information related to the 5GC NFs and 5GC
subnetwork.
\- Attribute\"plMNInfoContext\"describes the PLMN(s) supported by the 5GC NF
or 5GC subnetwork that the intent expectation is applied, the ObjectContext
include attributes: contextAttribute, contextCondition and contextValueRange.
The targetValueRange see corresponding attribute \" plMNInfoList\" in TS
28.541 [3].
#### 4.4.3.3 Potential solution for 5GC optimization
The IntentExpectation for core network is used to represent MnS consumer\'s
expectation for 5GC.
The 5GC optimization is a fundamental solution that can support to optimize
and keep particular one or more than one 5GC performance KPI(s) of 5GC, so
some scenarios of 5GC optimization can be also used to support 5GC service
assurance. For example, the core network may be set to increase energy
efficiency of 5GC during period of time. Another example is that increasing a
particular usage ratio of virtual resource consumption is set to core network
according to the service request during a period of time, so this optimization
intent expectation can be addressed by invoking provisioning MnS to update the
5GC NFs.
When IntentExpectation represents an Intent for 5GC optimization, 5GC related
ObjectContext should be provided.
The particular name and value of performance KPI related to 5GC can be set as
value of ExpectationTargets for IntentExpectation. Optionally, the value of
TargetContexts can be included to show the information of network context of
this ExpectationTarget when necessary.
As an example, in case that the intent driven MnS consumer is to express the
intent expectation for 5GC energy saving optimization, the following
enhancements to intent driven management of 5GC optimization can be added:
\- The new expectationTargets for 5GC energy efficiency could be added in
intentExpectation. The example of 5GC energy efficiency could be set to reduce
the energy consumption by N percentage (e.g., 5 %). The period of time should
be added as an input in expectationContexts field in intentExpectation when
applicable.
\- The intent expectation may contain the information related to the 5GC NF or
5GC subnetwork, so the scope the intent expectation applied are provided in
intentExpectation field and fulfilment report. The objectContexts can be
enhanced to contain that information related to the 5GC NFs and 5GC
subnetwork.
## 4.5 Issue#4.5: Intent Report
### 4.5.1 Description
In TS 28.312 [2], the Fulfilment information (including the
intentFulfilmentInfo, expectationFulfilmentInfo and targetFulfilmentInfo) are
defined for the MnS consumer to monitor the intent fulfilment information. The
intent report also can contain the current and optional predicted value for
performance indicated by corresponding expectation targets (e.g. WeakRSRPRatio
for the weakRSRPRatioTarget, Average UL RAN UE Throughput for
aveULRANUEThptTarget), which can be used by MnS consumer to validate whether
the intent is really fulfilled and to evaluate whether the intent (especially
for expectation targets) needs to be updated if needed (improve the target
value when corresponding target is fulfilled or reduce the target value when
corresponding target is not fulfilled or not fulfilled with the reason of
target confliction). Besides, intent conflict information and intent
fulfilment feasibility check information which send by MnS producer to MnS
consumer is another type of intent report information. So, following are the
three types of information needs to be monitored by MnS consumer:
\- Intent Fulfilment information, which represents the properties of a
specific fulfilment information for an aspect of the intent (i.e. either an
expectation, a target or the whole intent). The detailed information see
clause 6.2.1.3.5 in TS 28.312 [2].
\- Achieved values for targets, which represent current performance values for
corresponding expectation targets.
\- Intent conflict information, which represents conflict type (i.e. intent
conflict, expectation conflict and target conflict) and possible solution
recommendation to address the conflicts.
\- Intent fulfilment feasibility check information, which indicates that the
intent is feasible or infeasible. Intent fulfilment feasibility check
information is provided after MnS producer automatically performs feasibility
check when receive the intent creation and modification request from MnS
consumer.
Different MnS consumer may have different requirements for intent report (e.g.
Some MnS consumer may want to have corresponding performance value information
while others do not want. Different MnS consumer may want to calculate or
monitor the performance value in different period).
While the report (with the current performance values for corresponding
expectation targets) is provided at the end of each observation period, the
consumer may also wish to know whether the fulfilment info was consistent for
the entire observation period. For example, the intent expectation may be
reported FULFILLED at the end of observation period. However, it may be
possible that within observation period the intent expectation was
NOTFULFILLED. The consumer may wish to know this information. This information
can be important for the MnS consumer to understand whether the observation
period they specified need an update (e.g. shortened) or not. Moreover, it
helps the MnS consumer to understand whether their expectation is fulfilled
during the entire observation period which also gives transparency to the MnS
consumer to update their observation period and/or expectations targets
specified in the intent.
MnS consumer can also require different intent reports to be generated in
different situations. Based on the content selection criteria, MnS consumer
can obtain reports of different content according to different conditions. For
example, possible to ask for a report about all elements of the intent when
the system is getting degraded. If the system complies again, a shorter report
might be sufficient.
Reports also can be generated and sent based on events. Events describe
significant situations in the operation of intent, and indicate that the
intent has reached a particular state. For example, these events can include
intent being accepted, intent being rejected, or intent being degraded, etc.
The intent driven MnS should allow MnS consumers to require for which events,
a report is generated by MnS producer. Moreover, MnS consumers can propose
other customized requirements for intent report, such as combining complex
requirements for frequency, triggering events, and content selection.
### 4.5.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS_Report-1:** The intent driven MnS should have the
capability to enable the MnS consumer to request intent report information.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS_Report-2:** The intent driven MnS should have the
capability to enable the MnS consumer to obtain intent report information with
current performance value for corresponding expectation targets.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS_Report-3:** The intent driven MnS should have the
capability to enable the MnS consumer to obtain intent report information with
intent fulfilment information.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS_Report-4:** The intent driven MnS should have the
capability to enable the MnS consumer to obtain intent report information with
intent conflict information.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS_Report-5:** The intent driven MnS should have the
capability to enable the MnS consumer to obtain intent report information with
intent fulfilment feasibility check information.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS_Report-6:** The intent driven MnS should have
capability enabling MnS consumer to specify the content of the report.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS_Report-7:** The intent driven MnS should have
capability enabling MnS consumer to configure the frequency of the intent
reporting.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS_Report-8:** The intent driven MnS should allow MnS
consumers to receive reports, with different content and intervals according
to its specified requirements.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS_Report-9:** The intent driven MnS should allow MnS
consumer to obtain reports with current values for specified expectation
targets.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS_Report-10:** The intent driven MnS should have
capability enabling MnS consumer to obtain intent report information with
current context information for corresponding expectation targets.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS_Report-11:** The intent driven MnS should allow
reports to contain information on whether the fulfilment info was consistent
throughout the observation period.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS_Report_12:** The intent driven MnS should have
capability enabling MnS consumer to specify the content selection criteria of
the report.
### 4.5.3 Potential solutions
#### 4.5.3.1 Potential solution #1
This solution extends the existing model in TS 28.312 [2] by adding new
attributes to the Intent IOC to indicate what is to be observed, and a new
IntentReport IOC to enable the MnS consumer to obtain the intent report
information.
The following specific changes would be made:
\- Extend the Intent \> with the following attributes:
\- \"reportingPeriod\", represents MnS consumer\'s requirements for the
reporting period. The performance value for corresponding Expectation Targets
will be reported at the end of each period.
\- Introduce the IntentReport \> to represent the intent fulfilment
information, intent conflict information intent fulfilment feasibility check
information and current performance values for the Expectation Targets in the
associated Intent. The MnS consumer can use the \"getMOIAttributeValue\"
operation to query the IntentReport \> to obtain the intent report
information and/or subscribe the \"notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges\"
notification to obtain the intent report information The IntentReport
\> includes the following attributes:
\- \"intentReference\", to reference (DN) the associated Intent instance.
\- \"reportIndicator\", to enable/disable (Boolean) reporting for associated
Intent instance.
\- \"intentFulfimentInfo\", to represent the fulfilment information for
intent, intent expectation and expectation targets. For detailed information
see clause 6.2.1.3.5 in TS 28.312[2].
\- \"intentConflictInfo\", to represent the intent conflict information that
should be informed to the MnS consumer. For detailed intent conflict
information see clause 4.2.3.
\- \"intentFeasibilityCheckInfo\", to represent the intent fulfilment
feasibility check information that should be informed to the MnS consumer.
\- \"targetAchieveValues\", to represent the current performance value for the
ExpectationTargets.
\- \"lastUpdated\", timestamp (DateTime) of latest update.
This could result in NRM for Intent Reporting as follows:
Figure 4.5.3.1-1
Observations on this approach:
\- Different MnS consumers can query different attributes of IntentReport to
obtain corresponding Intent instance report information.
\- Different MnS consumers can subscribe to attribute value change
notifications for IntentReport \> to obtain the notification for
different intent report information.
Several benefits are listed below for the solution:
\- Separates the intent expectation information (generated by MnS consumer)
and intent monitor information (generated by MnS producer).
\- MnS consumer can manage Intent instance and IntentReport instances
separately.
\- Intent \> is aligned with intent definition (expectations including
requirements, goals and constraints given to a 3GPP system).
#### 4.5.3.2 Potential solution #2
This solution extends the existing model in TS 28.312 [2] by adding new
attributes to the Intent IOC to indicate what is to be observed, and a new
IntentReport IOC to report the achieved values.
The following specific changes could be made:
\- Extend the IntentExpectation \> with the following attribute:
\- \"observationTime\", represents MnS consumer\'s requirements for the
observation period of performance value for corresponding Expectation Targets.
The performance value for corresponding Expectation Targets will be observed
from the start of each observation period, then at the end of each observation
period, the value will be derived and configured.
\- Introduce the \"achieveValue\" attribute in the ExpectationTarget to
represent the performance value for the ExpectationTarget. Then the MnS
consumer can use the \"getMOIAttributeValue\" operation to query the Intent
\> to obtain the achieveValue for a given ExpectationTarget.
This could result in NRM for Intent Reporting as follows:
Figure 4.5.3.2-1
The above solution would require, per Intent, that:
\- MnS Consumer configures each IntentExpectation to be reported with
\"observationTime=N\".
\- For each period N, MnS Producer reports the achieveValue.
\- For every period N, MnS Producer updates the achieveValue of each
expectation target.
\- MnS Consumer queries achieveValue of interested targets.
Note: It would \"achieveValue\" be current value (per Solution #1, as
available in NRM at time of reporting), or some other computed value for the
interval is not addressed in the present document. If computed, the definition
and format could vary based on which attribute(s) are included.
Observations on this approach:
\- It Should avoid mix-and-match of observability.
\- For attributes defined in NRM, existing subscription mechanism can be used
to monitor updates. E.g. \"achieveValue\" proposed in this solution.
\- For content not defined in NRM, new notifications would need to be defined
for the intent content to be reported. E.g. associated PM/KPI.
\- The configuration of the report output is contained in the Intent itself.
\- MnS Consumer would need to query (i.e. polling). Notifications would be
preferred.
\- Since the observationTime of each IntentExpectation is configured
separately, MnS Consumer would need to be aware of how relatively up-to-date
each value is.
\- It Should use of the term \"report\" which can be misleading, as there is
no \'report\' object (e.g. NRM, file, stream). This solution is completely
notification based.
#### 4.5.3.3 Potential solution #3
This solution would not modify the existing model in TS 28.312 [2]. A separate
IntentReportCtrl IOC is proposed. The IntentReport IOC is used to contain the
output of the expectation targets, as well as other status information
currently contained in Intent. The latter would be removed to further separate
the configuration of the Intent, from the monitoring/reporting of it
throughout its lifecycle.
Figure 4.5.3.3-1
The above solution would require, per Intent, that:
\- MnS Consumer configures each IntentReportCtrl with \"reportingPeriod=N\",
and reference \"intentReference\" to the Intent instance for which the report
is to be produced.
\- For each period N, MnS Producer generates an IntentReport instance.
\- For every period N, MnS Producer \"snapshots\" the Intent values.
\- MnS Consumer receives notification of the new IntentReport instance.
Observations on this approach:
\- The configuration of the report output is external to the Intent itself,
and supports ability to configure different reports per Intent. The content
(i.e. attributes) and reporting intervals can be different for each report
generated.
\- Each report is a complete \" snapshot\" of the Intent at time of
generation, available in NRM.
\- MnS Consumer does not need to handle different \"observationIntervals\" per
attribute within same Intent.
#### 4.5.3.4 Potential solution #4
This solution does not modify the existing model in TS 28.312 [2]. A separate
IntentReportJob IOC is proposed, along with a file/stream based Intent report
similar to other performance reporting.
Figure 4.5.3.4-1
The above solution would require, per Intent, that:
\- MnS Consumer configures each IntentReportJob control for file or streaming
output, and a reference \"intentReference\" to the Intent instance for which
the report is to be produced.
\- For every period N, MnS Producer outputs the report content as configured
in the job.
\- for file based, MnS Consumer receives notification of the new Intent report
file.
\- for stream, MnS Consumer receives streaming content.
Observations on this approach:
\- This approach is consistent with other performance related reporting.
\- Each report should be complete and self-describing, and suitable for
offline processing and/or archival.
\- A schema will need to be agreed, perhaps based on the existing PM/KPI
formats.
#### 4.5.3.5 Potential solution #5
This solution would modify the existing model in TS 28.312 [2] to add
configuration of notifications of achieved values. The values to be notified
are defined directly in the Intent.
Figure 4.5.3.5-1
\- MnS Consumer configures each Intent with \'reportIndicator=True\' for
values to be monitored.
\- MnS Consumer subscribes to the \"achieveValues\" in IntentExpection.
\- MnS Consumer receives notifications each time a new value is available.
Observations on this approach:
\- The configuration of the report output is contained in the Intent itself,
and is a Boolean. This effectively limits the content of the report to a
single report per Intent.
\- This approach is different than subscribing to attribute notifications.
\- The notifications required, and how they represent values in NRM and/or
derived values not in the NRM, needs to be defined.
\- There would be no \"report\" objects with this approach.
#### 4.5.3.6 Comparison and analysis of potential solutions
Following table give overview of comparison of potential solutions for intent
report.
Table 4.5.3.6-1: Comparison and analysis of potential solutions for intent
report
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution No | Solution | Pros | Cons | | | description | | | +================+================+================+================+ | * | Following | - Separates | - Needs to | | _Solution#1_ _| changes | the intent | move the | | | proposed based | expectation | in | | | on existing | information | tentfulfilment | | | intent NRM | (generated by | information in | | | fragment: | MnS consumer) | Intent IOC to | | | | and intent | new | | |__Report | monitor | IntentReport | | | Control:__| information | IOC. | | | Extend the | (generated by | | | | Intent IOC | MnS producer). | | | | with attribute | | | | | \"obser | - MnS | | | | vationPeriod\" | consumer can | | | | to represent | manage Intent | | | | MnS | instance and | | | | consumer\'s | IntentReport | | | | requirements | instances | | | | for the | separately. | | | | observation | | | | | period. | - Intent | | | | | \ > is | | | | __Report | aligned with | | | | Method:__| intent | | | | Query or | definition | | | | subscribe | (expectations | | | | -notification. | including | | | | | requirements, | | | |__Report | goals and | | | | Model:__| constraints | | | | Introduce the | given to a | | | | IntentReport | 3GPP system) | | | | IOC to | | | | | represent the | - Use the | | | | intent | CRUD | | | | report/monitor | operatio | | | | information in | n/notification | | | | the associated | to obtain | | | | Intent. And | intent report | | | | Different MnS | information, | | | | consumers can | no need to | | | | q | introduce new | | | | uery/subscribe | operation for | | | | different | intent report. | | | | attributes of | | | | | the same | | | | | IntentReport | | | | | instance to | | | | | corresponding | | | | | intent report | | | | | information. | | | | | | | | | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution#2 | Following | - Less impact | - Mix intent | | | changes | on existing | expectation | | | proposed based | intent model | information | | | on existing | in TS 28.312 | and intent | | | intent NRM | | monitor | | | fragment: | | information in | | | | | the Intent | | | Report | | IOC, which is | | | Control: | | not aligned | | | Extend the | | with intent | | | Intent IOC | | definition | | | with attribute | | (expectations | | | \"obser | | including | | | vationPeriod\" | | requirements, | | | to represent | | goals and | | | MnS | | constraints | | | consumer\'s | | given to a | | | requirements | | 3GPP system). | | | for the | | | | | observation | | | | | period. | | | | | | | | | | Report method: | | | | | Query or | | | | | subscribe | | | | | -notification. | | | | | | | | | | Report model: | | | | | Extend the | | | | | Intent IOC to | | | | | contain all | | | | | intent report | | | | | information. | | | | | Different MnS | | | | | consumers can | | | | | query | | | | | different | | | | | attributes of | | | | | Intent | | | | | instance | | | | | obtain | | | | | corresponding | | | | | Intent | | | | | instance | | | | | report | | | | | information. | | | | | | | | | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | * | Following | - The | - Complex and | |_ Solution#3**| changes | observation | Duplicated to | | | proposed based | period for the | maintain | | | on existing | intent report | different | | | intent NRM | information of | IntentReport | | | fragment: | the same | instances | | | | intent for | associated to | | | Report | different | same Intent | | | Control: | consumer can | instance for | | | Introduce the | be different. | different MnS | | | separate | | consumer. | | | In | - Intent | | | | tentReportCtrl | \ > is | - Needs to | | | instance to | aligned with | move the | | | contain the | intent | in | | | observation | definition | tentfulfilment | | | period for | (expectations | information in | | | corresponding | including | Intent IOC to | | | consumer. | requirements, | new | | | Different MnS | goals and | IntentReport | | | consumer | constraints | IOC. | | | configure its | given to a | | | | own | 3GPP system) | | | | I | | | | | ntentReportJob | | | | | to specify the | | | | | observation | | | | | period and | | | | | intent report | | | | | content to be | | | | | obtained. | | | | | | | | | | Report Method: | | | | | Query or | | | | | subscribe | | | | | -notification. | | | | | | | | | | Report Model: | | | | | Introduce the | | | | | separate | | | | | IntentReport | | | | | instance to | | | | | contain intent | | | | | report | | | | | information | | | | | for | | | | | corresponding | | | | | consumer. | | | | | Different MnS | | | | | consumer | | | | | q | | | | | uery/subscribe | | | | | its own | | | | | IntentReport | | | | | instance to | | | | | obtain the | | | | | intent report | | | | | information. | | | | | | | | | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | * | Following | - Less impact | - More | | *Solution#4** | changes | on existing | operations | | | proposed based | intent model | (file | | | on existing | in TS 28.312 | reporting | | | intent NRM | | operation or | | | fragment: | - Efficiency | streaming | | | | if there is a | reporting | | | Report | large amount | operation) | | | Control: | of data to be | needs to be | | | Introduce the | reported. | introduced for | | | separate | | intent driven | | | I | | MnS. | | | ntentReportJob | | | | | instance to | | - Needs to | | | contain the | | define the | | | observation | | file format | | | period and | | and streaming | | | report method | | format for | | | for | | intent report | | | corresponding | | | | | consumer. | | - Needs to | | | Different MnS | | remove the | | | consumer | | in | | | configure its | | tentfulfilment | | | own | | information | | | I | | from Intent | | | ntentReportJob | | IOC | | | to specify the | | | | | observation | | | | | period and | | | | | intent report | | | | | content to be | | | | | obtained. | | | | | | | | | | Report Method: | | | | | File reporting | | | | | or streaming | | | | | reporting. | | | | | | | | | | Report Model: | | | | | No need to | | | | | model intent | | | | | report | | | | | | | | | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | * | Following | - Less impact | - Mix intent | | _Solution#5_ _| changes | on existing | expectation | | | proposed based | intent model | information | | | on existing | in TS 28.312 | and intent | | | intent NRM | | monitor | | | fragment: | | information in | | | | | the Intent | | |__Report | | IOC, which is | | | Control_ _: | | not aligned | | | Introduce the | | with intent | | | indicator to | | definition | | | specify which | | (expectations | | | value needs to | | including | | | be notified. | | requirements, | | | | | goals and | | |__Report | | constraints | | | Method:__| | given to a | | | Query or | | 3GPP system). | | | subscribe | | | | | -notification. | | | | | | | | | |__Report | | | | | Model:_ * | | | | | Extend the | | | | | Intent IOC to | | | | | contain all | | | | | intent report | | | | | information. | | | | | Different MnS | | | | | consumers can | | | | | query | | | | | different | | | | | attributes of | | | | | Intent | | | | | instance | | | | | obtain | | | | | corresponding | | | | | Intent | | | | | instance | | | | | report | | | | | information. | | | | | | | | | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 4.6 Issue#4.6: Intent-driven Closed Loop control
### 4.6.1 Description
A Closed Loop (CL) is an entity that implements the capabilities to get data,
analyse it, generate decision and execute those decision on the network in
general. It is implemented in four stages (i.e. monitor, analyse, decide and
execute) and one or multiple stages may be implemented by a specific component
(i.e. MnF). The detailed definition and concept for closed loop see TS 28.535
[5]. MnS producer of CL management services may implement a Closed-loop
Control (CC) to support control capabilities for managing or controlling the
closed loop.
Figure 4.6.1-1: Example relations among closed loop components
Given a set of deployed network functions and/or management functions, the
Closed-Loop Control may configure different network and management functions
to achieve the desired closed loop goals based on intents with the input
\"context\" (e.g. capabilities, control or use case) provided by the operator,
as illustrated by Figure 4.6.1-2. Within the intent driven system, the MnS
producer for intent driven MnS may play the role of closed loop control to
implement the intent driven closed loop or interact with closed loop control
to control the closed loop.
Figure 4.6.1-2: Using Intents towards Closed-Loop Control to automate closed
loops management and control
### 4.6.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-Intent_GEN_CON_01: The 3GPP management systems shall support a
capability to allow a consumer (e.g. an operator) to express an intent to
enable the provider of CL management to configure a CL based on an intent that
expresses the intent expectations as closed loop goals, KPI, SLS, SLA targets,
input-output pairs or capabilities**
**REQ-Intent_GEN_CON_02: The 3GPP management systems shall support a
capability to allow a consumer (e.g. an operator) to express an intent to
enable the provider of CL management to configure its constituent management
functions and goals to achieve the expectations of the intent.**
**REQ-Intent_GEN_CON_03: The 3GPP management systems shall support a
capability to inform an authorized consumer (e.g. an operator) about closed
loops and management functions serving the intent.**
### 4.6.3 Potential solutions
**Introduce an expectation with targets which capture the objectives for an
entity that undertakes optimization. The expectation may be termed as network
optimization expectation. The network optimization expectation may be
expressed for a network slice** or a network slice subnet **i.e. the
expectation object may be a network slice** or a network slice subnet**. This
enables the MnS Producer to take steps, e.g., configure closed loops or the
goals thereof intended to deliver on those targets.**
**The network optimization expectation targets may express the desired
optimization outcomes. Depending on the stated targets, the MnS producer may
as such configure one or more closed loops or optimization functions to
achieve the desired targets. The network optimization expectation targets may
for example be KPI targets that the optimization is required to achieve.**
**The network optimization expectation may include relative prioritizations of
the different targets which indicate the relative interests of the intent MnS
consumer on the different optimization targets.**
**Introduce the list of Closed loop Identifiers (e.g., DN of
AssuranceClosedControlLoop) in IntentReport IOC to represent the closed loop
instance(s) used to satisfy the intent.**
## 4.7 Issue#4.7: Monitoring intent fulfilment information
### 4.7.1 Description
In TS 28.312 [2], MnS Producer can deploy or configure corresponding managed
entities to satisfy the intent. During the execution of intention, MnS
producer continuously monitors intent fulfilment information. One scenario is
that an intent may take a long period of policies execution to be satisfied.
During the execution of the intent, something may happen, such as a new intent
coming, a change in the execution environment. The MnS producer needs to
monitor the intent fulfilment information so that policies can be adjusted in
time. Another scenario is that the intent contains temporal information, such
as how long the consumer could wait before the intent is initially satisfied,
which refers to maximum duration. For example, MnS consumer can express the
expectation that the coverage targets for certain radio network needs to be
ensured in one hour, which means MnS producer have one hour to take/adjust
actions to ensure the expected coverage targets for radio network. When the
maximum unfulfilled duration is specified, the MnS producer may optimize its
intent fulfilment plan, e.g., to decide different actions to be applied on the
managed entities or to use different managed services, so that the intent can
be fulfilled within the duration. The MnS producer needs to response the
intent fulfilment information to the MnS consumer at the beginning and during
the execution of the intent.
### 4.7.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-Intent_execution_monitoring-CON-1:** The intent driven MnS Producer
should have the capability to allow the authorized MnS consumer to request
intent fulfilment information periodically or event-triggered.
**REQ-Intent_execution_monitoring-CON-2:** The intent driven MnS Producer
should have the capability to inform the authorized MnS consumer about intent
fulfilment information periodically or event-triggered.
**REQ-Intent_execution_monitoring-CON-3:** The intent driven MnS Producer
should have the capability to allow the authorized MnS Consumer to provide the
deadline expressing the maximum duration before the intent is initially
satisfied or the latest time point by which the intent should be satisfied.
### 4.7.3 Potential solutions
See clause 4.5.3, intent fulfilment information is one kind of intent report
information.
To support **REQ-Intent_execution_monitoring-CON-3,** an attribute
\"fulfilmentDeadline\" needs to be introduced in Intent IOC to represent
MnS\'s requirements for the maximum unfulfilled duration before the intent is
initially satisfied.
The fulfilmentDeadline may be an attribute of the whole intent or one of the
expectations of the intent.
## 4.8 Issue#4.8: Enablers for Intent Fulfilment
### 4.8.1 Description
Management Functions such as SON functions and MDA functions may use AIML
capabilities (either of a decision-making capability or an analysis
capability) as defined in TR 28.908 [6]). In RAN, there is a complex inter-
dependency among the control parameters (e.g., Transmit power, Antenna tilt)
and the KPIs (e.g., throughput, load, handover) which inter-dependency also
varies with time and several other real-life factors. For an operator to
simultaneously manage multiple control parameters and KPIs, the operator has
to learn the complex inter-dependency and its variations. Yet specific
optimizations can be done using SON Functions and non-SON AI/ML enabled
functions, which focus on optimizing specific targets through specific control
parameters.
Intent driven management may rely on these SON or MDA and AI/ML capabilities
to accomplish the desired automation. Such Intent driven management may rely
on ML-based solutions with or those without an entity that orchestrates the ML
solutions (so called ML orchestration).
Correspondingly, the 3GPP management system should support these and other
enablers are needed to realize or support the fulfilment of intents.
### 4.8.2 Use cases
#### 4.8.2.1 Testing Intent-driven MnS Capabilities
By focussing more on \"What\" needs to be achieved and less on \"How\" that
outcome should be achieved, intents require that the intent-driven MnS
consumer lets the intent-driven MnS producer make crucial decisions needed to
achieve the \"What\". In this way, the intent-driven MnS producer takes away
the important network management control away from the MnS consumer. However,
before such important control can be given away, MnS consumer needs to be sure
that the intent-driven MnS producer works in an expected manner, i.e. that the
outcomes of the intent-driven MnS producer matches with the MnS consumer\'s
expectations.
#### 4.8.2.2 Mapping of Intents to MLEntities capabilities
To rely on AI/ML for execution, a consumer my need to request the intent
driven management service producer to return which AI/ML capabilities can be
applied to specific intent management requirements (e.g., the enablers for
satisfying the type of intent target). For this, the intent driven management
service producer should be able to inform the consumer of the set of ML
Entities that together achieve the consumer\'s intent management requirements.
For intents specifically, the complexity of the stated intents may
significantly vary - from simple intents which may be fulfilled with a call to
a single ML Entity to complex intents that may require an intricate
orchestration of multiple ML Entities. For simple intents, it may be easy to
employ the one or multiple ML Entities. For complex intents, it may be
required to employ multiple ML Entities along with a corresponding
functionality that manages their inter-related execution. The usage of the ML
Entities requires the awareness of the AI/ML capabilities and interrelations
to each other and to the desired intent management requirements.
Figure 4.8.2.2-1: Mapping intent management requirements to AI/ML Capabilities
Given the knowledge of available AI/ML capabilities and their relation to
automation requirements, the consumer may wish to request an intent to be
fulfilled using specific AI/ML capabilities. The Intent driven management
should enable allow the consumer to make such a request and to fulfil the
intent for the consumer as requested.
Figure 4.8.2.2-2: Request intent fulfilment within information for
using/excluding AI/ML capabilities
#### 4.8.2.3 Intent-driven SON orchestration
Although SON focusses on the optimization of parameters based on operator
stated targets, even when using SON to manage the radio parameters and KPIs,
the complex interactions do remain critical. In TS 28.312 [2], an intent
focuses more on describing the \"What\" needs to be achieved but less on
\"How\" that outcome should be achieved. As such, intent-driven MnS can work
as the interface between Operator and SON. Using that interface the Operator
can specify the customization the Operator wants on certain radio parameters
and/or KPIs, and the intent-driven MnS can generate appropriate commands to be
executed by SON to achieve those targets. For example, the operator may state
requirements for specific SON functions (SFs) that are responsible for
optimizing the KPIs and/or control parameters specified within the intent.
Such customizations may include specific values expected as outcomes on
certain parameters or metrics.
#### 4.8.2.4 Intent-driven for MDA
As described in TS 28.104 [7], multiple MDA capabilities have been defined for
different analysis purposes. Within one MDARequest, it is allowed for a
consumer to indicate more than one MDA capabilities that the consumer may be
interested in. In addition, an intent may also include multiple
ExpectationTargets with different aspects. As such, intent-driven MnS can work
as the interface between the Operator and MDA function. Using that interface
the consumer can specify what the consumer wants for a specific subnetwork or
network function in an intent, and the intent-driven MnS can initiate
appropriate request to MDA function asking for analysis and feedback that help
the intent-driven MnS to achieve those targets in the intent. For example, an
operator may state requirements for the performance behaviours of a network
slice specified within the intent, the requirements may include SLS
requirement together with the requirement related to energy consumption, the
intent-driven MnS then request analysis to specific MDA functions capable for
SLS analysis and energy saving analysis. The intent MnS may decide how to
handle intent based on the analysis report from MDA functions.
### 4.8.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-Intent_TEST_1:** The intent-driven MnS shall have the capability to
enable an authorized MnS consumer to request for the testing of intent-driven
capabilities provided by an MnS producer.
**REQ-MLCAPTEST-1** The intent driven MnS should have a capability to enable
an authorized consumer to request the MnS producer to return capabilities of
one or more ML Entities to support specified intent management requirements.
**REQ-MLCAPTEST-2** The intent driven MnS should have a capability to enable
an authorized consumer to request the MnS producer to fulfil an intent by
using or excluding specific AI/ML capabilities
**REQ-Intent_SON_1:** The intent driven MnS shall have the capability to
enable a consumer to state an intent requesting for the SON Functions (SFs)
responsible for optimizing the KPIs and/or control parameters specified in the
intent.
**REQ-Intent_SON_2:** The intent driven MnS shall have the capability to
enable a consumer to state an intent requesting to execute SON functions
needed optimize the KPIs and/or control parameters specified in the intent.
**REQ-Intent_MDAS_1:** The intent driven MnS shall have the capability to
enable a MnS consumer to state an intent requesting for MDA function to do
analysis related to one or more MDA capabilities specified in the intent.
### 4.8.4 Possible solutions
#### 4.8.4.1 Testing Intent-driven MnS Capabilities
The intent-driven MnS consumer should be able to test the intent-driven MnS at
any point of time. For the test, there may be some intents already available
to the MnS consumer. Alternatively, MnS consumer can also use new, customized
intents.
Main purpose of the test is to check if the intent-driven MnS behaves the way
MnS consumer expects it to behave. To achieve that, MnS consumer specifies the
expected outcome from executing an intent beforehand. For already available
intents, these outcomes may already have been defined. For new intents, the
MnS consumer may list the expected outcomes and indicate that the intent is an
intent under test. The intent IOC should be extended to indicate whether an
intent is an intent under test or not. After the intent is executed, the MnS
producer may send a detailed report to MnS consumer that contains all the
information related to the outcome of the intent execution. The present
document may be used by MnS consumer to check if the expectations are
fulfilled. Alternatively, the MnS consumer may already send the list of
expectation(s) to MnS producer beforehand. The MnS producer may use this list
to compare the outcome(s) and send a report to MnS consumer about the intent
expectation fulfilment. The intent fulfilment or intent report should be
extended to information on whether the test has been successful or not.
This solution outline is feasible for enabling intent MnS consumers to test
the appropriateness of intent MnS producers for the desired intents or classes
of intents. This solution may be expanded in the normative phase.
#### 4.8.4.2 Mapping of Intents to AI/ML Entities capabilities
The intent driven MnS producer may rely on available AI/ML capabilities to
accomplish the desired intent. Such available AI/ML capabilities may need to
be discovered by the consumers as a first step before consumer can request for
those AI/ML capabilities to be applied for the intent. Furthermore, the
mapping of the discovered AI/ML capabilities to intents needs to be performed.
Finally, the according configuration and instructions for execution based on
the available AI/ML capabilities is needed in order to achieve desired
outcome. For example, in the case of intent fulfilment system leveraging on
AI/ML capabilities, the discovered available AI/ML capabilities may be to the
extent possible, mapped to incoming user or operators\' intents.
The solution requires to:
\- Introduce the AIML_capability_mapping_report \>, which is
generated by intent driven MnS producer
\- When an intent driven MnS Producer receives the desired intent management
requirements from intent driven MnS Consumer e.g., network operator with a
request for a mapping to available AI/ML Entities and their capabilities, the
intent driven MnS Producer provides such a mapping of the MLEntities and
capabilities e.g. as an AIML_capability_mapping_report to the intent driven
MnS consumer to satisfy the received request. The
AIML_capability_mapping_report \> include the AI/ML capabilities
information defined in TR 28.908 [6].
\- Support intent creation with specific AI/ML Entities to be used or excluded
to fulfil the intent as context information.
\- When subsequently, the MnS Producer receives the desired intent targets
with the context for the specific AI/ML Entities to be used or excluded, the
MnS Producer derives the configuration or execution instructions for the
selected AI/ML Entities according to the received intent targets and the
context for the specific AI/ML Entities, and provides such configuration or
execution instructions to AI/ML Entities
Figure 4.8.4.2-1: Discovery and use of ML capabilities for Intent fulfilment
The solution described in clause 4.8.4 adopts the NRM-based approach, which
reuses the existing provisioning MnS operations and notifications. Introducing
the AIML_capability_mapping_report \> the intent driven MnS
Producer can inform its potential intent driven MnS consumers about the AI/ML
capabilities it relies on to accomplish intent fulfilment. The intent driven
MnS consumers can then request for specific capabilities to be applied for
their intents. Therefore, the solution described in clause 4.8.4.1 is a
feasible solution.
#### 4.8.4.3 Intent-driven SON orchestration
For an intent to be fulfilled via SON orchestration, the intent needs to
relate to network control parameter or to network KPIs. Relatedly, the intent
driven SON orchestrator needs to characterize the received into one of three
categories represented by table 4.8.4.3-1
Table 4.8.4.3-1
+--------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Type | Description | Example intents | +========+=============================+=============================+ | Type 1 | Fulfils one of: | Increase cell X TXP | | | | | | | Intent parameters defined | Make cell X TXP remain | | | on network control | constant | | | parameters, and no context | | | | defined | Make cell X TXP constant | | | | and change RET by 3 degrees | | | Intent context defined on | | | | network control parameters, | | | | and no parameters defined | | | | | | | | Both Intent context and | | | | intent parameters defined | | | | on network control | | | | parameters | | +--------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Type 2 | Fulfils one of: | Reduce cell X interference | | | | | | | Intent parameters defined | Avoid increase in cell X | | | on KPI, and no context | interference | | | defined | | | | | Increase cell X throughput | | | Intent context defined on | without changing | | | KPI, and no parameter | interference | | | defined | | | | | | | | Both Intent context and | | | | intent parameters defined | | | | on KPI | | +--------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Type 3 | Fulfils one of: | Make cell X TXP constant | | | | and reduce interference | | | Intent parameters defined | | | | on network control | Change cell X TXP to 45 dBm | | | parameters while Intent | without changing | | | context defined on KPI, | interference | | | | | | | Intent parameters defined | | | | on KPI while Intent context | | | | defined on network control | | | | parameters | | +--------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
Accordingly, given this evaluation within the MnS producer, if the intent does
not relate to any of the three categories above, the Intent-driven SON
orchestration should inform the intent consumer that the intent cannot be
executed via SON orchestration. For this, an attribute may be added in the
fulfilmentInfo or intent report for the failure or success of SON
orchestration for intent fulfilment. Similarly, an attribute may be added in
the FulfilmentInfo \> or intent report for indicating when the
intent is not in the scope of SON orchestration.
Moreover, when executing via SON, the Intent-driven SON orchestration may
observe contradictions in the intent -- i.e. cases where targets on different
expectation are in conflict. The Intent-driven SON orchestration should inform
the intent MnS consumer of such contradictions which occur in the SON
orchestration but not necessarily in the intent. For this, an attribute may be
added in the FulfilmentInfo \> or intent report for a
contradiction detected in the SON orchestration.
The related sequence of actions is highlighted by the figure 4.8.4.3-1.
Figure 4.8.4.3-1: Intent-driven SON orchestration
#### 4.8.4.4 Intent-driven for MDA
For an intent, whether it can be fulfilled or not, the intent
ExpectationTarget, e.g. the network or network function KPIs, can be analysed
by MDA function(s). In this solution, when intent MnS producer receives an
intent, it needs to check whether the ExpectationTarget contained in the
intent is in scope of the supportedMDACapabilities of the correlated MDA
function(s). For example, in the service support expectation scenario as
described in TS 28.312 [2], if the included ExpectationTarget contains
dLLatencyTarget or uLLatencyTarget, the correlated MDA function needs to have
latency analysis capability.
If the correlated MDA function does not support the capability to fulfil the
ExpectationTarget contained in the intent, the intent MnS producer should
inform the intent consumer that the intent cannot be fulfilled because of lack
of capability of MDA function. Similar method as described in clause 4.8.4.3
could be used that an attribute may be added in the fulfilmentInfo
\> or intent report for indicating when the intent is not in the
scope of the supportedMDACapabilities of the correlated MDA function.
If the correlated MDA function supports the capability to fulfil the
ExpectationTarget contained in the intent, the intent MnS producer should
request the MDA report of the expectation targets (createMOI of MDARequest).
NOTE: The information included in the MDArequest is based on the intent has
received and implementation, e.g. the value of requestedMDAOutputs can base on
the expectationTargets described in the intent, the value of analyticsScope
can base on the expectationObject described in the intent, other attributes
included in MDArequest can base on context information included in the intent.
The related sequence of actions is highlighted by the figure 4.8.4.4-1.
Figure 4.8.4.4-1
## 4.9 Issue#4.9: Intent fulfilment feasibility check
### 4.9.1 Description
The option for MnS producer automatically feasibility check when receive the
intent creation and modification request from MnS consumer is described in TS
28.312 [2]. However, the intent fulfilment feasibility check capability which
can be used by MnS consumer to request intent-driven MnS producer to check the
feasibility for intent fulfilment before intent creation is missing. This
functionality can be used to assist MnS consumer to generate the suitable
intent information.
When intent-driven MnS producer receiving the request, the intent fulfilment
feasibility check may be performed to determine which intents are feasible,
including check the satisfaction of intent fulfilment and potential conflicts
between one or more intents.
When the intent fulfilment feasibility check is accomplished, MnS producer
needs to notify the MnS consumer about the result of feasibility check,
indicates that the intent is feasible or infeasible. In addition, the MnS
producer may also notify the MnS consumer about the reason why the intent is
infeasible (e.g. the intent conflict, the satisfaction of intent fulfilment
lowering than threshold).
### 4.9.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS:** The intent-driven MnS producer shall have
capability enabling MnS consumer to request to check the feasibility for
intent fulfilment.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS:** The intent-driven MnS producer shall have
capability to inform the authorized MnS consumer about the result of intent
fulfilment feasibility check, including feasible and infeasible.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS:** The intent-driven MnS producer shall have
capability to inform the authorized MnS consumer about the infeasible reason
if intent fulfilment feasibility check result is infeasible.
### 4.9.3 Potential solutions
The MnS producer may inform the intent fulfilment feasibility check result and
the infeasible reason to MnS consumer when the intent fulfilment feasibility
check is finished. Following activities will be taken by MnS consumer:
\- If the intent fulfilment feasibility check result is indicating the request
as feasible, MnS consumer will carry on to request creation of or modification
to the intent instance (as described in TS 28.312 [2] Clause 6.3.2).
\- In case the intent fulfilment feasibility check result is infeasible, MnS
consumer may update the intent information based on infeasible reason and may
trigger the intent fulfilment feasibility check again.
## 4.10 Issue#4.10: Intent handling capability obtaining
### 4.10.1 Description
In TS 28.312 [2], clause 4.2.2 described that Intent-driven MnS producer
(which can be intent handling MnF) have the following capabilities: validate
the intent, translate the received intent to executable actions and evaluate
the result/information about the intent fulfilment, and clause 6.2.2 defined
different scenario specific intent expectations with different
ExpectationObjects and ExpectationTargets to support different use cases. In
network, multiple intent handling functions maybe deployed to support
different kinds of intents. Different intent handling functions maybe deployed
to support different intent expectation object domains, e.g. intent handling
function A is deployed to handle the radio network related intents, intent
handling function B is deployed to handle the 5GC network related intents,
while intent handling function C is deployed to handle the service related
intents. Or different intent handling functions are deployed to support
different areas of the same intent expectation object domain, e.g. intent
handling function D is deployed to support to handle the intent for radio
network in Area#1, while intent handling function E is deployed to support to
handle the intent for radio network in Area#2.
Before MnS consumer expresses the intent expectation targets and expectation
objects to MnS producer (i.e. intent handling MnF), MnS consumer may want to
know what expectation targets and expectation objects can be supported by MnS
producer. Based on such supported expectation targets information and
expectation objects information, the MnS consumer may use such information to
select the proper intent handling MnF to express the intent.
### 4.10.2 Potential solutions
Following are the proposed solution based on generic intent information model
defined in TS 28.312 [2]:
The new IntentHandlingFunction \> contained by ManagedEntity
\> is introduced, and change the Intent \> to be
contained by IntentHandlingFunction \>. The IntentHandlingFunction
\> includes a list of supportedIntentHandlingCapability \>
which represent intent handling function\'s capabilities in support of intent
handling. The supportedIntentHandlingCapability \> includes
attribute \"supportedExpectationObjects\" and/or attribute
\"supportedExpectationTargets\".
Figure 4.10.2-1: Enhancement of generic intent information model (The red
highlighted box are the enhanced part)
Based on the enhancement of generic intent information model, MnS consumer can
query the IntentHandlingFunction \> to obtain the intent handling
capability information, and express the intent for a specific intent handling
function. An authorized MnS consumer also can use the DN of
IntentHandlingFunction instance to query all Intent instances handled by
corresponding intent handling function.
## 4.11 Issue#4.11: Enhancement of generic Information model definition
### 4.11.1 Description
In TS 28.312 [2], the generic intent information model (including the Intent,
IntentExpectation, ExpectationObject, ExpectationTarget, Context and
Fulfilment) are defined. Following aspects for generic intent information
model need to be enhanced:
\- Enhancement Aspect 1: the intent activate/de-activate intent management
capabilities are described in clause 4.2.2 in TS 28.312 [2], which enable the
MnS consumer to request to suspend an intent on the MnS producer side or
cancel the suspension for a suspended intent on the MnS producer side. The
intent is suspended represents the state that the intent is not be considered
for fulfilment. However, currently there is no mechanism defined to enable the
MnS consumer to request to suspend an intent on the MnS producer or cancel the
suspension for a suspended intent on the MnS producer.
\- Enhancement Aspect 2: the attribute \"fulfilmentStatus\" is defined to
indicate whether the intent is fulfilled or not fulfilled. However, the
observation period for the intent fulfilment evaluation is not defined.
### 4.11.2 Potential solutions
Regarding the Enhancement Aspect 1, it proposes to add attribute
\"intentAdminState\" in Intent \>, the allowed value can be
\"ACTIVATED\" and \"DE-ACTIVATED\". In case MnS consumer want to suspend an
intent, MnS consumer can request MnS producer to configure attribute
\"intentAdminState\" with value \"De-ACTIVATED\". In case MnS consumer want to
resume an intent on the MnS producer side when the intent is suspended, MnS
consumer can request MnS producer to configure attribute \"intentAdminState\"
with value \"ACTIVATED\".
Regarding the Enhancement Aspect 2, it proposes to reuse attribute
\"observationTime\" defined in clause 4.5.1 to represent the period for
evaluating the fulfilment information for corresponding Expectation Targets,
IntentExpectation and Intent. The fulfilment information will be observed from
the start of each observation period, then evaluated and derived at the end of
each observation period. MnS producer configures the attributes related to
intent fulfilment information at the end of each observation period also.
# 5 Issue investigations and potential solutions for the requirements
documented in TS 28.312
## 5.1 Issue# 5.1: Solution for radio service intent expectation
### 5.1.1 Description
In TS 28.312 [2], the use case and requirements for intent containing an
expectation for delivering a radio service is described in clause 5.1.2.
However, corresponding radio service intentExpectation is missing in clause
6.2.2 Scenario specific IntentExpectation definition. The intentExpectation
for radio service needs to be defined by utilizing the construct of the
generic IntentExpectation \> with set of allowed values and
concrete dataTypes specified.
### 5.1.2 Potential solutions
The Radio Service Expectation needs to be defined by utilizing the construct
of the generic IntentExpectation \> with set of allowed values and
concrete dataTypes specified.
The objectType of the Radio Service Expectation can be Radio Service.
The ObjectContexts for the Radio Service Expectation may include
coverageAreaPolygonContext, coverageTACContext, and serviceTypeContext. All
these ObjectContexts include attributes: contextAttribute, contextCondition
and contextValueRange. The concrete contextValueRange see corresponding
attribute definition in RANSliceSubnetProfile in TS 28.541 [3].
The ExpectationTargets for Radio Service Expectation may include
maxNumberofUEsTarget, activityFactorTarget, dLThptPerUETarget,
uLThptPerUETarget, uEMobilityLevelTargetTarget, uESpeedTarget,
dLLatencyTarget, uLLatencyTarget, dLMaxPktSizeTarget,and uLMaxPktSizeTarget.
All these ExpectationTargets include attributes: targetName, targetCondition
and targetValueRange. The concrete targetValueRange see corresponding
attribute definition in RANSliceSubnetProfile in TS 28.541 [3].
## 5.2 Issue# 5.2: Enhancement for service support expectation
### 5.2.1 Description
In TS 28.312 [2], the use case and requirements for intent containing an
expectation for delivering a service is described in clause 5.1.3. The
corresponding service intent expectation is defined in clause 6.2.2.1.2
Service Support Expectation. However, the IntentExpectation\> for
Service Support Expectation is missing the concrete definitions for user
experience. Service Support Expectation needs to be enhanced to add
userExperienceContext and userExperienceTarget into the construct of the
IntentExpectation\>.
### 5.2.2 Potential solutions
In TS 28.312 [2] clause 6.2.2.1.2.2 ObjectContexts, The ObjectContexts for
Service Support Expectation may be enhanced to include userExperienceContext,
the userExperienceContext includes attributes: contextAttribute,
contextCondition and contextValueRange. The concrete userExperienceContext is
not defined in the present document.
In TS 28.312 [2] clause 6.2.2.1.2.3 ExpectationTargets, The ExpectationTargets
for Service Support Expectation may be enhanced to include
userExperienceTarget. The userExperienceTarget includes attributes:
targetName, targetCondition and targetValueRange. The concrete
userExperienceTarget is not defined in the present document.
# 6 Issue investigations and potential solutions for collaboration with other
SDOs
## 6.1 Issue#6.1: Comparison of 3GPP intent management operations and TM Forum
intent management operations
### 6.1.1 Description
TM Form defines the Intent Management operations, which includes intent
management operations between Intent Owner and Intent Handler for TM Forum
intent. TS 28.312 [2] clause 6.1 also defines the Management operations for
Intent, which includes the intent management operations between MnS consumer
and MnS producer for 3GPP intent. However, the comparison of 3GPP intent
management operations and TM Forum intent management operations is missing,
which can provide the guidelines for transform functionality between TM Forum
intent management operations and 3GPP intent management operations for the
potential intent interface deployment scenario#2 in clause 6.3.2.2.
### 6.1.2 Potential solutions
The following table illustrates the comparison between 3GPP intent management
operations (defined in TS 28.312[2]) and TM Forum intent management
operations.
Table6.1.2-1 the comparison between 3GPP Intent Management operations and TM
Forum intent management operations
3GPP Intent management operations TM Forum Intent management operations
* * *
createMOI operation, the MOI is instance of intent IOC Set Intent
modifyMOIAttributes operation, the MOI is instance of intent IOC  
getMOIAttributes operation, the MOI is instance of intent IOC Retrieve Intent
deleteMOI operation, the MOI is instance of intent IOC Remove Intent
notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges Notification for the attribute
\"intentFulfillmentInfo\" in the instance of intent IOC Intent Report Event
## 6.2 Issue#6.2: Comparison of 3GPP Intent procedures and TM Forum Intent
management functionality
### 6.2.1 Description
TM Forum defines Intent management functionality in TMF921A [2], which
includes intent management interactions between Intent Owner and Intent
Handler for TM Forum intent. TS 28.312 [1] clause 6.3 defines the procedures
for intent management interactions for 3GPP intent between MnS consumer and
MnS producer. However, the comparison of 3GPP Intent procedures and TM Forum
Intent management functionality is missing, which can provide the guidelines
for transform functionality between TM Forum intent management functionality
and 3GPP intent procedure for the potential intent interface deployment
scenario#2 in clause 6.3.2.2
### 6.2.2 Potential solutions
The following table illustrates the comparison between TM Forum intent
management functionality and the 3GPP intent management procedures defined in
TS 28.312 [1].
Those which are not currently comparable are excluded.
Table6.2.2-1 Comparison of 3GPP Intent Management procedures and TM Forum
Intent management functions
3GPP Intent management procedure TM Forum Intent management functionality
* * *
Create an Intent Create a new Intent Query an Intent Retrieve intent Modify an
Intent Modify existing intent Delete an Intent Remove intent
Note: There is additional functionality defined in TMF which is not included
above, i.e. Judge/Preference, Probe, and Best/Propose interactions.
## 6.3 Issue#6.3: Potential deployment scenarios for intent interface
### 6.3.1 Description
TS 28.312 [2] described different kinds of intents which can be applicable for
different kinds of standardized reference interfaces based on roles related to
5G networks and network slicing management. See below:
Figure 6.3.1-1 Roles related to 5G networks and network slicing management
3GPP specifies the intent driven MnS (including management operations and
intent model) to manage 3GPP network and services, and provides
interoperability capability between MnS consumer and MnS producer, TM Forum
defines the intent management API (including management operations and intent
model) between intent owner and intent handler.
For the management of 3GPP network and services, currently there is no
description for the deployment scenarios for intent interface.
### 6.3.2 Potential deployment scenarios
#### 6.3.2.1 Potential deployment scenario#1
In this deployment scenario, 3GPP intent driven MnS (defined in TS 28.312 [2])
can be applicable for following kinds of standardized reference interfaces for
the management of 3GPP network and services:
\- Management interactions for Intent-NOP between NOP and NEP;
\- Management interactions for Intent-CSP between CSP and NOP;
\- Management interactions for Intent-CSC between CSC and CSP;
Figure 6.3.2.1-1: Potential intent interface deployment scenario#1
#### 6.3.2.2 Potential deployment scenario#2
In this deployment scenario, 3GPP intent driven MnS can be applicable for
following kinds of standardized reference interfaces for the management of
3GPP network and services:
\- Management interactions for Intent-NOP between NOP and NEP;
\- Management interactions for Intent-CSP between CSP and NOP;
TM Form intent management API can be applicable for following kinds of
standardized reference interfaces for the management of 3GPP network and
services:
\- Management interactions for Intent-CSC between CSC and CSP;
Figure 6.3.2.2-1: Potential intent interface deployment scenario#2
In this intent interface deployment scenario, following contents can be used
as guidelines for transformation functionality between TM Forum intent
management API for intent-CSC and 3GPP intent driven MnS for intent-CSP.-
Mapping the 3GPP and the TM Forum intentExpectation Models described in Annex
C in TS 28.312 [2].
\- Comparison of 3GPP intent management operations and TM Forum intent
management operations described in clause 6.1.2.
\- Comparison of 3GPP Intent procedures and TM Forum Intent management
functionality described in clause 6.2.2.
# 7 Conclusion and recommendation
## 7.1 Conclusion and recommendation for new capabilities
### 7.1.1 Issue#4.1: intent driven approach for RAN energy saving
It is recommended to introduce the scenario and requirements for intent driven
approach for RAN energy saving, and define corresponding scenario specific
IntentExpectation definition (including introducing new expectation targets
for RAN Energy Consumption and RAN Energy Efficiency).
The detailed solution see clause 4.1.3.
### 7.1.2 Issue#4.2: Intent conflicts and intents containing contradictions
It is recommended to introduce three intent related conflict scenarios,
including Target conflict, Expectation conflict and Intent conflict. Also
recommend to introduce the notification information provided by MnS producer
when such a conflict is detected with the specified intent, intent
expectations or expectation targets which give rise to the conflict.
Additionally, MnS consumer can give intent conflict handling guidelines to MnS
producer as contexts to solve such intent conflict.
### 7.1.3 Issue#4.3: Enhancement of radio network intent expectation
It is recommended to enhance the existing radio network intent expectation to
support following aspects:
\- Support MnS consumer to express the radio network expectation targets for
the coverage area represented by a list of Cells.
\- Support MnS consumer to express the radio network expectation targets for
the specific service type or UE groups instead of the whole radio network.
\- Support MnS consumer to express the radio network capacity targets
(including Maximum HighUL/DLPRB Load Ratio) for the specified areas.
\- Support MnS consumer to express the radio network transport contexts
(including NgInterfaceContext, OMInterfaceContext and NextHopContext) for
delivering a radio network for a specified area.
\- Support MnS consumer to express the radio network expectation targets for
specific time periods.
The detailed solution see clause 4.3.2.
### 7.1.4 Issue#4.4: 5GC related intent expectations
It is recommended to introduce the IntentExpectation for core network by
utilizing the construct of the generic IntentExpectation \> with
set of allowed values and concrete dataTypes, including the objectType,
ObjectContext and ExpectationTargets for the 5GC to represent MnS consumer\'s
expectation for 5GC.
The detailed solution see clause 4.4.3.1.
### 7.1.5 Issue#4.5: Intent Report
It is recommended to introduce the new IntentReport \> to represent the
three types of intent report information. In the associated Intent, including
intent fulfilment information, achieved values for targets and intent conflict
information. The MnS consumer can query the IntentReport \> to obtain
the intent report information and/or subscribe for update notifications to
obtain intent report information.
A proposed solution is detailed in clause 4.5.3.1 which will provide the basis
for the solution.
### 7.1.6 Issue#4.6: Intent-driven Closed Loop control
It is recommended to introduce a network optimization expectation which
capture the desired optimization targets for a specific network scope and
which then enable the MnS producer to configure one or more closed loops with
goals to achieve the optimization targets.
The detailed solution see clause 4.6.3.
### 7.1.7 Issue#4.7: Monitoring intent fulfilment information
It is recommended to introduce the attribute \"executionTime\" in Intent
\> to allow MnS consumer to represent the requirements for the
execution time of the intent.
Intent report related conclusion see the Intent Report in clause 7.1.5.
### 7.1.8 Issue#4.8: Enablers for Intent Fulfilment
#### 7.1.8.1 Testing Intent-driven MnS Capabilities
It is recommended to introduce to the normative specification a new attribute
to indicate whether an intent is an intent under test or not. Relatedly, it is
recommended to introduce the new attribute to indicate if the test has been
successful or not
The detailed solution see clause 4.8.4.1.
#### 7.1.8.2 Mapping of Intents to ML Entities capabilities
It is recommended to introduce the AIML_capability_mapping_report
\> with which the intent driven MnS Producer can inform its
potential intent driven MnS consumers about the AI/ML capabilities it relies
on to accomplish intent fulfilment. Additionally, it is recommended to
introduce an attribute on the intent object that used by an intent driven MnS
consumer to request for specific capabilities to be applied for their intents.
#### 7.1.8.3 Intent-driven SON orchestration
It is recommended (as proposed in clause 4.8.4.3) to introduce attributes in
the fulfilmentInfo \> or intent report to support intents using
SON orchestration**.** These attributes indicate the failure or success of
fulfilling the intent using SON orchestration, or if the intent is not in the
scope if SON orchestration. These attributes may also indicate failures such
as contradictions detected in the SON orchestration.
This solution is only applicable using SON functions to support intents
#### 7.1.8.4 Intent-driven for MDA
It is recommended to introduce new attribute in the fulfilmentInfo
\> or intent report for indicating when the intent expectation
cannot be fulfilled and it is because of the expectation target is not in the
scope of the supportedMDACapabilities of the correlated MDA function.
### 7.1.9 Issue#4.9: Intent fulfilment feasibility check
The study identified the issue for feasibility check in following two options:
\- Option#1: MnS producer automatically conducts feasibility check when it
receives the intent creation or modification request from MnS consumer.
\- Option#2: MnS consumer requests intent-driven MnS producer to check the
feasibility of intent fulfilment before making intent creation or modification
request.
Regarding Option#1, it is recommended to introduce the feasibility check
result info (including feasibilityResult and inFeasibleReason) in intent
report model to allow the MnS consumer to obtain the feasibility check result.
Regarding Option#2, there is no concrete solution identified in the present
document. So, it is recommended to further investigate the solution in the
future.
### 7.1.10 Issue#4.10: Intent handling capability obtaining
It is recommended to introduce the new IntentHandlingFunction \>, which
includes a list of supportedIntentHandlingCapability \> which
represent intent handling function\'s capabilities in support of intent
handling. Change the Intent \> to be contained by
IntentHandlingFunction \>.
The detailed solution see clause 4.10.2
### 7.1.11 Issue#4.11: Enhancement of generic Information model definition
It is recommended to enhance the existing generic intent information model
support following aspects:
\- Introduce attribute \"intentAdminState\" in Intent \> to allow MnS
consumer to suspend and resume an intent.
\- Introduce attribute \"observationTime\" in Intent \ to allow MnS
consumer to specify the observation period for the intent fulfilment
evaluation
\- The detailed solution see clause 4.11.2.
## 7.2 Conclusion and recommendation for the solution for requirements
documents in TS 28.312
### 7.2.1 Issue# 5.1: Solution for radio service intent expectation
It is recommended to introduce the RadioServiceExpectation by utilizing the
construct of the generic IntentExpectation \> with set of allowed
values and concrete dataTypes, including the objectType, ObjectContext and
ExpectationTargets for the radio service intent expectation as one of the
scenario specific intent expectation.
The detailed solution see clause 5.1.2.
### 7.2.2 Issue# 5.2: Enhancement for service support expectation
It is recommended to add userExperienceContext and userExperienceTarget into
the construct of the IntentExpectation\>, to enhance the
concrete definitions for user experience.
The userExperienceContext includes attributes: contextAttribute,
contextCondition and contextValueRange. The concrete userExperienceContext is
not defined in the present document.
The userExperienceTarget includes attributes: targetName, targetCondition and
targetValueRange. The concrete userExperienceTarget is not defined in the
present document.
So, it is recommended to further investigate the solution in future release.
## 7.3 Conclusion and recommendation for collaboration with other SDOs
It is recommended to introduce the intent interface deployment scenarios
(including deployment scenario#1 described in clause 6.3.2.1 and deployment
scenario#2 described in clause 6.3.2.2) for the management of 3GPP network and
services in the Annex of TS 28.312 [2].
To support the deployment scenario#2, It is also recommended the following
content to be added in the Annex of TS 28.312 [2] as guidelines for the
transformation functionality between TM Forum intent management API for
intent-CSC to 3GPP intent driven MnS for intent-CSP.
\- Comparison of 3GPP intent management operations and TM Forum intent
management operations described in clause 6.1.2.
\- Comparison of 3GPP Intent procedures and TM Forum Intent management
functionality described in clause 6.2.2.
The detailed solution see clause 6.1.2, clause 6.2.2 and clause 6.3.2.
#