# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives examples for the Radio sub-system link control to
be implemented in the Base Station System (BSS) and Mobile Switching Centre
(MSC) of the GSM and DCS 1 800 systems in case hierarchical cell structures
are employed.
Unless otherwise specified, references to GSM also include DCS 1 800, and
multiband systems if operated by a single operator.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 03.22 (ETS 300 930): \"Functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in
idle mode and group receive mode\".
[2] 3GPP TR 03.30 (ETR 364): \"Radio network planning aspects\".
[3] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[4] 3GPP TR 01.04 (ETR 350): \"Abbreviations and acronyms\".
# 3 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 01.04 [4].
# 4 General
ETS 300 911 (GSM 05.08 [3]) specifies the radio sub system link control
implemented in the Mobile Station (MS), Base Station System (BSS) and Mobile
Switching Centre (MSC) of the GSM and DCS 1 800 systems of the European
digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2).
The present document gives several examples of how the basic handover and RF
power control algorithm as contained in (informative) annex A to ETS 300 911
[3] can be enhanced to cope with the requirements on the radio subsystem link
control in hierarchical networks.
A hierarchical network is a network consisting of multiple layers of cells,
allowing for an increased traffic capacity and performance compared to a
single layer network.
The radio sub-system link control aspects that are addressed are as follows:
\- Handover;
\- RF Power control.
# 5 Hierarchical networks
## 5.1 General
In a hierarchical, or microcellular network, traffic is supported on multiple
layers of cells. Typically, a network operator could implement a layer
consisting of microcells as a second layer in his existing network consisting
of large or small cells. The addition of this second layer would improve the
capacity and coverage of his network.
In the present document the following naming convention is used for the
different layers. For a network consisting of three layers the layer using the
biggest cells is the \"upper layer\", followed by the \"middle layer\", and
then the \"lower layer\" which has the smallest cells. For a network
consisting of two layers, only \"upper layer\" and \"lower layer\" are used.
The intention in a hierarchical network is to use the radio link control
procedures to handle the majority of the traffic in the lower layer, i.e. the
smallest cells, as this will limit interference and therefore improve the
frequency reuse.
However, a part of the traffic cannot always efficiently be handled in the
lower layer. Examples are cases where the MS is moving fast (relative to the
cell range), or where the coverage is insufficient, or where a cell to make a
handover to on the same level may not be available fast enough (going around
corners, entering/leaving buildings).
## 5.2 Cell types
GSM 03.30 [2] distinguishes between three kinds of cells: large cells, small
cells and micro cells. The main difference between these kinds lies in the
cell range, the antenna installation site, and the propagation model applying:
### 5.2.1 Large cells
In large cells the base station antenna is installed above the maximum height
of the surrounding roof tops; the path loss is determined mainly by
diffraction and scattering at roof tops in the vicinity of the mobile i.e. the
main rays propagate above the roof tops; the cell radius is minimally 1 km and
normally exceeds 3 km. Hata\'s model and its extension up to 2 000 MHz (COST
231-Hata model) can be used to calculate the path loss in such cells (GSM
03.30 [2] annex B).
### 5.2.2 Small cells
For small cell coverage the antenna is sited above the median but below the
maximum height of the surrounding roof tops and so therefore the path loss is
determined by the same mechanisms as stated in subclause 5.1.1. However large
and small cells differ in terms of maximum range and for small cells the
maximum range is typically less than 1‑3 km. In the case of small cells with a
radius of less than 1 km the Hata model cannot be used.
The COST 231-Walfish-Ikegami model (see GSM 03.30 [2] annex B) gives the best
approximation to the path loss experienced when small cells with a radius of
less than 5 km are implemented in urban environments. It can therefore be used
to estimate the BTS ERP required in order to provide a particular cell radius
(typically in the range 200 m - 3 km).
### 5.2.3 Microcells
COST 231 defines a microcell as being a cell in which the base station antenna
is mounted generally below roof top level. Wave propagation is determined by
diffraction and scattering around buildings i.e. the main rays propagate in
street canyons. COST 231 proposes an experimental model for microcell
propagation when a free line of sight exists in a street canyon (see GSM 03.30
[2]).
The propagation loss in microcells increases sharply as the receiver moves out
of line of sight, for example, around a street corner. This can be taken into
account by adding 20 dB to the propagation loss per corner, up to two or three
corners (the propagation being more of a guided type in this case). Beyond,
the complete COST231-Walfish-Ikegami model as presented in annex B of GSM
03.30 [2] should be used.
Microcells have a radius in the region of 200 to 300 metres and therefore
exhibit different usage patterns from large and small cells.
# 6 Idle mode procedures
GSM 03.22 [1] outlines how idle mode operation shall be implemented. Further
details are given in Technical Specifications GSM 04.08 and GSM 05.08 [3].
A useful feature for hierarchical networks is that cell prioritization, for
Phase 2 MS, can be achieved during cell reselection by the use of the
reselection parameters optionally broadcast on the BCCH. Cells are reselected
on the basis of a parameter called C2 and the C2 value for each cell is given
a positive or negative offset (CELL_RESELECT_OFFSET) to encourage or
discourage MSs to reselect that cell. A full range of positive and negative
offsets is provided to allow the incorporation of this feature into already
operational networks.
The parameters used to calculate C2 are as follows:
a) CELL_RESELECT_OFFSET;
b) PENALTY_TIME;
When the MS places the cell on the list of the strongest carriers as specified
in GSM 05.08 [3], it starts a timer which expires after the PENALTY_TIME. This
timer will be reset when the cell is taken off the list. For the duration of
this timer, C2 is given a negative offset. This will tend to prevent fast
moving MSs from selecting the cell.
c) TEMPORARY_OFFSET;
This is the amount of the negative offset described in (ii) above. An infinite
value can be applied, but a number of finite values are also possible.
The permitted values of these parameters and the way in which they are
combined to calculate C2 are defined in GSM 05.08 [3].
# 7 Examples of handover and RF power control algorithms.
## 7.1 General
In the following annexes four examples of handover and power control
algorithms are presented. All of these are considered sufficient to allow
successful implementation in hierarchical or microcellular networks. None of
these solutions is mandatory.
The \"**Description of algorithm** \" of each annex, contains a text as
provided by the authors of the algorithm. Any discussion on the algorithms is
contained in a separate clause, \"**Discussion of algorithm** \".
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example 1 (Siemens AG)
**Description of algorithm**
Source: Siemens AG
Date: 23.08.95
Subject: Fast Moving Mobiles
# A.1 Introduction
This annex specifies an enhanced handover algorithm that may be implemented in
GSM or DCS 1 800 hierarchical networks. In accordance with clause 5 of this
annex a hierarchical network is understood as a network utilizing large cells
for the upper layer for wide area coverage, and a lower layer structure of
small or micro cells for capacity reasons. For the sake of simplicity the
algorithm is described for hierarchical networks consisting of two layers.
Nevertheless the algorithm can be extended to a hierarchy comprising several
layers.
The algorithm is based upon the basic handover process, as described in GSM
05.08 [3], annex A. Only differences and supplements to the standard
algorithms are explicitly described.
The aim of this annex is to show, how in hierarchical networks useless
handovers can be avoided by allocating the mobiles, according to their speed,
to the appropriate cell type. This goal is achieved by steering the fast
mobile stations to the upper layer structure (e.g. large cells), while
ensuring that slow mobile subscribers are served by the lower layer structure
(e.g. small or micro cells). A mobile station is considered as fast, if its
sojourn time in a cell is short compared to a mean call holding time.
An important aspect of this advanced algorithm is, that there is no
implication on the MS type. The procedures described in this annex, work in
the same manner for Phase 2 as well as Phase 1 MS types.
A more comprehensive description of the advanced algorithm along with some
investigation results based on handover emulations in typical mixed cell
scenarios is given in \"Mobile Speed Sensitive Handover in a Mixed Cell
Environment\" (see Bibliography).
# A.2 Functional requirements
The present algorithm is based on the following additional assumptions:
\- the upper layer structure (e.g. large cells) provides a contiguous wide
area coverage for all MS power classes to be supported by the network;
\- the lower layer structure (e.g. small or micro cells) is fully embedded in
the coverage area of upper layer structure (e.g. large cells);
\- the algorithm is based on both a power budget and absolute level criterion.
Therefore both criteria shall be enabled simultaneously, giving a higher
priority to the absolute level criterion.
# A.3 BSS pre-processing and threshold comparisons
## A.3.1 Measurement averaging process
In a mixed cell environment one should take into account the different
propagation conditions in large and small or micro cells, and the requirement
for speeding up the handover decision, when a handover out of a small cell is
pending (especially, with the street corner effect in micro cells), an
excessive delay of the handover detection can cause a loss of the connection.
Regarding this, the following items are recommended:
a) apply different values for the averaging parameters in large and small or
micro cells, respectively;
b) define separate averaging parameters applicable to RXLEV and
RXLEV_NCELL(n), respectively;
c) the BSS shall evaluate the Power Budget PBGT(n) using the averaging process
defined for RXLEV_NCELL(n).
## A.3.2 Handover threshold comparison process
The Handover threshold comparison process is similar to the process described
in GSM 05.08 [3], annex A, except for section e) in A.3.2.2, which is modified
as follows:
e) Comparison of PBGT(n) with the variable hysteresis margin
HO_MARGIN_TIME(n). If the process is employed, the action to be taken is as
follows:
If PBGT(n) > HO_MARGIN_TIME(n) a handover, cause PBGT(n), might be required.
In a hierarchical network this comparison enables handover into the lower
layer structure (e.g. small or micro cells) to be performed for slow mobile
stations, while fast-moving ones remain served by the upper layer structure
(e.g. large cells).
The variable hysteresis margin is defined by:
HO_MARGIN_TIME(n) = HO_MARGIN(n) + HO_STATIC_OFFSET(n) - HO_DYNAMIC_OFFSET(n)
* H(T(n) - DELAY_TIME(n)).
In addition to the HO_MARGIN(n) as defined in table A.1 of GSM 05.08 [3]
except that the range has been extended to (‑24, 24 dB), the variable
hysteresis margin comprises:
\- a static offset, HO_STATIC_OFFSET(n);
\- a dynamic offset, HO_DYNAMIC_OFFSET(n); and
\- a delay time interval, DELAY_TIME(n).
The parameters are related to cells of the lower layer structure only.
T(n) is the time that has elapsed since the point at which the mobile station
has entered the coverage area of cell n in the lower layer structure.
The function H(x) is defined by:
{width="1.25in" height="0.4305555555555556in"}, with
{width="1.8194444444444444in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
The simultaneous fulfilment of the following conditions indicates that the
mobile station has entered the coverage area of cell n in the lower layer
structure:
**Condition 1:** RXLEV_NCELL(n) > RXLEV_MIN(n) + Max(0,Pa)
**Condition 2:** PBGT(n) > HO_MARGIN(n),
where Pa = MS_TXPWR_MAX(n) - P.
If both conditions are true, a timer T(n) shall be started. If any of these
conditions gets false, before the timer expiry, the timer shall be stopped and
reset.
NOTE 1: HO_MARGIN_TIME(n) = HO_MARGIN(n) + HO_STATIC_OFFSET(n) for those cells
of the lower layer structure, whose timer has not yet been started or is still
running. A high value of HO_STATIC_OFFSET effectively prevents a handover into
the respective cell of the lower layer structure during the run time of the
timer for that cell.
NOTE 2: HO_MARGIN_TIME(n) =HO_MARGIN(n) + HO_STATIC_OFFSET(n)
\- HO_DYNAMIC_OFFSET(n)
for those cells of the lower layer structure, whose timer has expired. This is
the margin fixing the cell borders and replacing the usual HO_MARGIN(n) within
the standard handover of GSM 05.08 [3], annex A.
On timer expiry the reduced HO_MARGIN_TIME(n) allows for a power budget
handover into a cell of the lower layer structure for a slow moving mobile
which is expected to be still in the coverage area of that cell.
On the contrary, a fast moving mobile is expected to have left the coverage
area of an embedded cell of the lower layer structure while the timer for that
cell is still running and therefore Condition 1 or 2 (or both) will be
violated, thus preventing a handover request for a fast moving mobile into
that cell of the lower layer structure. Consequently, fast moving mobiles are
kept on the upper layer structure.
NOTE 3: A fast moving mobile connected to a cell of the lower layer structure
(e.g. a phase 1 mobile being not able to run the reselection algorithm in idle
mode or a mobile having changed its speed) is steered to the upper layer
structure by requesting for it a rescue handover based on the absolute level
criterion.
NOTE 4: HO_MARGIN(n) defines the location of timer start. Choosing small or
even negative values results in an early timer start and thereby avoiding cell
border displacement and interference problems. Setting HO_MARGIN(n) to large
negative values effectively cancels Condition 2, and consequently the timer
start is triggered only by Condition 1 such that the cell borders on the lower
layer structure are independent of the cell site positions with respect to the
cell sites in the upper layer structure.
# A.4 BSS decision algorithm
The BSS decision algorithm described in GSM 05.08 [3], annex A, may be
employed after replacing HO_MARGIN(n) by the corresponding HO_MARGIN_TIME(n)
in equation (2) of annex A. In combination with suitable parameter settings
this results in the mobile speed sensitive handover functionality referenced
above.
# A.5 Additional O&M parameters stored for handover purposes in hierarchical
networks
HO_STATIC_OFFSET(n) A parameter used to apply a positive offset to
HO_MARGIN(n) in order to prevent a handover request into cell n of the lower
layer structure.
Range: 0 - 127 dB
Step Size: 1 dB.
Admin. for: HO_STATIC_OFFSET(n) for each neighbour cell of the lower layer
structure (n = 1 - 32)
HO_DYNAMIC_OFFSET(n) A parameter used to partially or fully compensate the
HO_STATIC_OFFSET(n) for cell n of the lower layer structure. This parameter
gets active after the time interval DELAY_TIME(n).
Range: 0 - 127 dB
Step Size: 1 dB.
Admin. for: HO_DYNAMIC_OFFSET(n) for each neighbour cell of the lower layer
structure (n = 1 - 32)
DELAY_TIME(n) Time interval used to delay the handover decision into cell n of
the lower layer structure to enable differentiation between fast and slow
mobile stations in the handover decision process.
Range: 0 - 255 Tsacch
Step Size: 1 Tsacch
Admin. for: DELAY_TIME(n) for each neighbour cell of the lower layer structure
(n = 1 - 32)
NOTE: These parameters apply only for cells of the lower layer structure.
# A.6 Bibliography
1) K. Ivanov, G. Spring, \"Mobile Speed Sensitive Handover in a Mixed Cell
Environment\", in Proc. IEEE 45th Veh. Technol. Conf., VTC 1995, pp. 892‑896.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example 2 (DeTeMobil)
**Description of algorithm**
Source: DeTeMobil
Date: 21.08.1995
Subject: High speed MS
# B.1 Introduction
In order to provide significantly more traffic capacity in GSM networks, the
average cell size has to become smaller. The reduction in cell size, however,
should neither limit the mobility of the MS nor the MS speed. On the one hand
problems will occur if the MS are so fast, that the time they stay in a small
cell is too short for the radio link control procedures to be carried out
efficiently and effectively and on the other hand if it is necessary to
handover a MS to predetermined target cells very quickly if the received RF
signal level of a radio connection is changing rapidly in a radio environment
of small cells.
To give good performance to all MS, the network has to be built up using cells
of different sizes at one place, i.e. a hierarchical cell structure. The
network provides a multi-coverage. Dependent on the MS speed, the MS shall be
handled by a cell with a suitable size.
The procedures to achieve this for an MS in idle mode are described in GSM
03.22 [1].
The radio link control procedures in the concept of a hierarchical cell
structure are independent of the connections to MSC and BSC.
In the following the procedures to handle MS in connected mode for a
hierarchical cell structure are given.
# B.2 Definitions
## B.2.1 Categories of cells
A hierarchical cell structure is built up from different layers of cells. The
structure shall allow at least three layers: the lower layer, the middle layer
and the upper layer(see note). If only two layers are planned, the lower layer
and middle layer are used. It is emphasized that the relation to other cells
determines the assignment to a layer in the hierarchical cell structure. The
absolute size of a cell is not a criterion.
NOTE 1: An example for the use of middle and upper layer is as follows:
\- Middle layer: Layer with sufficient capacity to handle the traffic for fast
moving MS.
\- Upper layer: \"Umbrella Cells\" of the middle layer, here only handover
traffic shall be supported, when cells of the middle layer are not available.
The layer to which a cell in a hierarchical cell structure is assigned is set
by the O&M-parameter CELL_LEVEL.
Cells that do not belong into a hierarchical structure (single layer) have the
CELL_LEVEL \"standard layer\" that is the default level if details concerning
the CELL_LEVEL are missing.
The parameter CELL_LEVEL has a range from 0 to 15(see note) and is allocated
for each radio cell. The coding is given in clause B.5. In each radio cell the
own level, and the levels for all neighbour cells, as in the BA(SACCH), are
known.
NOTE 2: Possible reasons to introduce new layers may be: pico cells, specific
services supported only in one layer, multiband systems etc.
## B.2.2 Classification of MS in connected mode
For radio link control purposes in a hierarchical cell structure, an MS in
connected mode is classified by a set of at least eight] status-fields. The
set is called MS_STATUS. With one of these fields: MS_SPEED, MS are
distinguished between \"fast MS\", \"slow MS\" and \"quasi-stationary MS\".
All other fields of the set are for future use (see note)
NOTE: Possible details given in the fields that are for future use are:
multiple band, GPRS, EFR etc..
MS_STATUS is used in decisions of the power control process.
At the establishment of an RR-connection MS_SPEED is set to the default value
\"fast MS\", except for Phase 2 MS if establishment is in cells of the lower
layer in which the path loss criterion C2 is activated. Then MS_SPEED is set
to \"slow MS\".
The speed classification can be enabled/disabled by the flag EN_MS_SPEED.
If the flag EN_MS_SPEED is set to 0 (disabled) in a cell of the lower layer
the classification is omitted, and the status of the MS in this cell will not
be changed. At the establishment of an RR-connection all MS are set to the
MS_SPEED default value \"fast MS\". During handover the MS shall keep the
status of the previous cell.
In cells of the middle layer or the upper layer, all cells of the lower layer
with the flag EN_MS_SPEED disabled, are excluded from the classification
procedure as described in subclause B.2.2.2.
### B.2.2.1 Classification in the lower layer
For each RR-connection supported by a cell of the lower layer a counter
Cs(tay) is started. The counter Cs has an initial value 0, and is incremented
by 1 with every SACCH-multiframe. When the value of counter Cs equals the
threshold C_SLOW_STAT and the MS has MS_SPEED \"fast MS\", the MS MS_SPEED is
set to \"slow MS\". If the value of the counter C~s~ satisfies the condition
Cs [\ RXLEV_MIN(n) + LAYER_HYST(n) + Max{0, MS_TXPWR_MAX(n) - P}
where n is the respective adjacent cell \"n\".
With every measurement report the counter Ca(n) is incremented by 1 for each
reported cell of the lower layer which still fulfils the inequation, otherwise
Ca(n) is decremented by 1. All counters Ca(n) are stopped and reset to 0 when
the call is finished in that cell.
When at least p (with p = 1,..., 4, see clause B.5) counters Ca(n) reach the
value C_SLOW_STAT(n) the MS is estimated to be slow enough to be supported by
cells of the lower layer. The MS MS_SPEED is set to \"slow MS\". A handover to
a cell of the lower layer is initiated (see subclause B.4.2). The value p = 1
should be used as default value.
NOTE: p [>]{.underline} 1 gives the possibility in special cases, where
information on the velocity of MS is not reliable, e.g. in the surroundings of
traffic lights, to tighten the requirement for the handover towards the lower
layer of MS. p=1 is sufficient in most cases.
### B.2.2.3 Loss of the \"slow MS\" or \"quasi-stationary MS\" status
During an RR-connection, when a handover from a cell of the lower layer to a
cell of the middle layer or the upper layer is performed, the MS MS_SPEED is
set to \"fast MS\". This happens when a handover with cause RXLEV, RXQUAL or
distance occurs before the counter Cs reaches the value C_SLOW_STAT.
Furthermore, in the case that no radio resource is available in one of the
higher layers, and the handover is performed to a cell of the lower layer, the
MS MS_SPEED is set to \"fast MS\".
# B.3 Power Control Algorithm
## B.3.1 MS connected over a cell of the lower layer
In cells of the lower layer the power control algorithm shall be dependent on
the MS MS_SPEED.
For a \"fast MS\" power control shall be [disabled]. The maximum allowed power
level for that cell and for the class of MS has to be used by MS and BSS.
For MS with MS_SPEED \"slow MS\" or \"quasi-stationary MS\" the power control
process as described in annex A of 05.08 [3] is used, with the following
proviso:
In case of a MS with MS_SPEED \"quasi-stationary MS\" the power control ranges
and the averaging periods are the same as used in the middle layer/upper layer
or standard layer.
For MS with MS_SPEED \"slow MS\" the maximum allowed power in uplink and
downlink may be reduced only by [five] 2 dB steps. For slow MS an separate set
of power control parameters, for example for POW_INCR/RED_STEP_SIZE and
P_CON_INTERVAL shall be used.
## B.3.2 MS connected over a cell of the middle layer or the upper layer
For all MS connected via the middle- or upper layer the power control process
as described in the 05.08 [3] are used.
# B.4 Handover algorithm in a hierarchical cell structure
## B.4.1 MS connected over a cell of the lower layer
After the successful establishment of an RR-connection in a cell of the lower
layer, the counter Cs is started for this connection. In addition to the
classification of MS (see subclause B.2.2), the counter is used to measure the
time an MS stays in the cell of the lower layer.
If a handover with cause RXLEV, RXQUAL or distance occurs before Cs has
reached the threshold C_SLOW_STAT, the handover is performed with preference
to a cell of the middle layer. Only if no TCH is available in the middle
layer, a cell of the upper layer is selected as handover-candidate. In case
there is no cell or TCH available in the higher layers, the handover candidate
shall be a cell from the lower layer. As long as the value of Cs is smaller
than C_SLOW_STAT a handover cause PBGT is not possible.
When Cs is equal or greater than C_SLOW_STAT all handover types are possible
to all cells of the lower layer regardless of the MS MS_SPEED (\"slow MS\" or
\"quasi-stationary MS\"). If no cell of the lower layer is available for a
forced handover, the handover candidate shall be a cell from the middle layer
or in case of unavailability from the upper layer. Only under this condition
the MS retains MS_SPEED \"slow MS\" or \"quasi-stationary MS\" during a
handover from lower layer to either middle layer or upper layer. In case of a
PBGT-handover, the handover candidate list may only contain cells from the
lower layer.
## B.4.2 MS connected over a cell of the middle layer or the upper layer
For RR-connections supported by cells of the middle layer or the upper layer a
standard handover procedure as specified e.g. in annex A of 05.08 [3] is used
with the additions and restrictions as follows.
The counter Ca(n) that is started for each cell of the lower layer (see
subclause B.2.2), is used to trigger a handover from an actual serving cell of
a higher level to a cell of the lower layer.
When at least p counters Ca(n) reach the value C_SLOW_STAT(n) the MS is
estimated to be slow enough, so that it can be supported by cells of the lower
layer.
As long as the above condition is not fulfilled, the handover from a cell of
the middle layer/upper layer to a cell of the lower layer is not allowed with
the exception for the handover causes RXLEV, RXQUAL or DISTANCE that only the
lower layer has free resources.
When Ca(n) reaches the value C_SLOW_STAT(n) for at least p cells of the lower
layer, a handover is initiated towards the lower layer. All available cells of
the lower layer are possible handover candidates. The handover shall be
performed to that cell of the lower layer which has the best PBGT.
If the p-th counter Ca(n) reaches the value C_SLOW_STAT(n) at the same time
that a handover cause PBGT is recognized, the PBGT-handover has to be
performed.
## B.4.3 Handover at borders of different cell structures
A border appears where an area with an hierarchical cell structure adjoins an
area consisting of a single layer of cells.
For an MS that moves from the area with an hierarchical cell structure into
the area with a single layer of cells, these cells of the standard layer are
treated like cells of the middle layer.
In case of an MS moving from the single standard layer towards the
hierarchical cell structure, for the purpose of radio link purposes there is
no distinction between the cells of the hierarchical cell structure. This is
because no information is available on the hierarchical structure in the
standard layer.
# B.5 O&M-Parameter
CELL_LEVEL Hierarchy level of serving cell\ Range: 0 - 15\ Step size: 1\
Coding: 0: standardlayer\ 1: lower layer\ 2: middle layer\ 3: upper layer\ 4 -
15: for future use\ Used in: BSC\ Admin. for: CELL_LEVEL for each cell
CELL_LEVEL_NC(n) Hierarchy level of n-th neighbour cell\ n: 1 - 32\ Range: 0 -
15\ Step size: 1\ Coding: 0: standardlayer\ 1: lower layer\ 2: middle layer\
3: upper layer\ 4 - 15: for future use\ Used in: BSC\ Admin. for:
CELL_LEVEL_NC(n) for each adjacent cell n of a radio cell
EN_MS_SPEED ENable classification of MS regarding SPEED\ Coding: 1: enable
feature\ 0: disable feature\ Used in: BSC\ Admin. for: each cell
C_SLOW_STAT Time an MS has to stay in a cell of the lower layer until MS_SPEED
is set to \"slow MS\"\ Range: 0 - 255 TSACCH\ Step Size: 1 TSACCH\ Used in:
BSC\ Admin. for: C_SLOW_STAT for each cell of the lower layer\ Conditions: 1.
C_SLOW_STAT \ C_SLOW_STAT
LAYER_HYST(n) Hysteresis for handover from the middle layer/upper layer to the
lower layer\ Range: 0 - [31] dB\ Step Size: 1 dB\ Used in: BSC\ Admin. for:
each neighbour cell
p number of cells that has to fulfil the inequation to estimate an MS as slow\
Range: 1 - 4\ Step Size: 1\ Used in: BSC\ Admin. for: each cell of the middle
layer or upper layer
# B.6 State diagrams
**Radio Resource Establishment:**
**Handover Cases to the preferred cell layer:**
{width="5.5993055555555555in" height="4.3125in"}
Handover Cases, that occur if no resources in the preferred cell layer are
available:
{width="5.2875in" height="4.360416666666667in"}
###### ## Annex C (informative): Example 3 (Alcatel)
**Description of algorithm**
# C.1 General description
This annex describes a handover algorithm in hierarchical networks, i.e. with
2 layers of cells. The lower layer cells may be minicells or microcells, as
expressed in the following figures.
Figure C.1: First scenario: microcells below existing cells
Figure C.2: Second scenario: \"super umbrella cell\" above existing minicells
This annex deals mainly with microcells below upper layer cells. The case of
mini cells is expressed in clause C.8. The general philosophy of this
algorithm is to handle a maximum of traffic in the lower layer cells. The
upper layer cell is used as a \"rescue\" cell when a problem occurs. This will
be detailed in clause C.6.
## C.1.1 Speed discrimination
To avoid a high rate of handovers fast moving mobiles are sent and kept in the
upperlayer cells. This speed discrimination is based on the dwell time of a
mobile in a lower layer cell. A mobile handled by lower layer cells is sent to
the upper layer cell if the delay between successive handovers becomes small.
Furthermore a mobile handled by an upper layer cell is sent to a lower layer
cell if it receives from this cell a high level of signal for a sufficient
time. This is based on a \"leaky bucket\" mechanism which is described in
clause C.3.
# C.2 Handover causes
These causes are classified in two classes: **emergency** causes, which should
remain exceptional and request a quick and safe reaction, and \"**better
cell** \" causes.
## C.2.1 Emergency causes
An emergency handover is due to a problem in the serving cell and a handover
is necessary in a short delay in order not to loose the call. Emergency
handover causes can be:
\- too low quality on either direction (uplink or downlink),
\- too low received level in either direction,
\- distance too long.
This list is not necessarily exhaustive.
## C.2.2 Better cell causes
A \"better cell\" handover is triggered when the call would be better handled
by another cell, to optimize interferences, or reduce the signalling load of
the network, or separate fast/slow moving mobiles. This list is not
necessarily exhaustive.
Traditional \"Better cell\" causes are:
\- PBGT - power budget for neighbour cell greater than a threshold. PBGT is
checked only between cells of the same layer.
\- Upper layer to lower layer cell - good received level in neighbour lower
layer cell, with slow MS, when the serving cell is an upper layer cell.
The only cause which is described in details in the present document is the
\"upper layer to lower layer\" cause which is new. The other ones are well
known (see annex A of GSM 05.08 [3]) and are not described here.
# C.3 Dwell time in lower layer cells:
The speed discrimination process is based on the dwell time in a lower layer
cell. This time is expressed by tdwell or by cdwell (c for counter): cdwell =
2 * tdwell.
This relation comes from the fact that tdwell (external parameter) is in
seconds when cdwell (internal parameter) is in SACCH frames.
## C.3.1 Serving cell = lower layer cell
The observed dwell time is the dwell time in the serving cell: tdwell(s) \- s:
serving cell, or tdwell(0)
## C.3.2 Serving cell = upper layer cell
The dwell time is observed in each of the neighbour lower layer cells:
tdwell(n) - 1≤ n ≤ 64
## C.3.3 Mechanism of increasing / decreasing tdwell
\- tdwell(s)
tdwell(s) starts at 0 when the call begins in the cell (after call set-up or
intercell handover).
Each SACCH period tdwell is incremented by 0.5.
tdwell(s) is maintained after an intracell handover.
\- tdwell(n) - \"Leaky bucket\" mechanism
When a channel (SDCCH or TCH) is allocated in an upper layer cell (after call
set-up or handover), the following process starts:
A counter tdwell(n) is set to 0 for each neighbour cell n.
Each time a measurement result is received , for each of the declared n
neighbour cells:
\- If the reported raw received level RXLEV_NCELL(n) of the BTS(n) is above a
threshold L_RXLEV_OCHO(n), the counter tdwell(n) is incremented by 0.5.
\- Each time the received level is below this limit or no measurement is
received, the counter tdwell(n) is decreased by 0,5 with a minimum value of 0.
# C.4 Speed discrimination process:
## C.4.1 Serving cell = upperlayer cell
A handover is realized if the dwell time of a mobile in lower layer cell is
above a threshold:
tdwell(n) >= MIN_DWELL_TIME
This will forbid a fast moving mobile being sent to lower layer cell as the
dwell time for each of the crossed cells never reaches the threshold. The
handover is realized toward the lower layer cell which has triggered the
handover cause.
## C.4.2 Serving cell = lower layer cell
\- Emergency handover:
Whatever the time elapsed in the serving cell, any emergency handover sends
the call to the upper layer cell which is considered as a \"rescue\" cell.
\- PBGT
Depending on the time elapsed in the serving cell, the call is transferred to
the lower layer cell or to the upper layer cell.
If the dwell time in the serving cell is high enough (tdwell(0) >=
MIN_CONNECT_TIME), the mobile may be considered as a slow moving mobile and
the call is sent to the lower layer cell which has triggered the cause.
If the dwell time is low (below the threshold), the mobile is considered as a
fast moving mobile. To avoid a high number of handovers, the call is sent
preferentially to the upper layer cell.
This test on the dwell time is realized only if there has already been a PBGT
handover from another lower layer cell. This is to avoid sending a call to the
upper layer cell in the following cases
\- call initiated at the limit of the lower layer cell,
\- call transferred from the upper layer cell to the lower layer cell just
before reaching the limit of the lower layer cell,
\- after external handover: no information on the precedent cell and on the
handover cause. This will be the case for all interlayer handovers when both
layers are provided by different manufacturers.
# C.5 Representation of handovers
## C.5.1 Ideal behaviour: target cells are available
Figure C.3: Handovers in case of availability of the target cell
## C.5.2 Real behaviour: target cells may not be available
The handover that may occur to non preferred target cells due to the
unavailability of TCH resources are indicated with dotted line arrows in the
state diagram.
Figure C.4: state diagram
# C.6 Emergency handover
## C.6.1 Target cell = upper layer cell
When the serving cell is a microcell, the preferred target cell is always an
upper layer cell. If another microcell was accepted as target cell, there
would be an important risk to choose the wrong cell (the adjacent cell when
the right one is the perpendicular cell) and thus to loose the call.
Figure C.5:
In the figure above, let us suppose that the mobile is initially connected to
the µBTS1. When it turns at the street corner, depending on its speed, there
is a high probability it does not trigger a PBGT on the µBTS 3 before
detecting an emergency handover cause (crossing the high threshold). If a
microcell was possible as a target cell, the µBTS 2 would be chosen as the
mobile receives good measurement reports from this cell for a while. The µBTS
3 is either still not reported (due to the delay necessary in the mobile to
get synchronization on a new cell), or reported for a short time with an
insufficient average level.
The choice of µBTS 2 is of course very bad.
# C.7 Upper layer to lower layer cells handover
## C.7.1 General principles
\- based on the dwell time in a lower layer cell: it depends on the reported
measurements from neighbour lower layer cells.
The counter used to estimate this dwell time is based on a \"leaky bucket\"
mechanism, as described in clause C.3.
## C.7.2 Homogeneity of speed discrimination in lower layer and upper layer
cells
Theoretically the dwell time limit in a lower layer cell should be the same
when this cell is the serving cell or the neighbour cell:MIN_CONNECT_TIME =
MIN_DWELL_TIME.
To avoid Ping-Pong effect there must be the following relationship:
MIN_CONNECT_TIME ≤ MIN_DWELL_TIME
This is to avoid the MS to be declared fast by the microcell and slow by the
upper layer cell.
# C.8 Minicells
With minicells there are some differences compared to microcells: there is no
street corner effect. Thus there is no risk in sending a mobile to another
minicell when an emergency handover is triggered. The diagram of handovers
becomes the following:
## C.8.1 Handover diagrams
Figure C.6: Simplified handover diagram for minicells
Figure C.7: Complete handover diagram for minicells
# C.9 O&M parameters
\- MIN_CONNECT_TIME:
Minimum time the mobile has to stay in the lower layer cell to be considered
as slow, when the serving cell is the microcell.
\- MIN_DWELL_TIME:
Value of the timer MIN_DWELL_TIME to send a call from an upper layer cell to a
lower layer cell.
\- L_RXLEV_OCHO(n):
Minimum receive LEVel on downlink for upper layer to neighbour lower layer
Cell n HandOver.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Example 4 (France Telecom/CNET)
**Description of algorithm**
Source: France Telecom/CNET
Date: 22.06.95
Subject: Informative annex for high speed MS
# D.1 Introduction
In order to increase the capacity of an existent GSM mobile network (composed
with large cells), the total number of cell has to be increased and the
average cell radius has to be decreased (-> small cells). If this solution is
not sufficient to provide the required capacity, a hierarchical network can be
developed by adding antenna on the streets. Such cells are called microcell
and the corresponding layer is called lowerlayer.
Nevertheless to optimize the quality of service for high speed mobiles, large
cells or small cells are still used as an overlayer which is called
upperlayer.
The algorithm presented below (gradient algorithm) provides a mean to spread
mobiles on the layers depending of their speed.
Figure D.1 features different kinds of cells and layers.
{width="5.878472222222222in" height="3.001388888888889in"}
Figure D.1: Representation of the different kinds of cells and layers
In the case of a two layers hierarchical network, the uppest layer is called
upperlayer whatever the type of its cells (large cell or small cell).
# D.2 Descriptions of the algorithm
Mobile speed is estimated from the variation of the field strength received by
the mobile from the target cell.
This method of estimation is based on the computation of the gradient between
two averages of the field strength received by the mobile from the target cell
(see subclause D.4.1 Estimation of the field strength variations). This
algorithm can be used in any kind of multicellular network (composed with two
layers ore more than two layers).
Considering the case of a network composed with three layers.
A \"fast\" mobile connected to a cell of the lowerlayer must handover towards
a cell of the middlelayer. Nevertheless the field strength received from the
cell of the middlelayer must be high enough to trigger the handover.
A \"slow\" mobile connected to the lowerlayer must handover towards a cell of
the same layer.
In both cases the estimation of mobile speeds are based on the field strength
received from a cell of the lowerlayer.
A \"fast\" mobile connected to a cell of the upperlayer must handover towards
a cell of the same layer.
A \"slow\" mobile connected to a cell of the upperlayer must handover to a
cell of the middlelayer. In both cases the estimation of mobile speeds are
based on the field strength received from a cell of the middlelayer.
A \"fast\" mobile connected to a cell of the middlelayer must handover towards
a cell of the upperlayer. Nevertheless the field strength received from the
cell of the upperlayer must be high enough to trigger the handover.
The estimation of mobile speeds are based on the field strength received from
a cell of the middlelayer.
A \"slow\" mobile connected to a cell of the middlelayer must handover towards
a cell of the lowerlayer. The estimation of mobile speeds are based on the
field strength received from a cell of the lowerlayer
# D.3 Handover causes
Some causes trigger emergency handovers, others trigger computations of the
estimation of the mobile speed.
## D.3.1 emergency handover causes
An emergency handover is performed as soon as the quality of service become
too low (RXQUAL and RXLEV causes), the handover has to be fast and secured.
Target cells are ordinated depending on the value of PBGT(n), nevertheless
cells of the directly upper layer have priority.
ex: in a hierarchical network composed with two layers, emergency handovers in
cells of the lowerlayer are performed in priority towards cells of the
upperlayer.
a) Comparison of RXLEV_XX with L_RXLEV_XX_H (XX = DL or UL)
RXLEV_XX \ L_RXQUAL_XX_H
## D.3.2 mobile speeds estimation causes
Mobile speeds are estimated as soon as a non emergency handover is required.
Two handover causes, whom depend of the target cell type, provide a
computation of the estimation of mobile speeds.
A PBGT criteria is used in the case of a target cell of the same layer as the
source one.
A CATCH criteria is used in the case of a target cell of a lower layer than
the source one.
The PBGT(n) criteria if defined as in the appendix A of recommendation GSM
05.08 [3] i.e.:
1) RXLEV_NCELL(n) > RXLEV_MIN(n) + Max(0,Pa)
where Pa = (MS_TXPWR_MAX(n) -P)
2) PBGT(n) - HO_MARGIN(n1,n2) > 0
where n1: source cell
n2: target cell
The CATCH criteria is defined as follow:
RXLEV_NCELL(0,n) > CATCH(0,n)
where RXLEV_NCELL(0,n): RXLEV assessed on the BCCH carrier of the cell n
CATCH(0,n): field strength threshold
This comparison enables handover to be performed towards a cell of a lower
layer whom received field strength is considered to be high enough.
# D.4 Mobile speeds estimations
As soon as one of the two causes described above is triggered (PBGT, CATCH) a
process of computation of the estimation of the mobile speed is performed.
The method of estimation of the field strength variations is based on the
computation of the gradient between two averages of field strengths received
by the mobile from the target cell.
## D.4.1 Estimation of the field strength variations
The first of the two averages of field strength used in the gradient
computation is the one computed from measurements received from the target
cell which has verified the handover criteria.
The handover cause can be either a PBGT or a CATCH one (see subclause D.3.2
mobile speeds estimation causes).
The second of the two field strength averages used in the gradient computation
is the latest one for which the gaps between all the previous averages and the
straight line passing-by the two averages defined above is lower than **Emax
(E \  U_RXLEV_NCELL(0,n)**
where:
\- -U_RXLEV_NCELL(0,n) is the minimum field strength assessed from the BCCH
carrier of the upper layer target cell to performed a handover towards it.
# D.5 BSS decision algorithm
The BSS decision algorithm is the classical one as described in the appendix A
of the recommendation GSM 05.08 [3]. Nevertheless in the case of an emergency
handover, cells of the directly upper layer has priority. If no cell of the
directly upper layer is available, cells of the same layer are ordering
depending of the PBGT(n2) - HO_MARGIN(n1,n2) values.
# D.6 O&M parameters
**_CELL_TYPE:_** Hierarchy level of serving cell
Range 0‑7
Step size 1
Coding 0: microcell
1: small cell
2: large cell
3‑7: for future use
**_NCELL_TYPE(n):_** Hierarchy level of n-th neighbour cell
n 1‑32
Range 0‑7
Step size 1
Coding 0: microcell
1: small cell
2: large cell
3‑7: for future use
**_EN_MS_SPEED:_** Enable/Disable classification of MS regarding SPEED
Coding 0: disable feature
1: enable feature
**_NAmax:_** Maximum number of averages necessary to compute the gradient.
Range 0 - 63 (SACCH)
Step size 1
**_NAmin:_** Minimum number of averages necessary to compute the gradient.
Range 0 - 63 (SACCH)
Step size 1
**_Emax:_** Maximum gap allowed between a computed average and the straight
line considered.
Range 0 - 15 (dB)
Step size 1
**_GRAD:_** Gradient threshold. It depends of the mobile speed threshold.
Middlelayers have two Grad thresholds (Gradmin & Gradmax), the upperlayer and
the lowerlayer has one threshold (Grad).
Range 0 - 255
Step size 1
**_CATCH(n):_** Minimum field strength threshold. This is the minimum field
strength the mobile has to receive from a cell of the directly lower layer to
perform a handover.
Range 0 - 63 (dB)
Step size 1
**_U_RXLEV_NCELL(0,n):_** Field strength threshold. This is the minimum field
strength necessary to receive from the upper layer cell to performed a
handover towards it.
Range 0 - 63
Step size 1
# D.7 Examples
Figure D.2 features a field strength variations, and its associate averages,
measured by a mobile moving away from its source base station.
In this particular case the average window size is four measurements length
and the number of measurements kept is equal to nineteen (-> NAmax = 16).
{width="5.457638888888889in" height="3.582638888888889in"}
Averages are calculated according to the sliding window technique.
{width="5.799305555555556in" height="3.8069444444444445in"}
Figure D.2: Field strength samples and averages
In some particular and rare cases the target cell may have a decreasing field
strength. In most of the cases that means that it is the \"best\" cell but
that the mobile is moving away from it.
It is even also necessary to take into account the gradient of the field
strength in the mobile speeds estimation. For that reason it is necessary to
compute the absolute values of gaps and of the gradient.
Figure D.3 features an example of gaps computation.
{width="4.656944444444444in" height="4.1625in"}
Figure D.3: Gap computation
For each average computed (n), from the latest to the oldest, the algorithm
determines the maximum gap with the corresponding field strength computed from
the straight line (*****).
Considering the average computed at date N0‑10 in the particular case of
figure D.3. The maximum gap computed **Emax_computed** , between the nine
previous averages (from N0‑1 to N0‑9) and the straight line N0‑10, is lower
than the maximum gap allowed **Emax**.
On the other hand considering the average computed at date N0‑14. The gap
computed between the average on date N0‑10 and the straight line N0‑14 is
higher than the maximum gap allowed **Emax.**
In this case the last average for which the maximum gap computed is lower than
**Emax** is the one computed on date **N0‑13**.
In this case the gradient of the field strength is equal to:
GRAD = (RXLEV_NCELL(n,No) - RXLEV_NCELL(n,No‑13))/13
where:
**_RXLEV_NCELL(n,N0)_** : RXLEV assessed on the BCCH carrier of the cell n,
which has verified the handover criteria (date N0).
**_RXLEV_NCELL(n,N0‑13)_** : RXLEV assessed on the BCCH carrier of the cell,
computed on date N0‑13.
In the case of figure D.3, averages are almost constants from date N0‑10 to
N0‑15, it can be the case for example for a mobile stopped at a traffic light
. The parameter **Emax** avoid to take into account these averages in the
estimation of the mobile speeds.
# D.8 State diagrams
## D.8.1 Case of a three layers hierarchical network
**Ideal behaviour: target cells are available**
{width="5.4527777777777775in" height="3.1395833333333334in"}
Figure D.4: Handovers in case of availability of the target cell
**Non ideal behaviour: target cells may not be available**
The handover that may occur to non preferred target cells due to the
unavailability of TCH resources are indicated with dotted line arrows in the
state diagram.
{width="6.1in" height="4.05625in"}
Figure D.5: Handover in case of non availability of the target cell
## D.8.2 Case of a two layers hierarchical network
**Ideal behaviour: target cells are available**
{width="6.325in" height="2.33125in"}
Figure D.6: Handovers in case of availability of the target cell
**Non ideal behaviour: target cells may not be available**
{width="6.471527777777778in" height="3.1875in"}
The handover that may occur to non preferred target cells due to the
unavailability of TCH resources are indicated with dotted line arrows in the
state diagram.
Figure D.7: Handover in case of non availability of the target cell
###### ## Annex E (informative): Simulation Model for Handover Performance
Evaluation in Hierarchical Cell Structures
# E.1 Introduction
In this annex, the general requirements of a simulation model for handover
performance evaluation in hierarchical cell structures are specified.
The following criteria are considered fundamental for the design of the
overall simulation model:
\- Mobile environment;
\- Radio network model;
\- Propagation model;
\- Motion model;
\- Handover algorithms;
\- Measurement reporting;
\- Performance criteria.
# E.2 Mobile Environment
The single mobile environment is taken to allow relatively simple simulations
and easier interpretation of the performance results.
In order to simulate the interference that may occur, a detailed frequency
allocation pattern and a large number of cells are required. In the single
mobile environment, the interference situation is not taken into account.
Therefore, handovers due to quality are not simulated. However, this enables
the very evaluation of the handover algorithm, and not the evaluation of the
frequency pattern.
# E.3 Radio Network Model
The radio network model represents the network layout. It should allow the
definition of the following parameters:
\- Number of layers;
\- Number of cells on each layer;
\- BTS site pattern;
\- BTS separation.
Three network model scenarios are proposed.
## E.3.1 Scenario 1: Hot Spot
One cell in the upper layer, one cell in the lower layer.
## E.3.2 Scenario 2: Line of Cells
Two cell in the upper layer, 5 cells in the lower layer. Lower layer cell
distance: 400 m. Upper layer cell distance: 2 km.
Figure E.1
## E.3.3 Scenario 3: Manhattan Coverage
Four cells in the upper layer, 13 cells in the lower layer. Lower layer cell
distance between BTS: 400 m. Upper layer cell distance: 2 km. The cells in the
lower layer are situated at alternate crossings.
Figure E.2
# E.4 Propagation Model
## E.4.1 Upper Layer Path Loss
### E.4.1.1 Macrocells
For macrocells the GSM 03.30 Hata model is used to simulate this layer.
Table E.1: Validity domain of Hata\'s model for GSM 900 MHz
* * *
Parameter Validity range Frequency (f) 150 MHz - 1 000 MHz Base station height
(Hb) 30 - 200 m MS height (Hm) 1 - 10 m Distance (d) 1 - 20 km
* * *
For DCS 1800 the model is different and not given in the present document.
**Hata\'s model**
## For urban environment, the formula is given by: {#for-urban-environment-
the-formula-is-given-by .j2}
{width="5.611805555555556in" height="0.2638888888888889in"}
the corrective term a(Hm) is zero for MS antenna height of 1.5 m, which is
assumed.
For suburban, rural quasi-open and rural open environment there are corrective
terms. Since microcellular approach is not assumed in these environments,
these terms are not given.
**Simulation Profile**
A typical profile at 900 MHz for urban environment is given in the table
below:
Table E.2
* * *
BTS antenna height (m) 30 50 100 MS antenna height (m) 1.5 1.5 1.5 Hata\'s
loss (d in km) 126.4 + 35.2*log(d) 123.3 + 33.7*log(d) 119.2 + 31.8*log(d)
* * *
For the simulation a base station antenna height of 30 m is used.
### E.4.1.2 Small cells
The propagation model for small cells, with a typical maximum range of 1‑3 km,
can be derived also from GSM 03.30. Therefore COST 231 Walfish-Ikegami model
can be utilized.
Table E.3: Validity domain of COST 231 Walfish Ikegami model
* * *
**Parameter** **Validity range** Frequency (f) 800 MHz - 2 000 MHz BTS antenna
height (Hb) 4 - 50 m MS antenna height (Hm) 1 - 3 m Distance (d) 0.02 - 5 km
Height of buildings (Hroof, in m)  
Width of road (w, in m)  
Building separation (b, in m)  
Road orientation with respect to the direct path (Phi, in °)  
Urban areas
* * *
**COST 231 Walfish Ikegami model**
Two profiles are defined: with and without line of sight.
**Line of sight formula**
The COST 231 Walfish-Ikegami formula for urban environment with line-of-sight
(Street Canyon) is
for d >= 0.020 km
Note that this equation is not valid in the case of line of sight in a
microcell because of the canyon effect in a microcell.
**Non line-of-site formula**
with Lo free-space loss
with Lrst (roof-top-to-street diffraction and scatter loss)
with
with Lmsd a parameter that will be given for metropolitan centres.
**Simulation profile**
A typical profile at 900 MHz for urban environment that can be used in the
simulations is given in the table below:
Width of the road, w = 20 m
Height of building roof tops, Hroof = 15 m
Height of BTS antenna, Hb = 17m
Road orientation to direct radio path, phi = 90°
Building separation, b = 40 m
{width="2.0694444444444446in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}
where d is in km.
NOTE: It is not possible to use this model in the case of antenna height just
below roof top. In this environment an additional term is required, which is
not given in order not to complexify the simulations.
## E.4.2 Lower Layer Path Loss
The lower layer uses an outdoor propagation model, called dual slope model. It
is based on a model used in \"Path Loss and Fading in Microcells\", COST231 TD
65, Darmstadt, 12th September 1990.
The values of the different parameters were determined by field measurements
considering a street width of 18,5 metres.
### E.4.2.1 Line-of-sight Case
In the line-of-sight case, the path loss L is given by:
with the parameters:
d: distance transmitter-receiver _in metres_
dL: distance between transmitting antenna and breakpoint (m) 500 m
n1: slope factor of path loss before breakpoint 2.6
n2: slope factor of path loss after breakpoint 4.0
p: shape factor 4
### E.4.2.2 Non Line-of-sight Case
In the non line-of-sight case, the supplementary path loss introduced is:
with the parameters:
y: distance in non-line-of-sight from the BTS _in meters_
yE1: distance from corner to virtual position of transmitter (m) 2.6
yE2: breakpoint distance 65.3 m
nE1: slope factor of path loss before breakpoint 2.34
nE2: slope factor of path loss after breakpoint 2.84
p: shape factor 4
For instance, with the following configuration:
Figure E.3
### E.4.2.3 Shape of the level with the proposed path loss model
We considered the following scenario:
Figure E.4
When the MS goes from BTS 1 to BTS 3, the path losses of the different BTSs
have the following shape:
Figure E.5
## E.4.3 Fading
Fast (Rayleigh) fading is neglected as the values considered are averaged over
at least 0.5 ms.
Slow fading (shadowing) is modelled by a Gaussian distributed random variable
F to the path loss level value. The model is characterized by two parameters:
\- the standard deviation of the Gaussian distribution, Macrocell: 6 dB,
Microcell: 4 dB,
\- the correlation length, dcor=10 metres.
The correlation function between two positions of the MS x1 and x2 can be
written:
where λ### is a constant. Note that for λ = ln2, the correlation function
equals 0.5 at the correlation distance.
# E.5 Motion Model
The MS can either go straight or turn at the corner of a street.
Four constant speeds shall be considered: 3, 36, 54 and 72 km/h. In the
turning around the corner case, only the speeds 3 km/h and 36 km/h shall be
considered.
The two motion models should be simulated for the three radio network
scenarios proposed.
# E.6 Handover Algorithms
As per annex A-D.
The late handover decision and the delay between handover decision and
execution shall be considered, which could lead to dropped calls.
# E.7 Measurement Reporting
This effect, especially for corner effects, of the time delay between
receiving and no longer receiving a neighbour cell, and reporting to the BTS
plus the BTS handling time has to be accounted for.
# E.8 Performance Criteria
The following performance criteria will be taken:
\- Percentage of time a call is handled on the different layers;
\- Distribution of the position where the handover takes place;
\- Number of handovers;
\- Number of dropped calls.
# E.9 Open Issues
\- Location of call set up and termination.
\- ###How to simulate the measurement reporting?
It was proposed to simulate the delay in the measurement reporting either by a
constant or by a random variable between 0 and a value to be determined.
#