# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the requirements for the CTS-Fixed Part (CTS-
FP) transceiver of the digital mobile cellular and personal communication
systems operating in the 900 MHz (P-GSM and E-GSM) and 1 800 MHz band (GSM 900
and DCS 1 800), and specifies the Radio subsystem frequency control
implemented in the CTS-Fixed Part.
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements defined in the present document
apply to the full range of environmental conditions specified for the CTS-FP
equipment (see annex C).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 03.22: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in idle mode and group receive
mode\".
[3] GSM 03.52 : \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); GSM
Cordless Telephony System (CTS); Lower layers of the CTS radio interface;
Stage 2\".
[4] GSM 04.56 : \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); GSM
Cordless Telephony System (CTS); CTS radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[5] GSM 05.01: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Physical layer on the radio path General description\".
[6] GSM 05.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[7] GSM 05.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Modulation\".
[8] GSM 05.05: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Radio
transmission and reception\".
[9] GSM 05.08: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Radio
subsystem link control\".
[10] GSM 05.10: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Radio
subsystem synchronization\".
[11] GSM 11.56: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); CTS-
Fixed Part conformance specification\".
[12] GSM 03.56: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); GSM
Cordless Telephony System (CTS); CTS Architecture Description; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**CTS Mobile Station:** GSM-MS supporting CTS.
**CTS Fixed Part:** CTS-FP is a device which acts as a link between the CTS-MS
and the fixed network.
**GSM-CTS:** Cordless Telephony System based on GSM.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in GSM 01.04. In
addition, the following abbreviations are used:
AFA Adaptive Frequency Allocation
CTS Cordless Telephony System
CTS-FP CTS-Fixed Part
CTS-MS CTS-Mobile Station
GFL Generic Frequency List
TFH Total Frequency Hopping
# 4 Radio transmission and reception
## 4.1 Frequency band and channels arrangements
i) Standard or primary GSM 900 Band, P‑GSM:
\- for Standard GSM 900 band, the CTS-FP is required to operate in the
following frequency band:
\- 890 MHz to 915 MHz: CTS-FP receive;
\- 935 MHz to 960 MHz: CTS-FP transmit.
ii) Extended GSM 900 Band, E‑GSM (includes Standard GSM 900 band):
\- for Extended GSM 900 band, the CTS-FP is required to operate in the
following frequency band:
\- 880 MHz to 915 MHz: CTS-FP receive;
\- 925 MHz to 960 MHz: CTS-FP transmit.
iii) DCS 1 800 Band:
\- for DCS 1 800 band, the CTS-FP is required to operate in the following
band:
\- 1 710 MHz to 1 785 MHz: CTS-FP receive;
\- 1 805 MHz to 1 880 MHz: CTS-FP transmit.
The carrier spacing is 200 kHz.
The carrier frequency is designated by the absolute radio frequency channel
number (ARFCN) as specified in GSM 05.05 clause 2.
## 4.2 Reference configuration
The reference configuration for the CTS-FP radio subsystem is described in GSM
05.01.
## 4.3 Transmitter characteristics
Throughout this clause, unless otherwise stated, requirements are given in
terms of power levels at the antenna connector of the equipment. If an active
device is added to the CTS-FP antenna connector, the requirements of this
clause shall also be met at the output of this active device. For equipment
with integral antenna only, a reference antenna with 0 dBi gain shall be
assumed.
The term output power refers to the measure of the power when averaged over
the useful part of the burst (see annex B).
The term peak hold refers to a measurement where the maximum is taken over a
sufficient time that the level would not significantly increase if the holding
time were longer.
### 4.3.1 Output power
The CTS-FP maximum output power and lowest nominal output power shall be, as
defined in the following table.
* * *
                                     GSM 900   DCS 1 800   Tolerance (dB)   
                                                           for conditions   
                                                           normal           extreme
**Maximum Nominal output power** 11 dBm 12 dBm +0/-2 +0,5/-2,5 **Lowest
Nominal output power** -9 dBm -8 dBm ±4 ±5
* * *
The different power control levels needed to support downlink adaptive RF
power control (seeGSM 05.08) shall have the nominal output power as defined in
the table below, starting from the power control level for the lowest nominal
output power up to the power control level for the maximum nominal output
power as defined in the table above.
* * *
GSM 900  
Power control level Nominal Output power (dBm) Tolerance (dB) for conditions  
**normal** **extreme**
1 11 +0/-2 +0,5/-2,5 2 9 ±2 ±3 3 7 ±3 ±4 4 5 ±3 ±4 5 3 ±3 ±4 6 1 ±3 ±4 7 -1 ±3
±4 8 -3 ±4 ±5 9 -5 ±4 ±5 10 -7 ±4 ±5 11-14 -9 ±4 ±5
* * *
* * *
DCS 1 800  
Power control level Nominal Output power (dBm) Tolerance (dB) for conditions  
**normal** **extreme**
1-4 12 +0/-2 +0,5/-2,5 5 10 ±2 ±3 6 8 ±3 ±4 7 6 ±3 ±4 8 4 ±3 ±4 9 2 ±3 ±4 10 0
±3 ±4 11 -2 ±4 ±5 12 -4 ±4 ±5 13 -6 ±4 ±5 14 -8 ±4 ±5
* * *
NOTE: The above definition of the power control levels for GSM 900 and DCS
1800 allows to have an equivalent indoor coverage when the same power control
level is applied in GSM 900 and DCS 1800.
Furthermore, the difference in output power actually transmitted by the CTS-FP
between two power control levels where the difference in nominal output power
indicates an increase of 2 dB (taking into account the restrictions due to
nominal maximum and lowest output powers), shall be +2 ± 1,5 dB. Similarly, if
the difference in output power actually transmitted by the CTS-FP between two
power control levels where the difference in nominal output power indicates an
decrease of 2 dB (taking into account the restrictions due to nominal maximum
and lowest output powers), shall be ‑2 ± 1,5 dB.
### 4.3.2 Output RF spectrum
The specifications contained in this clause apply to CTS-FP, in frequency
hopping as well as in non frequency hopping mode.
Due to the bursty nature of the signal, the output RF spectrum results from
two effects:
‑ the modulation process;
‑ the power ramping up and down (switching transients).
The two effects are specified separately; the measurement method used to
analyse separately those two effects is specified in GSM 11.56. It is based on
the \"ringing effect\" during the transients, and is a measurement in the time
domain, at each point in frequency.
The limits specified thereunder are based on a 5‑pole synchronously tuned
measurement filter.
#### 4.3.2.1 Spectrum due to the modulation and wide band noise
The output RF modulation spectrum is specified in the following tables. A mask
representation of the present document is shown in annex A. The present
document applies for all RF channels supported by the equipment.
The specification applies to the entire of the relevant transmit band and up
to 2 MHz either side.
The specification shall be met under the following measurement conditions:
\- zero frequency scan, filter bandwidth and video bandwidth of 30 kHz up to
1800 kHz from the carrier and 100 kHz at 1800 kHz and above from the carrier,
with averaging done over 50 % to 90 % of the useful part of the transmitted
bursts, excluding the midamble, and then averaged over at least 200 such burst
measurements. Above 1800 kHz from the carrier only measurements centred on 200
kHz multiples are taken with averaging over 50 bursts;
\- when tests are done in frequency hopping mode, the averaging shall include
only bursts transmitted when the hopping carrier corresponds to the nominal
carrier of the measurement. The specifications then apply to the measurement
results for any of the hopping frequencies.
The power level is the \"actual absolute output power\" defined in clause
4.3.1.
The figures in tables a) and b) below, at the horizontally listed frequency
offset from the carrier (kHz), are then the maximum allowed level (dB)
relative to a measurement in 30 kHz on the carrier.
a) GSM 900 CTS-FP:
* * *
        100    200   250   400   ≥ 600     ≥ 1 800   ≥ 6 000
                                 \ 1 610 ‑ \ 1 805 ‑ 1 865 out‑of band (d) > 925 ‑ 12,750 > 1 865
‑ 12,750
* * *
The reference sensitivity performance as specified in table 1 shall be met
when the following signals are simultaneously input to the receiver:
‑ a useful signal at frequency fo, 3 dB above the reference sensitivity level
as specified in clause 4.5.2;
‑ a continuous, static sine wave signal at a level as in the table below and
at a frequency (f) which is an integer multiple of 200 kHz;
with the following exceptions, called spurious response frequencies:
a) GSM 900: in band, for a maximum of six occurrences (which if grouped shall
not exceed three contiguous occurrences per group);
DCS 1 800: in band, for a maximum of twelve occurrences (which if grouped
shall not exceed three contiguous occurrences per group);
b) out of band, for a maximum of 24 occurrences (which if below f0 and grouped
shall not exceed three contiguous occurrences per group).
where the above performance shall be met when the continuous sine wave signal
(f) is set to a level of 70 dBµV (emf) (i.e. ‑43 dBm).
* * *
Frequency GSM 900 DCS 1 800  
band CTS-FP CTS-FP  
dBµV dBm dBµV dBm (emf) (emf)  
in‑band  
600 kHz ≤ \|f‑fo \| \ 6 MHz,
which is an integer multiple of 200 kHz, a GSM TDMA signal modulated by any
148‑bit sequence of the 511‑bit pseudo random bit sequence, defined in CCITT
Recommendation O.153 fascicle IV.4, at a level as defined in the table below.
The interferer shall have one timeslot active and the frequency shall be at
least 2 channels separated from any identified spurious response. The
transmitted bursts shall be synchronized to but delayed in time between 61 and
86 bit periods relative to the bursts of the wanted signal.
NOTE: When testing this requirement, a notch filter may be necessary to ensure
that the co‑channel performance of the receiver is not compromised.
* * *
              CTS-FP
              (dBm)
GSM 900 ‑31 DCS 1 800 ‑31
* * *
### 4.4.3 Intermodulation characteristics
The reference sensitivity performance as specified in table 1 shall be met
when the following signals are simultaneously input to the receiver:
‑ a useful signal at frequency fo, 3 dB above the reference sensitivity level
as specified in clause 4.5.2;
‑ a continuous, static sine wave signal at frequency f1 and a level of 64 dBµV
(emf) (i.e. ‑49 dBm);
‑ any 148‑bits subsequence of the 511‑bits pseudo‑random sequence, defined in
CCITT Recommendation O.153 fascicle IV.4 modulating a signal at frequency f2,
and a level of 64 dBµV (emf) (i.e. ‑49 dBm):
such that f0 = 2f1 ‑ f2 and \|f2‑f1 \| = 800 kHz.
NOTE: For clauses 4.4.2 and 4.4.3 instead of any 148‑bits subsequence of the
511‑bits pseudo‑random sequence, defined in CCITT Recommendation O.153
fascicle IV.4, it is also allowed to use a more random pseudo‑random sequence.
## 4.5 Transmitter / receiver performance
In order to assess the error rate performance that is described in this clause
it is required for a CTS-FP equipment to have a \"loop back\" facility by
which the equipment transmits back the same information that it decoded, in
the same mode. This facility is specified in GSM 11.56.
This clause aims at specifying the receiver performance, taking into account
that transmitter errors must not occur, and that the transmitter shall be
tested separately (see clause 4.3.6). All the values given are valid if any of
the features: discontinuous transmission (DTx), discontinuous reception (DRx),
or frequency hopping (FH) are used or not. The received power levels under
multipath fading conditions given are the mean powers of the sum of the
individual paths.
In this clause power levels are given also in terms of field strength,
assuming a 0 dBi gain antenna, to apply for the test of CTS-FPs with integral
antennas.
According to the CTSARCH operation specified in GSM 05.02 clause 6.5.1 ix),
the receiver performance specified in this clause for the CTSARCH shall be met
for at least one of the two bursts sent on the CTSARCH.
### 4.5.1 Nominal error rate
This clause describes the transmission requirements in terms of error rates in
nominal conditions i.e. without interference and with an input level of 20 dB
above the reference sensitivity level. The relevant propagation conditions
appear in GSM 05.05 annex C.
Under the following propagation conditions, the chip error rate, equivalent to
the bit error rate of the non protected bits (TCH/FS, class II) shall have the
following limits:
‑ static channel: BER ≤ 10‑4.
This performance shall be maintained up to ‑40 dBm input level for static and
multipath conditions.
Furthermore, for static conditions, a bit error rate of 10^‑^3 shall be
maintained up to ‑15 dBm for GSM 900, ‑23 dBm for DCS 1 800.
### 4.5.2 Reference sensitivity level
The reference sensitivity performance in terms of frame erasure, bit error, or
residual bit error rates (whichever appropriate) is specified in table 1,
according to the type of channel and the propagation condition. Propagation
conditions other than static and TI5 no FH are for CTS-FP not relevant and
need not be tested.
The actual sensitivity level is defined as the input level for which this
performance is met. The actual sensitivity level shall be less than a
specified limit, called the reference sensitivity level. The reference
sensitivity level shall be:
* * *
‑ for GSM 900 CTS-FP : ‑102 dBm ‑ for DCS 1 800 CTS-FP : ‑102 dBm
* * *
The reference sensitivity performance specified above need not be met in the
following cases:
\- for CTS-FP at the static channel, if the received level on either of the
two adjacent timeslots to the wanted exceed the wanted timeslot by more than
20 dB.
The interfering adjacent time slots shall be static with valid GSM signals in
all cases.
NOTE: in the TI5 no FH propagation channel, the CTS-FP shall meet a
performance equal to that for the TU50 no FH (900MHz) for a useful signal 3dB
greater than the relevant reference sensitivity.
### 4.5.3 Reference interference level
The reference interference performance (for cochannel, C/Ic, or adjacent
channel, C/Ia) in terms of frame erasure, bit error or residual bit error
rates (whichever appropriate) is specified in table 2, according to the type
of channel. Propagation conditions other than static and TI5 no FH are for
CTS-FP not relevant and need not be tested.
The actual interference ratio is defined as the interference ratio for which
this performance is met. The actual interference ratio shall be less than a
specified limit, called the reference interference ratio. The reference
interference ratio shall be:
* * *
‑ for cochannel interference : C/Ic = 9 dB ‑ for adjacent (200 kHz)
interference : C/Ia1 = ‑9 dB ‑ for adjacent (400 kHz) interference : C/Ia2 =
‑41 dB ‑ for adjacent (600 kHz) interference : C/Ia3 = ‑49 dB
* * *
These specifications apply for a wanted signal input level of 20 dB above the
reference sensitivity level, and for a random, continuous, GSM‑modulated
interfering signal. However, the CTS-FP 900MHz and 1800MHz need only meet,
measured in the TI5 no FH propagation channel, an interference performance
equal to that for the TU50 no FH channel (900MHz) with a useful C/I of 4dB
greater than the relevant interference performance.
In any case the wanted and interfering signals shall be subject to the same
propagation profiles (see GSM 05.05 annex C), independent on the two channels.
For adjacent channel interference, if in order to ease measurement, a TI5 (no
FH) faded wanted signal, and a static adjacent channel interferer are used,
the interference performance shall be:
GSM 900 DCS 1 800
TCH/FS (FER): 10,2α % 5,1α %
Class Ib (RBER): 0,72/α % 0,45/α %
Class II (RBER): 8,8 % 8,9 %
FACCH (FER): 17,1 % 6,1 %
when a margin of 4dB above reference sensitivity is included.
### 4.5.4 Erroneous frame indication performance
a) On a speech TCH (TCH/FS or TCH/HS) with a random RF input, of the frames
believed to be FACCH or SACCH, the overall reception performance shall be such
that no more than 0,002 % of the frames are assessed to be error free.
b) On a speech TCH (TCH/FS or TCH/HS) with a random RF input, the overall
reception performance shall be such that, on average, less than one undetected
bad speech frame (false bad frame indication BFI) shall be measured in one
minute.
c) On a speech TCH (TCH/FS or TCH/HS), when DTX is activated with SID frames
and SACCH frames received 20 dB above the reference sensitivity level and with
no transmission at the other bursts of the TCH, the overall reception shall be
such that, on average, less than one undetected bad speech frame (false bad
frame indication BFI) shall be measured in one minute for CTS-FP.
d) For a CTS-FP on a CTSARCH with a random RF input, the overall reception
performance shall be such that less than 0,02 % of frames are assessed to be
error free.
### 4.5.5 Access performance at high input levels
Under static propagation conditions with a received input level from 20 dB
above the reference sensitivity level up to ‑15 dBm for GSM900 and ‑23 dBm for
DCS1800, and a single CTS-MS sending an access request, the CTS-FP FER shall
be less than 1% for CTSARCH.
### 4.5.6 Frequency hopping performance under interference conditions
Under the following conditions:
\- a useful signal, cyclic frequency hopping over four carriers under static
conditions, with equal input levels 20 dB above reference sensitivity level;
\- a random, continuous, GMSK-modulated interfering signal on only one of the
carriers at a level 10 dB higher than the useful signal.
The FER for TCH/FS shall be less than 5%.
Table 1: Reference sensitivity performance
* * *
GSM 900
Type of Propagation conditions
channel static TI5\  
(no FH)
FACCH/H (FER) 0,1 % 6,9 %
FACCH/F (FER) 0,1 % 8,0 %
CTSAGCH, CTSPCH,\ (FER) 0,1 % 13 % SACCH
CTSBCH-SB, CTSARCH (FER) 1 % 16 %
TCH/FS (FER) 0,1α % 6α %
class Ib (RBER) 0,4/α % 0,4/α %
class II (RBER) 2 % 8 %
TCH/EFS (FER) \< 0,1 % 8 %
                                     (RBER Ib)                \< 0,1 %   0,21 %
                                     (RBER II)                2,0 %      7 %
TCH/HS (FER) 0,025 % 4,1 %
class Ib (RBER, BFI=0) 0,001 % 0,36 %
class II (RBER, BFI=0) 0,72 % 6,9 %
                                     (UFR)                    0,048 %    5,6 %
class Ib (RBER,(BFI or UFI)=0) 0,001 % 0,24 %
                                     (EVSIDR)                 0,06 %     6,8 %
(RBER, SID=2 and (BFI or UFI)=0) 0,001 % 0,01 %
                                     (ESIDR)                  0,01 %     3,0 %
(RBER, SID=1 or SID=2) 0,003 % 0,3 %
DCS 1 800
Type of Propagation conditions
channel static TI5\  
(no FH)
FACCH/H (FER) 0,1 % 7,2 %
FACCH/F (FER) 0,1 % 3,9 %
CTSAGCH, CTSPCH,\ (FER) 0,1 % 9 % SACCH
CTSBCH-SB, CTSARCH (FER) 1 % 19 %
TCH/FS (FER) 0,1α % 3α %
class Ib (RBER) 0,4/α % 0,3/α %
class II (RBER) 2 % 8 %
TCH/EFS (FER) \< 0,1 % 4 %
                                     (RBER Ib)                \< 0,1 %   0,12 %
                                     (RBER II)                2,0 %      8 %
(continued)
* * *
Table 1 (concluded): Reference sensitivity performance
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | **DCS 1 800** | | | | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | Type of Channel | Propagation conditions | | | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | | static | TI5\ | | | | | (no FH) | | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | TCH/HS | (FER) | 0,025 % | 4,2 % | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | class Ib (RBER, BFI=0) | 0,001 % | 0,38 % | | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | class II (RBER, BFI=0) | 0,72 % | 6,9 % | | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | (UFR) | 0,048 % | 5,7 % | | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | class Ib (RBER, (BFI | 0,001 % | 0,26 % | | | or UFI)=0) | | | | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | (EVSIDR) | 0,06 % | 7,0 % | | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | (RBER, SID=2 and (BFI | 0,001 % | 0,01 % | | | or UFI)=0) | | | | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | (ESIDR) | 0,01 % | 3,0 % | | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | (RBER, SID=1 or SID=2) | 0,003 % | 0,33 % | | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+ | NOTE 1: Definitions: | | | | | | | | | | FER: Frame erasure | | | | | rate (frames marked | | | | | with BFI=1). | | | | | | | | | | UFR: Unreliable frame | | | | | rate (frames marked | | | | | with (BFI or UFI)=1). | | | | | | | | | | EVSIDR: Erased Valid | | | | | SID frame rate (frames | | | | | marked with (SID=0) or | | | | | (SID=1) or ((BFI or | | | | | UFI)=1) if a valid SID | | | | | frame was | | | | | transmitted). | | | | | | | | | | ESIDR: Erased SID | | | | | frame rate (frames | | | | | marked with SID=0 if a | | | | | valid SID frame was | | | | | transmitted). | | | | | | | | | | BER: Bit error rate. | | | | | | | | | | RBER, BFI=0: Residual | | | | | bit error rate | | | | | (defined as the ratio | | | | | of the number of | | | | | errors detected over | | | | | the frames defined as | | | | | \"good\" to the number | | | | | of transmitted bits in | | | | | the \"good\" frames). | | | | | RBER, (BFI or UFI)=0: | | | | | Residual bit error | | | | | rate (defined as the | | | | | ratio of the number of | | | | | errors detected over | | | | | the frames defined as | | | | | \"reliable\" to the | | | | | number of transmitted | | | | | bits in the | | | | | \"reliable\" frames). | | | | | | | | | | RBER, SID=2 and (BFI | | | | | or UFI)=0: Residual | | | | | bit error rate of | | | | | those bits in class I | | | | | which do not belong to | | | | | the SID codeword | | | | | (defined as the ratio | | | | | of the number of | | | | | errors detected over | | | | | the frames that are | | | | | defined as \"valid SID | | | | | frames\" to the number | | | | | of transmitted bits in | | | | | these frames, under | | | | | the condition that a | | | | | valid SID frame was | | | | | sent). | | | | | | | | | | RBER, SID=1 or SID=2: | | | | | Residual bit error | | | | | rate of those bits in | | | | | class I which do not | | | | | belong to the SID | | | | | codeword (defined as | | | | | the ratio of the | | | | | number of errors | | | | | detected over the | | | | | frames that are | | | | | defined as \"valid SID | | | | | frames\" or as | | | | | \"invalid SID frames\" | | | | | to the number of | | | | | transmitted bits in | | | | | these frames, under | | | | | the condition that a | | | | | valid SID frame was | | | | | sent). | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: 1 ≤ α ≤ 1,6. | | | | | The value of α can be | | | | | different for each | | | | | channel condition but | | | | | must remain the same | | | | | for FER and class Ib | | | | | RBER measurements for | | | | | the same channel | | | | | condition. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: FER for | | | | | CTSCCHs takes into | | | | | account frames which | | | | | are signalled as being | | | | | erroneous (by the FIRE | | | | | code, parity bits, or | | | | | other means) or where | | | | | the stealing flags are | | | | | wrongly interpreted. | | | | +------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
Table 2: Reference interference performance
* * *
GSM 900
Type of channel Propagation conditions
                                     TI5 (no FH)
FACCH/H (FER) 6,7 %
FACCH/F (FER) 9,5 %
CTSAGCH, CTSPCH,\ (FER) 13 % SACCH
CTSBCH-SB, CTSARCH (FER) 17 %
TCH/FS (FER) 6α %
class Ib (RBER) 0,4/α %
class II (RBER) 8 %
TCH/EFS (FER) 9 %
                                     (RBER Ib)                0,20 %
                                     (RBER II)                7 %
TCH/HS (FER) 5,0 %
class Ib (RBER, BFI=0) 0,29 %
class II (RBER, BFI=0) 7,1 %
                                     (UFR)                    6,1 %
class Ib (RBER,(BFI or UFI)=0) 0,21 %
                                     (EVSIDR)                 7,0 %
(RBER, SID=2 and (BFI or UFI)=0) 0,01 %
                                     (ESIDR)                  3,6 %
(RBER, SID=1 or SID=2) 0,26 %
DCS 1 800
Type of channel Propagation conditions
                                     TI5 (no FH)
FACCH/H (FER) 6,9 %
FACCH/F (FER) 3,4 %
CTSAGCH, CTSPCH,\ (FER) 9 % SACCH
CTSBCH-SB, CTSARCH (FER) 19 %
TCH/FS (FER) 3α %
class Ib (RBER) 0,25/α %
class II (RBER) 8,1 %
TCH/EFS (FER) 3 %
                                     (RBER Ib)                0,10 %
                                     (RBER II)                8 %
(continued)
* * *
Table 2 (concluded): Reference interference performance
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | DCS 1 800 | | | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | Type of channel | Propagation conditions | | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | | TI5 (no FH) | | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | TCH/HS | (FER) | 5,0 % | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | class Ib (RBER, BFI=0) | 0,29 % | | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | class II (RBER, BFI=0) | 7,2 % | | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | (UFR) | 6,1 % | | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | class Ib (RBER, (BFI or | 0,21 % | | | UFI)=0) | | | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | (EVSIDR) | 7,0 % | | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | (RBER, SID=2 and (BFI or | 0,01 % | | | UFI)=0) | | | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | (ESIDR) | 3,6 % | | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | (RBER, SID=1 or SID=2) | 0,26 % | | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+ | NOTE 1: Definitions: | | | | | | | | FER: Frame erasure rate | | | | (frames marked with BFI=1). | | | | | | | | UFR: Unreliable frame rate | | | | (frames marked with (BFI or | | | | UFI)=1). | | | | | | | | EVSIDR: Erased Valid SID | | | | frame rate (frames marked | | | | with (SID=0) or (SID=1) or | | | | ((BFI or UFI)=1) if a valid | | | | SID frame was transmitted). | | | | | | | | ESIDR: Erased SID frame | | | | rate (frames marked with | | | | SID=0 if a valid SID frame | | | | was transmitted). | | | | | | | | BER: Bit error rate. | | | | | | | | RBER, BFI=0: Residual bit | | | | error rate (defined as the | | | | ratio of the number of | | | | errors detected over the | | | | frames defined as \"good\" | | | | to the number of | | | | transmitted bits in the | | | | \"good\" frames). | | | | | | | | RBER, (BFI or UFI)=0: | | | | Residual bit error rate | | | | (defined as the ratio of | | | | the number of errors | | | | detected over the frames | | | | defined as \"reliable\" to | | | | the number of transmitted | | | | bits in the \"reliable\" | | | | frames). | | | | | | | | RBER, SID=2 and (BFI or | | | | UFI)=0: Residual bit error | | | | rate of those bits in class | | | | I which do not belong to | | | | the SID codeword (defined | | | | as the ratio of the number | | | | of errors detected over the | | | | frames that are defined as | | | | \"valid SID frames\" to the | | | | number of transmitted bits | | | | in these frames, under the | | | | condition that a valid SID | | | | frame was sent). | | | | | | | | RBER, SID=1 or SID=2: | | | | Residual bit error rate of | | | | those bits in class I which | | | | do not belong to the SID | | | | codeword (defined as the | | | | ratio of the number of | | | | errors detected over the | | | | frames that are defined as | | | | \"valid SID frames\" or as | | | | \"invalid SID frames\" to | | | | the number of transmitted | | | | bits in these frames, under | | | | the condition that a valid | | | | SID frame was sent). | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: 1 ≤ α ≤ 1,6. The | | | | value of α can be different | | | | for each channel condition | | | | but must remain the same | | | | for FER and class Ib RBER | | | | measurements for the same | | | | channel condition. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: FER for CTSCCHs | | | | takes into account frames | | | | which are signalled as | | | | being erroneous (by the | | | | FIRE code, parity bits, or | | | | other means) or where the | | | | stealing flags are wrongly | | | | interpreted. | | | +-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
# 5 Radio subsystem frequency control
Procedures shall be implemented in the CTS-FP by which it manages the radio
frequency channels used for traffic or signalling between the CTS-FP and its
attached CTS-MS. Those procedures shall be:
\- adaptive Frequency Allocation (AFA) algorithm;
\- TFH carrier list selection;
\- CTS Beacon channel carrier selection;
\- timeslot assignment for dedicated connection.
## 5.1 Void
## 5.2 General
The list of carriers on which the CTS-FP and CTS-MS are allowed to operate is
called the Generic Frequency List (GFL). Different mechanisms are specified,
in order to ensure that the CTS-FP and CTS-MS are using the most appropriate
frequencies for transmission and reception.
## 5.3 Adaptive Frequency Allocation (AFA)
An Adaptive Frequency Allocation (AFA) algorithm shall be implemented in the
CTS-FP. The input of the AFA algorithm shall be the table of interference
levels measured by the CTS-MS during the AFA monitoring procedure (see GSM
05.08) on a subset of carriers of the GFL. These interference levels shall be
filtered by the AFA algorithm, so that an ordered list of frequency carriers
called the AFA table is generated.
The use of the AFA algorithm shall be controlled by the parameter AFA_USE; in
the case where the AFA algorithm is not used, the AFA table shall contain the
complete GFL.
## 5.4 TFH carrier list selection
A set of frequencies shall be selected from the AFA table by the CTS-FP for
effective use by the CTS-FP and CTS-MS performing frequency hopping. This
subset of frequencies is called the TFH carrier list. The decision for the
carriers to be included in the TFH carrier list shall be defined by performing
the acceptance procedure, which is controlled by the parameters given in table
3.
In the case where the AFA algorithm is not used, the TFH carrier list shall
contain the complete GFL.
### 5.4.1 Acceptance procedure
The absolute received signal level of a carrier shall be considered by
defining different ranges in which different approaches with different
parameters shall be applied. The algorithm shall start at the lowest range up
to the highest until the stop condition of the applied criteria is reached. If
the upper bound of the range is reached, the next range shall be processed.
When one approach stops or the last range is finished, the list extension
check shall be performed. The following approaches are defined.
#### 5.4.1.1 Basic threshold
The basic threshold approach shall always start from the carrier with the
lowest interference level in the AFA table. All carriers below the higher
bound of this range shall be included in the TFH carrier list. The second
purpose is to assure that a minimum number of carriers is used. Therefore, the
maximum from both conditions shall be used.
#### 5.4.1.2 Sliding window technique
Within a window containing a fixed number (SWT_SIZE_WIN) of the last carriers
which were accepted, the average interference level shall be calculated. The
interference level of the next carrier to be added shall be compared with the
calculated average interference level. If the difference exceeds a distinct
threshold INTERF_THRESHOLD, the stop condition is reached, otherwise the
carrier shall be added to the TFH carrier list.
#### 5.4.1.3 Fixed window technique
Within a window initially containing a fixed number (FWT_SIZE_WIN) of the last
carriers which were accepted, the average interference level shall be
calculated. The interference level of the next carrier to be added shall be
compared with the calculated average interference level. If the difference
exceeds a distinct threshold INTERF_THRESHOLD, the stop condition is reached.
Otherwise, the carrier shall be added to the TFH carrier list and the window
size shall be increased.
#### 5.4.1.4 List extension check
After one of the other techniques stopped, the next carriers shall be compared
with the last added carrier where the stop condition occurs. If the difference
does not exceed a distinct threshold INTERF_THRESHOLD, the carrier shall be
added to the TFH carrier list.
### 5.4.2 Parameters
At least one range shall be defined by using the parameters given in the table
3. When only one range is defined the basic threshold approach shall be
applied. The sliding and fixed window technique can be used in more than only
one range with a separate parameter set for each.
The first range defined shall start at a received signal level of -110 dBm and
stop the upper bound defined in the parameter SEL_RANGE(1). The range k shall
start at the upper bound of the previous range (k-1) and stop at the upper
bound defined in the parameter SEL_RANGE(k).
### 5.4.3 AFA and TFH selection performance requirements
Considering the following scenario:
\- the GFL of the CTS-FP shall be a list of 9 carriers (f~1~ to f~9~);
\- a table of received interference levels measured by the CTS-MS shall be
reported to the CTS-FP (see GSM 05.08) with the following values:
* * *
         Received interference level (in dBm)
f~1~ -95 dBm f~2~ -80 dBm f~3~ -95 dBm f~4~ -85 dBm f~5~ -80 dBm f~6~ -95 dBm
f~7~ -95 dBm f~8~ -95 dBm f~9~ -85 dBm
* * *
\- the signal levels received by the CTS-FP on the 9 carriers of the GFL shall
be less than -95 dBm;
\- the parameters of the TFH carrier list selection shall be set as follows:
* * *
Parameter name Value SEL_RANGE (1) -108 dBm APPROACH_TYPE (1) BASIC
MIN_NB_FREQ 4 SEL_RANGE (2) -102 dBm APPROACH_TYPE (2) SWT SWT_SIZE_WIN (2) 4
INTERF_THRESHOLD (2) 5 dB SEL_RANGE (3) -94 dBm APPROACH_TYPE (3) FWT
SWT_SIZE_WIN (3) 3 INTERF_THRESHOLD (3) 4 dB SEL_RANGE (4) -48 dBm
APPROACH_TYPE (4) EXT SWT_SIZE_WIN (4) 1 INTERF_THRESHOLD (4) 1 dB
* * *
With this scenario, after 6 successive AFA monitoring reports sent by the CTS-
MS with the received interference levels specified above, the AFA and TFH
carrier list selection procedures shall have selected the following TFH
carrier list: (f~1~, f~3~, f~6~, f~7~, f~8~).
## 5.5 CTS Beacon channel carrier selection
A particular carrier shall be selected from the TFH carrier list : the CTS
Beacon channel carrier. This carrier shall be used for the transmission of the
CTSBCH in the downlink as well as for the transmission of other channels, as
specified in GSM 05.02.
Two selection techniques shall be used:
\- a random carrier from the TFH carrier list shall be selected;
\- the carrier of the TFH carrier list showing the lowest interference level
shall be selected.
The specification of the selection technique to use shall be indicated in the
CTSBCH_SEL_MODE parameter.
## 5.6 Timeslot assignment for dedicated connection
When the CTS-FP is attempting to establish a dedicated connection with a CTS-
MS, the CTS-FP should select the timeslot showing the lowest received
interference level. The selection should be based on measurements of received
interference level performed by the CTS-FP on the uplink : a running average
on at least 5 collected measurement samples should be maintained by the CTS-FP
for each of the 8 timeslots of a TDMA frame, in order to assess the received
interference level per timeslot.
## 5.7 Frequency control parameters
The parameters employed to control in frequency the radio link are shown in
table 3.
Table 3: Radio sub‑system frequency control parameters
+-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+ | Parameter name | Description | Range | Bits | +-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+ | GFL (1-m) | Generic Frequency List: | 0-1023 | 10 | | | contains m carriers | | | | | represented by their | | | | | ARFCN | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+ | AFA_USE | Enable the use of the | 0-1 | 1 | | | AFA algorithm: | | | | | | | | | | 0: used | | | | | | | | | | 1: not used | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+ | SEL_RANGE (1-n) | Upper bound of TFH | 0-31 | 5 | | | carrier list selection | | | | | range n°: | | | | | | | | | | -110, -108, ..., -48 | | | | | dBm in steps of 2 dBm | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+ | APPROACH_TYPE (1-n) | Type of approach used | 0-3 | 2 | | | in selection range n°: | | | | | | | | | | 00: Basic threshold | | | | | (BASIC) | | | | | | | | | | 01: Sliding window | | | | | technique (SWT) | | | | | | | | | | 10: Fixed window | | | | | technique (FWT) | | | | | | | | | | 11: List extension | | | | | check (EXT) | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+ | MIN_NB_FREQ | Minimum number of | 0-31 | 5 | | | carrier which shall be | | | | | selected for the TFH | | | | | carrier list by the | | | | | Basic threshold | | | | | approach | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+ | FWT_SIZE_WIN (1-n) | Minimum size of the | 0-31 | 5 | | | window to compute the | | | | | average for the FWT | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+ | SWT_SIZE_WIN (1-n) | Fixed size of the | 0-31 | 5 | | | window to compute the | | | | | average for the SWT | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+ | INTERF_THRESHOLD (1-n) | Maximum allowed | 0-31 | 5 | | | difference between the | | | | | current carrier to add, | | | | | and the average value | | | | | for SWT, FWT, and EXT: | | | | | | | | | | 0, 2, ..., 62 dB in | | | | | steps of 2 dB | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+ | CTSBCH_SEL_MODE | CTSBCH carrier | 0-1 | 1 | | | selection mode: | | | | | | | | | | 0: best carrier of TFH | | | | | carrier list | | | | | | | | | | 1: random carrier from | | | | | TFH carrier list | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+
###### ## Annex A (informative): Spectrum characteristics (spectrum due to the
modulation)
{width="6.25625in" height="7.418055555555555in"}
Figure A.1: GSM 900 CTS-FP spectrum due to modulation
{width="5.993055555555555in" height="7.261111111111111in"}
Figure A.2: DCS 1 800 CTS-FP spectrum due to modulation
###### ## Annex B (normative): Transmitted power level versus time
{width="5.4125in" height="3.238888888888889in"}
Time mask for normal duration bursts (NB, FB, dB and SB):
* * *
(*) For GSM 900 CTS-FP : -59 dBc or -54 dBm, whichever is the higher. For DCS
1 800 CTS-FP : -48 dBc or -48 dBm, whichever is the higher. (**) For GSM 900
CTS-FP : ‑4 dBc for power control level 8, : ‑2 dBc for power level 9, : ‑1
dBc for power level controls levels 10 to 14. For DCS 1 800 CTS-FP : ‑4dBc for
power control level 11, : ‑2dBc for power level 12, : ‑1dBc for power control
levels 13 and 14. (***) For GSM 900 CTS-FP : ‑30 dBc or ‑27 dBm, whichever is
the higher. For DCS 1 800 CTS-FP : ‑30dBc or ‑30dBm, whichever is the higher.
* * *
###### ## Annex C (normative): Environmental conditions
# C.1 General
This normative annex specifies the environmental requirements of GSM 900 and
DCS 1 800 CTS-FP equipment. Within these limits the requirements of the GSM
specifications shall be fulfilled.
# C.2 Temperature
The CTS-FP shall fulfil all the requirements in the full temperature range of:
+15°C ‑ +35°C for normal conditions (with relative humidity of 25 % to 75 %);
+10°C ‑ +40°C for extreme conditions;
Outside this temperature range the CTS-FP, if powered on, shall not make
ineffective use of the radio frequency spectrum. In no case shall the CTS-FP
exceed the output power levels as defined in GSM 05.56 for extreme operation.
# C.3 Voltage
The CTS-FP shall fulfil all the requirements in the full voltage range, i.e.
the voltage range between the extreme voltages.
The manufacturer shall declare the lower and higher extreme voltages and the
approximate shut‑down voltage.
* * *
**Power source** **Lower extreme** **Higher extreme** **Normal cond.**
**voltage** **voltage** **voltage** AC mains 0,9 * nominal 1,1 * nominal
nominal
* * *
Outside this voltage range the CTS-FP, if powered on, shall not make
ineffective use of the radio frequency spectrum. In no case shall the CTS-FP
exceed the output power levels as defined in GSM 05.56 for extreme operation.
In particular, the CTS-FP shall inhibit all RF transmissions when the power
supply voltage is below the manufacturer declared shut‑down voltage.
#