# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.121: \"Advanced Alarm Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Requirements\";**
32.122: \"Advanced Alarm Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\";
32.126: \"Advanced Alarm Management (AAM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of IRPs and a related Name
Convention, which realize the functional capabilities over this interface. The
basic structure of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.150 [1].
IRPManagers (typically Network Management Systems) and IRPAgents (typically
EMs or NEs) synchronize their data concerning alarms or configuration data. In
certain scenarios this synchronization is lost or not done.\ This IRP provides
functionality to significantly reduce the amount of data which needs to be
transferred in order to re-establish synchronization.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of this set of specifications is to provide a mechanism enabling
the IRP Manager to improve the information content of alarms, thereby
contributing to reduce the time-to-repair. For this configurable rules for
advanced alarm filtering are defined to reduce the number of alarms by
applying such advanced alarm filtering.
The present document contains the Requirements of Advanced Alarm Management
(AAM) on Itf-N IRP.\ It defines, for the purpose of AAM on Itf-N, the basic
requirements to be fulfilled on Itf-N.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [1].
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [1].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
Itf-N Interface N
NE Network Element
# 4 Requirements for AAM on Itf-N
## 4.1 Concept
A single network fault may generate a large number of alarms over space and
time. In a large and complex network, simultaneous network faults may occur,
causing the network operator to be flooded with high volume of alarms.\ The
high volume of alarms, typically the one received by an IRPManager via the
getAlarmList or alarm notifications of Alarm IRP specification, greatly
inhibits the operator ability to quickly identify and locate the responsible
network faults.
Therefore it is considered advantageous to have methods categorizing network
alarms as insignificant or significant. The word \'insignificant\' does not
imply \"low priority\". In the context of this specification the words
\'significant\' and \'insignificant\' have the following implications:
\- IRPAgent shall not report alarms categorized as insignificant.
\- IRPAgent shall report all significant alarms.
Reporting only significant alarms and not reporting insignificant alarms would
reduce network operator\'s time to locate network faults so that more time can
be spent fixing them.
When reading the alarmList it can be advantageous to partition alarms in the
alarmList into sets of alarms which might be caused by the same network fault.
By assigning network operators to locate network faults based on alarms in
such alarm partitions, rather than based on alarm severity, alarm type or
reporting location, duplication of network operator effort (e.g. two network
operators work on two different alarms and their resolutions lead to the same
network faults) can be reduced or avoided
## 4.2 General Requirements for AAM on Itf-N
4.2.1 The IRPManager should be able to request the IRPAgent to\ a) categorize
alarms as insignificant or significant\ and\ b) to act based on these
categories, e.g. to discard if insignificant.\ The IRPManager should be able
to cancel such requests.
4.2.2 The standard should define some alarm categorization rules. The standard
should also allow vendor to define their own alarm categorization rules.
4.2.3 Possible alarm categorization rule(s) may depend for example on the type
of alarm, the environment, the time of day, the type of network element, the
alarm severity, the location, position in the containment tree and many more.
No restriction is imposed in this regard.
4.2.4 The IRPManager should be able to request the IRPAgent for the list of
active categorization rules (i.e. standard defined and vendor defined).
4.2.5 The IRP manager should be able to request the IRPAgent to apply the
categorization rule(s) and to remove the insignificant alarms in the following
situations:\ \+ alarm notifications to be sent to any IRPManager\ \+ advanced
alarm management requests by this IRPManager to read the alarm list\ Certain
types of categorization rules are only to be applied to read the alarm list.
The term used for these rules is alarm partitioning rules.
#