# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines design rules for REpresentational State Transfer
(REST) Solution Sets (SS). These rules are applied when specifying REST
Solution Sets.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[4] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[5] IETF RFC 7230: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax
and Routing\".
[6] IETF RFC 7159: \" The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[7] draft-wright-json-schema-01 (October 2017): \"JSON Schema: A Media Type
for Describing JSON Documents\".
Editor\'s note: The above document cannot be formally referenced until it is
published as an RFC.
[8] draft-wright-json-schema-validation-01 (October 2017: \"JSON Schema
Validation: A Vocabulary for Structural Validation of JSON\".
Editor\'s note: The above document cannot be formally referenced until it is
published as an RFC.
[9] draft-wright-json-schema-hyperschema-01 (October 2017): \"JSON Hyper-
Schema: A Vocabulary for Hypermedia Annotation of JSON.
Editor\'s note: The above document cannot be formally referenced until it is
published as an RFC.
[10] OpenAPI Specification (https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification)
[11] IETF RFC 5789: \"PATCH Method for HTTP\".
[12] IETF RFC 7396: \"JSON Merge Patch\".
[13] IETF RFC 6902: \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Patch\".
[14] IETF RFC 6901: \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Pointer\".
[15] XML Path Language (XPath) Version 1.0, W3C Recommendation 16 November
1999 (https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath-10/)
[16] 3GPP TR 32.160: \"Management and orchestration; Management service
template\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CRUD Create, Retrieve, Update, Delete
DC Domain Component
DN Distinguished Name
DNS Domain Name Service
FQDN Fully Qualified Doman Name
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
LDN Local Distinguished Name
MnS Management Service
REST REpresentational State Transfer
RPC Remote Procedure Call
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
# 4 General rules
## 4.1 Information models and resources
### 4.1.1 Information models
An information model is a representation of a system. Typical models do not
reflect all facets of the system, but only certain aspects required to solve
the management problem the model is designed for. 3GPP follows an object-
oriented modelling approach. Models are built from managed object classes.
Relationships between classes represent the logical connections. Models are
specified formally with class diagrams of the Unified Modelling Language
(UML).
The instantiation of a managed object is called managed object instance. All
managed object instances together with the relationships between them are
depicted in an object diagram.
### 4.1.2 Resources
HTTP uses a different terminology based on the notion of resources, as defined
in clause 2 of RFC 7231 [2]. Each resource is represented by a resource
representation as defined in clause 3 of RFC 7231 [2]. Valid resource
representations are e.g. XML instance documents or JSON instance documents.
### 4.1.3 Resource archetypes
Resources can be classified according to their structure and behaviour into
resource archetypes. This helps specifying clear and understandable
interfaces. The following three archetypes are defined:
**\- Document resource** : This is the standard resource containing data in
form of name value pairs and links to related resources. This kind of resource
typically represents a real-world object or a logical concept.
**\- Collection resource** : A collection resource is grouping resources of
the same kind. The resources below the collection resource are called items of
the collection. An item of a collection is normally a document resource.
Collection resources typically contain links to the items of the collection
and information about the collection like the total number of items in the
collection. Collection resources can be further distinguished into server-
managed and client-managed resources. Collection resources are also known as
container resources.
**\- Operation resource** : Operation resources represent executable
functions. They may have input and output parameters. Operation resources
allow some sort of fall back to an RPC style design in case application
specific actions cannot be mapped easily to CRUD style operations.
### 4.1.4 Mapping of information models to resources
RESTful SS shall be specified in a way that managed object instances are
described by document resources. Collection resources have no equivalent in an
information model unless some dedicated collection class is introduced.
## 4.2 Managed object naming and resource identification
### 4.2.1 Managed object naming
#### 4.2.1.0 Distinguished Name (DN)
The Distinguished Name (DN) is used in 3GPP to uniquely identify a managed
object instance within a specific name space. The DN is a comma (\",\")
separated list of Relative Distinguished Names (RDNs). Each managed object
instance has an associated RDN. The sequence of RDNs is governed by name
containment relationships in the UML class diagram describing the modelled
network. The RDN consists of a naming attribute name separated by an equal
sign (\"=\") from the naming attribute value. The naming attribute name is
equal to the class name of the MOI.
In addition to the RDNs associated to a managed object instance the DN may
have as leftmost RDN whose naming attribute name is \"DC\" (Domain Component)
and whose value is a domain name. A DN with DC is globally unique.
The DN concept is described in detail in TS 32.300 [3].The following example
DN has a DC.
DN =
\"DC=operatorA.com,subNetwork=south,managedElement=a,eNBFunction=1,cell=1\"
#### 4.2.1.1 Global and local namespaces
A DN in the global name space is globally unique and starts with the RDN of
the global root. A DN in a local name space starts with the RDN of the local
root and is unique only within this name space. A DN in a local namespace is
also referred to as Local Distinguished Name (LDN). The DN of the local root
relative to the global root is called DN prefix. The concatenation of DN
prefix and LDN is equal to the globally unique DN of a managed object.
The local root is typically the root of the network resource model
representing the managed network.
### 4.2.2 Resource identification
HTTP uses a subset of the generic Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme
(RFC 3986 [4]) defined in RFC 7230 [5] for target resource identification.
http-URI = \"http:\" \"//\" authority path-abempty [ \"?\" query ] [ \"#\"
fragment ]
The path component is an absolute path (one that starts with a single slash
character) or empty.
The origin server is identified by the authority component, which includes a
host identifier and an optional path TCP port. The hierarchical path component
and optional query component serve as an identifier for a potential target
resource within that origin server's name space. The optional fragment
component allows for indirect identification of a secondary resource.The host
identifier is either an IP address or an indirect identifier such as a FQDN to
be resolved with DNS.
URIs are used by HTTP for routing and addressing of target resources. They
shall not be used for other purposes or as an alternative for DNs.
### 4.2.3 Mapping of DNs to URIs
URIs are globally unique. For this reason only a globally unique DN with DC is
mappable into a URI. The mapping rules are as follow:
\- The DN prefix is mapped semantically to the authority component of the URI.
The syntax of the DN prefix is modified to match the syntax of the authority
component.
\- The LDN is mapped semantically to the path component of the URI. The syntax
of the LDN is modified to match the syntax of the path component.
When mapping a LDN the equal sign \"=\"shall be used as delineator between the
naming attribute name and naming attribute value when constructing a RDN.
URI-RDN = {namingAttributeName} \"=\" {namingAttributeValue}
The URI-LDN is the concatenation of URI-RDNs separated by a slash \"/\".
URI-LDN = *( \"/\" RDN )
For example, the LDN
LDN = \"subNetwork=south,managedElement=a,eNBFunction=1,cell=1\"
maps to
URI-LDN = \"/subNetwork=south/managedElement=a/eNBFunction=1/cell=1\"
and the LDN
LDN = \"managedElement=a,eNBFunction=1,cell=1\"
to
URI-LDN = \"/managedElement=a/eNBFunction=1/cell=1\"
When constructing the authority part from the DN prefix, it shall be
reformatted according to the name conventions applying to FQDNs. For example,
the DN prefix
DN-prefix = \"DC=operatorA.com\"
maps to
URI-DN-prefix = \"operatorA.com\"
and the DN prefix
DN-prefix = \"DC=operatorA.com,subNetwork=south\"
to
URI-DN-prefix = \"south.subNetwork.operatorA.com\"
The complete URIs for the examples are
http://operatorA.com/subNetwork=south/managedElement=a/eNBFunction=1/cell=1
http://south.subNetwork.operatorA.com/managedElement=a/eNBFunction=1/cell=1
The constructed URI-DN-prefix is a FQDN that can be registered into a name
resolution service such as DNS. The sole presence of a constructed FQDN does
not mean it can be resolved to an IP address and there is a server listening
at that address.
Using the mapping rulea, a DN is mapped predictably into the URI authority
component and path component.
The leftmost part of the path component may include one or more path segments
(\"label\")
http://operatorA.com/{label}/subNetwork=south/.../cell=1
allowing to structure the resource hierarchy, for example
http://operatorA.com/3GPPmanagemen/ProvMnS/v1500/subNetwork=south/.../cell=1
The character set allowed in DNs is much bigger than the character set allowed
in the path component and authority component of a URI. Care needs to be taken
when selecting the naming attribute names und values that the mapping from a
DN to a URI does not become impossible as a consequence of not mappable
characters.
## 4.3 Media types
The format of resource representations carried in the message body is
indicated by the media type in the Content-Type and Accept header fields.
Media types that shall be supported are:
\- application/json (RFC 7159 [6]).
The following JSON patch documents for partial resource modifications may be
supported:
\- application/merge-patch+json (RFC 7396 [12]).
\- application/json-patch+json (RFC 6902 [13]).
This specification defines two new media types for JSON patch documents:
\- application/3gpp-merge-patch+json.
\- application/3gpp-json-patch+json.
JSON documents shall conform to JSON Schema ([7], [8], [9]).
## 4.4 URI structure
### 4.4.1 Introduction
MnS producers can be divided into two categories. The first category exposes
MnS(s) to manipulate resources representing managed object instances. In this
case the URI structure is governed by the mapping rules defined in clause
4.2.3. The second category exposes MnS(s) to manipulate resources not
representing managed object instances. In this case the DN concept is not
relevant. The URI structure for both categories is different.
### 4.4.2 URI structure for resources representing managed object instances
URIs identifying resources representing managed object instances shall follow
a structure given by
{scheme}://{URI-DN-prefix}/{root}/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}/{URI-LDN}
with:
> {scheme} Scheme component \"http\" or \"https\"
>
> {URI-DN-prefix} Authority component (host identifier and optional TCP port),
> the host name is constructed from the DN prefix as defined in clause 4.2.3.
>
> {root} Part of the path component, allows specifying optional path segments
> for structuring the resource hierarchy on a HTTP server.
>
> {MnSName} Part of the path component, allows specifying an optional MnS name
> in a single path segment.
>
> {MnSVersion} Part of the path component, allows specifying an optional MnS
> version in a single path segment.
>
> {URI-LDN} Part of the path component, constructed from the LDN as defined in
> clause 4.2.3, one or more path segments.
As seen above, to construct the URI from a DN, it is necessary to map the
\"DNPrefixPlusRDNSeparator\" as defined in clause 7.3 of [3], the "LocalDN" as
defined in clause 7.3 of [3], and to add the additional optional path
components \"/{root}/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}\".
To allow for a predictive mapping from the URI to the original DN it is
necessary to specify \"/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}\" in such a way that the
beginning of the \"LocalDN\" can be identified.
Note it may be required when specifying a MnS to clearly identify the last RDN
of \"{URI-LDN}\" and to use the following instead of \"{URI-LDN}\"
{URI-LDN-first-part}/{RDN}
or
{URI-LDN-first-part}/{className}={id}.
### 4.4.3 URI structure for resources not representing managed object
instances
URIs identifying other resources shall follow a structure given by
{scheme}://{authority}/{root}/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}/{MnSResourcePath}
with:
> {scheme} Scheme component \"http\" or \"https\"
>
> {authority} Authority component (host identifier and optional TCP port)
>
> {root} Part of the path component, allows specifying optional path segments
> for structuring the resource hierarchy on a HTTP server.
>
> {MnSName} Part of the path component, specifies the mandatory MnS name in a
> single path segment.
>
> {MnSVersion} Part of the path component, specifies the mandatory MnS version
> in a single path segment.
>
> {MnSResourcePath} Part of the path component, one or more path segments,
> specifies a resource of the MnS
For the sake of brevity, the URI template {MnSRoot} is introduced that
includes the scheme component, the two slash characters (\"//\") and the
authority component. When using \"{MnSRoot}\" the abbreviated URI structure is
given by
{MnSRoot}/{MnSName}/{MnSVersion}/{MnSResourcePath}
It is recommended to use this abbreviated version of the URI structure when
defining Management Services
## 4.5 Response status codes
The response status codes as defined in section 6 of RFC 7231 [2] shall be
supported.
# 5 Basic design patterns
## 5.1 Design pattern for creating a resource
### 5.1.1 Creating a resource with identifier creation by the MnS Producer
Operations to create a resource shall be specified with the HTTP POST method,
when the MnS Producer shall create the identifier of the new resource.
{width="3.495138888888889in" height="1.3465277777777778in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1: Flow for creating a resource with HTTP POST
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends a HTTP POST request to the MnS Producer. The target
URI identifies the parent resource below which the new resource shall be
created. The message body shall carry a complete resource representation. In
case the resources representation format mandates the presence of a resource
identifier it shall carry null semantics. If the identifier carries
nevertheless a value, the MnS Producer may consider that as a non-binding
recommendation by the MnS Consumer.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP POST response. On success, \"201
Created\" shall be returned. The \"Location\" header shall be present and
carry the URI of the new resource. The URI is constructed by the MnS Producer
by creating an identifier for the new resource and appending a new path
segment containing this identifier to the request URI. The message body should
carry the complete representation of the new resource. On failure, the
appropriate error code shall be returned. The response message body may
provide additional error information.
### 5.1.2 Creating a resource with identifier creation by the MnS Consumer
Operations to create a resource shall be specified with the HTTP PUT method,
when the MnS Consumer wishes to impose the identifier of the new resource to
the MnS Producer.
{width="3.407638888888889in" height="1.3465277777777778in"}
Figure 5.1.2-1: Flow for creating a resource with HTTP PUT
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends a HTTP PUT request to the MnS Producer. The target
URI identifies the location of the resource to be created. The message body
carries the complete resource representation.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP PUT response. On success, \"201 Created\"
shall be returned. The Location header shall carry the URI of the new
resource. The message body should contain the complete representation of the
new resource. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned. The
response message body may provide additional error information.
## 5.2 Design pattern for reading a resource
Operations to read the representation of a resource shall be specified with
the HTTP GET method. The resource to be read is identified with a URI.
{width="3.025in" height="1.3416666666666666in"}
Figure 5.2-1: Flow for reading a resource
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends a HTTP GET request to the MnS Producer. The resource
to be read is identified with the URI. The message body shall be empty.
a) If the URI identifies a document resource, the document resource shall be
returned.
b) If the URI identifies a collection resource, all document resources of the
collection shall be returned.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP GET response. On success, \"200 OK\"
shall be returned. The resource representation is carried in the response
message body. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned. The
response message body may provide additional error information.
## 5.3 Design pattern for updating a resource
Operations to update the complete representation of a resource shall be
specified with the HTTP PUT method. The resource to be updated is identified
with the target URI.
{width="3.933333333333333in" height="1.3430555555555554in"}
Figure 5.3-1: Flow for updating a resource
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends a HTTP PUT request to the MnS Producer. The resource
to be updated is identified with the target URI. The message body carries the
representation the target resource shall replaced with. Note, the complete
resource representation needs to included in the body. Partial representations
of the resource to be updated are not allowed.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP PUT response to the MnS Consumer. On
success, \"200 OK\" or \"204 No Content\" shall be returned. In the former
case the response carries the representation of the updated resource in the
message body. In the latter case the response has no message body. A \"200
OK\" response including the representation of the updated resource shall be
sent when the updated representation of the resource is not identical to the
representation received in the request. On failure, the appropriate error code
shall be returned. The response message body may provide additional error
information. In case the resource does not exist, the resource is created in
case this is supported (see subclause 5.1.2).
## 5.4 Design pattern for deleting a resource
Operations to delete the representation of a resource shall be specified with
the HTTP DELETE method. The resource to be deleted is identified with the
target URI in the request message.
{width="2.375in" height="1.3430555555555554in"}
Figure 5.4-1: Flow for deleting a resource
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends a HTTP DELETE request to the MnS Producer. The
resource to be deleted is identified with the URI. The message body is empty.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP DELETE response to the MnS Consumer. On
success, \"204 No Content\" shall be returned. The message body is empty. On
failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned. The response message
body may provide additional error information.
## 5.5 Design pattern for subscribe/notify
### 5.5.1 Concept
HTTP is based on requests and responses. There is no built-in support for
notifications and subscriptions to notifications. These mechanisms need to be
modelled based on special subscription resources and the available HTTP
methods. When notifications are used the server shall expose at least one
subscription resource.
### 5.5.2 Subscription creation
To subscribe to notifications the subscriber shall send a HTTP POST request to
the subscription resource.
{width="4.0777777777777775in" height="1.3416666666666666in"}
Figure 5.5.2-1: Flow for creating a subscription
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer (notification subscriber) sends a HTTP POST to the MnS
Producer. The URI shall indicate a container subscription resource. The
resources representing existing subscriptions are created below the container
resource. The subscriber shall indicate in the message body the URI of the
resource notifications shall be sent to (notification sink) and the type of
notifications that are subscribed to. Additional filter information may be
included in the message body.
2) The MnS Producer returns \"201 Created\" on success. The message body
carries the representation of the created subscription resource. The Location
header shall carry the URI of the created subscription resource. On failure,
the appropriate error code shall be returned. The response message body may
provide additional error information.
### 5.5.3 Subscription deletion
To cancel a subscription, the subscriber shall delete the corresponding
resource with HTTP DELETE.
{width="3.0125in" height="1.3416666666666666in"}
Figure 5.5.3-1: Flow for deleting a subscription
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer (notification subscriber) sends a HTTP DELETE to the MnS
Producer. The URI shall indicate the subscription resource to be deleted.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP DELETE response to the MnS Consumer. On
success, \"204 No Content\" shall be returned. The message body is empty. On
failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned. The response message
body may provide additional error information.
### 5.5.4 Notification emission
To send a notification on the occurrence of a notifiable event the MnS
Producer sends a HTTP POST request to the notification sink.
{width="3.545138888888889in" height="1.3416666666666666in"}
Figure 5.5.4-1: Flow for sending a notification
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Producer sends a HTTP POST to the MnS Consumer. The URI identifies
the notification sink. The notification content is included in the message
body.
2) The MnS Consumer returns \"204 No Content\". The message body shall be
empty. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned. The response
message body may provide additional error information.
This design pattern requires the MnS Producer (HTTP server) to contain a
reduced feature HTTP client for sending HTTP POST requests, and vice versa,
the MnS Consumer (HTTP client) to contain a reduced feature HTTP server for
receiving HTTP POST requests and sending HTTP POST responses.
### 5.5.5 Subscription retrieval
The subscriber can retrieve the information about a specific subscription by
sending a HTTP GET request to the URI returned by the server upon creation of
this subscription. Information about all subscriptions of a subscriber can be
read by invoking a HTTP GET on the parent subscription resource whilst
instructing the server, using the query component, to return only the
subscriptions related to the client invoking the request.
{width="3.025in" height="1.3416666666666666in"}
Figure 5.5.5-1: Flow for subscription retrieval
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends a HTTP GET to the MnS Producer. The URI specifies
the subscription resource to be read.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP Get response. On success, \"200 OK\"
shall be returned. The representation of the subscription resource is carried
in the response message body. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be
returned. The response message body may provide additional error information.
# 6 Advanced design patterns
## 6.1 Design pattern for scoping and filtering
### 6.1.1 Introduction
In stage 2 specifications a scope construct is often used for selecting
multiple managed object instances. The scope construct, together with a so
called base managed object instance, selects a set of object instances from
the name-containment tree starting at the document root. This set contains
some or all object instances name-contained by the base object instance. It
may contain the base object itself.
In operations, the base object instance and the scope construct are specified
as an input parameter. In NRM control fragments, the base object instance is
the object instance that name-contains the control object instance of the NRM
control fragment, and the scope construct is an attribute of the control
object instance.
A filter construct is also often used in stage 2 specifications to select a
subset of the managed object instances selected by the base managed object
instance and scope construct. The filter is specified in operations as input
parameter and in NRM control fragments as an attribute of a control object.
When scoping and filtering is specified using NRM control fragments, no
special considerations are required for the REST SS, since the scope construct
and the filter are normal attributes of a managed object.
When scoping and filtering is specified as part of the input parameters of an
operation, however, it is necessary to define how to map these parameters in
the REST SS.
### 6.1.2 Query parameters for scoping
Scoping may be supported by the HTTP GET method or the HTTP DELETE method. It
is not supported by any other method.
The URI path component identifies the base resource. The URI query component
shall be used for carrying the scope construct. Multiple query parameters
shall be separated by an ampersand character (\"&\").
With one query parameter the base resource and all resources until the level
indicated by the query parameter can be selected. When the value of the query
parameter is set to inifinite, the complete subtree starting at the base
resource is selected.
Two query parameters for scoping allow for more sophisticated selection
methods.
An example scoping method uses a \"scopeType\" and a \"scopeLevel\" query
parameter. The allowed values are defined in Table 6.1.2-1.
Table 6.1.2-1: Allowed values of the \"scopeType\" query parameter
* * *
Value Description BASE_ONLY Selects only the base resource. The \"scopeLevel\"
parameter shall be absent or ignored if present. BASE_ALL Selects the base
resource and all of its subordinate resources (incl. the leaf resources). The
\"scopeLevel\" parameter shall be absent or ignored if present. BASE_NTH_LEVEL
Selects all resources on the level, which is indicated by the \"scopeLevel\"
parameter, below the base resource. The base resource is at \"scopeLevel\"
zero. BASE_SUBTREE Selects the base resource and all of its subordinate
resources down to and including the resources on the level indicated by the
\"scopeLevel\" parameter. The base resource is at \"scopeLevel\" zero.
* * *
### 6.1.3 Query parameters for filtering
Filtering may be supported by the HTTP GET method or the HTTP DELETE method.
It is not supported by any other method.
The URI query component shall be used for carrying the filter construct.
XPath 1.0 [15] shall be used for specifying the filter construct. The context
resource for the XPath path expression is the resource identified by the
targrt URI of the GET request.
A valid XPath expression returns a flat list of selected resources. Name-
contained resources included in the selected resources shall be removed before
constructing the response message according to clause 6.1.1.
The name of the query parameter shall be \"filter\".
### 6.1.4 Construction rules for the response message body
When multiple resources are selected for retrieval by HTTP GET, the respone
message body with the selected resource set shall be constructed according to
one of the following rules.
Flat response construction method: The resources are basically returned as a
flat list of JSON objects. Their location in the hierarchical containment tree
needs to be specified by e.g. their URI which needs to be returned for each
resource.
Hierarchical response construction method: The resources are returned inside
the containment tree as specified by the JSON schema definition of the
information model. The resources not selected are either not returned at all
or returned empty, except for the resource identifiers, when their presence is
required in the containment tree. The containment tree present in the response
message shall always start with the root resource of the information model
(document root) or the base resource.
## 6.2 Design pattern for attribute and attribute field selection
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This design pattern allows to specify attributes of resources selected by the
target URI and scoping and filtering.
Often attributes have no scalar values but are complex structured data types
with an own hierarchy. In this case it may be desirable to identify not only
the complete attribute but also attribute fields.
The attributes or attribute fields to be returned shall be specified in the
query part of the URI.
Attribute selection or attribute field selection may be supported by the HTTP
GET method. It is not applicable to any other method.
For constructing the response not selected attributes and attribute fields are
removed from the resource representation.
### 6.2.2 Query parameters for attribute and attribute field selection
In case only complete attributes are retrieved the name of the query parameter
shall be \"attributes\". The value of \"attributes\" shall be a list with the
names of the attributes to be selected. Attribute names are separated by a
comma (\",\"). An empty \"attributes\" query parameter is allowed and has the
special meaning that no attributes shall be returned, except for the naming
attribute \"id\".
In case it shall be possible to select attribute fields the syntax of JSON
Pointer in JSON String Representation [14] shall be used. The context resource
for the construction of the JSON Pointer is the resource identified by the
target URI. When multiple attribute fields shall be selected the corresponding
JSON Pointer String Representations shall be separated by a comma (\",\"). The
name of the query parameter shall be \"fields\".
## 6.3 Design pattern for partially updating a resource
HTTP PUT allows replacing only the complete resource. For partial resource
updates HTTP PATCH (RFC 5789 [11]) shall be used. The set of changes to be
applied to the target resource is described in the request message body (patch
document). The format of the patch document is identified by its media type.
RFC 7396 [12] specifies a simple format in JSON (JSON Merge Patch) allowing to
describe a set of modifications to be applied to the target resource\'s
content. JSON Merge Patch works at the level of name/value pairs contained in
a JSON object. The media type is \"application/merge-patch+json\".
Three types of patches are described in RFC 7396 [12]:
1) Replacing the value of an already existing name/value pair by a new value.
2) Adding a new name/value pair.
3) Removing an existing name/value pair.
JSON Merge Patch does not allow manipulation of arrays other than replacing
the complete array. It is not possible to change items in an array or to add
new items.
When individual items of an array shall be manipulated or items shall be added
to arrays at specific positions, JSON Patch as described in RFC 6902 [13])
should be used as patch format. The media type of JSON Patch is
\"application/json-patch+json\". The target URI identifies the resource to be
modified. Secondary resources of the target resource to be manipulated are
identified in the JSON patch document using JSON Pointer [14].
The JSON Patch document is a JSON array with each item being a JSON object
specifying one suboperation. Suboperations shall be applied sequentially in
the order they appear in the array, as defined in Section 3 of RFC 6902 [13].
According to RFC 5789 [11], Section 2 patches shall be applied atomically.
Either all changes specified in the patch document are applied or, if at least
one change cannot be applied, no change shall be applied.
{width="3.933333333333333in" height="1.3430555555555554in"}
Figure 6.3-1: Flow for partially updating a resource
The procedure flow is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends a HTTP PATCH request to the MnS Producer. The
resource to be updated is identified with the target URI. The message body
carries a JSON Patch or JSON Merge Patch document describing a set of
modification instructions to be applied to the target resource.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP PATCH response to the MnS Consumer. On
success, \"200 OK\" together with the representation of the updated resource
in the message body or \"204 No Content\" shall be returned. On failure, the
appropriate error code shall be returned. The response message body may
provide additional error information.
## 6.4 Design pattern for patching multiple resources
### 6.4.1 Introduction
Clause 6.1 discusses a method for retrieving multiple resources with a single
GET request. This clause presents methods allowing to manipulate (create,
update, delete) multiple resources with a single PATCH request.
### 6.4.2 3GPP JSON Merge Patch
3GPP JSON Merge Patch is a 3GPP defined extension to JSON Merge Patch (RFC
6902 [13]) allowing to manipulate individual items in an array supposed each
item has an identifier that is unique within the name space of the array. The
identifier of an array item has to be present in any 3GPP JSON Merge Patch
document. This patch format allows to update attributes and attribute fields,
to create resources with \"id\" creation by the MnS Consumer, and to delete
resources.
The target URI shall identify the resource that is the first common parent
resource of the resources to be manipulated or the document root.
Resources are deleted by setting all NRM attributes to the \"null\" value. If
the NRM attributes are members of a special \"attributes\" object this object
shall be set to \"null\".
A 3GPP JSON Merge Patch document is applied in atomic manner (RFC 5789 [11]).
Either all changes are applied or, if at least one mofification cannot be
applied, no change shall be applied. 3GPP JSON Merge Patch thus has
transaction semantics.
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends a HTTP PATCH request to the MnS Producer. The >
message body carries a 3GPP JSON Merge Patch document describing a > set of
modification instructions to be applied to the identified > resources.
2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP PATCH response to the MnS > Consumer. On
success, \"200 OK\" together with the representation > of the updated
resources, constructed according to the > hierarchical response construction
method described in clause > 6.1.1, in the message body or \"204 No Content\"
shall be > returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be >
returned. The response message body may provide additional error >
information.
The media type of 3GPP JSON Merge Patch is \"3gpp-merge-patch+json\". This
media type is defined by 3GPP and is not registered with IANA. Patch documents
using this media type must conform to the \"application/json\" media type.
### 6.4.3 3GPP JSON Patch
JSON Patch (RFC 6902 [13]) allows to manipulate multiple secondary resources
of the target resource. The target resource is identified by the target URI.
The secondary resources are specified with JSON Pointers included in the JSON
Patch document enclosed in the HTTP Patch method request message body. The
context object of JSON Pointer is the target resource. It is not possible to
point to resources or secondary resources outside of the target resource.
Each suboperation is specified in a JSON Patch document by a JSON object whose
property names are \"op\", \"from\", \"path\" and \"value\". Not all
operations require all properties. The type of the \"from\" and \"path\"
property value is a JSON Pointer in string representation as defined in
Section 5 of RFC 6901 [14].
The present document defines an extentension to JSON Patch allowing to specify
resources and secondary resources outside of the target resource. With this
extension a single HTTP Patch request can manipulate multiple resources.
The extension is that the \"path\" and \"from\" properties define an offset to
the target resource as specified by the request URI in the HTTP PATCH method.
This offset has a first component pointing to a resource below the targert
resource, and a sescond component pointing to secondary a resource within the
resource identified by the first component. The first component of \"path\" or
\"from\" is built from URI path components. The second component is a URI
fragment with a JSON pointer in the URI fragment identifier representation as
defined in clause 6 of of RFC 6901 [14]. An empty value of the \"path\" or
\"from\" property (\"\") means that the resource specified by the request URI
in the HTTP PATCH method is the target for the value of the patch \"value\"
property.
The target URI can identify the document root, the first common parent
resource of the resources to be manipulated or any resource between them.
The media type of 3GPP JSON Merge Patch is \"3gpp-patch+json\". This media
type is defined by 3GPP and is not registered with IANA. Patch documents using
this media type must conform to the \"application/json\" media type.
As all other patch media types, 3GPP JSON Patch shall be applied in atomic
manner.
The procedure is as follows:
1) The MnS Consumer sends a HTTP PATCH request to the MnS Producer. The
message body carries a JSON Patch document describing a set of modification
instructions to be applied to the identified resources.
> 2) The MnS Producer returns the HTTP PATCH response to the MnS Consumer. On
> success, \"200 OK\" together with the representation of the updated
> resources, constructed according to the hierarchical response construction
> method described in clause 6.1.1, in the message body or \"204 No Content\"
> shall be returned. On failure, the appropriate error code shall be returned.
> The response message body may provide additional error information.
# 7 Resource representation formats
## 7.1 Introduction
According to clause 4.3 the media type specifies only that JSON is used as
resource representation format carried in the HTTP request and HTTP response
message bodies. Some resource patterns are quite common and it is desirable to
use a common pattern throughout different APIs. This clause identifies some
patterns frequently encountered and provides a JSON schema for them.
## 7.2 Top-level object
A single JSON object shall be at the top-level of the document carried in the
message body of HTTP requests and HTTP responses.
{\"type\": \"object\"}
Example:
{}
Members of the top-level object can be either a data object, a data array or
an error object.
## 7.3 Data objects
Data objects are carried in HTTP requests and in HTTP responses in case of
success. One and only one data object shall be a member of a top-level object.
If a data object is present, no error object shall be present.
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"data\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {}
}
}
}
Example:
{
\"data\": {}
}
## 7.4 Data arrays
Data arrays are carried in HTTP requests and in HTTP responses when data is
transferred. One and only one data array shall be a member of a top-level
object. If a data array is present, no error object shall be present.
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"data\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {}
}
}
}
Example JSON instance:
{
\"data\": []
}
## 7.5 Error objects
Error objects are carried in HTTP responses in case of failure. One and only
one error object shall be a member of a top-level object.
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"error\": {
\"type\": \"object\"
\"properties\": {}
}
}
}
Example JSON instance:
{
\"error\": {}
}
## 7.6 Resource objects
Resource objects (resources) are representations of managed object instances.
They shall be compliant to the following JSON schema when one instance of a
class is allowed.
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"ClassName\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"href\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"class\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"id\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"attributes\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {}
}
},
\"required\": [\"id\"]
}
}
}
or by the following schema when more than one instance of a class is allowed
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"ClassName\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"href\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"class\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"id\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"attributes\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {}
}
},
\"required\": [\"id\"]
}
}
}
}
An object, whose name is equal to the NRM class name, encapsulates the
resource representation.
The \"attributes\" object contains NRM attributes as properties. In the
generic schema above the \"attributes\" object has no properties. These
properties are defined in other specifications.
Only the \"id\" is required to be always present. The \"href\" property with
the URI of the resource and the \"class\" property with the name of the NRM
class can be omitted, or not specified at all in concrete JSON schemas for
resource representations.
TS 32.160 [16] specifies the complete mapping of stage 2 NRM definitions to
stage 3 JSON schema definitions.
## 7.7 Resource objects carried in data objects and arrays
When a resource object is carried in a data object the schema is given by
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"data\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"ClassName\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"href\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"class\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"id\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"attributes\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {}
}
},
\"required\": [\"id\"]
}
}
}
}
}
Multiple instance of the same NRM class are supported by a JSON array.
{
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"data\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"ClassName\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"href\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"class\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"id\": { \"type\": \"string\" },
\"attributes\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {}
}
},
\"required\": [\"id\"]
}
}
}
}
}
}
# 8 REST SS specification template
This clause contains the REST SS specification template.
W Mapping of operations
W.1 Introduction
**Table W.1-1: Mapping of IS opera** tions to SS equivalents
* * *
IS operation HTTP Method Resource URI Qualifier
* * *
W.2 Operation \
W.3 Operation \
X Usage of HTTP
Y Resources
Y.1 Resource structure
Y.2 Resource definitions
Y.2.1 Resource \
Y.2.1.1 Description
Y.2.1.2 URI
Y.2.1.3 HTTP methods
Y.2.1.3.1 \
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
Y.2.1.3.1-1.
Table Y.2.1.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the \ on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
Y.2.1.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table Y.2.1.3.1-3.
Table Y.2.1.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the \ request body
on this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
Table Y.2.1.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the \ response body
on this resource
+-----------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +-----------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-----------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+
Y.2.1.3.2 \
Y.2.2 Resource \
Z Data type definitions
Z.1 General
Table Z.1-1: Data types defined in the present document
* * *
Data type Reference Description
* * *
Table Z.1-2: Data types imported
* * *
Data type Reference Description
* * *
Z.2 Structured data types
Z.2.1 Type \
Table Z.2.1-1: Definition of type \
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
Z.2.2 Type \
Z.3 Simple data types and enumerations
Z.3.1 General
This subclause defines simple data types and enumerations that are used by the
data structures defined in the previous subclauses.
Z.3.2 Simple data types
Table Z.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description
* * *
Z.3.3 Enumeration \
Table Z.3.3-1: Enumeration \
* * *
Enumeration value Description
* * *
Z.3.4 Enumeration \
Annex A (normative)
OpenAPI specification
_It contains this leading paragraph:_
\"This clause describes the capabilities of the service in the structure of
the OpenAPI Specification Version 3.0.1 [10]. The OpenAPI document is
represented in the JSON format option.\"
###### ## Annex A (informative): Examples
# A.1 Example information model
The following JSON instance document is used for the examples in this chapter.
+-------------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW\", | | | | \"userDefinedNetworkType\": \"5G\", | | | | \"plmn-id\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 456, | | | | \"mnc\": 789 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 1\", | | | | \"vendorname\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"TV Tower\" | | | | }, | | | | \"XyzFunction\": **[** | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"abc\", | | | | \"attrB\": 552 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | **]** | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 2\", | | | | \"vendorname\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Grunewald\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
The corresponding JSON schema is
+-----------------------------------------+ | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"id\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"string\", | | | | \"userDefinedNetworkType\": \"string\", | | | | \"plmn-id\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"mcc\": \"integer\", | | | | \"mnc\": \"integer\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"ManagedElement\": { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"id\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"vendorname\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"location\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"XyzFunction\": { | | | | \"type\": \"array\", | | | | \"items\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"id\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"type\": \"object\", | | | | \"properties\": { | | | | \"attributeA\": { | | | | \"type\": \"string\" | | | | }, | | | | \"attributeB\": { | | | | \"type\": \"integer\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +-----------------------------------------+
NOTE: the following examples do not follow the URI structure specified in
clause 4.4 for simplicity reasons. The \"data\" object in responses is omitted
as well.
# A.2 Retrieval of resources
## A.2.1 Retrieval of a single complete resource with HTTP GET
To retrieve a complete \"YxzFunction\"resource the MnS Consumer might send the
following request.
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
The response includes the resource representation
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
and might include a key (\"XyzFunction\") specifying the class name of the
returned resource
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
In the example above \"XyzFunction\" is of type array to align with the JSON
schema of \"XyzFunction\" defined in clause A.1. \"XyzFunction\" may also be
an object, since the schema specifing the message body is not required to be
identical to the schema specifying the resources contained by another
resource.
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"XyzFunction\": { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
When using a \"data\" object the response might look like
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"data\": { | | | | \"XyzFunction\": { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
The exact syntax of the response body is specified by the JSON schema included
in the concrete API definition.
## A.2.2 Attribute and attribute field selection on a single resource
To retrieve only the \"userLabel\" attribute and the \"mcc\" attribute field
of the \"plmn-id\" attribute the MnS Consumer might send
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET | | /SubNetwork=SN1?fields=attributes/userLabel,attributes/plmn-id/mcc | | HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Alternatively one might send as well
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET | | /SubNetwork=SN1?attributes=userLabel&fields=attributes/plmn-id/mcc | | HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
The response contains only the selected attribute and the selected attribute
field.
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW\", | | | | \"plmn-id\": { | | | | \"mnc\": 789 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
## A.2.3 Retrieval of multiple complete resources using scoping and filtering
The following example selects all \"ManageElement\" nodes with a
\"vendorname\" of \"Company XY\".
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1?scope=BASE_ALL&\ | | | | filter=/SubNetwork/ManagedElement/attributes[vendorname=\"Company | | XY\"]/parent::node() HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Alternatively, the following XPath expression can be used.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1?scope=BASE_ALL&\ | | | | filter=/SubNetwork/ManagedElement[attributes/vendorname=\"Company | | XY\"] HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
When using the hierarchical response construction method the response looks as
follows
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 1\", | | | | \"vendorname\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"TV Tower\" | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW 2\", | | | | \"vendorname\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Grunewald\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------+
The following example returns the containment tree only
+----------------------------------------------------------+ | GET /SubNetwork=SN1?scope=BASE_ALL&attributes= HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Accept: application/json | +----------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 200 OK | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\" | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME2\" | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | +----------------------------------------------------------+
# A.3 Creation of resources
## A.3.1 Creation of a resource with HTTP PUT
In this example a new \"XyzFunction\" resource is created. The target URI
specifies the location of the new resource. The \"id\" of the new resource is
\"XYZF1\" and created by the MnS Consumer.
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PUT /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
The response contains the location header and the complete representation of
the new resource.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 201 Created | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Location: http://example.org/ | | SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
## A.3.2 Creation of a resource with HTTP POST
When creating a new resource with POST the target URI identifies the parent
resource of the new resource to be created. The identifier of the new resource
is created by the MnS Producer, hence the \"id\" is equal to \"null\" in the
POST request. If the \"id\" carries a value, then the MnS Producer may
consider that as a non-binding recommendation by the MnS Consumer.
+--------------------------------------------------+ | POST /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"null\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +--------------------------------------------------+
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 201 Created | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | | | | Location: http://example.org/ | | SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=123e4567-e89b | | | | Content-Type: application/json | | | | { | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"123e4567-e89b\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"xyz\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
## A.3.3 Creation of a resource with JSON Patch
This example shows the creation of a resource with JSON Patch. The target URI
identifies the resource to be created. The \"path\" property of the patch is
empty (\"\").
+---------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"class\": \"ManagedElement\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \" Berlin NW 1\", | | | | \"vendorname\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"TV Tower\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------+
# A.4 Deletion of resources
## A.4.1 Deletion of a resource with HTTP DELETE
The following example deletes an instance of \"ManagedElement\".
+----------------------------------------------------+ | DELETE /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME2 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | +----------------------------------------------------+
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 204 No Content | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | +-------------------------------------+
## A.4.2 Deletion of multiple resources with HTTP DELETE
This example deletes both \"XyzFunction\" resources.
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | DELETE /SubNetwork=SN1?scopeType= BASE_NTH_LEVEL&scopeLevel=2 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
+-------------------------------------+ | HTTP/1.1 204 No Content | | | | Date: Tue, 06 Aug 2019 16:50:26 GMT | +-------------------------------------+
## A.4.3 Deletion of a resource with JSON Patch
The following example deletes an instance of \"ManagedElement\". The target
URI identifies the resource to be deleted. The \"path\" property of the patch
is empty (\"\").
+---------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"remove\", | | | | \"path\": \"\" | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------+
# A.5 Complete update of a resource
The following example updates a \"XyzFunction\" resource. Only the \"attrA\"
attribute is updated with a new value. The \"attrB\" attribute is set to the
old value, but still the \"attrB\" attribute needs to be present.
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PUT /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"newValue\", | | | | \"attrB\": 551 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
# A.6 Partial update of a resource
## A.6.1 Partial update of a resource with JSON Merge Patch
The first example shows how the attribute \"attrA\" of the \"XyzFunction with
the \"id\" equal to \"YXZF1\" is changed from \"xyz\" to \"def\" using JSON
Merge Patch.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"XyzFunction\": { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"def\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
In the second example the \"mcc\" attribute field of the \"plmnId\" attribute
is updated to \"654\". The employed patch method is again JSON Merge Patch.
+--------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"plmn-Id\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 654 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +--------------------------------------------+
Note that the value of \"SubNetwork\" needs to be a JSON object when using
standard JSON Merge Patch. JSON arrays are not allowed. This needs to be taken
into account when specifying the JSON schema for the PATCH method request
body.
## A.6.2 Partial update of a resource with 3GPP JSON Merge Patch
In these examples the same changes as in clause A.6.1 are requested, but 3GPP
JSON Merge Patch is used. The value of \"XyzFunction\" can be an array in this
case.
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/3gpp-merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"def\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
+-------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/3gpp-merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"plmn-Id\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 654 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------------------+
## A.6.3 Partial update of a resource with JSON Patch
When JSON Patch is used to request the changes described in clause A.6.1, the
MnS consumer may send
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/attrA\", | | | | \"value\": 654 | | | | } | | | | ] | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+
and
+-------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"/attributes/plmn-Id/mcc\", | | | | \"value\": 654 | | | | } | | | | ] | +-------------------------------------------+
## A.6.4 Partial update of a resource with 3GPP JSON Patch
When 3GPP JSON Patch is used to request the changes described in clause A.6.1
the MnS consumer may send the following
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/3gpp-json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1#attributes/attrA\", | | | | \"value\": 654 | | | | } | | | | ] | +------------------------------------------------------------------------+
and
+------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/3gpp-json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": \"#attributes/plmn-Id/mcc\", | | | | \"value\": 654 | | | | } | | | | ] | +------------------------------------------------+
In the first example the target URI of the HTTP PATCH method identifies the
document root.
The value of \"path\" in the second example is just the URI fragment component
beginning with \"#\".
# A.7 Manipulating multiple resources
## A.7.1 Manipulating multiple resources with 3GPP JSON Merge Patch
In this example the \"userLabel\" attribute and the \"mcc\" attribute field of
the \"subNetwork\" resource is updated. A new \"XyzFunction\" resource is
created as well as a new \"ManagedElement\" resource.
+-------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/3gpp-merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \"Berlin NW-1\", | | | | \"plmn-id\": { | | | | \"mcc\": 456 | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF3\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"fgh\", | | | | \"attrB\": 555 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME3\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \" Berlin NW 3\", | | | | \"vendorname\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Spandau\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------------------+
In the following example a \"XYzFunction\" resource is deleted.
+-------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/3gpp-merge-patch+json | | | | { | | | | \"SubNetwork\": { | | | | \"id\": \"SN1\", | | | | \"ManagedElement\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"ME1\", | | | | \"XyzFunction\": [ | | | | { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF2\", | | | | \"attributes\": null | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | ] | | | | } | | | | } | +-------------------------------------------------+
## A.7.2 Manipulating multiple resources with 3GPP JSON PATCH
The same resource modifications as in the previous chapter expressed using
JSON Patch are given by
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PATCH /SubNetwork=SN1 HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: example.org | | | | Content-Type: application/3gpp-json-patch+json | | | | [ | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": | | \"/SubNetwor | | k=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1#/attributes/userLabel\", | | | | \"value\": \"Berlin NW-1\" | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"replace\", | | | | \"path\": | | \"/SubNetwork= | | SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF1#/attributes/plmn-id/mcc\", | | | | \"value\": 654 | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME1/XyzFunction=XYZF3\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"XYZF3\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"attrA\": \"fgh\", | | | | \"attrB\": 555 | | | | } | | | | } | | | | }, | | | | { | | | | \"op\": \"add\", | | | | \"path\": \"/SubNetwork=SN1/ManagedElement=ME3\", | | | | \"value\": { | | | | \"id\": \"ME3\", | | | | \"attributes\": { | | | | \"userLabel\": \" Berlin NW 3\", | | | | \"vendorname\": \"Company XY\", | | | | \"location\": \"Spandau\" | | | | } | | | | } | | | | } | | | | ] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#