# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of a series of documents that specify charging
functionality and charging management in GSM/UMTS networks. The GSM/UMTS core
network charging architecture and principles are specified in TS 32.240 [1],
which provides an umbrella for other charging management TSs that specify:
\- the content of the Charging Data Records (CDRs) per domain / subsystem /
service (offline charging);
\- the content of real-time charging messages per domain / subsystem / service
(online charging);
\- the functionality of online and offline charging for those domains /
subsystems / services;
\- the interfaces that are used in the charging framework to transfer the
charging information (i.e. CDRs or charging events).
The complete document structure for these TSs is defined in TS 32.240 [1].
The present document specifies the Proxy Function in Domestic Service Provider
(DSP).
The present document contains the architecture and functions of the Proxy
Function logical components and thereby derives the functionality of the Proxy
Function interfaces. This charging description only defines the interworking
between CAMEL and Diameter. The Ro interface between the Proxy Function and
Online Charging System (OCS) is out of scope of the present document.
The present document is related to other 3GPP charging TSs as follows:
\- The common 3GPP charging architecture is specified in TS 32.240 [1];
\- Voice Call Service (VCS) charging is specified in TS 32.276[36].
All references, abbreviations, definitions, descriptions, principles and
requirements, used in the present document, that are common across 3GPP TSs,
are defined in TR 21.905 [100] \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\". Those
that are common across charging management in GSM/UMTS domains, services or
subsystems are provided in the umbrella document TS 32.240 [1] and are copied
into clause 3 of the present document for ease of reading. Finally, those
items that are specific to the present document are defined exclusively in the
present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Architecture and Principles\".
[2]-[9] Void.
[10] 3GPP TS 32.250: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Circuit Switched (CS) domain charging\".
[11]-[29] Void.
[30] 3GPP TS 32.270: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) charging\".
[31] 3GPP TS 32.271: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Location Services (LCS) charging\".
[32] 3GPP TS 32.272: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Push-to-Talk over Cellular (PoC) charging\".
[33] 3GPP TS 32.273: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) charging\".
[34] 3GPP TS 32.274: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Short Message Service (SMS) charging\".
[35] 3GPP TS 32.275: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
MultiMedia Telephony (MMTel) charging\".
[36] 3GPP TS 32.276: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Voice Call Service Charging\".
[37]-[49] Void.
[50] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging application\".
[51] 3GPP TS 32.298: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) parameter description\".
[52] 3GPP TS 32.297: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) file format and transfer\".
[53] 3GPP TS 32.296: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Online Charging System (OCS) applications and interfaces\".
[54] 3GPP TS 32.295: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) transfer\".
[55]-[99] Void.
[100] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[101] Void.
[102] Void.
[103] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[104]-[199] Void.
[200]-[206] Void.
[207] 3GPP TS 22.078: \"Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL); Service description; Stage 1\".
[208]-[211] Void.
[212] 3GPP TS 23.078: \"Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL) Phase X; Stage 2\".
[213]-[217] Void.
[218] 3GPP TS 29.078: \"Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL) Phase X; CAMEL Application Part (CAP) specification\".
[219]-[297] Void.
[298] EU Roaming regulation III; Structural Solutions; High Level Technical
Specifications
[299] EU Roaming regulation III; Interface & Protocol; Detailed Technical
Specifications
[300]-[399] Void.
[400]-[499] Void.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [100] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR
21.905 [100].
**alternative roaming provider:** A roaming provider different from the
domestic provider.
**CAMEL:** network feature that provides the mechanisms to support operator
specific services even when roaming outside HPLMN.
**CAMEL subscription information:** identifies a subscriber as having CAMEL
services.
**chargeable event:** activity utilizing telecommunication network resources
and related services for:
\- user to user communication (e.g. a single call, a data communication
session or a short message); or
\- user to network communication (e.g. service profile administration); or
\- inter-network communication (e.g. transferring calls, signalling, or short
messages); or
\- mobility (e.g. roaming or inter-system handover); and
\- that the network operator may want to charge for.
As a minimum, a chargeable event characterises the resource / service usage
and indicates the identity of the involved end user(s).
**charged party:** user involved in a chargeable event who has to pay parts or
the whole charges of the chargeable event, or a third party paying the charges
caused by one or all users involved in the chargeable event, or a network
operator.
**charging:** function within the telecommunications network and the
associated OCS/BD components whereby information related to a chargeable event
is collected, formatted, transferred and evaluated in order to make it
possible to determine usage for which the charged party may be billed (offline
charging) or the subscriber's account balance may be debited (online
charging).
**charging event:** set of charging information forwarded by the CTF towards
the CDF (offline charging) or towards the OCS (online charging). Each charging
event matches exactly one chargeable event.
**charging function:** entity inside the core network domain, subsystem or
service that is involved in charging for that domain, subsystem or service.
**Circuit Switched (CS) domain:** domain within GSM / UMTS in which
information is transferred in CS mode.
**credit control:** mechanism which directly interacts in real-time with an
account and controls or monitors the charges, related to the service usage.
Credit control is a process of: checking if credit is available, credit
reservation, deduction of credit from the end user account when service is
completed and refunding of reserved credit not used.
**domain:** part of a communication network that provides network resources
using a certain bearer technology.
**domestic service provider:** An undertaking that provides a roaming customer
with domestic mobile communications services, either a Mobile Network Operator
or a Mobile Virtual Network Operator.
**GSM only:** qualifier indicating that this clause or paragraph applies only
to a GSM system. For multi-system cases this is determined by the current
serving radio access network.
**in GSM,...:** qualifier indicating that this paragraph applies only to GSM
System.
**in UMTS,...:** qualifier indicating that this paragraph applies only to UMTS
System.
**\"middle tier\" (charging) TS:** term used for the 3GPP charging TSs that
specify the domain / subsystem / service specific, online and offline,
charging functionality. These are all the TSs in the numbering range from TS
32.250 to TS 32.279, e.g. TS 32.250 [10] for the CS domain, or TS 32.270 [30]
for the MMS service. Currently, there is only one \"tier 1\" TS in 3GPP, which
is TS 32.240 [1] that specifies the charging architecture and principles.
Finally, there are a number of top tier TSs in the 32.29x numbering range
([50] ff) that specify common charging aspects such as parameter definitions,
encoding rules, the common billing domain interface or common charging
applications.
**online charging:** charging mechanism where charging information **can**
affect, in real-time, the service rendered and therefore a direct interaction
of the charging mechanism with bearer/session/service control is required.
**Online Charging System:** the entity that performs real-time credit control.
Its functionality includes transaction handling, rating, online correlation
and management of subscriber account balances.
**real-time:** real-time charging and billing information is to be generated,
processed, and transported to a desired conclusion in less than 1 second.
**roaming customer** : a customer of a roaming provider of regulated roaming
services, by means of a terrestrial public mobile communications network
situated in the Union, whose contract or arrangement with that roaming
provider permits Union-wide roaming.**successful call:** connection that
reaches the communication or data transfer phase e.g. the \"answered\" state
for speech connections. All other connection attempts are regarded as
unsuccessful.
**tariff period:** part of one (calendar) day during which a particular tariff
is applied. Defined by the time at which the period commences (the switch-over
time) and the tariff to be applied after switch-over.
**tariff:** set of parameters defining the network utilisation charges for the
use of a particular bearer / session / service.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
CAP Reference point for CAMEL between a network element with integrated SSF
and the OCS.
Ro Online charging reference point between a Proxy Function and the OCS.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[100] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [100].
3G 3rd Generation
3GPP 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project
ARP Alternative Roaming Provider
CAMEL Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic
CAP CAMEL Application Part
CCA Credit Control Answer
CCR Credit Control Request
CGF Charging Gateway Function
CI Cell Identity
CS Circuit Switched
CSE CAMEL Service Environment
CTF Charging Trigger Function
DCCA Diameter Credit Control Application
DSP Domestic Service Provider
EU European Union
FCI Furnish Charging Information
GMSC Gateway MSC
gsmSCF GSM Service Control Function
gsmSSF GSM Service Switching Function
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
HLR Home Location Register
HPLMN Home PLMN
ICA Initiate Call Attempt
IMEI International Mobile Equipment Identity
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union - Telecommunications
standardization sector
JIP Jurisdiction Information Parameter
LAC Location Area Code
LRN Location Routing Number
MAP Mobile Application Part
MCC Mobile Country Code (part of IMSI)
MLC Mobile Location Center
MNC Mobile Network Code (part of IMSI)
MO Mobile Originated
MOC Mobile Originated Call (attempt)
MO-LR Mobile Originated Location Request
MS Mobile Station
MSC Mobile services Switching Centre
MSISDN Mobile Station ISDN number
MSRN Mobile Station Roaming Number
MT Mobile Terminated
MTC Mobile Terminated Call (attempt)
MT-LR Mobile Terminated Location Request
NE Network Element
NI-LR Network Induced Location Request
NP Number Portability
NPDB Number Portability Data Base
OCF Online Charging Function
OCS Online Charging System
O-CSI Originating CAMEL Subscription Information
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PSTN Public Switched Telephony Network
RAC Routing Area Code
RAN Radio Access Network
RNC Radio Network Controller
SAC Service Area Code
SCI Subscriber Controlled Input or Send Charging Information
SRF Specialised Resource Function
SS7 Signalling System No. 7
SSF Service Switching Function
T-CSI Terminating CAMEL Subscription Information
TDP Trigger Detection Point
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
VAS Value Added Service
VCC Voice Call Continuity
VCS Voice Call Service
VLR Visitor Location Register
VMSC Visited MSC
VPLMN Visited PLMN
VT-CSI Visited Terminating CAMEL Subscription Information
# 4 Required functionality of the Proxy Function
# 5 Architectural concept
## 5.1 Architecture reference model for Alternative Roaming Provider (ARP)
### 5.1.1 Proxy Function for Voice Call Service
Figure 5.1.1.1 shows the Proxy Function for voice control in the framework of
the overall Single IMSI architecture for EU Roaming as defined in the high-
level technical specification [298].
Figure 5.1.1.1: The Proxy Function architecture for Voice Call Service
The Proxy Function entails a functional entity in the DSP's network that
handles CAMEL and Diameter interworking.
The signaling between the CS domain elements and the Proxy Function is
implemented by CAMEL techniques as described in TS 23.078 [212] and TS 29.078
[218]. The signalling between the ARP OCS and the Proxy Function for online
charging is implemented as specified in TS 32.276 [36].
# 6 Functionalities and message flows
## 6.1 Reference point required functionality
## 6.2 Message flows
### 6.2.1 Mobile Originated Call
This message flow is for illustrative purpose and depicts a Mobile Originated
Call in which charging starts at call attempt.The handling of regulated user,
routing and call control as defined in EU Roaming regulation III Interface &
Protocol Detailed Technical specifications [299] are out of the 32 series
charging specifications.
Figure 6.2.1.1 Mobile Originated Call When the ARP subscriber is roaming
1\. The Proxy Function/ gsmSCF receives the Initial DP of the CAP dialogue
that is initiated from the VMSC/gsmSSF in the VPLMN's network.
Note 1: The Proxy Function further contains service logic that handles the CAP
dialogue towards the VPLMN and the Diameter session towards the ARP and that
maps information between these two dialogues.
2\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF initiates a Diameter session towards ARP OCS
with CCR [Intial] to request the quotas for voice call service.
3\. ARP OCS sends the CCA [Initial] with the granted quotas, such as the
duration of a call 5 minutes.
4\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF sends Request Report BCSM Event to VMSC/gsmSSF
to monitor for a call-related event, and then sends a notification back to the
gsmSCF.
5\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF instructs the VMSC/gsmSSF to apply charging
mechanisms to control the call duration.
6\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF requests the VMSC/gsmSSF to proceed with call
processing.
7\. The VMSC/gsmSSF reports to the gsmSCF the information requested in the
Apply Charging.
8\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF sends CCR [Update] to request the quotas.
9\. ARP OCS sends the CCA [Update] with the granted quatos again, such as more
5 minutes fot the duration of a call.
10\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF instructs the VMSC/gsmSSF to apply charging
mechanisms to control the call duration.
11\. The ARP User as the calling party end the call. The VMSC/gsmSSF sends the
Event Report BCSM.
12\. The VMSC/gsmSSF reports to the gsmSCF the information requested in the
Apply Charging.
13\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF sends the CCR [Termination] to ARP OCS.
14\. The ARP OCS answers the quest with CCA [Termination].
15\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF tears down the call for all parties involved in
the call.
### 6.2.2 Mobile Terminated Call
This message flow is for illustrative purpose and depicts a Mobile Terminated
call at DSP in which charging starts at call attempt. CAMEL control of Mobile
Terminated calls may be done through interaction with the GMSC or through
interaction with the VMSC.The MT call based VMSC is out of consideration as
defined in EU Roaming regulation III Interface & Protocol Detailed Technical
specifications [299]. The handling of regulated user, routing and call control
as defined in EU Roaming regulation III Interface & Protocol Detailed
Technical specifications [299] are also out of scope of this specification.
Figure 6.2.2.1 Mobile Terminated Call When the ARP subscriber is roaming
1\. The Proxy Function/ gsmSCF receive the Initial DP of the CAP dialogue that
is initiated from the GMSC/gsmSSF in the Home network.
Note : The Proxy Function further contains service logic that handles the CAP
dialogue towards the HPLMN and the Diameter session towards the ARP and that
maps information between these two dialogues.
2\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF initiates a Diameter session towards ARP OCS
with CCR [Initial] to request the quotas for voice call service of called
party.
3\. ARP OCS sends the CCA [Initial] with the granted quotas, such as the
duration of a call 5 minutes.
4\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF sends Request Report BCSM Event to GMSC/gsmSSF
to monitor for a call-related event, and then sends a notification back to the
gsmSCF.
5\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF instructs the GMSC/gsmSSF to apply charging
mechanisms to control the call duration.
6\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF requests the GMSC/gsmSSF to proceed with call
processing.
7\. The GMSC/gsmSSF reports to the gsmSCF the information requested in the
Apply Charging.
8\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF sends CCR [Update] to request the quotas.
9\. ARP OCS sends CCA [Update] with the granted quatos, such as more 5 minutes
fot the duration of a call.
10\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF instructs the GMSC/gsmSSF to apply charging
mechanisms to control the call duration.
11\. The ARP User as the called party end the call. The GMSC/gsmSSF sends the
Event Report BCSM with DP-T-Disconnect.
12\. The GMSC/gsmSSF reports to the gsmSCF the information requested in the
Apply Charging.
13\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF sends the CCR [Termination] to ARP OCS.
14\. The ARP OCS answers the request with CCA [Termination].
15\. The Proxy Function/gsmSCF tears down the call for all parties involved in
the call.
### 6.2.3 Mobile Forwarded Call
For conditionally and unconfitionally call forwarding, the call in different
phase would be handled the same as the normal MO call or MT call message
flows. For example, the charging provision for B is as normal MT in the call
leg between calling-party (A) and the called-party (B), the charging provision
for B is as normal MO in the call leg between called-party (B) and the
forwarded-to-party(C). In order to avoid the duplication, the detailed message
flows of Mobile Forwarded call are not present here.
# 7 Definition of charging information
#