# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.371: \"Security Management concept and requirements\".
32.372: \"Security services for Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
**32.376: \"Security services for Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution
Set (SS) definitions\".**
In 3GPP SA5 context, IRPs are introduced to address process interfaces at the
Itf-N interface. The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of Integration
Reference Points (IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which realize the
functional capabilities over this interface. The basic structure of the IRPs
is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2]. IRP consists of
IRPManager and IRPAgent. Usually there are three types of transaction between
IRPManager and IRPAgent, which are operation invocation, notification, and
file transfer.
However, there are different types of intentional threats against the
transaction between IRPManagers and IRPAgents. All the threats are potential
risks of damage or degradation of telecommunication services, which operators
should take measures to reduce or eliminate to secure the telecommunication
service, network, and data.
The present document is applicable to the Interface IRP specifications. That
is to say, it is only concerned with the security aspects of
operations/notifications/file deployed across the Itf-N.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in 3GPP TS 32.372 [5] Security Service for IRP Information Service.
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.372 V14.0.X [5].
Note that within the present document there are several alternate solutions.
Specific choices will to be made to counter identified security threats, and
to consider performance and cost criteria, i.e. an implementation is not
expected to have to support every option for every deployment.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.301: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.371 \"Telecommunication management; Security Management concept
and requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.372: \"Telecommunication management; Security services
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirements\".
[7] OMG CORBA Specification 02-12-06
[8] OMG CORBA Security Service Specification 02-03-11
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/corbaservices_spec_catalog.htm
[9] SECP Security Service Protocol\
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/formal/omg_security.htm#SECP
[10] XML-Signature Syntax and Processing\ http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/REC-
xmldsig-core-20020212/
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.301 [3] and the following
apply:
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CA Certificate Authority
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture (OMG)
CSS Client Security Service
EM Element Manager
IDL Interface Definition Language (OMG)
IOR Interoperable Object Reference
IS Information Service
NC Notification Channel (OMG)
NE Network Element
NV Name and Value pair
OMG Object Management Group
ORB Object Request Broker (OMG)
QoS Quality of Service
RI Request Interceptor
SAS Security Attributes Service (OMG)
SECP Security Protocol
SS Solution Set
TII Time-Independent Invocation
TSS Target Security Service
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
# 4 Solution Set definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP Security Services for IRP
Solution Set Definitions:
\- 3GPP Security Services for IRP CORBA SS (Annex A).
\- 3GPP Security Services for IRP File integrity solution (Annex B).
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for Security Services whose
semantics is specified in Security Services for IRP: Information Service (TS
32.372 [5]).
# A.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of Security Services is specified in 3GPP TS
32.372 [5]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA
Solution.
## A.1.1 Principles of IRP Security Services
As shown in figure A.1, the Security Services are between IRP Application
layer and Transport layer. Security Attributes which are attached to network
management information are transferred between IRPManager and IRPAgent to
address Authentication, Authorization, Activity Log and file integrity
requirements.
Figure A.1: Principles of IRP Security Services
The basic idea of these Security Services is as follows:
Security Services on IRPManager side and Security Services on IRPAgent side
cooperate to secure the Itf-N.
When IRPManager and IRPAgent exchange network management information in a
secured manner, the sender Security Service attaches Security Attributes to
the network management information. The receiver analyses the received
Security Attributes to determine if the received network management
information is authentic and authorized.
The present document specifies two alternative CORBA solutions for attaching
Security Attributes over Itf-N.\ They use different CORBA mechanisms to
transfer the Security Attributes. One uses The CORBA Request Interceptor while
the other uses the CORBA Security Attributes Service (SAS) protocol. Both
solutions need to define their respective Security Attributes.
The Security Attributes used by the Interceptor mechanism and the mechanism
itself are defined by the present document.\ The ones used by the CORBA SAS
protocol are defined in CORBA SAS [7].
In addition to the above two alternate mechanisms, the present document also
specify a third alternative called Virtual Private Network (VPN) to secure the
network management information exchanged between IRPManager and IRPAgent.\
Such mechanism is defined in annex A of 3GPP TS 32.371 [4].
Table A.1 identifies the use of the three alternatives to realize the Security
Service such as Authentication Security Service, Authorization Security
Service, Activity Log Security Service and File Integrity Security Service.
Table A.1: Alternate solutions and Security Service relationship
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                          Authentication Security Service   Authorization Security Service   Activity Log Security Service   File Integrity Security Service
Request Interceptor solution X X X  
SAS solution X X X  
VPN X X X X NOTE: \"X\" means that \"The Security Service identified by the
column name is realised by the use of Security Attributes in the solution
identified by the row name.
* * *
IRPManager and IRPAgent should decide to use one of the two alternative
solutions to provide Authentication, Authorization and Activity Log Security
Service at configuration/deployment time, and it is not changeable at run
time.
IRP Manager and IRP Agents should both support VPN.
In case CORBA-based security services are used to provide Authentication,
Authorization and Activity Log Security Service, IRP Managers shall support
SAS Solution and Request Interceptor Solution, while IRP Agents may support
either SAS Solution or Request Interceptor Solution (it shall be noted that
usage is determined at configuration/deployment time, and it is not changeable
at run time).
## A.1.2 Request Interceptor
This clause introduces concept of Request Interceptor, definitions and details
are addressed in clause 21.3 of OMG CORBA Specification [7]. This CORBA
mechanism can be used to transfer Credential over Itf-N.
Request Interceptor (RI) is designed to intercept the flow of a request/reply
sequence through the ORB at specific points so that services can query the
request information and manipulate the service contexts that are propagated
between clients and servers.
In Itf-N scenario, the service context includes Credential as Security
Attributes to be exchanged between IRPManager side Security Service and
IRPAgent side Security Service to address Authentication, Authorization, and
Activity Log requirements. There are two types of Request Interceptors:
Client-side and Server-side Interceptor. Both Client-side and Server-side
request Interceptors are registered with an ORB (see section 21.7,
\"Registering Interceptors\" in [7]). Each request Interceptor is called at a
number of interception points.
As shown in figure A.2, Client-side Request Interceptor is between Client
Application layer and CORBA ORB layer; it comprises 5 kinds of Interception
Points described in clause A.1.2.1. Server-side Request Interceptor is between
Server Application layer and CORBA ORB layer; it comprises 5 kinds of
Interception Points described in clause A.1.2.2. Information related to
request and corresponding result exchanged between Client and Server can be
intercepted at these Interception points by Client-side Request Interceptor
and/or Server-side Request Interceptor.
Figure A.2: Interception points of Request Interceptor
### A.1.2.1 Client-side Interceptor
After Client-side Interceptor is registered with ORB, Client-side Interceptor
can be called at the following 5 Interception Points.
1\. send_request Interception point:
\- When request is sent to the server, this interception point can be invoked
by ORB to query request information and modify the service context.
2\. send_poll Interception point:
\- This interception point allows an Interceptor to query information during a
Time-Independent Invocation (TII) polling get reply sequence.
3\. receive_reply Interception point:
\- When a reply is returned from the server and before control is returned to
the client, this interception point can be invoked by ORB to query the
information on the reply.
4\. receive_exception Interception point:
\- When an exception occurs and before control is returned to the client, this
interception point can be called by ORB to query the exception\'s information
before it is raised to the client.
5\. receive_other Interception point:
\- This interception point allows an Interceptor to query the information
available when a request results in something other than a normal reply or an
exception.
### A.1.2.2 Server-side Interceptor
After Server-side Interceptor is registered with ORB, Server-side Interceptor
can be called at the following 5 Interception Points.
1\. receive_request_service_contexts Interception point:
\- After all the information regarding the request are available and before
the request has been invoked by the server, this interception point can be
invoked by ORB to query request information.
2\. receive_request Interception point:
\- After the target operation has been invoked and before the reply is
returned to the client, this interception point can be invoked by ORB to query
reply information and modify the reply service context.
3\. send_reply Interception point:
\- After the target operation has been invoked and before the reply is
returned to the client, this interception point can be invoked by ORB to query
reply information and modify the reply service context.
4\. send_exception Interception point:
\- When an exception occurs, this interception point can be called by ORB.
5\. send_other Interception point:
\- This interception point allows an Interceptor to query the information
available when a request results in something other than a normal reply or an
exception.
### A.1.2.3 Request Interceptor Security Attributes
ServiceContext is defined in CORBA specification [7], it is composed of
context_id and context_data.
Credential which is contained in SecurityContext as context data is used for
IRPAgent to extract authentication token and authorization token.
## A.1.3 Security Attributes Service Protocol
This clause introduces concept of Security Attributes Service Protocol,
definitions and details are addressed in clause 24.3 of OMG CORBA
Specification [6]. This CORBA mechanism can be used to transfer Credential
over Itf-N.
The SAS protocol is designed to exchange its protocol elements in the service
context of General Inter-ORB Protocol (GIOP) request and reply messages that
are communicated over a connection-based transport. The protocol is intended
to be used in environments where transport layer security exists.
Two security interceptors are used by ORB to exchange Security Attribute, but
neither is available on application layer:
1\. Secure Invocation Interceptor. This is a message-level interceptor, which
is able to check and protect messages (requests and replies) for both
integrity and confidentiality.
2\. Access Control Interceptor. This is a request-level interceptor, which
determines whether an invocation should be permitted.
The protocol provides client authentication, delegation, and privilege
functionality that may be applied to overcome corresponding deficiencies in an
underlying transport.
The SAS protocol is divided into two layers:
1\. The authentication layer is used to perform client authentication where
sufficient authentication could not be accomplished in the transport.
2\. The attribute layer may be used by a client to push (that is, deliver)
security attributes (identity and privilege) to a target where they may be
applied in access control decisions.
### A.1.3.1 Security Attribute Service context element
The Security Attribute Service (SAS) context element is used to associate
security related service contexts with GIOP request and reply messages.
Four message types comprise the security attribute service context management
protocol. Each security attribute service context element contains a context
id and a message data that carries one of the following message body types:
1\. EstablishContext: Sent by a Client Security Service (CSS) to establish a
security attribute service context.
2\. ContextError: Sent by a Target Security Service (TSS) to indicate errors
that were encountered in context creation, in the message protocol, or in use
of a context.
3\. CompleteEstablishContext: Sent by a Target Security Service (TSS) to
indicate the outcome of a successful request to establish a security attribute
service context.
4\. MessageInContext: Sent by a Client Security Service (CSS) to associate
request messages with an existing stateful security attribute service context.
This message may also be used to indicate that the context should be discarded
after processing the request. Stateful contexts, also known as reusable
contexts, endure until they are discarded, and can be referenced for use with
subsequent requests.
### A.1.3.2 CORBA Security Service
Note that the OMG security service [8] has a status indicating it is being
replaced by a security protocol (SECP) specification.. SECP is a work in
progress.
Should an operator and vendor agree to deploy the OMG security service they
should be aware of the following cautions.
\- The status of the OMG security service indicates that changes are deemed
necessary due to the development of a replacement specification in SECP [9].
\- The OMG security service is known to require more processing power. This
may impact the processing platform and memory requirements, leading to higher
cost solutions.
IRPManager and IRPAgent access Security Attributes via CORBA Security Service.
Editor Note: OMG is defining a new OMG CORBA Security Service to replace [8].
IRPManager side CORBA Security Service authenticates IRPManager explicitly or
implicitly, and returns a credential as a warrant to the IRPManager. Since
then, when the authenticated IRPManager sends a request to a IRPAgent,
IRPManager side CORBA Security Service will transfer the IRPManager\'s
credential to the target IRPAgent.\ The target IRPAgent side CORBA Security
Service validates the transferred Credential to accomplish IRPManager
authentication. Similarly, IRPManager side CORBA Security Service may
authenticate IRPAgent if required.
CORBA Security Service provides authentication service on transport layer and
maybe also on application layer.
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 RI Solution Mapping
RI Solution can be alternatively used to provide Authentication, Authorization
and Activity Log Security Service for Itf-N.
### A.2.1.1 Security Attribute Mapping
In Request Interceptor Solution scenario, Security Attributes are attached to
operation request transferred between IRPManager and IRPAgent within CORBA ORB
layer.
Table A.2: Mapping from IS Security Attribute to RI Solution Equivalents
* * *
IS IOC in 3GPP TS 32.372 [5] RI Solution IOC Qualifier Credential interface
Credential (see note) M NOTE: interface Credential contains auth_data of CORBA
Any type, detailed content is authentication mechanism specific. A list of
authentication mechanisms are recommended in A.5.
* * *
Table A.3: Mapping from IS Security Exception to RI Solution Equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS IOC in 3GPP TS 32.372 | RI Solution IOC | Qualifier | | [5] | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | There is no corresponding | exception | M | | IS parameter | AuthenticationException | | | | (see note 1) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | There is no corresponding | exception | M | | IS parameter | AuthorizationException | | | | (see note 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: See details in | | | | clause A.3.1.1. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: See details in | | | | clause A.3.1.2. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## A.2.2 SAS Solution Mapping
SAS Solution can be alternatively used to provide Authentication,
Authorization and Activity Log Security Service for Itf-N.
### A.2.2.1 Security Attribute Mapping
In Security Attribute Service protocol Solution scenario, Security Attributes
are attached to operation request transferred between IRPManager and IRPAgent
within CORBA ORB layer.
Table A.4: Mapping from IS Security Attribute to SAS Solution Equivalents
* * *
IS IOC in 3GPP TS 32.372 [5] SAS Solution IOC Qualifier Credential SAS
ServiceContext (see note) M NOTE: SAS Service Context are defined in clause
24.3 of OMG CORBA Specification [6].
* * *
# A.3 Itf-N Security Service Behaviour
This clause describes some behaviours of IRPManager and IRPAgent not captured
by IDL in RI Solution and SAS Solution respectively. IRPManager and IRPAgent
should apply RI Solution or SAS Solution to provide Authentication,
Authorization and Activity Log Security Service.
## A.3.1 Request Interceptor Solution
At configuration/deployment time, Request Interceptor on IRPManager and
IRPAgent side should be configured to run respectively before IRPManager and
IRPAgent start to run.
### A.3.1.1 Authentication
This clause addresses how to use Request Interceptor to provide IRPManager
Authentication and IRPAgent Authentication as well if required.
When IRPManager sends request to IRPAgent, Client-side Request Interceptor
request credential from local Security Service, then inserts it into service
context and attaches the service context to the request; when IRPAgent
receives the request, Server-side Request Interceptor extracts the service
contexts attached to the request and performs authentication method to check
the validity of the credential inserted. If the check succeeds, Server-side
Request Interceptor performs authorization for the request and works with the
request as normal after successful authorization, otherwise an
authenticationException is raised and sent to IRPManager by Server-side
Request Interceptor.
When IRPAgent has processed the request from IRPManager and is going to sends
result, Server-side Request Interceptor may insert IRPAgent\'s credential into
a service context and attach the service context to the result; when
IRPManager receives the result, Client-side Request Interceptor may extract
the service contexts including the IRPAgent\'s credential and check its
validity. If the check succeeds, IRPManager works with the result as normal,
otherwise an authenticationException is raised and sent to IRPManager by
Client-side Request Interceptor.
Implementation may or may not support IRPAgent authentication; if
implementation supports IRPAgent authentication, it shall be configured at
configuration/ deployment time; this configuration is not changeable at
running time.
How IRPManager side local authentication mechanism and IRPAgent side local
authentication mechanism cooperate to complete authentication is not
standardized in this release.
### A.3.1.2 Authorization
This clause addresses how to resolve Authorization requirement by using
Request Interceptor.
IRPAgent is able to extract accessor Identifier from the credential attached
to the request.
Each time IRPAgent receives request, Server-side Request Interceptor extracts
accessor identifier from the credential attached to the request.
Server-side Request Interceptor is also able to retrieve request related
information.
Server-side Request Interceptor then checks the accessor identifier, request
related information against Access Control Policy predefined in IRPAgent to
decide to accept the request or not. If the check succeeds, IRPAgent works
with the request as normal, otherwise an authorizationException is raised and
sent to IRPManager by Server-side Request Interceptor.
### A.3.1.3 Activity Log
This clause addresses how to log activity of IRPAgent by means of Request
Interceptor.
Server-side Request Interceptor logs activity of IRPAgent in the following
way:
1\. After receiving operation request, Server-side Request Interceptor logs
the received operation request and corresponding parameters, sender
identifier, and timestamp.
2\. After finishing IRPManager Authentication, Server-side Request Interceptor
logs authentication result.
3\. After finishing Authorization, Server-side Request Interceptor logs
authorization result.
4\. After sending operation result, Server-side Request Interceptor logs
operation result, i.e. normal reply or system/user exception.
## A.3.2 Security Attributes Service Solution
This clause addresses how to provide IRPManager Authentication, IRPAgent
Authentication, Authorization, and Activity Log Security Service by using
Security Attributes Service.
At configuration/deployment time, IRPManager and IRPAgent should be configured
to run over CORBA Security Service providing authentication service,
authorization service and security audit service.
### A.3.2.1 Authentication
IRPManager invokes operation authenticate (defined in CORBA Security Service
specification [8]) to get a credential as a warrant.
Optionally, IRPManager may continue to invoke operation
continue_authentication (defined in CORBA Security Service specification [8])
to carry out mutual authentication.
### A.3.2.2 Authorization
When operation request reaches IRPAgent, IRPAgent side CORBA Security Service
extracts accessor identifier from the credential attached to the request and
invokes operation access_allowed (defined in CORBA Security Service
specification [8]) to accomplish authorization due to the accessor identifier
and predefined Access Control policy.
### A.3.2.3 Activity Log
CORBA Security Service provides Security Audit Service. IRPAgent invokes
operation audit_needed (defined in CORBA Security Service specification [8])
to decide which security activity/event to be logged; corresponding
activity/event are logged by CORBA Security Service automatically when
happens. OMG CORBA Security Service [8] defines the following
activities/events that can be logged:
AuditAll
AuditPrincipalAuth
AuditSessionAuth
AuditAuthorization
AuditInvocation
AuditSecEnvChange
AuditPolicyChange
AuditObjectCreation
AuditObjectDestruction
AuditNonRepudiation
# A.4 Solution Set definitions
## A.4.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.4.2 defines the types which are used by the Security Service for IRP.
Clause A.4.3 defines the capabilities of Security Service for IRP.
NOTE: All the IDL files below are only applicable to RI Solution. SAS Solution
related IDL definition is defined in CORBA Security Service specification [8].
## A.4.2 IDL specification \"SecurityServiceConstDefs.idl\"
//File: SecurityServiceConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _SECURITYSERVICEConstDefs_idl_
#define _SECURITYSERVICEConstDefs_idl_
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: SecurityServiceConstDefs
This module contains definitions specific for Security Service Request
Interceptor Solution.
================================================================
*/
module SecurityServiceConstDefs
{
typedef Any Auth_Data;
/*
Define the credential in Request Interceptor Solution specified in
the Security Service: IS.
*/
interface Credential
{
attribute Auth_Data authenticationData;
};
};
#endif // _SECURITYSERVICEConstDefs_idl_
## A.4.3 IDL specification file \"SecurityServiceSystem.idl\"
//File: SecurityServiceSystem.idl
#ifndef _SECURITYSERVICESYSTEM_idl_
#define _SECURITYSERVICESystem_idl_
#include \"SecurityServiceConstDefs.idl\"
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: SecurityServiceSystem
This module implements capabilities of IRP Security Service.
================================================================
*/
module SecurityServiceSystem
{
/*
System fails to complete the operation. System can provide reason
to qualify the exception. The semantics carried in reason
is outside the scope of this IRP.
*/
exception AuthenticationException { string reason; };
exception AuthorizationException { string reason; };
};
#endif // _SECURITYSERVICESYSTEM_idl_
# A.5 Authentication mechanism
In this release, IRP Security Service credential is not specified at syntax
level. This annex recommends the following Industrial Authentication services
that IRP Security Service can adopt. They are of different kinds of
Credentials, security strength, performance cost, and implementation cost.
## A.5.1 Basic authentication
Client sends credential comprising username and password encoded in base64 to
server, server check the validity of the credential to complete
authentication.
E.g. HTTP v1.0 employs basic authentication service.
## A.5.2 Digest authentication
Digest authentication offers the same features as basic authentication but
involves a different way of transmitting the authentication credential. The
authentication credential passes through MD5 hashing process per [RFC-1321].\
The result is not feasible to decrypt it.
Additional information is added to the password before hashing so that the
password hash can not be captured and reused to impersonate the true user.
E.g. HTTP v1.1 employs digest authentication service.
## A.5.3 Kerberos and SPKM
Generic Security Service Application Program Interface (GSS-API) defines an
interface to strong authentication and other security services at a generic
level which is independent of particular underlying mechanisms, e.g. Kerberos
per RFC 1964, and SPKM per RFC 2025.
A GSS-API caller accepts tokens provided by its local GSS-API implementation
and transfers the tokens to a peer on a remote system; that peer passes the
received tokens to its local GSS-API implementation for processing.
## A.5.4 OMG CORBA CSIv2 Conformance Level 0 of Security
Refer to clause A.6.5.
# A.6 Use of OMG specified security service
## A.6.1 General
This annex specifies the use of OMG specified security service to secure the
IRP. The use of this service is optional in the understanding that a) all 3GPP
specified security service are qualified as optional and b) the choice of
service depends on the operating context such as, the cost, the risk of
security violation, the cost of recovery, etc.
## A.6.2 Authentication
The Secured Interface IRP shall be in conformance to OMG CSIv2 conformance
Level 0. See clause A.6.5.
We recommend 3GPP to standardize two methods: the Transport Layer based method
(A.6.2.1) and the Supplemental Client Authentication Layer based method
(A.6.2.2). 3GPP should qualify each of them, in terms of support, in the
following sense:
\- To support IRPManager authentication, a Secured Interface IRP instance
shall support method 1 (A.6.2.1) or method 2 (A.6.2.2).
\- To support IRPAgent-to-IRPManager and IRPManager authentication (mutual
authentication), a Secured Interface IRP instance shall support method 1.
\- The Secured Interface IRPs from a particular vendor supporting an Itf-N
instance shall all have the same supported authentication method(s).
EXAMPLE: A vendor providing a secured IRPAgent including BulkCMIRP,
NotificationIRP and AlarmIRP, shall implement the same set of authentication
methods in the three IRPs involved.
### A.6.2.1 Transport Layer based method
The IRPManager authentication and IRPAgent-to-IRPManager authentication shall
be supported by this method. This method operates at the Transport Layer as
shown in the following diagram (extracted, with modification specific for IRP
context, from section 24.1.1 of [8].
In this mode, the supporting ORB and its related Transport Layer will
implement the authentication method and provide the authentication security
service to the IRPManager and IRPAgent applications.
Figure A.3: Protocol stack supporting CORBA secured IRP
Authentication should be accomplished by using the subject (e.g. IRPManager)
identity inside a X.509 digital certificate provided to the object (e.g. the
secured IRPAgent application) and vice versa.
The IRPManager must first obtain a credential (container for security
attributes) containing the subject access identity only (see note 1) for use
during future CORBA session in a secured IRP environment. How IRPManager can
obtain a credential is outside the 3GPP standard scope.
The IRPAgent application can obtain the IRPManager\'s credential at runtime by
making appropriate authenticate call (non-3GPP standardized) to its local ORB
interface.
Likewise, the IRPAgent application must also obtain a credential for use
during future CORBA session. How IRPAgent can obtain its credential is outside
the 3GPP standard scope.
The IRPManager application can obtain the IRPAgent\'s credential at runtime by
making appropriate authenticate call (non-3GPP standardized) to its local ORB
interface.
To allow the IRPManager to authenticate received notifications, our preference
is to use the following scheme.
\- The Notification IRPAgent should need another key pair (different key than
one used for authentication mentioned above) for signing the notifications.
\- Notification IRPManager at notification subscription time can ask for
secured (i.e. notification carries IRPAgent\'s signature) or non-secured
notifications (i.e. notification does not carry digital signature).
\- We would prefer the Notification IRPAgent to include its digital signature
in the notifications, rather than to rely on SSL to provide authentication for
notifications. This preference is to avoid the 3 or 4 protocol exchanges
required at the SSL to achieve authentication for each notification sent. This
preference also allows the IRPManager, if it considers the received
notification is of no significance from security viewpoint, needs not spend
its CPU cycles to authenticate the incoming signature.
NOTE 1: In general, credential can contain, in addition to access identity,
the privilege attributes such as security role name. Our recommendation is not
to use privilege attributes in credential because we propose the use of the
widely supported CSIv2 conformance level 0. Unfortunately, privilege
attributes are only supported in CSIv2 conformance level 1.
NOTE 2: The SSL v3.0/TLS 1.0 protocol specified by CSIv2 conformance level 0
provide strong authentication X.509 certificate based public key technology.
This certificate-based authentication method operates at the transport
(SSLIOP) layer and not at the higher levels of the CSIv2 stack. The PKI
infrastructure and support needed for of distribution of public/private keys
are limited given the small amount of participating IRPManagers and IRPAgents.
One simple way to distribute keys is to store them in file, place them on disk
and physically and securely shipped them to appropriate administrators for
installing in their systems. Third party authorities or the operator\'s own
Certificate Authority (CA) can be used to certify the keys being distributed.
### A.6.2.2 Client Authentication layer based method
To supplement IRPManager authentication offered by the Transport Layer, we
recommend 3GPP to also standardize the use of the Client Authentication Tokens
and Identity Tokens as defined in the CSIv2 (i.e. the so-called General
Security Services Username Password (GSSUP)-based authentication method).
These mechanisms operate at the Supplemental Client Authentication Layer and
the Security Attribute Layer (see Figure A.3) There is no need to standardize
the use of Authorization Tokens (which also operates at the Security Attribute
Layer).
\- The Client Authentication Token, if used by IRPManager, is the client
authentication token used by the username password (GSSUP) mechanism for
client authentication. For 3GPP standard, all secured IRPAgent, supporting
IRPManager authentication, shall support this method. IRPManager can choose to
use or not to use it.
\- The Identity Token, if present, is an identity token used by the
IRPAgent\'s identity assertion functionality. It identifies the client of the
request. For 3GPP standard, secured IRPAgent, may choose to use it or ignore
it.
In this mode, similar to the other mode of 2.1, the supporting ORB and its
related Transport Layer will implement the authentication method and provide
the authentication security service to the IRPManager applications.
## A.6.3 Authorization and Access Control
Access control means restricting IRPManager\'s usage of methods and access to
managed resources. In the context of IRP security, we envision various schemes
of granularity for access control:
1\. Scheme-1: Is this IRPManager allowed to use all methods of this particular
xxx IRP and access to all managed resources known by the IRPAgent?
2\. Scheme-2: Is this IRPManager allowed to use this method of this particular
xxx IRP? If yes, is this IRPManager allowed to access this managed resource?
We recommend that 3GPP to standardize the Scheme-1 access control. Because the
number of xxx IRP instances is small and their lifecycles are long (e.g. in
years), we propose that there is no need to standardize a mechanism to name
these resources. Vendor supplying an instance of the secured xxx IRP shall
_document the naming/identification of these resources (i.e. instances of xxx
IRPs) and provide a secured vendor-specific mechanism for the management of
the authorizations that the IRPAgent shall use for access control purposes._
We also recommend that vendor, supplying an instance of the secured xxx IRP,
should provide access control to resources at granularity Scheme-2 above. In
such case, the vendor shall be required to identify the resources (i.e.
methods, managed resources) that can be subject to access control. The vendor
shall also be required to describe the _semantics of its IRPAgent access
control mechanism together with a secured vendor-specific mechanism for the
management of the authorizations that the IRPAgent shall use for access
control purposes._
We do not recommend 3GPP to standardize the use of Authorization Tokens as a
mean to distribute security attributes such as role. As a consequence,
_conformance to OMG CSIv2 conformance Level 1 is not a requirement for
implementations for complying to the 3GPP Secured Interface IRP. From the 3GPP
viewpoint, the way an IRPAgent obtains the required security attribute
information about an IRPManager is vendor specific._
## A.6.4 (Message) Integrity and Confidentiality Protection
Data integrity is provided by the use of the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL version
3.0) protocol on links between IRPManager and IRPAgent.
There is no confidentiality requirement stated so far. Therefore, solution for
confidentiality is not discussed. (Note that CSIv2 conformance Level 0
provides confidentiality.)
Message integrity (and confidentiality) could also be provided by VPN links
between IRPManager and IRPAgent.
## A.6.5 Quotation from OMG CORBA CSIv2 3 Conformance Levels of Security
This part is quoted from section 24.6 \"Conformance Levels\" of [8].
\"
##### 24.6.1 Conformance Level 0 {#conformance-level-0 .H6}
Level 0 defines the base level of secure interoperability that all
implementations are required to support. Level 0 requires support for SSL/TLS
protected connections.
Level 0 implementations are also required to support username/password client
authentication and identity assertion by using the service context protocol
defined in this specification.
##### 24.6.1.1 Transport-Layer Requirements {#transport-layer-requirements
.H6}
Implementations shall support the Security Attribute Service (SAS) protocol
within the service context lists of GIOP request and reply messages exchanged
over SSL 3.0 and TLS 1.0 protected connections.
Implementations shall also support the SAS protocol within the service context
lists of GIOP request and reply messages over unprotected transports defined
within IIOP. (SAS protocol elements should only be sent over unprotected
transports within trusted environments.)
**Required Ciphersuites**
Conforming implementations are required to support both SSL 3.0 and TLS 1.0
and the mandatory TLS 1.0 ciphersuites identified in [IETF RFC 2246].
Conforming implementations are also required to support the SSL 3.0
ciphersuites corresponding to the mandatory TLS 1.0 ciphersuites. An
additional set of recommended ciphersuites is identified in Section 24.4.2.1,
\"Recommended SSL/TLS Ciphersuites,\" on page 24-31.
##### 24.6.1.2 Service Context Protocol Requirements {#service-context-
protocol-requirements .H6}
All implementations shall support the Security Attribute Service (SAS) context
element protocol in the manner described in the following sections.
**Stateless Mode**
All implementations shall support the stateless CSS and stateless TSS modes of
operation as defined in Section 24.3.2, \"Session Semantics,\" on page 24-21,
and in the protocol message definitions appearing in Section 24.2.2, \"SAS
context_data Message Body Types,\" on page 24-5.
**Client Authentication Tokens and Mechanisms**
All implementations shall support the username password (GSSUP) mechanism for
client authentication as defined in Section 24.2.4.1, \"Username Password GSS
Mechanism (GSSUP),\" on page 24-12.
**Identity Tokens and Identity Assertion**
All implementations shall support the identity assertion functionality defined
in Section 24.3.1.1, \"Context Validation,\" on page 24-17 and the identity
token formats and functionality defined in Section 24.2.5, \"Identity Token
Format,\" on page 24-14.
All implementations shall support GSSUP mechanism specific identity tokens of
type **ITTPrincipalName**.
**Authorization Tokens (not required)**
At this level of conformance, implementations are not required to be capable
of including an authorization token in the SAS protocol elements they send or
of interpreting such tokens if they are included in received SAS protocol
elements.
The format of authorization tokens is defined in Section 24.2.3,
\"Authorization Token
Format,\" on page 24-10.
##### 24.6.1.3 Interoperable Object References (IORs) {#interoperable-object-
references-iors .H6}
The security mechanism configuration of CSIv2 target objects, shall be as
defined in Section 24.5.1, \"Target Security Configuration,\" on page 24-32,
with the exception that Level 0 implementations are not required to support
the **DelegationByClient** functionality described in Section 24.5.1.1,
\"AssociationOptions Type,\" on page 24-33.
##### 24.6.2 Conformance Level 1 {#conformance-level-1 .H6}
Level 1 adds the following additional requirements to those of Level 0.
##### 24.6.2.1 Authorization Tokens {#authorization-tokens .H6}
Level 1 implementations shall support the push model for privilege attributes.
Level 1 requires that a CSS provide clients with an ability to include an
authorization token, as defined in Section 24.2.3, \"Authorization Token
Format,\" on page 24-10, in SAS EstablishContext protocol messages.
Level 1 requires that a TSS be capable of evaluating its support for a
received authorization token according to the rules defined in Section
24.2.3.1, \"Extensions of the IETF AC Profile for CSIv2,\" on page 24-11. A
Level 1 TSS shall recognize the standard attributes and extensions defined in
the attribute certificate profile defined in [IETF ID PKIXAC].
Level 1 requires that a target object that supports pushed privilege
attributes include in its IORs the names of the privilege authorities trusted
by the target object (as defined in \"struct SAS_ContextSec\" on page 24-40).
##### 24.6.3 Conformance Level 2 {#conformance-level-2 .H6}
Level 2 adds to Level 1 the following additional requirements.
##### 24.6.3.1 Authorization-Token-Based Delegation {#authorization-token-
based-delegation .H6}
Level 2 adds to Level 1 a requirement that implementations support the
authorizationtoken-based delegation mechanism implemented by the SAS protocol.
A Level 2 TSS shall be capable of evaluating proxy rules arriving in an
authorization token to determine whether an asserting entity has been endorsed
(by the authority which vouched for the privilege attributes in the
authorization token) to assert the identity to which the privilege attributes
pertain. The semantics of the relationship between the identity token and
authorization token shall be as defined in Section 24.3.1.1, \"Context
Validation,\" on page 24-17.
A Level 2 TSS shall recognize the Section 24.2.3.1, \"Extensions of the IETF
AC Profile for CSIv2,\" on page 24-11\" (that is, the Proxy Info extension) as
defined on that page.
Level 2 requires that a target object that accepts identity assertions based
on endorsements in authorization tokens represent this support in its IORs as
defined in Table 24-17 on page 24-42.
Level 2 requires that a target object that requires an endorsement to act as
proxy for its callers represent this requirement in its IORs as defined in
Table 24-17 on page 24-42.
##### 24.6.4 Stateful Conformance {#stateful-conformance .H6}
Implementations are differentiated not only by the conformance levels
described in the preceding sections but also by whether or not they support
stateful security contexts.
For an implementation to claim stateful conformance, it shall implement the
stateless and stateful functionality as defined in Section 24.3.2, \"Session
Semantics,\" on page 24-21 and in Section 24.2.2, \"SAS context_data Message
Body Types,\" on page 24-5.
\"
###### ## Annex B (normative): File integrity solution
This annex contains the File integrity solution of Security Service as it
applies to Itf-N, in accordance with Security Services for IRP: Information
Service (TS 32.372 [5]).
# B.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of Security Service is specified in 3GPP TS
32.372 [5]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the File
integrity solution.
## B.1.1 Principles of IRP Security Services
Figure B.1 shows that Security Services are between IRP Application layer and
Transport layer. Security Attributes which are attached to network management
information are transferred between IRPManager and IRPAgent to address
Authentication, Authorization, Activity Log and file integrity requirements.
Figure B.1 : Principles of IRP Security Service
The basic idea of these Security Services is as follows:
\- IRP Security Services on IRPManager side and IRP Security Services on
IRPAgent side co-operate to provide Security Services for IRP.\ This avoids
modifying IRPManager and IRPAgent much.
\- When the IRPManager and/or IRPAgent send network management information to
each other, the IRP Security Service (on IRPManager and/or IRPAgent side)
attaches Security Attributes to the network management information. The
receiver works with the attached Security Attributes to implement the IRP
security requirement.
The present document addresses File integrity solution by using the XML
Signature Mechanism defined by [10].
Table B.1 identifies the use of File Integrity solution to realize File
Integrity Security Service.
Table B.1 : File Integrity solution and Security Service relationship
* * *
                                                                                                                     Authentication Security Service   Authorization Security Service   Activity Log Security Service   File Integrity Security Service
File Integrity solution X NOTE: \"X\" indicates which CORBA solution exchanges
Security Attributes are relevant to which Security Service.
* * *
## B.1.2 XML Signature Recommendation
This clause introduces the concept of XML Signature detailed in [10]. It is
used to transfer XML Signature over Itf-N to provide the File Integrity
Security Service.
Based on [10], data to be signed is canonicalized by using a specific method,
i.e. using a unique form to represent XML files with the same semantic content
but different text. The canonicalized data may be transformed before it is
digested by using a specific method. The digest value is encrypted by using a
specific signature method. The key information used to verify the signed value
of signed data may be included in the XML Signature.
As shown in [10], XML digital signatures are represented by the Signature
element which has the following structure (where \"?\" denotes zero or one
occurrence; \"+\" denotes one or more occurrences; and \"*\" denotes zero or
more occurrences):
\
\
\
\
(\
(\)?
\
\
\)+
\
\
(\)?
(\)*
\
# B.2 Mapping
## B.2.1 File integrity solution Mapping
### B.2.1.1 Security Attribute Mapping
In File Integrity Solution scenario, XML Signature as Security Attributes is
exchanged over Itf-N accompanying the file(s) to be transferred.
Table B.2: Mapping from IS Security Attribute to File Integrity Solution
Equivalents
* * *
IS IOC in 3GPP TS 32.372 [5] XML Signature Solution IOC Qualifier Signature
element Signature (defined in [10]) M
* * *
### B.2.1.2 Operation Mapping
Editor\'s note: FFS.
# B.3 Itf-N Security Service Behaviour
This clause describes some behaviour of IRPManager and IRPAgent not captured
by XML Schema in File Integrity Solution.
## B.3.1 File integrity solution
This clause addresses how to use XML Signature to provide File Integrity
Security Service.
To Enable IRPManager and IRPAgent to use XML Signature, these two sides should
agree with Canonicalization Method, Transform Method, Digest Method, and
Signature Method before they start communication.\ Mandatory methods defined
in [10] should be supported by IRPManager and IRPAgent.
When an XML document instance is to be exchanged over Itf-N, the sender should
make sure the whole XML document instance should be signed. The corresponding
XML Signature should be held in the XML document instance.
When an XML document instance is received, the receiver should verify the XML
document instance by using the process defined in [10].
If the verification is successful, receiver works with the XML document
instance as normal; otherwise receiver should raise a security alarm if it is
IRPAgent or process the failure in a vendor specific way if it is IRPManager.
#