# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies requirements, architecture, and possible
functional enhancements of volume based charging for VoLTE.
The study investigates how to associate the identifiers of caller and callee
with volume based charging for VoLTE.
The study investigates how to support the volume based charging for different
IMS based services (e.g. CAT and voice calls, 3PTY conference, Call waiting,
Call Hold).
The study investigates how to collect accounting information to determine the
status of VoLTE service delivery in PS offline charging.
The complete or partial conclusions of this study form the basis for the
normative work and/or for any further study.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void.
[2] - [10] Void.
[11] 3GPP TS 32.251: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Packet Switched (PS) domain charging\".
[12] - [19] Void.
[20] 3GPP TS 32.260: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) charging\".
[21] - [34] Void.
[35] 3GPP TS 32.275: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
MultiMedia Telephony (MMTel) charging\".
[36] Void.
[37] - [49] Void.
[50] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging application\".
[51] 3GPP TS 32.298: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) parameter description\".
[52] Void.
[53] Void.
[54] Void.
[55] - [99] Void.
[100] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[101] Void.
[102] - [199] Void.
[200] - [207] Void.
[208] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"**Policy and charging control architecture** \".
[209] Void.
[210] 3GPP TS 24.182: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Customized Alerting
Tones (CAT); Protocol specification\".
[211] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[212] 3GPP TS 29.213: \"Policy and Charging Control signalling flows and
Quality of Service (QoS) parameter mapping\".
[213] 3GPP TS 29.214: \"Policy and Charging Control over Rx reference point\".
[214] 3GPP TR 29.827 \"Study on Policy and Charging for Volume Based
Charging\".
[215] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[216] - [250] Void.
[251] 3GPP TS 24.605: \"Conference (CONF) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[252] - [265] Void.
[266] 3GPP TS 24.610: \"Communication HOLD (HOLD) using IP Multimedia (IM)
Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[267] - [270] Void.
[271] 3GPP TS 24.615: \"Communication Waiting (CW) using IP Multimedia (IM)
Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol Specification\".
[272] - [299] Void.
[300] - [399] Void.
[400] - [499] Void.
[500] Void.
[501] GSMA PRD IR.92: \" IMS Profile for Voice and SMS\".
[502] GSMA PRD BA.12: \"Transferred Account Procedure and Billing
Information\".
[503] GSMA PRD IR.94: \"IMS Profile for Conversational Video Service\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [100] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [100].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [100] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [100].
# 4 Description and assumptions
## 4.1 Architecture considerations
### 4.1.1 General
Voice over LTE (VoLTE) uses the IMS (IP Multimedia Subsystem) architecture and
utilizes the IP‑CAN to transport multimedia signalling and bearer traffic. The
charging principles involve IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) charging defined in
TS 32.260 [20] and Packet Switched (PS) domain charging defined in TS 32.251
[11].
### 4.1.2 Offline charging architecture
As described in TS 32.260 [20], the Charging Trigger Function (CTF) is located
in IMS Network Elements (S-CSCF, P-CSCF, I-CSCF, E-CSCF, BGCF, IBCF, MGCF, AS
and MRFC) which apply offline charging via the Rf interface.
As described in TS 32.251 [11], the Charging Trigger Function (CTF) is located
in Packet switched Network Elements (S-GW, P-GW, ePDG, MME, TDF and TWAG)
which apply offline charging via the Rf interface.
The architecture for VoLTE offline charging is described in the following
figure 4.1.2.1.
Figure 4.1.2.1: VoLTE offline charging architecture
### 4.1.3 Online charging architecture
As described in TS 32.260 [20], the Charging Trigger Function (CTF) is located
in IMS Network Elements (AS, MRFC, IMS-GWF) which apply online charging via
the Ro interface.
As described in TS 32.251 [11], the Charging Trigger Function (CTF) is located
in Packet switched Network Elements (P-GW and TDF) which apply online charging
via the Ro interface.
The architecture for VoLTE online charging is described in the following
figure 4.1.3.1.
Figure 4.1.3.1: VoLTE online charging architecture
# 5 Potential requirements
**Operator wants to use volume based charging for VoLTE services, where the
existing volume based charging model is to charge for the total volume of
data/packets sent and received by the user. Some requirements that are
specific to charging of voice services cannot be completely fulfilled** when
using current volume based charging mechanisms for **VoLTE.**
**T** he potential **charging requirements that are specific to voice
services** to be addressed in the present document are as following:
1\. The PCNs should identify the caller and callee of a VoLTE call for both
online and offline charging.
2\. The PCNs should differentiate the volume usages between different parties
or IMS based services.
3\. The PCNs should collect accounting information to determine the status of
VoLTE service delivery.
4\. The IMS Network Elements should collect and report the volume used for
VoLTE service delivery.
# 6 Key issues
## 6.1 Key issue 1: Support of the identifiers of caller and callee
The identifiers of caller and callee are operator mandatory fields in voice
service charging and billing according to 3GPP and GSMA. It is collected by
\"Called Party Address\"/ \"List Of Calling Party Address\" in IMS CDRs (see
3GPP TS 32.260 [20]). Meanwhile it is collected by \"Public User Identity\" of
Call destination /Call originator in MOC/ MTC records in TAP files (see GSMA
PRD BA.12 [502]). It helps the operator obtaining identifications of both
caller and callees, adopting different rate for different callee (e.g.
International Direct Dialing). More importantly, caller and callee numbers are
important, required fields by some regulatory agencies.
When **using volume based charging for VoLTE services, the current volume
based charging model of PCN is to charge for the total volume of data/packets
sent and received by the user** (see 3GPP TS 32.251 [11]) **and** is therefore
difficult for the operator to obtain the both parties\' identifiers and to
adopt differentiated charging strategies. This means it is unable to meet the
requirements by the regulatory agencies either.
This investigation covers the following:
\- The procedure(s) of collection the identifiers of caller and callee by PCN,
including online charging and offline charging.
## 6.2 Key issue 2: Support of the CAT
The CAT service is an operator specific service by which an operator enables
the subscriber to customize the media which is played to the calling party
during alerting of the called party. The media are inserted by an application
server (AS) and the usage of SIP and SDP signalling to provide Customized
Alerting Tones is defined in 3GPP TS 24.182 [210].
Solutions for this key issue will study:
\- How to enable PCEF separate charging records generated for CAT media and
normal media.
\- How to support the volume based charging for CAT in 3 models, including
Forking Model, Early Session Model and Gateway model.
\- The procedure(s) of the volume based charging for CAT, including online
charging and offline charging.
Note: The interworking between PCRF and IMS nodes is defined in TR 29.827
[214].
## 6.3 Key issue 3: Support volume reporting in P-CSCF
The P-CSCF does currently not include the volume in neither online nor offline
charging according to 3GPP TS 32.260 [20].
Solutions for this key issue will study:
\- How to make the information about volume usage for VoLTE available in the
P-CSCF.
\- How to report this for the different types of MMTel services.
## 6.4 Key issue 4: Support status of VoLTE service delivery
The PCNs cannot collect accounting information to determine the status of
VoLTE service delivery according to 3GPP TS 32.251 [20], 3GPP TS 32.298 [51],
and 3GPP TS 32.299 [50].
Solutions for this key issue will study:
\- How to support status of VoLTE service delivery in the PCNs\' CDR.
\- How to support status of VoLTE service delivery in the AVP definition.
## 6.5 Key issue 5: Support of the 3PTY conference
The 3PTY service is a volume based charging service by enables the multiple
parties to participate the conference meeting. SIP signalling for a 3PTY
conference is described in 3GPP TS 24.605 [251] and 3GPP TS 24.147 [215].
Solutions for this key issue will study:
\- How to enable PCEF separate charging records generated between the UE and
different parties.
\- How to enable PCEF separate charging records generated for communication
and conference media.
## 6.6 Key issue 6: Support of the Communication HOLD (HOLD)
The Communication HOLD service is IMS based service which enables a user to
suspend the reception of media stream(s) of an established IP multimedia
session, and resume the media stream(s) at a later time. The usage of SIP and
SDP signalling to provide Communication HOLD (HOLD) service is described in
3GPP TS 24.610 [266].
The PCEF will stop the account upon encountering the communication HOLD
instruction from PCRF and resume the account upon encountering the Resume
instruction from PCRF.
## 6.7 Key issue 7: Support of the 3P Communication Waiting (CW)
The Communication Waiting is a IMS based service which enables a UE to be
informed that no resources are available for an incoming communication. The
usage of SIP and SDP signalling to provide Communication Waiting (CW) service
is described in 3GPP TS 24.615 [271] defines.
No impact on the charging.
# 7 Solutions for Key issues
## 7.1 Solution 1: Support of the identifiers of caller and callee
The identifiers of caller and callee of VoLTE user can be transported in IMS
Network Elements according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [211]. The PCC functionality
provides the capability to convey the identifiers of caller and callee of
VoLTE user from Application Function (AF) to Policy and Charging Enforcement
Function (PCEF) according to 3GPP TS 29.213 [212].
It is proposed to introduce identifiers of caller and callee into following
flows:
1\. The Application Function (AF) sends a Diameter AAR command to the PCRF
with the identifiers of caller and callee.
2\. The Policy and Charging Rules Function (PCRF) receives the identifiers of
caller and callee from Application Function (AF), and PCRF sends a Diameter
RAR command to P-GW with the identifiers of caller and callee.
3\. The P-GW receives the identifiers of caller and callee from Policy and
Charging Rules Function (PCRF).
4\. The P-GW implements volume based charging based on the identifiers of
caller and callee. In offline charging, introduce two fields including
identifiers of caller and callee in PGW-CDR in 3GPP TS 32.251 [11]. In online
charging, introduce two AVPs including identifiers of caller and callee in
3GPP TS 32.299 [50].
Figure 7.1.1: PCC architecture for non-roaming scenario
## 7.2 Solution 2: Support of CAT
### 7.2.1 General
The SIP/SDP signalling for CAT will be translated by the P-CSCF into Rx
signalling towards the PCRF according to the Annex A of 3GPP TS 29.214 [213]
and Clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.213 [212].
### 7.2.2 Offline charging support of CAT
The figure 7.2.2.1 describes the message flow of the offline charging
procedure for the support of CAT.
Figure 7.2.2.1: Offline charging procedure for support of CAT
1\. P-CSCF sends the Rx signalling to inform the start of CAT.
2\. PCRF sends Gx message to PCEF to inform the start of CAT.
A1. When the PCEF detects the start of CAT media, PCEF sends a Charging Data
Request [Start] to record start of a CAT media in the CDR.
A2. The CDF acknowledges the reception of the data and opens CDR.
3\. PCEF response the Gx message.
4\. PCRF response the Rx message.
5\. P-CSCF sends the Rx signalling to inform the start of the normal session
and termination of CAT.
6\. PCRF sends Gx message to PCEF to inform the start of the normal session
and termination of CAT.
B1. When the PCEF detects the termination of CAT media, PCEF sends a Charging
Data Request [Stop] to record stop of the CAT media in the CDR.
B2. The CDF acknowledges the reception of the data and closes the CDR.
C1. When the PCEF detects the start of normal media, PCEF sends a Charging
Data Request [Start] to record start of a normal session and normal media in
the CDR.
C2. The CDF acknowledges the reception of the data and starts the CDR.
7\. PCEF response the Gx message.
8\. PCRF response the Rx message.
### 7.2.3 Online charging support of CAT
The figure 7.2.3.1 describes the message flow of the online charging procedure
for the support of CAT.
Figure 7.2.3.1: Online charging procedure for support of CAT
1\. P-CSCF sends the Rx signalling to inform the start of CAT.
2\. PCRF sends Gx message to PCEF to inform the start of CAT.
> A1. When PCEF detects the start of CAT media, PCEF sends the Reserve Units
> Request for CAT media if there is a charging session. Otherwise, PCEF
> creates online charging session for CAT media.
>
> A2. The OCS grants service units in the Reserve Units Response.
3\. PCEF response the Gx message.
4\. PCRF response the Rx message.
5\. P-CSCF sends the Rx signalling to inform the start of the normal session
and termination of CAT.
6\. PCRF sends Gx message to PCEF to inform the start of the normal session
and termination of CAT.
B1. When the PCEF detects the termination of CAT media, PCEF sends Debit Units
Request [Terminate] to for reporting of volume based charging for CAT media
B2. The OCS returns the Debit Units Response.
C1. When the PCEF detects the start of normal media, PCEF creates online
charging session to request the new quotas for the normal media.
C2. The OCS grants service units in the Reserve Units Response.
7\. PCEF response the Gx message.
8\. PCRF response the Rx message.
There may be additional interaction with the charging domain after or before
step 1 and step 6. This will be determined during the normative phase.
## 7.3 Solution 3: Volume Reporting from P-CSCF
The current specifications TS 32.260 [20] and TS 32.275 [35] do not describe
any other charging than the duration based with the possibility to have some
indication of volume as a separate AVP, e.g. for file transfers. The Diameter
Credit-Control Application allows for granting bytes as units, based on what
is requested.
Both the specifications would benefit from having a volume-based alternative
described so that in the future it could be possible to also charge volume
based from the P-CSCF based on the service provided.
The P-CSCF could get the volume information from the underlying network, this
would at specific times or intervals report the current consumption and this
could then be used to control the volume used.
## 7.4 Solution 4: Support status of VoLTE service delivery
The PCNs identify VoLTE service based on QCI value, and then determine the
status of VoLTE service delivery in the PCNs\' CDR and AVP definition:
\- Per GSMA PRD IR.92 [501] clause 4.3.2, for an IMS session request for a
conversational voice call, a dedicated bearer for IMS-based voice should
utilise the standardised QCI value of one (1) and have the associated
characteristics as specified in 3GPP TS 23.203 [208].
\- Per GSMA PRD IR.94 [503] clause 4.2.1, for an IMS session request for a
video call, one dedicated bearer resource for voice as specified in GSMA PRD
IR.92 [501] and another dedicated bearer for conversational video stream
should utilize the standardized QCI value of two (2) and have the associated
characteristics as specified in 3GPP TS 23.203 [208].
It is proposed to introduce two new reasons of Cause for Record Closing field
in the CDR to indicate the status of VoLTE service delivery in TS 32.298 [51]
as below.
\- VoLTE service normal release.
\- VoLTE service abnormal termination.
It is proposed to introduce two new values for VoLTE Service Normal Release
and VoLTE Service Abnormal Termination of Change-Condition AVP to indicate the
status of VoLTE service delivery in TS 32.299 [50].
## 7.5 Solution 5: Support of 3PTY conference, HOLD and CW
### 7.5.1 General
For the 3PTY conference, communication Hold and communication waiting
scenarios, the charging requirement which defined in the TR 29.827 [214] is to
separate charging records generated for the UE and different parties. The PCRF
will be configured with a group of rating group(RG) or service ID(SID) for one
service (e.g. IMS Communication Service) based on the IMS Communication
Service Identifier.
For the key issue 5, the following clause 7.5.2 and 7.5.3 describe the
solutions of the online and offline charging call flow for the UE and
different parties.
For the key issue 6, the PCEF will stop and resume the charging procedure
according to the instruction from PCRF, and the same existing charging
mechanism will apply.
For the key issue 7, there is no impact on the existing charging mechanism.
### 7.5.2 Offline charging support of 3PTY
The figure 7.5.2.1 describes the message flow of the offline charging
procedure for the support of charging records generation for the served party
UE1 and different parties based on different SID for example.
Figure 7.5.2.1: Offline charging procedure for support of 3PTY
1\. AF sends the Rx signalling to inform the start of communication for UE1
and UE2.
2\. PCRF sends Gx message with RG1 and SID1 to PCEF to inform the start of IMS
communication services.
A1. When the PCEF detects the start of IMS communication service, PCEF sends a
Charging Data Request [Start] or Charging Data Request[Interim] to start a
container to account the media in the IMS communication services.
A2. The CDF acknowledges the reception of the data.
3\. PCEF response the Gx message.
4\. PCRF response the Rx message.
5\. P-CSCF sends the different Rx signalling to inform the start of
communication for UE1 and UE3.
6\. PCRF sends Gx message with RG1 and SID2 to PCEF to inform the start of the
IMS communication services.
B1. When the PCEF detects the media of IMS communication services, PCEF sends
a Charging Data Request [Interim] to start a new container to account the
media in the IMS communication services.
B2. The CDF acknowledges the reception of the data.
7\. PCEF response the Gx message.
8\. PCRF response the Rx message.9. P-CSCF sends the different Rx signalling
to inform the start of the IMS conference services.
10\. PCRF sends Gx message with RG1 and SID3 to PCEF to inform the start of
the IMS conference services.
C1. When the PCEF detects the media of IMS conference services, PCEF sends a
Charging Data Request [Interim] to start a new container to account the media
in the IMS conference services.
C2. The CDF acknowledges the reception of the data.
11\. PCEF response the Gx message.
12\. PCRF response the Rx message.
### 7.5.3 Online charging support of 3PTY
The figure 7.5.3.1 describes the message flow of the online charging procedure
for the support of 3PTY conference for the served party UE1 and different
parties for example. The following figure is the simple case based on the
assumption that the same RG is used for UE1 communicating with UE2,
communicating with UE3 and the 3PTY conference.
Figure 7.5.3.1: Online charging procedure for support of 3PTY
1\. P-CSCF sends the Rx signalling to inform the start of IMS communication
services between UE1 and UE2.
2\. PCRF sends Gx message to PCEF to inform the start of communication
services with RG1 and SID1.
> A1. When PCEF detects the start of communication media, PCEF sends the
> Reserve Units Request for communication media between UE1 and UE2.
>
> A2. The OCS grants service units in the Reserve Units Response.
3\. PCEF starts to record the usage of communication services for SID1 and
sends out the response message
4\. P-CSCF sends the Rx signalling to inform the start of IMS communication
services between UE1 and UE3.
5\. PCRF sends Gx message to PCEF to inform the start of communication
services with RG2 and SID2.
B1. When the PCEF detects the start of communication media, PCEF sends the
Reserve Units Request for communication media between UE1 and UE3.
B2. The OCS grants service units in the Reserve Units Response.
6\. PCEF records the usage of communication service for SID2 and sends out the
response message.
7\. P-CSCF sends the Rx signalling to inform the start of the conference
services.
8\. PCRF sends Gx message to PCEF to inform the start of conference services
with RG3 and SID3.
C1. When the PCEF detects the start of conference media, PCEF sends the
Reserve Units Request for conference media.
C2. The OCS grants service units in the Reserve Units Response.
9\. PCEF records the usage of conference service for SID3 and sends out the
response message.
10\. P-CSCF sends the Rx signalling to inform the end of the IMS communication
service between UE1 and UE2.
11\. PCRF sends Gx message to PCEF to inform the end of communication services
with RG1 and SID1.
12\. PCEF sends out the response message.
A3. PCEF reports the usage of media for communication service SID 1 between
UE1 and UE2.
A4. The OCS sends the Response to PCEF.
13\. P-CSCF sends the Rx signalling to inform the end of the IMS communication
service between UE1 and UE3.
14\. PCRF sends Gx message to PCEF to inform the end of communication services
with RG2 and SID2.
B3. PCEF reports the usage of media for communication service SID 2 between
UE1 and UE3.
B4. The OCS sends the Response to PCEF.
15\. PCEF sends out the response message.
# 8 Solutions evaluation
Solution 1 is used for support of the identifiers of caller and callee of a
VoLTE call for both online and offline charging solves Key issue 1. The
identifiers of caller and callee of VoLTE user are transported from
Application Function (AF) to Policy and Charging Enforcement Function (PCEF).
The P-GW implements volume based charging based on the identifiers of caller
and callee. More fields for the PGW-CDR and Information Elements for Ro and Rf
are needed to be standardized to including identifiers of caller and callee.
The solution 2 and the solution 5 are used for support the charging of IMS
services to separate the volume usage between different IMS based services
(e.g. CAT and voice calls, 3PTY conference, Communication waiting,
Communication Hold). The PCRF could be configured with a group of rating
groups or service IDs for one service (e.g. IMS Communication Service). The
PCRF will assign a different rating group or service ID for the different
identified media. The PCRF needs to update the RG or service ID (SID) for the
existing PCC rule. The PCEF distinguishes the charging information with a
group of rating groups or service IDs for the different identified media based
on the PCC rule. The existing mechanism on Gx can be re-used. There is an
ongoing WID in CT3 to enhance Rx.
Solution 3 will require further standardisation, including a new work item for
IMS. This have so far not been proposed so any use of type of volume charging
from the P-CSCF would be proprietary if it were to be added on the IMS
charging context.
Solution 4 is used for support of collecting accounting information to
determine the status of VoLTE service delivery solves Key issue 4. The PCNs
identify VoLTE service based on QCI value, and then determine the status of
VoLTE service delivery in the PCNs\' CDR and AVP definition.
# 9 Conclusions and recommendations
The present document investigates some functional enhancements which can solve
potential **requirements that are specific to** volume based charging aspects
for Voice over LTE (VoLTE)**.**
It is concluded on:
\- Support of the identifiers of caller and callee: standardize the solution
described in subclause 7.1.
\- Support of CAT: standardize the solution described in subclause 7.2.
\- Support volume reporting in P-CSCF: standardize the solution described in
subclause 7.3.
\- Support status of VoLTE service delivery: standardize the solution
described in subclause 7.4.
\- Support of 3PTY conference, HOLD and CW: standardize the solution described
in subclause 7.5.
The following is to be standardized during SA5 normative work:
\- In offline charging, introduce two fields including identifiers of caller
and callee in PGW-CDR in 3GPP TS 32.251. In online and offline charging,
introduce two Information Elements including identifiers of caller and callee
in 3GPP TS 32.251.
\- It is proposed to introduce two new reasons of Cause for Record Closing
field in the CDR to indicate the status of VoLTE service delivery in TS 32.298
as below.
> \- VoLTE service normal release.
>
> \- VoLTE service abnormal termination.
\- It is proposed to introduce two new values for VoLTE Service Normal Release
and VoLTE Service Abnormal Termination of Change-Condition AVP to indicate the
status of VoLTE service delivery in TS 32.299.
\- It is proposed to update the description of IMS charging to express the
fact that any use of any other type of units than time for VoLTE is not
standardized.
The following need to be standardized by CT3:
\- Convey the identifiers of caller and callee of VoLTE user from Application
Function (AF) to Policy and Charging Enforcement Function (PCEF).
\- The PCRF will assign a different rating group or service ID for the
different identified media.
\- The PCEF will distinguish the charging information with a group of rating
groups or service IDs for the different identified media based on the PCC
rule.
#