# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document investigates management aspects of LTE IoT related
functionalities such as eMTC and NB-IoT RAN Features, to identify
functionalities that should be added to the existing 3GPP OAM specifications.
The document outlines basic use cases, sets potential requirements and
suggests potential solutions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.425: \"Performance measurements Evolved Universal Terrestrial
Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.40: \" Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
eMTC enhanced Machine Type Communication
NB-IoT Narrowband Internet of Things
NRSRP Narrowband Reference Signal Received Power
NRSRQ Narrowband Reference Signal Received Quality
# 4 Use Cases
## 4.1 PM Measurements based on NRSRP, NRSRQ
### 4.1.1 Pre-condition
_The network operator is interested in receiving via network management the
information on cell level distribution of_ NRSRP, NRSRQ _values reported by
the UEs that are serviced by the NB-IoT cell_.
### 4.1.2 Description
_The eNodeB collects the measurement results for NRSRP, NRSRQ, performed by
the UEs e.g. by triggering the periodical UE measurement reports towards all
of the UEs in the measured E-UTRAN cell. The distribution information is
derived from the NRSRP, NRSRQ values similarly to existing RSRP and RSRQ based
measurements in TS 32.425 [2] clauses 6.1, 6.2; it is delivered to the
management system as PM measurement results._
### 4.1.3 Post-condition
_The network operator gets the NRSRP, NRSRQ performance measurements._
## 4.2 eMTC PM Measurements
### 4.2.1 Background
_There are reasons why cell level performance measurements applied separately
to eMTC devices may significantly differ from same measurements applied to
non-eMTC devices in same cell:_
\- Different L1 capabilities (e.g. HARQ)
\- Different traffic and activity patterns, combined with different number of
eMTC and non-eMTC devices in the cell
_In such case, non-differentiated total value of such counters as Successful
RRC connection establishments or Total Number of DL/UL TBs, will not be
representing any of the two groups._
### 4.2.2 Pre-condition
_The network operator may be interested in receiving, via PM measurements
mechanism, some of performance measurements separately for eMTC devices. The
targeted performance measurements belong to one or more of the categories
defined in [2]:_
\- RRC connection related measurements.
\- E-RAB related measurements.
\- Handover related measurements.
\- Cell level radio bearer QoS related measurements.
\- Radio resource utilization related measurements.
\- UE-associated logical S1-connection related measurements.
\- Paging related measurements.
\- RF Measurements.
\- TB related measurements.
\- Measurements related to Measurement Report.
### 4.2.3 Description
_The eNodeBs are configured by the network management system to collect the
targeted performance measurements. The collected information is processed and
the results are delivered to the management system as PM measurement results,
similarly to existing PM measurements in TS 32.425 [2]._
### 4.2.4 Post-condition
_The network operator gets the targeted performance measurements separately
for eMTC devices._
# 5 Potential Requirements
## 5.1 General Requirements
General Performance Management requirements per TS 32.401 apply.
Note: The \"Non-eMTC\" category of devices does not include NB-IoT category,
as in the NB-IoT cells, operations of eMTC devices are not possible.
## 5.2 Potential Requirements for RRC connection related measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting RRC connection
related performance measurements separately for eMTC devices and non-eMTC
devices._
## 5.3 Potential Requirements for E-RAB Setup related measurements
The network management system should be capable of collecting E-RAB Setup
related measurements separately for eMTC device and non-eMTC devices.
## 5.4 Potential Requirements for E-RAB Release related measurements
The network management system should be capable of collecting E-RAB Release
related measurements separately for eMTC devices and non-eMTC devices.
## 5.5 Potential Requirements for E-RAB Modification related measurements
The network management system should be capable of collecting E-RAB
Modification related measurements separately for eMTC devices and non-eMTC
devices.
## 5.7 Potential Requirements for E-RAB activity related measurements and
E-RAB number
The network management system should be capable of collecting E-RAB
Modification related measurements and E-RAB number separately for eMTC devices
and non-eMTC devices.
## 5.8 Potential requirements for cell level radio bearer QoS related
measurements
The network management system should be capable of collecting cell level radio
bearer QoS related measurements separately for eMTC devices and non-eMTC
devices.
## 5.9 Potential requirements for radio resource utilization related
measurements
The network management system should be capable of collecting Radio resource
utilization related measurements separately for eMTC devices and non-eMTC
devices.
## 5.10 Potential requirements for handover related measurements
The network management system should be capable of collecting handover related
measurements separately for eMTC devices and non-eMTC devices.
## 5.11 Potential requirements for paging related measurements
The network management system should be capable of collecting paging related
measurements separately for eMTC devices and non-eMTC devices.
## 5.12 Potential Requirements for TB related measurements
The network management system should be capable of collecting TB related
measurements separately for eMTC devices and non-eMTC devices.
## 5.13 Potential Requirements for UE-associated logical S1-connection related
measurements
The network management system should be capable of collecting UE-associated
logical S1-connection related measurements separately for eMTC devices and
non-eMTC devices.
## 5.14 Potential requirements for CQI and TA distribution related
measurements
The network management system should be capable of collecting CQI and TA
distribution related measurements separately for eMTC devices and non-eMTC
devices.
## 5.15 Potential requirements for measurements related to measurement report
The network management system should be capable of collecting measurements
related to measurement report separately for eMTC devices and non-eMTC
devices.
# 6 Potential solutions
## 6.1 General
_No change recommended to the set of valid values of the granularity period
defined in the TS 32.401 [3], clause 5.4.1.4._
The solutions outlined below include that the measurements are collected
separately for the eMTC devices. In case when the cell contains both eMTC and
non-eMTC devices, the information on non-eMTC devices can be derived from
\- measurements based on all UEs/devices in the cell;
\- measurements based on eMTC devices in the cell.
## 6.2 Solution for RRC connection related measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following RRC connection related performance measurements defined in the TS
32.425 [2] separately for eMTC devices:_
\- RRC connection establishment;
\- RRC connection re-establishment;
\- RRC connection number;
\- RRC connection setup time;
\- UE context release;
\- Inactivity timer.
## 6.3 Solution for E-RAB setup related measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following E-RAB Setup related measurements defined in the TS 32.425 [2],
separately for eMTC devices :_
\- Number of initial E-RABs attempted to setup;
\- Number of initial E-RABs successfully established;
\- Number of initial E-RABs failed to setup;
\- Number of additional E-RABs attempted to setup;
\- Number of additional E-RABs successfully established;
\- Number of additional E-RABs failed to setup;
\- Mean E-RAB Setup time;
\- Maximum E-RAB Setup time;
\- Number of E-RABs attempted to establish for incoming HOs;
\- Number of E-RABs successfully established for incoming HOs.
## 6.4 Solution for E-RAB release related measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following E-RAB Release related measurements defined in the TS 32.425 [2],
separately for eMTC devices :_
\- Number of E-RABs requested to release initiated by eNodeB/RN per QCI;
\- Number of E-RABs attempted to release per QCI;
\- Number of E-RAB successfully released per QCI;
\- Number of E-RAB failed to release per failure cause;
\- Number of released active E-RABs per QCI.
## 6.5 Solution for E-RAB modification related measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following E-RAB Modification related measurements defined in the TS 32.425
[2], separately for eMTC devices :_
\- Number of E-RABs attempted to modify the QoS parameter, per QCI;
\- Number of E-RABs successfully modified the QoS parameter, per QCI;
\- Number of E-RABs failed to modify the QoS parameter, per failure cause.
## 6.6 Solution for E-RAB activity related measurements and E-RAB number
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following E-RAB activity related measurements and E-RAB number defined in the
TS 32.425 [2], separately for eMTC devices:_
\- In-session activity time for UE;
\- In-session activity time for E-RABs, per QCI;
\- E-RAB number, per QCI.
## 6.7 Solution for Cell level radio bearer QoS related measurements
### 6.7.1 Cell PDCP SDU bit-rate measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following Cell PDCP SDU bit-rate measurements defined in the TS 32.425 [2],
separately for eMTC devices :_
\- Average DL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate;
\- Average UL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate;
\- Maximum DL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate;
\- Maximum UL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate;
\- Average DL cell control plane PDCP SDU bit-rate;
\- Average UL cell control plane PDCP SDU bit-rate.
### 6.7.2 Active UEs
The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following Active UE measurements defined in the TS 32.425 [2], separately for
eMTC devices:
\- Average number of active UEs on the DL;
\- Average number of active UEs on the UL.
## 6.8 Solution for radio resource utilization related measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following Radio resource utilization related measurements defined in the TS
32.425 [2], separately for eMTC devices :_
\- DL PRB Usage for traffic;
\- UL PRB Usage for traffic;
\- DL Total PRB Usage;
\- UL Total PRB Usage:
\- RACH Usage measurements, including:
\- Mean number of RACH preambles received;
\- Distribution of RACH preambles sent;
\- Distribution of RACH access delay;
\- Percentage of contentious RACH attempts.
## 6.9 Solution for handover related measurements
### 6.9.1 Intra-RAT handovers related measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following_ Intra-RAT _handover related measurements defined in the TS 32.425
[2], separately for eMTC devices :_
\- Attempted outgoing intra-eNB handovers per handover cause;
\- Successful outgoing intra-eNB handovers per handover cause;
\- Attempted outgoing inter-eNB handover preparations;
\- Attempted outgoing inter-eNB handover executions per handover cause;
\- Successful outgoing inter-eNB handover executions per handover cause;
\- Handover measurements on neighbour cell basis
### 6.9.2 Handover measurements on neighbour cell basis
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following handover related measurements_ on neighbour cell basis _defined in
the TS 32.425 [2], separately for eMTC devices:_
_-_ Attempted outgoing handovers per handover cause;
_-_ Successful outgoing handovers per handover cause;
_-_ Number of handover failures related with MRO.
### 6.9.3 Intra- / Inter-frequency handover related measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following_ Intra- / Inter-frequency Handover related measurements _defined in
the TS 32.425 [2], separately for eMTC devices :_
\- Attempted outgoing intra-frequency handovers;
\- Successful outgoing intra-frequency handovers;
\- Attempted outgoing inter-frequency handovers -- gap-assisted measurement;
\- Successful outgoing inter-frequency handovers -- gap-assisted measurement;
\- Attempted outgoing inter-frequency handovers -- non gap-assisted
measurement;
\- Successful outgoing inter-frequency handovers -- non gap-assisted
measurement.
### 6.9.4 Handover related measurements for DRX / non-DRX
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following_ Handover related measurements for DRX / non-DRX _defined in the TS
32.425 [2], separately for eMTC devices:_
_-_ Attempted outgoing handovers with DRX;
_-_ Successful outgoing handovers with DRX;
_-_ Attempted outgoing handovers non-DRX;
_-_ Successful outgoing handovers non-DRX.
### 6.9.5 Handover triggering measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following_ Handover triggering measurements _defined in the TS 32.425 [2],
separately for eMTC devices:_
\- Average quality of the serving cell when HO is triggered;
\- Average quality of the neighboring cell when HO is triggered.
### 6.9.6 Inter-RAT handovers
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following_ Inter-RAT Handovers related measurements _defined in the TS 32.425
[2], separately for eMTC devices:_
\- Attempted outgoing inter-RAT handovers per handover cause;
\- Successful outgoing inter-RAT handovers per handover cause;
\- Number of outgoing unnecessary handovers related with inter-RAT MRO.
## 6.10 Solution for paging related measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following Paging related measurements defined in the TS 32.425 [2], separately
for eMTC devices:_
\- Number of paging records discarded at the eNodeB;
\- Number of paging records received by the eNodeB.
NOTE. It is valid only for the case when the eNB and MME implementation and
configuration enable reception of UE category from the MME as a part of the
Paging IE.
## 6.11 Solution for TB related measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following TB related measurements defined in the TS 32.425 [2], separately for
eMTC devices:_
\- Total Number of DL TBs;
\- Error Number of DL TBs;
\- Total Number of UL TBs;
\- Error Number of UL TBs.
## 6.12 Solution for UE-associated logical S1-connection related measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following UE-associated logical S1-connection related measurements defined in
the TS 32.425 [2], separately for eMTC devices:_
\- Attempted UE-associated logical S1-connection establishment from eNB to
MME;
\- Successful UE-associated logical S1-connection establishment from eNB to
MME.
## 6.13 Solution for CQI and TA distribution related measurements
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following CQI and TA distribution related measurements defined in the TS
32.425 [2], separately for eMTC devices:_
\- Wideband CQI distribution;
\- Average sub-band CQI;
\- Timing Advance Distribution.
## 6.14 Solution for measurements related to measurement report
_The network management system should be capable of collecting at least the
following_ _measurements related to measurement report, defined in the TS
32.425 [2], separately for eMTC devices:_
\- RSRP related measurements;
\- RSRQ related measurements;
\- UE power headroom related measurements;
\- UE Rx -- Tx time difference related measurements;
\- AOA related measurements.
# 7 Conclusions
_The Study has identified two general use cases, 15 requirements and 17 groups
of solutions. Every group is related to certain category of measurements which
should be done separately for eMTC UEs._
The Study provided recommendations on how the information on non-eMTC UEs can
be derived from the measurements based on all UEs in the cell and the
measurements based on eMTC UEs in the cell
_It is recommended to address the use cases, requirements and the solutions in
the normative work._
# 8 Recommendations
_It is recommended to extend the LTE PM specifications by adding support to
the following:_
\- NRSRP, NRSRQ measurements;
\- the measurements performed separately for eMTC devices and non-eMTC
devices, per clause 6.
#