# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document studies the enhancements of the **management solutions
of** mobile networks that include virtualized core network functions (EPC or
IMS) needed to support the management of virtualized network functions that
are part of the New Radio (NR), as described in the NR access technology:
radio access architecture and interfaces [2].
# 1 Scope
The present document studies on the management of virtualized network
functions that are part of the NR that includes the following aspects:
**\- The management use cases and requirements for the** virtualized network
functions that are part of the NR, and their relations with non-virtualized
part of the RAN and the core networks**.**
**\- Analysis to identify the gaps for the use cases and requirements that
cannot be supported by the management solutions of** mobile networks that
include virtualized core network functions (EPC or IMS).
\- The potential solutions for the gaps identified above.
\- Recommendations on the next step.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 38.801: \"Study on New Radio Access Technology; Radio Access
Architecture and Interfaces \".
[3] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 (V2.1.1) (2016-10): \"Network Function Virtualisation
(NFV); Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo reference point - Interface
and Information Model Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.525: \"Life Cycle Management (LCM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Requirements\".
[5] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 (V2.1.1): \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Network Service Templates Specification\".
[6] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 (V2.1.1): \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; VNF Packaging Specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.501: \" Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
VL Virtual Link
VNFFG VNF Forwarding Graph
# 4 Potential use cases related to management of virtualized network functions
that are part of the NR
## 4.1 Configuration management use cases
### 4.1.1 Establishment of relation between virtualized part and non-
virtualized part of a gNB
#### 4.1.1.1 Issues
The granularity of the CU/DU functional split has the following options (see
clause 11.3.3 in [2]):
\- Per CU: each CU has a fixed split, and DUs are configured to match this.
\- Per DU: each DU can be configured with a different split. The choice of a
DU split may depend on specific topology or backhaul support in a given area.
The relation between CU and DU that form a gNB needs to be established through
configuration.
#### 4.1.1.2 Pre-conditions
\- Virtualized part of a gNB has been instantiated;
\- Non-virtualized part of a gNB has been deployed;
\- NM knows which virtualized part and non-virtualized part can form a gNB.
#### 4.1.1.3 Description
NM requests EM to establish the relation, which is the management view of the
RAN3 defined CU-DU reference point, between the virtualized part and the non-
virtualized part of a gNB through configuration.
EM configures the virtualized part and/or the non-virtualized part to
establish the relation, and responds to NM that the relation has been
established.
#### 4.1.1.4 Post-conditions
The relation between the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB
has been established.
### 4.1.2 Establishment of relation between the CN NF and the gNB
#### 4.1.2.1 Issues
The reference point between the CN NF and the gNB needs to be managed. So it
is necessary to allow operator to establish the relation, which is the
management view of the reference point, between the CN NF and the gNB.
#### 4.1.3.2 Pre-conditions
\- The VNF that is part of the CN has been instantiated.
\- The gNB that contains virtualized part and non-virtualized part has been
instantiated.
\- The relation between the CN NF and the gNB has not yet been established.
#### 4.1.2.3 Description
NM requests EM to establish the relation, which is the management view of the
reference point, between the CN NF, and the gNB through configuration.
EM configures the CN NF, and/or the gNB to establish the relation.
EM responds to NM to indicate that the relation has been established.
#### 4.1.2.4 Post-conditions
The relation between the CN NF, and the gNB has been established.
### 4.1.3 Deployment of non-virtualized part of gNB based on the available
dedicated hardware resource
#### 4.1.3.1 Issues
For operators, the deployment of physical network device usually brings higher
cost and longer time to the market. With the introduction of NFV, operator may
dynamically change RAN network architecture, topology or service delivery
chain. The operator needs to re-use the idle and available dedicated hardware
for the deployment of non-virtualized part of gNB. To support this, DM/EM
needs to report the performance measurements of the dedicated hardware
resource utilization to NM.
#### 4.1.3.2 Pre-conditions
\- Operator decides to change RAN network architecture, topology or service
delivery chain by re-using the available dedicated hardware (e.g. create one
or more DUs by utilizing the available dedicated hardware resource).
\- The VNF package for the virtualized part of a gNB has been on-boarded.
#### 4.1.3.3 Description
DM/EM reports the performance measurements of the available dedicated hardware
resource utilization to NM (e.g. the number of DUs can be deployed on the
available dedicated hardware).
NM determines whether the available dedicated hardware can support the
creation of DUs.
\- If the resource is enough for the creation, NM requests DM/EM to create one
or more DUs.
#### 4.1.3.4 Post-conditions
The non-virtualized part of the gNB has been created on the available
dedicated hardware resource.
## 4.2 Life Cycle Management use cases
### 4.2.1 Instantiation of virtualized part of a gNB with transport network
requirements
#### 4.2.1.1 Issues
A gNB in the New RAN may contain the following characteristics:
\- The gNB can be functionally split into Central Unit (CU) and Distributed
Unit (DU) (see clause 11.1 in [2]).
\- The functional split between CU and DU of the gNB includes 8 options (see
clause 11.1.1 in [2]). Each CU-DU split option has specific characteristic
that are listed in Table 11.1.2.9-1 in [2], in which transport network latency
and transport network peak bandwidth are key requirements. Table A-1 [2] lists
the bandwidth and latency of the underlying transport network that should be
considered for each CU-DU functional split option.
\- The CU that is part of a gNB can be virtualized (see clause 11.3.1 in [2]).
\- The DU that is part of a gNB cannot be virtualized.
To meet the interface requirements mentioned above, the following
considerations may apply:
\- A specific underlying transport networks (e.g. optical, etc.) between CU
and DU may be required.
\- The distance between the CU and DU may need to be within a limit.
#### 4.2.1.2 Pre-conditions
\- Operator decides to instantiate the virtualized part of a gNB.
\- The underlying transport network requirements for the selected CU-DU
functional split option is known.
\- The VNF package for the virtualized part of a gNB has been on-boarded.
\- The descriptor of the non-virtualized part of the gNB on boarded to NFVO.
#### 4.2.1.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to instantiate the virtualized part of a gNB (see clause
7.3.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), with the following information:
The underlying transport network requirements (e.g. bandwidth, latency,
transport network type (e.g. optical)) for the interface between the
virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB:
\- The location constraints for the NFVI where the virtualized part of a gNB
needs to be instantiated, or the location of non-virtualized part of the gNB
that can be used to choose the NFVI location.
NFVO selects a NFVI where the virtualized part of a gNB will be instantiated,
and the transport network to be used to connect virtualized part and non-
virtualized part of a gNB in order to meet the requirements given by NM.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate the virtualized part of a gNB has been
instantiated successfully.
#### 4.2.1.4 Post-conditions
The virtualized part of a gNB is instantiated onto the appropriate NFVI.
### 4.2.2 Instantiation of NS containing VNF that is part of the CN and gNB
#### 4.2.2.1 Issues
TS 28.525 [4] only includes the instantiation of VNF that is part of the CN,
since the RAN node cannot be virtualized at the time.
#### 4.2.2.2 Pre-conditions
\- The NSD for the NS containing VNF that is part of the CN and the gNB has
been on boarded and enabled.
\- The VNF package for VNF that is part of the CN has been on boarded and
enabled;
\- The VNF package corresponding to the gNB has been on boarded and enabled.
#### 4.2.2.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to instantiate the NS containing VNF that is part of the CN
and gNB (see clause 7.3.3 [3]).
NFVO instantiates the NS based on the request received from NM.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate that the NS has been instantiated
successfully.
#### 4.2.2.4 Post-conditions
The NS containing VNF that is part of the CN and the gNB has been
instantiated**.**
### 4.2.3 Update of transport network requirements
#### 4.2.3.1 Pre-conditions
\- The instance of the virtualized part of a gNB already exists.
\- The transport network requirements between virtualized part and non-
virtualized part of a gNB need to be updated, e.g., to support the change of
CU/DU functional split option or to support the changes of network
requirements.
\- The descriptor of the non-virtualized part of the gNB has been on boarded
to NFVO.
#### 4.2.3.2 Description
NM needs to update the transport network requirements between virtualized part
and non-virtualized part of a gNB.
NM sends the updated transport network requirements between the virtualized
part and non-virtualized part of a gNB to NFVO, with the following
information:
The updated underlying transport network requirements (e.g. bandwidth,
latency, transport network type (e.g. optical)) for the interface between the
virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB.
Optionally, the updated location constraints for the NFVI where the
virtualized part of a gNB needs to be deployed.
NFVO performs necessary actions (e.g., update the VL, or create a new VL to
replace the old one) to support the updated transport network requirements
between the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate the updated transport network requirements
have been supported.
#### 4.2.3.3 Post-conditions
The updated transport network requirements between virtualized part and non-
virtualized part of a gNB have been supported.
### 4.2.4 Addition of non-virtualized part of gNB
#### 4.2.4.1 Issues
Operator may need to deploy one or more new DUs to an existing CU to increase
the capacity or coverage of the New RAN. To support this, 3GPP management
system needs to be able to add one or more non-virtualized parts of gNB as PNF
via ETSI NFV MANO system.
#### 4.2.4.2 Pre-conditions
A NS containing the virtualized part of the gNB has been instantiated.
The PNFD of the non-virtualized part of gNB to be added is on-boarded to NFVO.
The non-virtualized part of gNB to be added does not exist in the NS.
#### 4.2.4.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to add one or more of non-virtualized parts of gNB as PNF to
an NS instance.
NFVO adds the non-virtualized parts of gNB as PNF to the NS instance.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate the successful result.
#### 4.2.4.4 Post-conditions
The non-virtualized parts of gNB have been added.
### 4.2.5 Removal of non-virtualized part of gNB
#### 4.2.5.1 Issues
Operator may need to remove one or more DUs from an existing CU if the DUs are
not needed as part of the gNB anymore. To support this, 3GPP management system
needs to be able to remove one or more PNFs of non-virtualized parts of gNB
via ETSI NFV MANO system.
#### 4.2.5.2 Pre-conditions
An NS containing the non-virtualized parts of the gNB has been instantiated.
#### 4.2.5.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to remove one or more PNFs of the non-virtualized parts of
gNB from an NS.
NFVO removes the non-virtualized parts of gNB from the NS.
NFVO responds to NM that PNFs of the non-virtualized parts of gNB have been
removed successfully.
#### 4.2.5.4 Post-conditions
The non-virtualized parts of gNB have been removed.
### 4.2.6 Replacement of non-virtualized part of gNB
#### 4.2.6.1 Issues
Operator may need to replace a DU with a new one for a CU, if the DU cannot
meet the network requirements. To support this, 3GPP management system needs
to be able to replace the PNF of non-virtualized part of gNB with a new one
via ETSI NFV MANO system.
#### 4.2.6.2 Pre-conditions
A NS containing the virtualized part of the gNB has been instantiated.
The PNFD of the new non-virtualized part of gNB for replacing the old one is
on-boarded to NFVO.
#### 4.2.6.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to replace the PNF of the non-virtualized part of gNB with a
new one in an NS.
NFVO replaces the non-virtualized part of gNB in the NS.
NFVO responds to NM that the PNF of the non-virtualized parts of gNB have been
replaced successfully.
#### 4.2.6.4 Post-conditions
The non-virtualized parts of gNB have been replaced.
### 4.2.7 On-board NSD for the gNB
#### 4.2.7.1 Issues
Operator needs to be able to on-board a NSD that can be used to deploy a NS
that includes the both virtualized part and non-virtualized part of the gNB.
The NSD needs to include the attributes supporting the transport network
requirements as specified in clause 11.1.2.9 and Annex A of TR 38.801 [2].
#### 4.2.7.2 Pre-conditions
\- The VNF package for the virtualized part of a gNB has been on-boarded.
\- The VNF packages containing the other constituent VNFDs of the NSD, if any,
have been on-boarded.
\- The PNFDs for the constituent PNFs, if any, have been on boarded.
#### 4.2.7.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to on-board the NSD (see clause 7.2.2. in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[3]) including virtual link descriptor (see clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA
014 [5]) and virtual link profile (see clause 6.3.4 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014
[5]) that contain the latency and bandwidth attributes, as defined in the
transport network requirements in clause 11.1.2.9 and Annex A of TR 38.801
[2]. The virtual link descriptor, virtual link profile, and
VirtualLinkToLevelMapping information element (for the VL in a NS level, see
clause 6.7.5 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) are needed for the creation of VLs to
connect the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of the gNB.
NFVO on-boards the NSD.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate the successful NSD on-boarding.
#### 4.2.7.4 Post-conditions
The NSD containing the attributes supporting the transport network
requirements for the gNB has been on-boarded.
### 4.2.8 Add VNFFGs to a NS containing VLs for virtualized and non-
virtualized parts of gNB
#### 4.2.8.1 Issues
The VNFFGs including the Virtual Links (VLs) to connect the VNF instance that
is part of gNB with other VNF/PNF instances may be missing in the NS instance.
It should be possible to add the VNFFG (see clause 6.4.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA
014 [5]) containing the attributes supporting the transport network
requirements as specified in clause 11.1.2 and Annex A of TR 38.801 [2].
#### 4.2.8.2 Pre-conditions
\- The NS instance containing the VNF instance that is part of gNB already
exists.
\- The VNFFGs were not provided during the NS instantiation, or have been
removed from the NS instance.
#### 4.2.8.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to use the NS update operation to add a VNFFG to a NS (see
clause 7.3.5 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]). The VNFFG contains the VLs
connecting the virtualized parts and non-virtualized parts of the gNB
described by the virtual link descriptor (see clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-
IFA 014 [5]) and virtual link profile (see clause 6.3.4 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014
[5]) that contain the latency and bandwidth attributes, as defined in the
transport network requirements in clause 11.1.2.9 and Annex A of TR 38.801
[2].
NFVO adds the VNFFGs to the NS.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate that the VNFFGs have been added successfully.
#### 4.2.8.4 Post-conditions
The VNFFGs, containing the VLs to connect the VNF instance that is part of gNB
and other VNF/PNF instances, have been added to the NS instance.
### 4.2.9 Add a VNFFGD to a NSD containing VLDs for virtualized and non-
virtualized parts of gNB
#### 4.2.9.1 Issues
A NSD should contain the VNFFGD to enable NS update operation to add a VNFFG
to a NS. The VNFFGD (see clause 6.4.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) needs to
support attributes, required by the transport network requirements in clause
11.1.2.9 and Annex A of TR 38.801 [2].
#### 4.2.9.2 Pre-conditions
VNFFGD is missing in the NSD, since it was not included in the NSD on-boarded,
or has been removed.
#### 4.2.9.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to use NSD update to add a VNFFGD to a NSD (see clause 7.2.5
in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]). The VNFFGD includes the VLDs (see clause 6.2.2.2
in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that contain the latency attribute, as defined in
the transport network requirements in clause 11.1.2.9 and Annex A of TR 38.801
[2].
NFVO adds the VNFFGD to the NSD.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate that the VNFFGD has been added successfully.
#### 4.2.9.4 Post-conditions
The VNFFGD, containing the VLDs to connect the VNF instance that is part of
gNB and other VNF/PNF instances, has been added to the NSD.
### 4.2.10 Instantiation of virtualized part of a gNB with the NFVI-POP
geolocation identifier
#### 4.2.10.1 Issues
Operator needs to instantiate the virtualized part of a gNB. According to the
requirements of service, operator has chosen an appropriate NFVI_PoP for the
virtualized part of gNB based on measurement information or historical data.
#### 4.2.10.2 Pre-conditions
\- Operator decides to instantiate the virtualized part of a gNB.
\- The VNF package for the virtualized part of a gNB has been on-boarded.
\- The descriptor of the non-virtualized part of the gNB has been on boarded
to NFVO.
\- The non-virtualized part has been deployed according to operator\'s
requirement.
\- The virtualized resource meets the requirements of CU VNF package.
\- The underlying network meets the transport requirements between CU and DU.
\- The transport performance of underlying network between CU and CN meets the
end-to-end latency requirement.
#### 4.2.10.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to instantiate or migrate the virtualized part of a gNB (see
clause 7.3.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), with the NFVI-POP geolocation
identifier.
NFVO follows the identifier and instantiates the virtualized part of a gNB
onto the indicated NFVI-PoP.
NFVO responds to NM the virtualized part of a gNB has been instantiated
successfully.
#### 4.2.10.4 Post-conditions
The virtualized part of a gNB is instantiated on the specific NFVI-PoP.
### 4.2.11 Providing location of the non-virtualized part of the gNB to NFVO
#### 4.2.11.1 Issues
The CU and DU split of the gNB requires specific transport network
requirements between them (see TR 38.801 [2]). To satisfy the low latency
requirement between gNB CU and gNB DU, deploying gNB CU closely to gNB DU
would be a better choice.
Non-virtualized part of gNB is able to service users in a specific area, which
is near PNFs deployment location. Providing PNF location information will
enable NFVO to orchestrate the NS in area closer to the PNF location.
To support some specific services, the RAN PNFs serving a specific area may
need to be modified to connect with the RAN VNFs serving the area.
NM should be able to provide the geographical location, when it can be
specified, of the non-virtualized part of the gNB (in the PNFD) to NFVO.
#### 4.2.11.2 Pre-conditions
The geographical location of non-virtualized part of the gNB can be specified.
#### 4.2.11.3 Description
NM provides the geographical location information (e.g. geographic coordinates
or address of the building, etc.) of the non-virtualized part of gNB in the
PNFD, and sends to NFVO via on-boarding or updating PNFD.
NFVO responds to NM to acknowledge of the receipt of the PNFD.
#### 4.2.11.4 Post-conditions
The geographical location of non-virtualized part of gNB, when it is
specified, is known to NFVO.
### 4.2.12 Add VNFFGs to a NS to connect virtualized parts of gNB to 5GC nodes
#### 4.2.12.1 Issues
5G system architecture, as specified in TS 23.501 [7], shows that a RAN node
is connected to AMF (Core Access and Mobility Management Function). When a
gNB-CU, AMF are implemented as VNF instances in a NS, it should allow NM to
add VNFFGs to connect the VNF instance of virtualized part of gNB to the VNF
instances of AMF.
#### 4.2.12.2 Pre-conditions
\- A NS containing the VNF instances realizing the virtualized part of gNB,
AMF has been instantiated.
\- The VNFFGDs containing to the attributes needed for connecting the VNF
instance of virtualized part of gNB to the VNF instances of AMF are included
in the updated NSD.
#### 4.2.12.3 Description
NM requests NFVO to use the NS update operation (see clause 7.3.5 in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 013 [3]) to add VNFFG(s), which are characterized by the VNFFGD, to a
NS to connect the VNF instance of virtualized part of gNB to the VNF instances
of AMF.
NFVO adds the VNFFG(s) to the NS, and responds to NM to indicate that the
VNFFG(s) have been added successfully.
#### 4.2.12.4 Post-conditions
The VNFFGs that are used for connecting the VNF instance of virtualized part
of gNB to the VNF instances of AMF have been added to the NS instance.
### 4.2.13 Scaling the virtualized part of gNB for adapting to the network
capacity
#### 4.2.13.1 Pre-conditions
\- The gNB comprising CU and DUs runs normally.
\- The scale aspect of CU has been defined in CU VNFD (see clause 7.1.2.8 in
[5]).
\- The 3GPP management system has detected the CU utility rate (e.g. CPU
usage, memory usage etc.) or the number of accessed users has exceed the pre-
defined threshold.
\- The 3GPP management system decide to scale the impacted gNB.
#### 4.2.13.2 Description
NM requests NFVO to scale the specific CU VNF of the gNB (see clause 7.3.4.2
in [3]), with the following information:
\- The scaling type that indicates the NFVO scale in or scale out the CU VNF
(see clause 8.3.4.9.2 in [3]).
\- The CU VNF instance ID that identifies the unique VNF among gNBs (see
clause 8.3.4.9.2 in [3]).
\- The information of a specific level or specific steps to scale to (see
clause 8.3.4.9.2 in [3] and clause 7.1.8.2 in [6]).
NFVO perform a scaling-out/scaling-in action on the specific VNF indicated by
the VNF instance ID.
NFVO responds to NM to indicate the virtualized part of a gNB has been scaled
successfully.
#### 4.2.13.3 Post-conditions
The virtualized part of the gNB is scaled to the targeted level or targeted
steps. The gNB capacity has been increased.
# 5 Potential requirements on management of virtualized network functions that
are part of the NR
## 5.1 Configuration management
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_CM-CON-1** 3GPP management system should be able to configure
the relation between the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_CM-CON-2** 3GPP management system should be able to configure
the relation between the CN NF, and the gNB that contains virtualized part and
non-virtualized part.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_CM-CON-3** NM shall be able to request DM/EM to create the MOI
corresponding to the non-virtualized part of gNB which can be deployed on the
available dedicated hardware
## 5.2 Life cycle management
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-1** 3GPP management system should be able to
instantiate the virtualized part of a gNB (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.001 in [3]).
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM -CON-2** 3GPP management system should be able to provide
the underlying transport networks requirements on the interface between
virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM -CON-3** 3GPP management system should be able to provide
the location constraints for the NFVI where the virtualized part of a gNB
needs to be instantiated.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-4** 3GPP management system should be able to request
instantiation of a NS containing VNF that is part of the CN and the gNB (see
requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.001 in [3])
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-5** 3GPP management system should be able to send the
updated underlying transport networks requirements on the interface between
virtualized part and non-virtualized part of a gNB (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.005 in [3]).
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-6** 3GPP management system should be able to send the
updated location constraints for the NFVI where the virtualized part of a gNB
needs to be deployed.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-7** 3GPP management system should be able to request
NFVO to add one or more non-virtualized parts of gNB as PNF to an NS instance.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-8** 3GPP management system should be able to request
NFVO to remove one or more PNFs of the non-virtualized parts of gNB from an NS
instance.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-9** 3GPP management system should be able to request
NFVO to replace the PNF of the non-virtualized part of gNB in an NS instance.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-10** 3GPP management system should be able to on-board
the NSD that includes the reference to the virtual link descriptor and virtual
link profile containing both latency information.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-11** 3GPP management system should be able to add the
VNFFG, which includes the reference to the VLs described by the virtual link
descriptor and virtual link profile containing both latency and bandwidth
information, to a NS
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-12** 3GPP management system should be able to add the
VNFFGD, which includes virtual link descriptors containing latency
information, to a NSD.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-13** 3GPP management system should be able to provide
the geographical location of the non-virtualized part of gNB to NFVO.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-14** 3GPP management system should be able to add the
VNFFGs to a NS for managing the NG-RAN that includes virtualized network
functions.
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_LCM-CON-15** 3GPP management system should be able to scale
the virtualized part of a gNB (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.004 in [3]).
## 5.3 Performance management
**REQ-VRAN_Mgmt_PM-CON-1** DM/EM shall be able to report the performance
measurement of the dedicated hardware resource utilization to NM.
# 6 Gap analysis
## 6.1 Gaps on adding and removing non-virtualized part of gNB as PNF
NM needs to be able to add the non-virtualized part of gNB as PNF to a NS
instance (see clause 4.2.4), remove the non-virtualized part of gNB as PNF
from a NS instance (see clause 4.2.5) and replace the non-virtualized part of
gNB as PNF in a NS instance (see clause 4.2.5) by using Update NS operation
(see clause 7.3.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]) towards NFVO.
However, the current Update NS operation does not support adding or removing
PNF(s). So this is a gap between the 3GPP and ETSI ISG NFV.
To support the 3GPP requirements above-mentioned and as described in clause
7.3.1, the Update NS operation needs to be extended to support adding PNF or
removing PNF with parameters shown below:
\- Add PNF\ The pnfdId (see clause 6.6.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) to
identify the PNFD of the PNF (non-virtualized part of gNB) to be added.
\- Remove PNF\ The pnfdId to identify the PNFD of the PNF (non-virtualized
part of gNB) to be removed.
## 6.2 Gaps on indicating VNF instance for adding VNFFGs
One VNFD may be used to create multiple VNF instances, which may belong to the
same or different VNFFG instance(s). Therefore, when NM requests to add VNFFG,
it is necessary to provide the VNF instance ID(s), along with the VNFFGD ID to
indicate which VNF instance(s) the added VNFFG instance is to connect.
Currently, the Update NS operation (see clause 7.3.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[1]) does not include VNF instance ID(s) when adding the VNFFG.
# 7 Potential solutions
## 7.1 Potential solutions on Lifecycle Management
### 7.1.1 Potential solutions on instantiation of virtualized part of a gNB
#### 7.1.1.0 General
The potential solutions reuse the existing VNF instantiation mechanisms. The
virtualized part of a gNB can be instantiated via Instantiate NS or Update NS
operations (see clause 7.3.1 [3]).
#### 7.1.1.1 Instantiating the virtualized part of gNB by instantiating a new
NS
This solution is used when the virtualized part of a gNB is instantiated by
instantiating a new NS.
NM requests NFVO to on-board the VNF package corresponding to the virtualized
part of a gNB (see clause 7.7.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), if it has not yet
been on-boarded.
NFVO responds to NM about the successful on-boarding with the parameters
onboardedVnfPkgInfoId and vnfdId.
NM requests NFVO to on-board the PNFD corresponding to the non-virtualized
part of a gNB (see clause 7.2.8 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), if it has not yet
been on-boarded.
NFVO responds to NM about the successful on-boarding with the parameter
pnfdInfoId.
NM requests NFVO to on-board the NSD by reusing the solution described in
clause 7.1.1.3.
NM continues the NS instantiation operation as listed below, only if the NSD
has been successfully on-boarded.
NM requests NFVO to enable the VNF package if it is not enabled (see clause
7.7.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO responds to NM about the successful enabling.
NM requests NFVO to enable the NSD if it is not enabled (see clause 7.2.3 of
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO responds to NM about the successful enabling.
NM requests NFVO to create the NS identifier for the NSD mentioned above (see
clause 7.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO responds to NM about the successful creation with the parameter
nsInstanceId.
NM requests NFVO to instantiate the NS identified by nsInstanceId, with the
parameter additionalParamForVnf providing the information for the virtualized
part of the gNB, parameter locationConstraints indicating the location
constraints for the virtualized part of the gNB, parameter pnfInfo providing
the information of the non-virtualized part of the gNB, and other parameters
if necessary according to clause 7.3.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3].
NFVO **sends the NS lifecycle change notification to NM indicating the start
of NS instantiation procedure** (see clause 7.3.3.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[3]).
NFVO instantiates the NS and the virtualized part of the gNB with other MANO
entities, based on the information provide by NM and the information provided
in the NSD, VNF package, and PNFD.
NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to NM indicating the
result of NS instantiation (see clause 7.3.3.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
#### 7.1.1.2 Instantiating the virtualized part of gNB by updating an existing
NS
This solution is used when the virtualized part of a gNB is instantiated by
updating an existing NS.
NM requests NFVO to on-board the VNF package corresponding to the virtualized
part of a gNB (see clause 7.7.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), if it has not yet
been on-boarded.
NFVO responds to NM about the successful on-boarding with the parameters
onboardedVnfPkgInfoId and vnfdId.
NM requests NFVO to on-board the PNFD corresponding to the non-virtualized
part of a gNB (see clause 7.2.8 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), if it has not yet
been on-boarded.
NFVO responds to NM about the successful on-boarding with the parameter
pnfdInfoId.
NM requests NFVO to update the NSD if needed (e.g., to add the constituent
VNFD and PNFD above-mentioned, VLD, VFFGD, etc., see clause 7.2.5 of ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 013 [3]). The NSD needs to contain the NsDf, VNFFGD and the VLD where
the transport network requirements (e.g., latency, bandwidth) between
virtualized part of the gNB and non-virtualized part of the gNB are included
(see clause 6.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]).
NFVO responds to NM about the successful on-boarding with parameter nsdInfoId.
NM requests NFVO to enable the VNF package if it is not enabled (see clause
7.7.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]); NFVO responds to NM about the successful
enabling.
NM requests NFVO to enable the NSD if it is not enabled (see clause 7.2.3 of
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO responds to NM about the successful enabling.
NM requests NFVO to update the NS identified by nsInstanceId, with the
parameter updateType = \"InstantiateVnf\", and parameter instantiateVnfData
providing the information for the virtualized part of the gNB(according to
clause 7.3.5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]). The parameter instantiateVnfData
may contain attribute extVirtualLink specifying the transport network
requirements between virtualized part and non-virtualized part of the gNB,
attribute locationConstraints indicating the location constraints for the
virtualized part of the gNB to be instantiated, and other attributes if
necessary according to clause 8.3.4.12of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3].
NFVO **sends the NS lifecycle change notification to NM indicating the start
of NS update procedure** (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO updates the NS and instantiates the virtualized part of the gNB with
other MANO entities, based on the information provide by NM and the
information provided in the NSD, VNF package, PNFD.
NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to NM indicating the
result of NS update (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
#### 7.1.1.3 Potential solution for on-boarding NSD for the virtualized part
and non-virtualized part of gNB
This clause provides the potential solution to support the Use Case and
requirements on on-boarding NSD for the virtualized part and non-virtualized
part of gNB as described in clause 4.2.7 and 5.2.It is assumed that the
following items have been on-boarded at the NFVO:
\- VNF package of the virtualized part of the gNB;
\- PNFD of the non-virtualized part of the gNB;
\- VNF package of the other VNFs (besides the virtualized part of gNB) if they
are constituents of the NS;
\- PNFD of the other PNFs (besides the non-virtualized part of gNB) if they
are constituents of the NS.
The NM requests NFVO to invoke the On-board NSD operation (see clause 7.2.2.
in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]), to on-board the NSD (see clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI
GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]), which contains the following attributes:
> Reference to the VNFD of the virtualized part of the gNB;
> Reference to the PNFD of the non-virtualized part of the gNB;
> Reference to the VNFD of other constituent VNFs (if any) of the NS;
> Reference to the PNFD of other constituent PNFs (if any) of the NS;
> vnffgd (see clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that contains the
> following attribute:
>> vnffgdId that uniquely identifies a VNFFGD (see clause 6.4.2.2 in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 014 [5]);
>> vnfdId that identifies the VNFD of the constituent VNF realizing the
virtualized part of gNB (see clause 6.4.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]);
>> pnfdId that identifies the PNFD of the constituent PNF realizing the non-
virtualized part of gNB (see clause 6.4.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]);
>> vnfdId (optional) that identifies the VNFD of the constituent VNF
interconnecting the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of gNB (see
clause 6.4.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]);
>> pnfdId (optional) that identifies the PNFD of the constituent PNF
interconnecting the virtualized part and non-virtualized part of gNB (see
clause 6.4.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]);
>> virtualLinkDescId (see clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that
refers to an NsVirtualLinkDesc within the NSD.
>> cpdPoolId that references to a pool of descriptors of connection points
attached to the constituent VNFs (realizing the virtualized part of gNB) and
PNFs (realizing the non-virtualized part of gNB).
>> nfpd (optional) that specifies the network forwarding path associated to
the VNFFG.
> NsVirtualLinkDesc contains the following relevant attributes:
>> virtualLinkDf (see clause 6.5.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that contains
the following attribute:
>>> qoS (see clause 6.5.4.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that contains the
latency attribute, indicating the latency requirement for the interface
between VNF and PNF.
> nsDf (see clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that contains the
> following attribute:
>> virtualLinkProfile (see clause 6.3.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that
contain the following attributes:
>>> maxBitrateRequirements (see clause 6.3.4.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5])
indicating the maximum bandwidth requirement for the interface between the VNF
and PNF;
>>> minBitrateRequirements (see clause 6.3.4.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5])
attributes, indicating the minimum bandwidth requirement for the interface
between the VNF and PNF;
>> nsInstantiationLevel (see clause 6.3.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) to
indicate the NsLevel(s) within the NS deployment flavour, and each NsLevel
that contain the following attributes:
>>> virtualLinkToLevelMapping (see clause 6.3.9.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5])
that contain the bitRateRequirements (see clause 6.7.5.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA
014 [5]) indicating the bandwidth requirement for the interface between the
VNF and PNF.
NFVO returns the nsdInfoId (see clause 7.2.2.3 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3])
indicating the successful NSD on-boarding to NM.
### 7.1.2 Potential solution for instantiating NS containing CN VNF and
virtualized part and non-virtualized part of gNB
This clause provides the potential solution to support the Use Case and
requirements on instantiating NS containing CN VNF and virtualized part and
non-virtualized part of gNB as described in clause 4.2.2 and 5.2.
NM requests NFVO to create the NS identifier (see clause 7.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-
IFA 013 [3]) for the NSD that references to the VNFD of the CN NF, VNFD of the
virtualized part of gNB and PNFD of the non-virtualized part of gNB.
NFVO responds to NM about the successful creation with the parameter
nsInstanceId.
NM requests NFVO to instantiate the NS identified by nsInstanceId, with the
parameter additionalParamForVnf providing the information for the CN VNF and
virtualized part of the gNB, parameter pnfInfo providing the information of
the non-virtualized part of the gNB, and other parameters if necessary
according to clause 7.3.3.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3].
NFVO **sends the NS lifecycle change notification to NM indicating the start
of NS instantiation procedure** (see clause 7.3.3.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[3]).
NFVO instantiates the NS containing the CN VNF and the virtualized part and
non-virtualized part of gNB, based on the information provide by NM and the
information provided in the NSD, VNF package, and PNFD.
NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to NM indicating the
result of NS instantiation (see clause 7.3.3.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
## 7.1.3 Potential solution for updating transport network requirements
### 7.1.3.1 Potential solution for updating latency and bandwidth requirements
This clause provides the potential solution to support the Use Case and
requirements on update of transport network requirements as described in
clause 4.2.3, clause 4.2.7 and 5.2.
This solution is applicable to the case that both the latency and bandwidth
requirements are updated.
NM invokes the Update the NSD operation (see clause 7.2.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA
013 [3]) to request NFVO to update the NSD, with the parameter nsdInfoId
indicating NSD to be updated, and the parameter NSD indicating the updated NSD
which contains the following attributes to be updated:
> > vnffgd (see clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that contains the
> following attribute:
>
> >> vnffgdId that uniquely identifies a VNFFGD (see clause 6.4.2.2 in ETSI GS
> NFV-IFA 014 [5]);
>
> >> vnfdId that identifies the VNFD of the constituent VNF representing the
> connection to the virtualized part of gNB (see clause 6.4.2.2 in ETSI GS
> NFV-IFA 014 [5]);
>
> >> pnfdId that identifies the PNFD of the constituent PNF realizing the non-
> virtualized part of gNB (see clause 6.4.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]);
>
> >> virtualLinkDescId (see clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that
> refers to an NsVirtualLinkDesc within the NSD.
>
> >> cpdPoolId that references to a pool of descriptors of connection points
> attached to the constituent VNFs (realizing the virtualized part of gNB) and
> PNFs (realizing the non-virtualized part of gNB).
>
> >> nfpd (optional) that specifies the network forwarding path associated to
> the VNFFG.
>
> > NsVirtualLinkDesc contains the following relevant attribute:
>
> >> virtualLinkDf (see clause 6.5.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that
> contains the following attribute:
>
> >>> qoS (see clause 6.5.4.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that contains the
> latency attribute, indicating the latency requirement for the F1 interface.
>
> > nsDf (see clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that contains the
> following attributes:
>
> >> virtualLinkProfile (see clause 6.3.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that
> contain the following attributes:
>
> >>> maxBitrateRequirements (see clause 6.3.4.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5])
> indicating the maximum bandwidth requirement for the interface between the
> virtualized and non-virtualized par of gNB;
>
> >>> minBitrateRequirements (see clause 6.3.4.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5])
> attributes, indicating the minimum bandwidth requirement for the interface
> between the virtualized and non-virtualized par of gNB;
>
> >> nsInstantiationLevel (see clause 6.3.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) to
> indicate the NsLevel(s) within the NS deployment flavour, and each NsLevel
> that contain the following attributes:
>
> >>> virtualLinkToLevelMapping (see clause 6.3.9.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014
> [5]) that contain the bitRateRequirements (see clause 6.7.5.2 in ETSI GS
> NFV-IFA 014 [5]) indicating the bandwidth requirement for the interface
> between the virtualized and non-virtualized par of gNB.
NFVO returns the nsdInfoId (see clause 7.2.2.3 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3])
indicating the successful NSD update to NM).
NM invokes the Update NS operation (see clause 7.3.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[3]) to request NFVO to update the association of the NS to the new NSD
version, which includes the updated values of the latency and bandwidth
requirements for the interface between the virtualized and non-virtualized par
of gNB, with the following parameters:
> \- updateType = \"AssocNewNsdVersion\" to associate the NS instance with the
> updated NSD;
>
> \- assocNewNsdVersionData to indicate the NSD which the NS instance will be
> associated;
NFVO **sends the NS lifecycle change notification to NM indicating the start
of NS update procedure** (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO updates the NS, based on the information provide by NM and the
information provided in the updated NSD.
NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to NM indicating the
result of NS update (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
### 7.1.3.2 Potential solution for updating bandwidth requirements by changing
NS DF
This clause provides the potential solution to support the Use Case and
requirements on update of transport network requirements as described in
clause 4.2.3 and 5.2.
It is assumed that the target bandwidth requirements are already set to a
specific NS level of a certain NS deployment flavour including the following
attributes in nsDf (see clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]):
> > nsInstantiationLevel (see clause 6.3.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5])
> indicating the NS level which contains the following attributes:
>
> >> virtualLinkToLevelMapping (see clause 6.3.9.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5])
> that contains the bitRateRequirements (see clause 6.7.5.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA
> 014 [5]) indicating the target bandwidth requirement for the interface
> between the virtualized and non-virtualized par of gNB.
NM invokes the Update NS operation (see clause 7.3.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[3]) to request NFVO to change the NS deployment flavour, for updating the
bandwidth requirements for the interface between the virtualized and non-
virtualized par of gNB, with the following parameters:
> \- updateType = \"ChangeNsDf\" to change the NS deployment flavour;
>
> \- changeNsFlavourData to indicate the new deployment flavour to be applied
> to the NS instance.
NFVO **sends the NS lifecycle change notification to NM indicating the start
of NS update procedure** (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO updates the NS, based on the information provide by NM and the
information provided in the updated NSD.
NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to NM indicating the
result of NS update (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
### 7.1.4 Potential solution for providing location of non-virtualized part of
gNB to NFVO
This clause provides the potential solution to support the Use Case and
requirements on providing geographical location of non-virtualized part of gNB
to NFVO, as described in clause 4.2.11 and 5.2.
The solution can be realized by reusing the existing On-board PNFD operation
or existing Update PNFD operation:
1) Providing the geographical location of non-virtualized part of gNB to NFVO
by on-boarding PNFD.
> NM invokes On-board PNFD operation (see clause 7.2.8 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
> [3]) to request NFVO to on-board a PNFD, which contains the following
> attribute besides other necessary attributes:
>
> > geographicalLocationInfo indicating the geographical location of the non-
> virtualized part of gNB.
>
> NFVO on-boards the PNFD, and responds to NM that the PNFD has been on-
> boarded successfully.
2) Providing the geographical location of non-virtualized part of gNB to NFVO
by updating PNFD.
> If the geographical location of non-virtualized part of gNB to NFVO is not
> provided in a PNFD already on-boarded, NM can provide it by updating PNFD.
>
> NM invokes Update PNFD operation (see clause 7.2.9 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
> [3]) to request NFVO to update a PNFD, which contains the following
> attribute (besides other necessary attributes):
>
> > pnfd, indicating the new version of PNFD to be created, which includes
> (besides other necessary attributes)
>
> >> geographicalLocationInfo indicating the geographical location of the non-
> virtualized part of gNB.
NFVO updates the PNFD, and responds to NM that the PNFD has been updated
successfully.
### 7.1.5 Potential solution for adding VNFFGD for the gNB
This clause provides the potential solution to support the Use Case and
requirements on adding VNFFGD for the gNB as described in clauses 4.2.9 and
5.2.
It is assumed that the NSD has been on-boarded, but is missing the VNFFGD.
NM requests NFVO to invoke the Update NSD operation (see clause 7.2.5 of ETSI
GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]) to add the VNFFGD for the gNB, with the following
parameter:
> > nsdInfoId indicating NSD to be updated;
>
> > NSD indicating the NSD that contains the VNFFGD to be added:
>
> >> vnffgd contains the following attribute
>
> >>> vnffgdId that uniquely identifies a VNFFGD (see clause 6.4.2.2 in ETSI
> GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]);
>
> >>> vnfdId that identifies the VNFD of the constituent VNF realizing the
> virtualized part of gNB (see clause 6.4.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]);
>
> >>> vnfdId(s) that identifies the VNFD of the other constituent VNFs (such
> as the VNF for AMF etc.);
>
> >>> pnfdId that identifies the PNFD of the constituent PNF realizing the
> non-virtualized part of gNB (see clause 6.4.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]);
>
> >>> virtualLinkDescId (see clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that
> refers to an NsVirtualLinkDesc within the NSD.
>
> >>> cpdPoolId that references to a pool of descriptors of connection points
> attached to the constituent VNFs (realizing the virtualized part of gNB) and
> PNFs (realizing the non-virtualized part of gNB).
>
> >>> nfpd (optional) that specifies the network forwarding path associated to
> the VNFFG.
>
> >> NsVirtualLinkDesc contains the following relevant attribute:
>
> >>> virtualLinkDf (see clause 6.5.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that
> contains the following attribute:
>
> >>>> qoS (see clause 6.5.4.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that contains the
> latency attribute, indicating the latency requirement for the interface
> between the virtualized and non-virtualized parts of gNB.
>
> >> nsDf (see clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that contains the
> following attributes:
>
> >>> virtualLinkProfile (see clause 6.3.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) that
> contain the following attributes:
>
> >>>> maxBitrateRequirements (see clause 6.3.4.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5])
> indicating the maximum bandwidth requirement for the interface between the
> virtualized and non-virtualized parts of gNB;
>
> >>>> minBitrateRequirements (see clause 6.3.4.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5])
> attributes, indicating the minimum bandwidth requirement for the interface
> between the virtualized and non-virtualized parts of gNB;
>
> >>> nsInstantiationLevel (see clause 6.3.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) to
> indicate the NsLevel(s) within the NS deployment flavour, and each NsLevel
> that contain the following attributes:
>
> >>>> virtualLinkToLevelMapping (see clause 6.3.9.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014
> [5]) that contain the bitRateRequirements (see clause 6.7.5.2 in ETSI GS
> NFV-IFA 014 [5]) indicating the bandwidth requirement for the interface
> between the virtualized and non-virtualized parts of gNB.
NFVO updates the NSD with the added VNFFGD, and responds to NM about the
successful NSD update, with parameter nsdInfoId indicating the updated NSD.
### 7.1.6 Potential solution for adding VNFFGs for connecting virtualized part
and non-virtualized part of gNB
This clause provides the potential solution to support the Use Case and
requirements on adding VNFFGs for the gNB as described in clauses 4.2.8 and
5.2.
It is assumed that the NS has been instantiated and the VNFFGs connecting the
virtualized part and non-virtualized part of gNB are missing. The NSD (see
clause 6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) has been updated with the vnffgd
and nsDf, which contain information relevant to latency and bandwidth of the
virtual link respectively for the interface between virtualized part and non-
virtualized part of gNB.
NM invokes Update NS operation (see clause 7.3.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3])
to request NFVO to add VNFFGs for connecting the virtualized part and non-
virtualized part of the gNB, with the following parameters:
\- updateType = \"AddVnffg\";
\- addVnffg includes the vnffgdId and vnfInstanceId of the virtualized part of
gNB that are required to create the VNFFG instance in the NS.
NFVO **sends the NS lifecycle change notification to NM indicating the start
of NS update procedure** (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO updates the NS, based on the information provide by NM and the
information provided in the updated NSD.
NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to NM indicating the
result of NS update (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
### 7.1.7 Potential solution for adding VNFFGs for connecting virtualized part
of gNB to AMF
This clause provides the potential solution to support the Use Case and
requirements on adding VNFFGs for connecting the virtualized part of gNB to
AMFF, as described in clause 4.2.8 and 5.2.
It is assumed that the NS has been instantiated and the VNFFGs connecting the
virtualized part of gNB and 5GC nodes (AMF) are missing. The NSD (see clause
6.2.2.2 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) has been updated with the vnffgd and nsDf
for the interface between virtualized part of gNB and AMF.
NM invokes Update NS operation (see clause 7.3.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3])
to request NFVO to add VNFFGs for connecting the virtualized part of gNB and
AMF, with the following parameters:
\- updateType = \"AddVnffg\";
\- addVnffg(s) include the following attributes for each VNFFG to be added:
> vnffgdId;
> vnfInstanceId of the virtualized part of gNB;
> vnfInstanceId of the VNF instance of AMF.
NFVO **sends the NS lifecycle change notification to NM indicating the start
of NS update procedure** (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO updates the NS, based on the information provide by NM and the
information provided in the updated NSD.
NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to NM indicating the
result of NS update (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
## 7.2 NRM for gNB that includes virtualized part
### 7.2.1 NRMs for gNB
The gNB is modelled to IOC GNBFunction, and contained by the IOC
ManagedElement.
The IOC GNBFunction is inherited from the IOC ManagedFunction.
Figure 7.2.1-1: The Containment/Naming and Association relation of NRM for gNB
Figure 7.2.1-2 The inheritance relation of NRM for gNB
## 7.3 Potential solutions on adding, removing and replacing non-virtualized
part of gNB
### 7.3.1 Adding, removing and replacing the non-virtualized part of gNB by
updating NS
NM requests NFVO to update the NS instance (by Update NS operation, see clause
7.3.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]) to:
\- add non-virtualized part of gNB as PNF\ The pnfdId (see clause 6.6.2.2 of
ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) of the non-virtualized part of gNB is needed.
\- remove PNF of the non-virtualized part of gNB\ The pnfdId (see clause
6.6.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]), indicating the PNFD information related
to the non-virtualized part of gNB is needed.
\- replace PNF of the non-virtualized part of gNB\ The pnfdId(see clause
6.6.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [3]) of the new non-virtualized part of gNB and
the PnfdId (see clause 6.6.2.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 [5]) of the old non-
virtualized part of gNB are needed.
NFVO **sends the NS lifecycle change notification to NM indicating the start
of NS update procedure** (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
NFVO updates the NS to add, remove or replace the PNF of the non-virtualized
part of gNB according to the information provide by NM.
NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle Change** notification to NM indicating the
result of NS update (see clause 7.3.5.4 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3]).
# 8 Conclusions
The study has addressed the following management aspects of the NG-RAN that
includes virtualized network functions:
\- Use case, requirements and potential solutions on:
\- Establishment of relation between virtualized part and non-virtualized part
of gNB (see clause 4.1.1)
\- Establishment of relation between the CN NF and the gNB, which is partially
virtualized (see clause 4.1.2)
\- Instantiation of virtualized part of gNB (see clause 4.2.1)
\- Instantiation of NS containing VNF that is part of the CN, and virtualized
and non-virtualized parts of gNB (see clause 4.2.2)
\- Update of transport network requirements (see clause 4.2.3)
\- Addition of non-virtualized part of gNB (see clause 4.2.4)
\- Removal of non-virtualized part of gNB (see clause 4.2.5)
\- On-board NSD for the virtualized and non-virtualized parts of gNB (see
clause 4.2.7)
\- Add VNFFGs to a NS containing VLs for virtualized and non-virtualized parts
of gNB (see clause 4.2.8)
\- Add a VNFFGD to a NSD containing VLDs for virtualized and non-virtualized
parts of gNB (see clause 4.2.9)
\- Instantiation of virtualized part of a gNB with the NFVI-POP geolocation
identifier (see clause 4.2.10)
\- Deployment of non-virtualized part of gNB based on the available dedicated
hardware resource (see clause 4.1.3)
\- Connect the virtualized part of gNB to 5GC nodes (see clause 4.2.12)
\- Provide location of non-virtualized part of gNB to NFVO (see clause 4.2.11)
\- Scaling the virtualized part of gNB for adapting to the network capacity
(see clause 4.2.13)
\- Gap analysis with ETSI ISG NFV GSs.
It is concluded that:
1) The following use cases can be supported by existing solution:
\- Establishment of relation between virtualized part and non-virtualized part
of gNB.
\- Establishment of relation between the CN NF and the gNB, which is partially
virtualized.
\- Instantiation of virtualized part of gNB.
\- Instantiation of NS containing VNF that is part of the CN, and virtualized
and non-virtualized parts of gNB.
\- Update of transport network requirements.
\- Provide location of non-virtualized part of gNB to NFVO.
\- Scaling the virtualized part of gNB for adapting to the network capacity.
\- On-board NSD for the virtualized and non-virtualized parts of gNB.
\- Add VNFFGs to a NS containing VLs for virtualized and non-virtualized parts
of gNB.
\- Instantiation of virtualized part of a gNB with the NFVI-POP geolocation
identifier.
\- Deployment of non-virtualized part of gNB based on the available dedicated
hardware resource.
\- Connect the virtualized part of gNB to 5GC nodes.
\- Provide location of non-virtualized part of gNB to NFVO.
\- Scaling the virtualized part of gNB for adapting to the network capacity.
2) The following use cases can be supported by existing solution by updating
the NSD and then update the NS, but cannot be supported by Update NS operation
without updating the NSD. Given the number of the PNFs of non-virtualized part
of gNB, updating NSD very frequently is not optimal. So the solution by using
Update NS operation without updating the NSD should be pursued:
\- Addition of non-virtualized part of gNB
\- Removal of non-virtualized part of gNB
The solution by using Update NS operation without updating the NSD requires
extension of the Update NS operation to support adding a PNF to a NS instance,
or removing a PNF from a NS instance.
3) The following use cases cannot be supported by existing solutions:
\- Add VNFFGs to a NS containing VLs for virtualized and non-virtualized parts
of gNB.
\- Add VNFFGs for connecting 1) virtualized part and non-virtualized part of
gNB, 2) virtualized part of gNB and 5GC nodes.
4) The following gap in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [3] has been identified:
\- When using Update NS operation (see clause 7.3.5 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[3]) to add VNFFGs to the NS instance, it should provide the VNF instance
ID(s) to indicate which VNF instance(s) are to be connected by the VNFFG
instance.
# 9 Recommendations
It is recommended to address the aspects listed in the conclusion regarding
management of NG-RAN that includes virtualized network functions in the
normative work.
#