# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The split of EPC nodes will cause the user plane and the control plane of S-GW
and P-GW to be separated. This will affect management of these nodes and may
cause the existing management specifications to be impacted.
The present document analyses the impacts for management of EPC nodes caused
by the impacts for management of EPC nodes caused by the split of user plane
and control plane. The scope of this study includes:
1) The affect of the CUPS on the performance measurements of the EPC network
[2].
2) The impact of the CUPS on the EPC NRM IRP [3].
3) The potential impact on E-UTRAN [4].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.426: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Evolved Packet Core (EPC) network\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.708: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.658: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.412: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.709: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CUPS Control and User Plane Sep
PGW PDN Gateway
PGW-C PDN Gateway Control plane function
PGW-U PDN Gateway User plane function
SGW Serving Gateway
SGW-C Serving Gateway Control plane function
SGW-U Serving Gateway User plane function
# 4 Use cases
## 4.1 Measurement related to the PGW in CUPS
### 4.1.1 Pre-conditions
The operator deploys the PGW with separated control plane and user plane.
### 4.1.2 Description
The NM requests EM to initiate one or more of the following measurements at
PGW-C and PGW-U. The management system subscribes to the initiated
measurements.
1) The session management related measurements (counters) in the PGW-C
include:
\- PDN-GW initiated dedicated bearer creation
\- PDN-GW initiated dedicated bearer deletion
\- PDN-GW initiated dedicated bearer modification with QoS update
\- PDN-GW initiated dedicated bearer modification without QoS update
\- Active EPS bearers related measurements
\- UE requested bearer resource modification related measurements
\- PDN connections related measurements
\- Number of EPS bearer
2) SGi related measurements fulfilled by counter in the PGW-U.
The EM notifies to NM when the measurements from PGW-C and PGW-U are
available.
### 4.1.3 Post-conditions
The collected measurement data are notified to operator's the management
system.
## 4.2 Measurement related to the SGW in CUPS
### 4.2.1 Pre-conditions
The operator deploys the SGW with separated control plane and user plane.
### 4.2.2 Description
The NM requests EM to initiate one or more of the following measurements at
SGW-C and SGW-U. The management system subscribes to the initiated
measurements.
1\. The GTP related measurements in the SGW-U include:
\- GTP S5/S8 data packets related measurements
\- GTP S4 data volume related measurements
\- GTP S12 data volume related measurements
\- Bearer resource usage related measurements
2\. The GTP related measurements in the SGW-C include:
GTP S5/S8 data signalling related measurements
3\. The S1-U data volume related measurements fulfilled by counter in SGW-U.
4\. The Session management related measurements in the SGW-C includes:
\- S4/S11 EPS bearer related measurements
a) EPS bearer creation related measurements
b) EPS bearer modification related measurements
\- S5/S8 EPS bearer related measurements
a) EPS bearer creation related measurements
b) EPS bearer modification related measurements
c) EPS bearer deletion related measurements
d) Bearer resource usage related measurements
The EM notifies to NM when the measurements from SGW-C and SGW-U are
available.
### 4.2.3 Post-conditions
The collected measurement data are notified to operator's the management
system.
# 5 Potential Requirements
## 5.1 General Requirements
**REQ-GWM-CON-1** The 3GPP management system should have the capability of
initiating the measurements related to the control plane and/or the user plane
of PGW.
**REQ-GWM-CON-2** The 3GPP management system should have the capability of
initiating the measurements related to the control plane and/or the user plane
of SGW.
**REQ-GWM-CON-3** The 3GPP management system should have the capability of
subscribing the data of PGW and SGW related measurement.
**REQ-GWM-CON-4** The EM should have the capability of notifying the measured
data of PGW and/or SGW to NM.
## 5.2 Requirements for PGW-C
**REQ-PGW-CON-1** The 3GPP management system should support session management
related measurement in PGW-C.
## 5.3 Requirements for PGW-U
**REQ-PGW-CON-1** The 3GPP management system should support SGi related
measurement in PGW-U.
## 5.4 Requirements for SGW-C
**REQ-SGW-CON-1** The 3GPP management system should support session management
related measurement in SGW-C.
**REQ-SGW-CON-2** The 3GPP management system should support GTP signalling
packets related measurement in SGW-C.
## 5.5 Requirements for SGW-U
**REQ-SGW-CON-1** The 3GPP management system should support GTP data packets
and data volume related measurement in SGW-U.
**REQ-SGW-CON-2** The 3GPP management system should support S1-U data volume
related measurement in SGW-U.
# 6 Potential solution
## 6.1 PGW and SGW related measurements
The PGW and SGW related measurements in CUPS are fulfilled by the control
plane function and user plane function, respectively. The potential solution
for NM, to receive the measurements, will be the PM IRP [6], an example of
execution steps is as follows.
1) The NM determines the measurements required.
2) The NM requests EM to collect the required measurements, providing the
granularity period and report period information.
3) The NM(s) subscribes to notification of the availability of the collected
measurements.
4) The NM(s) received notification when required measurements have been
collected and is available for retrival.
5) The NM retrieve the collected measurements.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 General
In this study, the performance measurements of the EPC nodes under CUPS
situation have been taken into account.
The management enhancements on performance measurement, session management of
the EPC nodes under CUPS have been studied in this TR.
## 7.2 Conclusions on use cases
The following use cases for measurements of the EPC nodes under CUPS are
concluded:
\- Use case of measurement related to the PGW-C and PGW-U
\- Use case of measurement related to the SGW-C and SGW-U
The detail content of the use cases, see clause 4.
## 7.3 Conclusions on potential requirements
The following potential requirements for performance measurements of the EPC
nodes under CUPS have been identified:
\- General requirements for 3GPP management system support performance
measurements under CUPS situation
\- Requirements for PGW-C and PGW-U to support performance measurement
\- Requirements for SGW-C and SGW-U to support performance measurement
For details of the potential requirements, see clause 5.
## 7.4 Conclusions on potential solutions
The potential solution for PGW and SGW to support measurement under CUPS
situation has been identified.
For more details of the potential requirements, see clause 6.
# 8 Recommendations
Based on the outcome of the study, normative work for the management
enhancement of CUPS of EPC nodes for the next stage is recommended.
Potential areas for future normative work:
\- The EPC Performance measurement under CUPS situation
\- The EPC NRM IRP under CUPS situation
The EPC related specifications TS 32.426 [2], TS 28.708 [3] and TS 28.709 [6]
are recommended to reflect the outcomes in this study. The use cases and
requirements in this study are considered as detail analysis in CUPS situation
for EPC nodes. The normative work results from this study would consider
generic definitions of performance measurements and NRM IPR enhancements.
#