# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
With the ever-increasing demand on mobile broadband services, LTE and WLAN
integration, as one way of utilizing unlicensed spectrum, remains to be
important for 3GPP operators.
3GPP has defined the LWA (LTE-WLAN Aggregation) and LWIP (LTE/WLAN Radio Level
Integration Using IPsec Tunnel) as the key solutions for LTE and WLAN
integration, see 3GPP TS 36.300 [2].
The LWA and LWIP allow the UE in RRC_CONNECTED to be configured by the eNB to
utilize the radio resources of WLAN.
The LWA aggregates the user data at PDCP (Packet Data Convergence Protocol)
level, and delivers the LWAAP (LTE-WLAN Aggregation Adaptation Protocol) PDUs
between eNB and WT (WLAN Termination). LWA supports both co-located and non-
co-located deployment scenarios.
LWIP integrates the LTE and WLAN at IP level, and connects the eNB and WLAN
over IP. The IP Packets (user data) transferred between the UE and LWIP-SeGW
are encapsulated using IPsec to provide security to the packets that traverse
WLAN. The IP packets are then transported between the LWIP-SeGW and eNB.
The present document studies the OAM aspects of LWA and LWIP.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the following OAM aspects of LWA (for both co-
located and non-co-located deployment scenarios) and LWIP, based on the
solutions defined by 3GPP RAN WGs:
\- the WLAN related information needs to be configured to the eNB to support
LWA and LWIP.
\- how the 3GPP management system manages the WT function for the case that
the WT function is implemented in a non-3GPP NE (e.g., WLAN AC, WLAN AP).
\- the management model for WT for co-located and non-co-located LWA
deployment scenarios.
\- the performance measurements to monitor the LWA and LWIP.
\- the FM (Fault Management) of LWA and LWIP.
The study also makes conclusions on the potential solution(s), and provides
recommendations for the normative work based on the conclusions of the study.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.463: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN) and Wireless LAN (WLAN); Xw application protocol (XwAP)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.465: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN) and Wireless LAN (WLAN); Xw interface user plane protocol\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.361: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
LTE-WLAN Radio Level Integration Using IPsec Tunnel (LWIP) encapsulation;
Protocol specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.658: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.425: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.403: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements for Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.680: \"Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area
Network (WLAN) management; Concepts and requirements\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
LWA LTE-WLAN Aggregation
LWIP LTE-WLAN Radio Level Integration Using IPsec Tunnel
# 4 Background and concepts
## 4.1 LWA concepts
### 4.1.1 LWA relation
In the non-collocated LWA scenario, the WLAN Termination (WT) terminates the
Xw interface for WLAN. In the collocated LWA scenario the interface between
LTE and WLAN is up to implementation.
The deployment of eNB and WLAN APs may have the following characteristics, as
shown in Figure 4.1.1-1:
\- one eNB may overlay a specific set of the WLAN APs;
\- one WLAN may be overlaid by multiple eNBs;
\- the WLAN AP overlaid by an eNB, may or may not support LWA feature;
\- one WT may support a specific set of WLAN APs, which may be overlaid by the
same or different eNB(s);
\- one WT may have Xw interface with multiple eNBs.
Figure 4.1.1-1: Deployment of eNB and WLAN APs
An LWA relation represents a pair of eNB and WLAN AP, between which the LWA
can be performed.
Examples of the LWA relation, based on Figure 4.1.1-1, are eNB #1 - WLAN AP
#8, eNB #1 - WLAN AP #17, and eNB #2 - WLAN AP #17.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Use cases on management of LWA
### 5.1.1 Configuration Management use cases for LWA
#### 5.1.1.1 Provision of WLAN information to WT for non-collocated LWA
##### 5.1.1.1.1 Issues
In the non-collocated LWA, to enable the eNB to perform the LWA (LTE WLAN
Aggregation) for a UE, the WT needs to provide the WLAN information (see
clause 9.2.7 of TS 36.463 [3]) to the eNB by Xw-AP, during the Xw Setup
procedure and WT Configuration Update procedure.
The WLAN information needs to be provisioned to the WT, which then can provide
it to the eNB as above-mentioned.
##### 5.1.1.1.2 Pre-conditions
The WT is deployed for non-collocated LWA.
##### 5.1.1.1.3 Description
NM requests the EM to provision the WLAN information to the WT. Since one WT
may have Xw interface with multiple eNBs, the LWA relations (see clause 4.1.1)
also need to be provisioned.
EM configures the WLAN information and LWA relations to WT.
The WLAN information needs to contain at least one of the BSS Item, the SSID,
and/or the HESSID IEs (see clause 9.2.7 of TS 36.463 [3]).
When the Xw Setup procedure is initiated by the NB, the WT provides the WLAN
information to the eNB during Xw Setup procedure (see clause 9.1.2 of TS
36.463 [3]) based on the provisioned WLAN information and LWA relations.
If the WLAN information or LWA relation provisioned by OAM is changed and it
impacts an existing Xw interface, the WT updates the WLAN information to the
eNB by WT Configuration Update procedure (see clause 9.1.6 of TS 36.463 [3]).
The WT may not provide all of the WLAN information received from NM/EM to an
eNB, but only provide the information needed for LWA with the eNB.
##### 5.1.1.1.4 Post-conditions
The WLAN information and LWA relation are provisioned to the WT for non-
collocated LWA.
#### 5.1.1.2 Provision of WLAN information to eNB for collocated LWA
##### 5.1.1.2.1 Issues
In the collocated LWA, the interface between LTE and WLAN is up to
implementation. The WLAN information is needed by the eNB to perform the LWA
operation (e.g., WT Addition Preparation to allocate the WLAN resources for
specific E-RABs to the UE).
So, WLAN information needs to be provisioned to the eNB for the collocated
LWA.
##### 5.1.1.2.2 Pre-conditions
The collocated LWA is supported by the eNB.
##### 5.1.1.2.3 Description
NM requests EM to provision the WLAN information for collocated LWA to the
eNB.
EM configures the WLAN information to the eNB.
The WLAN information needs to contain at least one of the BSS (Basic Service
Set), the SSID, and/or the HESSID IEs (see clause 9.2.7 of TS 36.463 [3]).
##### 5.1.1.2.4 Post-conditions
The WLAN information is provisioned to the eNB for collocated LWA.5.2 Use
cases on management of LWIP.
#### 5.1.1.3 Configuration of WLAN mobility sets for LWA
##### 5.1.1.3.1 Issues
WLAN mobility set is the fundamental information to enable the mobility for
LWA (both collocated LWA and non-collocated LWA). The UE configured with LWA
bearer(s) may perform mobility between WLAN APs belonging to the mobility set
without informing the eNB.
A UE is connected to at most one mobility set at the same time.
All APs belonging to a mobility set share a common WT which terminates Xw-C
and Xw-U.
One eNB may have multiple WLAN mobility sets, because:
1) WLAN APs may be distributed in different locations thus have different
coverages;
2) the eNB may connect to multiple WTs.
The WLAN mobility sets need to be established and maintained correctly to
ensure the UE mobility works properly for LWA.
Operator needs to be able to configure the WLAN mobility sets, since operator
may have some information that eNB does not have, such as the location,
capability and capacity of the WLAN APs. The configuration of WLAN mobility
set may include creation of a WLAN mobility set, addition/modification/removal
of WLAN AP information to/in/from a WLAN mobility set, and deletion of a WLAN
mobility set.
##### 5.1.1.3.2 Pre-conditions
The LWA feature is deployed.
##### 5.1.1.3.3 Description
NM requests the EM to configure the WLAN mobility sets to an eNB for LWA (both
collocated LWA and non-collocated LWA). The configuration request may be one
or more of the following:
\- creation of a WLAN mobility set;
\- modification of a WLAN mobility set, including
\- addition of WLAN AP information to the WLAN mobility set;
\- modification of WLAN AP information in the WLAN mobility set;
\- removal of WLAN AP information from a WLAN mobility set;
\- deletion of a WLAN mobility set.
EM configures the eNB with the WLAN mobility set accordingly.
The eNB configures mobility set information, which may be the full set or
subset of a WLAN mobility set provided by NM/EM, to a UE. For example if some
WLAN AP is overloaded, it may not be included in the mobility set information
configured to the UE.
For non-collocated LWA, the eNB propagates the mobility set information that
is configured to the UE to WT.
##### 5.1.1.3.4 Post-conditions
The WLAN mobility sets are configured.
### 5.1.2 Performance Management use cases for LWA
#### 5.1.2.0 General
The value of the performance measurements related to the use cases described
in clause 5.1.2 depend on whether there are UEs supporting LWA during the
collection period. The measurement value is zero if the LWA is in operation on
the eNB but no UEs are supporting LWA during the collection period.
#### 5.1.2.1 Monitoring of user data transmission on Xw interface for non-
collocated LWA
##### 5.1.2.1.1 Issues
In the non-collocated LWA scenario, the Xw user plane interface (Xw-U) is
defined between eNB and WT. The Xw-U interface supports flow control based on
feedback from WT.
The Xw-U interface is used to deliver LWAAP PDUs between eNB and WT.
For LWA, the S1-U terminates in the eNB and, if Xw-U user data bearers are
associated with E-RABs for which the LWA bearer option is configured, the user
plane data is transferred from eNB to WT using the Xw-U interface.
Figure 5.1.2.1.1-1: U-Plane connectivity of eNB and WT for LWA
Operator needs to know the performance regarding user data transmission over
Xw interface for LWA.
##### 5.1.2.1.2 Pre-conditions
The non-collocated LWA is in operation.
##### 5.1.2.1.3 Description
The eNB and/or WT generates performance measurements related to user data
transmission over Xw interface for LWA, and reports to EM (how the eNB/WT
reports the PM data to EM is vendor specific). The performance measurements
are about:
\- User data volume transmitted over Xw interface for DL and UL. The data may
be split to subcounters per WLAN.
\- Successful rate of the user data transmission over Xw interface.
\- The number of UEs associated with WLAN in a WT.
\- The number of UEs who have transmitted data via a WT. The data may be split
to subcounters per WLAN.
The EM informs NM that the PM data file is ready with the information about
file name, file location, etc.
NM gets the PM data file according to the file information provided by EM.
##### 5.1.2.1.4 Post-conditions
The NM gets the performance measurements related to user data transmission
over Xw interface for LWA.
#### 5.1.2.2 Monitoring of XwAP procedures for non-collocated LWA
##### 5.1.2.2.1 Issues
The Xw Application Protocol (XwAP) procedures (see 3GPP TS 36.463 [3]) of the
control plane between an eNB and WT are essential for the non-collocated LWA.
The XwAP procedures may be UE-associated or non UE-associated.
The WT Configuration Update, WLAN Status Reporting and LTE-WLAN Aggregation
procedures are essential to the performance of LWA to be executed for the UE,
thus the performance of these XwAP procedures needs to be monitored.
##### 5.1.2.2.2 Pre-conditions
The non-collocated LWA is in operation.
##### 5.1.2.2.3 Description
The eNB and/or WT generate the performance measurements for the following XwAP
procedures and report to EM (how the eNB/WT reports the PM data to EM is
vendor specific):
\- WT Configuration Update (i.e. the number of attempts, successes/failures);
\- WLAN Status Reporting (i.e. the number of requests, successes/failures);
\- LTE-WLAN Aggregation procedures (i.e. the number of attemtps/requests,
successes/failures), including WT Addition, WT Association Confirmation, eNB
Initiated WT Modification, WT Initiated WT Modification, eNB Initiated WT
Release and WT Initiated WT Release).
The EM informs NM that the PM data file is ready with the information about
file name, file location, etc.
NM gets the PM data file according to the file information provided by EM.
##### 5.1.2.2.4 Post-conditions
The NM gets the performance measurements related to XwAP procedures for non-
collocated LWA.
#### 5.1.2.3 Monitoring of RRC procedures for LWA
##### 5.1.2.3.1 Issues
The following RRC procedures (see 3GPP TS 36.331 [6]) between eNB and UE are
essential to LWA (both collocated LWA and non-collocated LWA):
\- LWA WLAN mobility set configuration;
\- WLAN connection status reporting;
\- LWA specific DRB addition or reconfiguration.
The performance of these RRC procedures needs to be monitored for LWA (both
collocated LWA and non-collocated LWA).
##### 5.1.2.3.2 Pre-conditions
The LWA is in operation.
##### 5.1.2.3.3 Description
The eNB and/or WT generate the performance measurements for the following RRC
procedures and report to EM (how the eNB/WT reports the PM data to EM is
vendor specific):
\- LWA WLAN mobility set configuration (i.e. the number of attempts,
successes/failures);
\- WLAN connection status reporting (i.e. the number of successful
associations, connection failures);
\- LWA specific DRB addition or reconfiguration (i.e. the number of attempted
additions, successful/failed additions, attempted reconfigurations,
successful/failed reconfigurations).
The EM informs NM that the PM data file is ready with the information about
file name, file location, etc.
NM gets the PM data file according to the file information provided by EM.
##### 5.1.2.3.4 Post-conditions
The NM gets the performance measurements related to RRC procedures above-
mentioned for LWA.
### 5.1.3 Fault Management use cases for LWA
#### 5.1.3.1 Alarm monitoring for non-collocated LWA
##### 5.1.3.1.1 Issues
For the non-collocated LWA scenario, operator needs to know whether the non-
collocated LWA is running healthily. Therefore, operator needs to monitor the
alarms related to the non-collocated LWA, such as the fault on a WT, or the
malfunction of an Xw interface. When necessary, operator needs to take actions
to solve the problems.
##### 5.1.3.1.2 Pre-conditions
The non-collocated LWA is in operation.
##### 5.1.3.1.3 Description
EM monitors the alarms related to the non-collocated LWA, including the alarms
for a WT and the alarms for an Xw interface.
EM reports the alarms related to the non-collocated LWA to NM. The alarms
reported to NM need to include some detailed information such as probable
cause, location of the faulty part (e.g., WT, WLAN AP connected to a WT, or Xw
eNB or WT side of the Xw interface), to facilitate operator to solve the
problems.
NM takes appropriate actions to solve the problems when necessary.
##### 5.1.3.1.4 Post-conditions
The NM has received the alarms related to non-collocated LWA if any.
## 5.2 Use cases on management of LWIP
### 5.2.1 Configuration Management use cases for LWIP
#### 5.2.1.1 Configuration of eNB for LWIP
##### 5.2.1.1.1 Issues
The overall architecture for LWIP is illustrated in figure 5.2.1.1.1-1 below
as defined in TS 36.300 [2].
{width="3.2194444444444446in" height="3.0756944444444443in"}
Figure 5.2.1.1.1-1: LWIP Overall Architecture
The IP Packets transferred between the UE and LWIP-SeGW are encapsulated using
IPsec in order to provide security to the packets that traverse WLAN. The IP
packets are then transported between the LWIP-SeGW and eNB. The end to end
path between the UE and eNB via the WLAN network is referred to as the LWIP
tunnel.
For the DL of a data bearer, the packets received by the eNB from the IPsec
tunnel are forwarded directly to upper layers.
UL bearer packets sent over the LWIP tunnel are encapsulated using LWIPEP as
specified in _TS 36.361 [5]._
_Operator needs to configure the eNB with necessary information (e.g., IP
address, location) for LWIP, such as the IP address of_ LWIP-SeGW and
identifiers (BSSID, HESSID and SSID of WLAN APs for LWIP.
##### 5.2.1.1.2 Pre-conditions
The LWIP feature is deployed.
##### 5.2.1.1.3 Description
NM requests the EM to configure the eNB with LWIP related information, which
includes:
\- IP address of each LWIP-SeGW, which is to be used by UE to establish the
IPsec tunnel with LWIP-SeGW, and to be used by the eNB to setup connection
with LWIP-SeGW for the LWIP tunnel.
\- Identifiers (BSSID, HESSID and SSID) of WLAN APs for LWIP.
EM configures the eNB with the LWIP related information accordingly.
The eNB uses the configured information for LWIP.
##### 5.2.1.1.4 Post-conditions
The LWIP related information is configured to the eNB.
#### 5.2.1.2 Configuration of WLAN mobility sets for LWIP
The use case on configuration of WLAN mobility sets for LWA described in
subclause 5.1.1.3 is applicable to configuration of WLAN mobility sets for
LWIP, except the WT related procedures and collocated/non-collocated concept
do not apply to LWIP.
### 5.2.2 Performance Management use cases for LWIP
#### 5.2.2.0 General
The value of the performance measurements related to the use cases described
in clause 5.2.2 depend on whether there are UEs supporting LWIP during the
collection period. The measurement value is zero if the LWIP is in operation
on the eNB but no UEs are supporting LWIP during the collection period.
#### 5.2.2.1 Monitoring of user data transmission via WLAN for LWIP
##### 5.2.2.1.1 Issues
As shown in the figure below, the IP Packets transferred between the UE and
LWIP-SeGW are encapsulated using IPsec in order to provide security to the
packets that traverse WLAN. The end to end path between the UE and eNB via the
WLAN network is referred to as the LWIP tunnel.
Figure 5.2.2.1.1-1: LWIP Protocol Architecture
A single IPSec tunnel is used per UE for all the data bearers that are
configured to send and/ or receive data over WLAN. Each data bearer may be
configured so that traffic for that bearer can be routed over the IPsec tunnel
in only downlink, only uplink, or both uplink and downlink over WLAN. SRBs are
carried over LTE only. eNB configures specific bearer(s) to use the IPsec
tunnel.
Operator needs to know the performance regarding user data transmission via
WLAN for LWIP.
##### 5.2.2.1.2 Pre-conditions
The LWIP is in operation.
##### 5.2.2.1.3 Description
The eNB generates performance measurements related to user data transmission
via WLAN for LWIP, and reports to EM (how the eNB reports the PM data to EM is
vendor specific). The performance measurements may include:
\- User data volume transmitted or received via WLAN. The data may be split to
subcounters per WLAN AP.
\- The number of UEs associated with WLAN for LWIP.
\- The number of UEs who have transmitted or received data via a WLAN for
LWIP. The data may be split to subcounters per WLAN AP.
The EM informs NM that the PM data file is ready with the information about
file name, file location, etc.
NM gets the PM data file according to the file information provided by EM.
##### 5.2.2.1.4 Post-conditions
The NM gets the performance measurements related to user data transmission via
WLAN for LWIP.
#### 5.2.2.2 Monitoring of RRC procedures for LWIP
##### 5.2.2.2.1 Issues
The following RRC procedures (see 3GPP TS 36.331 [6]) between eNB and UE are
essential to LWIP:
\- LWIP WLAN mobility set configuration;
\- WLAN connection status reporting;
\- LWIP specific DRB addition or reconfiguration.
The performance of these RRC procedures needs to be monitored for LWIP.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Pre-conditions
The LWIP is in operation.
##### 5.2.2.2.3 Description
The eNB generates the performance measurements for the following RRC
procedures and report to EM (how the eNB reports the PM data to EM is vendor
specific):
\- LWIP WLAN mobility set configuration (i.e. the number of attempts,
successes/failures);
\- WLAN connection status reporting (i.e. the number of successful
associations, connection failures);
\- LWIP specific DRB addition or reconfiguration (i.e. the number of attempted
additions, successful/failed additions, attempted reconfigurations,
successful/failed reconfigurations).
The EM informs NM that the PM data file is ready with the information about
file name, file location, etc.
NM gets the PM data file according to the file information provided by EM.
##### 5.2.2.2.4 Post-conditions
The NM gets the performance measurements related to RRC procedures above-
mentioned for LWIP.
### 5.2.3 Fault Management use cases for LWIP
#### 5.2.3.1 Alarm monitoring for LWIP
##### 5.2.3.1.1 Issues
Operator needs to supervise whether the LWIP is running normally. Therefore,
operator needs to monitor the alarms related to the LWIP, such as the
connection failure with LWIP-SeGW from eNB, data cannot be
transmitted/received via an associated WLAN, etc. When necessary, operator
needs to take actions to mitigate the faults.
##### 5.2.3.1.2 Pre-conditions
The LWIP is in operation.
##### 5.2.3.1.3 Description
EM monitors the alarms related to the LWIP on an eNB, and reports to NM. The
alarms reported to NM need to include some detailed information such as
probable cause, location of the faulty part (e.g., connection failure with an
LWIP-SeGW, data cannot be transmitted via an associated WLAN, etc.) to
facilitate operator to mitigate the faults.
NM takes appropriate actions to solve the problems when necessary.
##### 5.2.3.1.4 Post-conditions
The NM has received the alarms related to LWIP if any.
# 6 Potential requirements
## 6.1 Potential requirements on management of LWA
### 6.1.1 Configuration Management requirements for LWA
**REQ-CM_NonCo_LWA_CON-1** EM should have a capability allowing NM to
provision the WLAN information to WT for non-collocated LWA.
**REQ-CM_NonCo_LWA_CON-2** EM should have a capability allowing NM to
provision the LWA relation to the WT for non-collocated LWA.
**REQ-CM_Co_LWA_CON-1** EM should have a capability allowing NM to provision
the WLAN information to eNB for collocated LWA.
**REQ-CM_LWA_CON-1** EM should have a capability allowing NM to create, modify
and delete a WLAN mobility set for an eNB, for both collocated LWA and non-
collocated LWA.
**REQ-CM_LWA_CON-2** EM should have a capability allowing NM to add, remove
WLAN AP information to/from a WLAN mobility set and modify WLAN AP information
in a WLAN mobility set for an eNB, for both collocated LWA and non-collocated
LWA.
### 6.1.2 Performance Management requirements for LWA
**REQ-PM_NonCo_LWA_CON-1** EM should have a capability allowing NM to collect
the performance measurements related to user data transmission over Xw
interface from eNB and/or WT for non-collocated LWA.
**REQ-PM_NonCo_LWA_CON-2** EM should have a capability allowing NM to collect
the performance measurements related to the following XwAP procedures for non-
collocated LWA:
\- WT Configuration Update;
\- WLAN Status Reporting;
\- LTE-WLAN Aggregation procedures (including WT Addition, WT Association
Confirmation, eNB Initiated WT Modification, WT Initiated WT Modification, eNB
Initiated WT Release and WT Initiated WT Release).**REQ-PM_LWA_CON-1** EM
should have a capability allowing NM to collect the performance measurements
related to the following RRC procedures for LWA:
\- LWA WLAN mobility set configuration;
\- WLAN connection status reporting;
\- WLAN measurements reporting;
\- LWA specific DRB addition or reconfiguration.
This requirement is applicable and generic to both collocated LWA and non-
collocated LWA.
### 6.1.3 Fault Management requirements for LWA
**REQ-FM_NonCo_LWA_CON-1** EM should have a capability to send alarms related
to the non-collocated LWA to NM. The alarms are related to a WT, a WLAN AP
connected to the WT, or an Xw interface, and the alarms need to include the
detailed information (such as probable cause and location of the faulty part)
to facilitate operator to solve the problems.
## 6.2 Potential requirements on management of LWIP
### 6.2.1 Configuration Management requirements for LWIP
**REQ-CM_LWIP_CON-1** EM should have a capability allowing NM to configure the
LWIP related information for an eNB. The LWIP related information includes the
IP address of the LWIP-SeGW, and the identifiers (BSSID, HESSID and SSID of
WLAN APs for LWIP.
**REQ-CM_LWIP_CON-2** EM should have a capability allowing NM to create,
modify and delete a WLAN mobility set for LWIP for an eNB.
**REQ-CM_LWIP_CON-3** EM should have a capability allowing NM to add, remove
WLAN AP information to/from a WLAN mobility set and modify the WLAN AP
information in a WLAN mobility set for LWIP for an eNB.
### 6.2.2 Performance Management requirements for LWIP
**REQ-PM_LWIP_CON-1** EM should have a capability allowing NM to collect the
performance measurements related to user data transmitted or received by an
eNB via WLAN for LWIP.
**REQ-PM_LWIP_CON-2** EM of an eNB should have a capability allowing NM to
collect the performance measurements related to the following RRC procedures
for LWIP:
\- LWIP WLAN mobility set configuration;
\- WLAN connection status reporting;
\- WLAN measurements reporting;
\- LWIP specific DRB addition or reconfiguration.
### 6.2.3 Fault Management requirements for LWIP
**REQ-FM_LWIP_CON-1** EM of an eNB should have a capability to send alarms
related to LWIP to NM. The alarms need to include the detailed information
(such as probable cause and location of the faulty part) about the fault to
facilitate operator to mitigate the faults.
# 7 Potential solutions
## 7.1 Potential solutions for Configuration Management of LWA and LWIP
### 7.1.1 General
The CM related interface IRPs are applicable to manage LWA (both collocated
and non-collocated) and LWIP with no changes needed, so the potential
solutions are focused on the NRM perspective.
### 7.1.2 Potential solutions for CM of WT for non-collocated LWA
#### 7.1.2.1 General
This subclause provides the potential solutions for the use case \"Provision
of WLAN information to WT for non-collocated LWA\" as described in clause
5.1.1.1 and the corresponding requirements **REQ-CM_NonCo_LWA_CON-1** and
**REQ-CM_NonCo_LWA_CON-2** as documented in clause 6.1.1.
#### 7.1.2.2 Potential new IOCs
##### 7.1.2.2.1 WTFunction
The IOC WTFunction is to be defined in TS 28.658 [7] to represent the WT
functionality. For more information about the WT, see 3GPP TS 36.300 [2].
This IOC inherits from IOC ManagedFunction (see TS 28.622 [8]).
Figure 7.1.2.2.1-1: Inheritance of WTFunction
This IOC has the following attributes (besides the attributes inheriting from
IOC ManagedFuncton):
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable wLANInfoList M M M - M
* * *
The attribute properties of IOC WTFunction are as following:
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | wLANInfoList | This attribute contains | type: String | | | a list of WLANInfo, and | | | | each WLANInfo includes | multiplicity: 0..* | | | the following elements: | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | - WLANId | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | This element identifies | | | | the WLAN by the BSSID, | defaultValue: No | | | the SSID, and/or the | default value | | | HESSID (see clause | | | | 9.2.7 of TS 36.463 | isNullable: True | | | [3]). | | | | | | | | - WLANOperationalState | | | | | | | | This element indicates | | | | whether the WLAN is in | | | | operation normally or | | | | abnormally. | | | | | | | | - EnbWithLWARelation | | | | | | | | This element identifies | | | | the eNB, by the DN, | | | | with which the subject | | | | WLAN has LWA relation. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
This IOC supports the following notifications:
\- The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 of TS 28.658 [7] are
valid for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
##### 7.1.2.2.2 EP_Xw
The IOC EP_Xw is to be defined in TS 28.658 [7] to represent the end point of
the Xw interface. For more information about Xw interface, see 3GPP TS 36.463
[3] and TS 36.465 [4].
This IOC inherits from IOC EP_RP (see TS 28.622 [8]).
Figure 7.1.2.2.2-1: Inheritance of EP_Xw
This IOC has no new attributes (except the attributes inheriting from IOC
ManagedFuncton):
This IOC supports the following notifications:
\- The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 of TS 28.658 [7] are
valid for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
##### 7.1.2.2.3 ProxyManagedElement
The IOC ProxyManagedElement is to be defined in TS 28.622 [8] to represent the
managed element which is not directly managed by the subject IRPAgent, but is
used as proxy for managing its contained managed functions by the IRPAgent.
The IOC ProxyManagedElement may represent a non-3GPP network element where the
3GPP defined network functions are physically located.
A ProxyManagedElement instance may be contained in either a SubNetwork or in a
MeContext instance.
The ProxyManagedElement IOC may be used to represent a combined ME
functionality (as indicated by the managedElementType attribute and the
contained instances of different functional IOCs). In case the
ProxyManagedElement instance contains non-3GPP functions, only the contained
instances of 3GPP functional IOCs are provided via Itf-N.
This IOC inherits from IOC Top (see TS 28.622 [8]).
Figure 7.1.2.2.3-1: Inheritance of ProxyManagedElement
This IOC has the following attributes (besides the attributes inheriting from
IOC Top):
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable id M M - M - vendorName M M - - - userDefinedState M M M - -
managedElementType M M M - -
* * *
The properties of these attributes are already defined in existing TS 28.622
[8].
This IOC supports the following notifications:
\- The configuration notifications as defined in subclause 4.5.2 of TS 28.658
[7] are valid for this IOC.
#### 7.1.2.3 Relationships of IOCs
The relationships of the IOCs related to this potential solution are depicted
in the following class diagram:
Option 1: Without ProxyManagedElement IOC
Figure 7.1.2.3-1: relationships of the IOCs related to non-collocated LWA
(without ProxyManagedElement IOC)
Option 2: With ProxyManagedElement IOC
Figure 7.1.2.3-2: relationships of the IOCs related to non-collocated LWA
(with ProxyManagedElement IOC)
### 7.1.3 Potential solutions for CM of eNB for LWA and LWIP
#### 7.1.3.1 General
This subclause provides the potential solutions for the following use cases
and requirements.
\- use case \"Provision of WLAN information to eNB for collocated LWA\" as
described in clause 5.1.1.2 and the corresponding requirement **REQ-
CM_Co_LWA_CON-1** as documented in clause 6.1.1;
\- use case \"Configuration of WLAN mobility sets for LWA\" as described in
clause 5.1.1.3 and the corresponding requirements **REQ-CM_LWA_CON-1** and
**REQ-CM_LWA_CON-2** as documented in clause 6.1.1;
\- use case \"Configuration of eNB for LWIP\" as described in clause 5.2.1.1
and the corresponding requirement **REQ-CM_LWIP_CON-1** as documented in
clause 6.2.1;
\- use case \"Configuration of WLAN mobility sets for LWIP\" as described in
clause 5.2.1.2 and the corresponding requirements **REQ-CM_LWIP_CON-2** and
**REQ-CM_LWIP_CON-3** as documented in clause 6.2.1.
#### 7.1.3.2 Potential new IOCs
##### 7.1.3.2.1 WLANMobilitySet
The IOC WLANMobilitySet is to be defined in TS 28.658 [7] to represent the
WLAN mobility set managed by OAM for LWA and LWIP. For more information about
the WLAN mobility set, see 3GPP TS 36.300 [2].
This IOC inherits from IOC Top (see TS 28.622 [8]).
Figure 7.1.3.2.1-1: Inheritance of WLANMobilitySet
This IOC has the following attributes (besides the attributes inheriting from
IOC ManagedFuncton):
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable wLANInfoList M M M - M
* * *
The attribute properties of IOC WLANMobilitySet are as following:
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | wLANInfoList | This attribute contains | type: String | | | a list of WLANAPInfo, | | | | and each WLANAPInfo | multiplicity: 0..* | | | includes the following | | | | elements: | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | - WLANId | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | This element identifies | defaultValue: No | | | the WLAN by the BSSID, | default value | | | the SSID, and/or the | | | | HESSID (see clause | isNullable: false | | | 9.2.7 of TS 36.463 | | | | [3]). | | | | | | | | - WLANOperationalState | | | | | | | | This element indicates | | | | whether the WLAN AP is | | | | in operation normally | | | | or abnormally. | | | | | | | | - WLANGeoLocation (O) | | | | | | | | This element provides | | | | the geographical | | | | location of the WLAN. | | | | | | | | - IsLWASupported | | | | | | | | This element indicates | | | | whether LWA is | | | | supported between the | | | | eNB and this WLAN. | | | | | | | | - IsLWIPSupported | | | | | | | | This element indicates | | | | whether LWIP is | | | | supported between the | | | | eNB and this WLAN. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
This IOC supports the following notifications:
\- The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 of TS 28.658 [7] are
valid for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
#### 7.1.3.3 Enhancements of IOC ENBFunction for LWA and LWIP
The IOC ENBFunction as defined in TS 28.658 [7] is to be enhanced with
additional attributes for management of LWIP. The new attributes are added
following the existing ones (that are with grey shading).
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable intraANRSwitch CM M M - M iRATANRSwitch CM M M - M eNBId M M - -
M x2BlackList CM M M - M x2WhiteList CM M M - M x2HOBlackList CM M M - M
x2IpAddressList O M - - M tceIDMappingInfoList CM M M - M
sharNetTceMappingInfoList CM M M - M netListeningRSForRIBS CM M M - M
lWIPSeGWList CM M M - M
* * *
The attribute constraint of the support qualifier of lWIPSeGWAddressList is
LWIP is supported.
The attribute properties of lWIPSeGWAddressList are as following:
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | lWIPSeGWList | This attribute contains | type: String | | | a list of lWIPSeGWInfo, | | | | and each lWIPSeGWInfo | multiplicity: 0..* | | | includes the following | | | | elements: | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | - LWIPSeGWId | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | This element identifies | defaultValue: No | | | the LWIP SeGW. | default value | | | | | | | - | isNullable: false | | | LWIPSeGWIdAddressList | | | | | | | | This element provides | | | | the IP addresses of the | | | | LWIP SeGW. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
#### 7.1.3.4 Relationships of IOCs
The relationships of the IOCs related to this potential solution are depicted
in the following class diagram:
Figure 7.1.3.4-1: relationships of the IOCs related to eNB for LWA and LWIP
## 7.2 Potential solutions for Performance Management of LWA and LWIP
### 7.2.1 General
The PM IRP is applicable to manage the measurement job and threshold for LWA
and LWIP with no changes needed, so the potential solutions for PM of LWA and
LWIP are focused on the performance measurements data.
The performance of LWA and LWIP may be impacted by the performance of WLAN AP,
therefore the following performance measurements for WLAN as defined in TS
28.403 [10] can be used by NM for correlation with the LWA and LWIP related
performance measurments described in this subcause:
\- IP.InUnicastPacketWlanAP;
\- IP.OutUnicastPacketWlanAP;
\- IP.InMulticastPacketWlanAP;
\- IP.OutMulticastPacketWlanAP;
\- IP.InBroadcastPacketWlanAP;
\- IP.OutBroadcastPacketWlanAP;
\- MAC.SuccRtsWlanAP;
\- MAC.FailRtsWlanAP;
\- MAC.FailAckWlanAP;
\- MAC.successMpduWlanAP;
\- MAC.failedMpduWlanAP;
\- NumberOfAssociatedStation.
### 7.2.2 Potential solutions for monitoring of user data transmission on Xw
interface for non-collocated LWA
#### 7.2.2.1 General
This subclause provides the potential solutions for the use case on
\"Monitoring of user data transmission on Xw interface for non-collocated
LWA\" as described in clause 5.1.2.1 and the corresponding requirement **REQ-
PM_NonCo_LWA_CON-1** as documented in clause 6.1.2.
#### 7.2.2.2 Potential new performance measurements
The following performance measurements are to be defined in TS 32.425 [9].
New performance measurements for eNB:
1) Number of octets of outgoing LWAAP PDUs transmitted over Xw interface
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the
LWAAP PDUs over the Xw interface by the eNB. The measurement is split into
subcounters per WLAN.
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
2) Number of octets of incoming LWAAP PDUs received over Xw interface
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the LWAAP
PDUs over the Xw interface by the eNB. The measurement is split into
subcounters per WLAN.
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
3) Mean number of UEs associated with WLAN
This measurement is a SI counter, and is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined
interval, the number of UEs associated with WLAN and then taking the
arithmetic mean.
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
4) Number of UEs for which the outgoing LWAAP PDUs are transmitted over Xw
interface
This measurement is a CC counter, and is incremented by 1 when the outgoing
LWAAP PDUs are transmitted by the eNB to WT for a UE, which has not been
counted in the collection period. The measurement is split into subcounters
per WLAN.
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
5) Number of UEs for which the incoming LWAAP PDUs are received over Xw
interface
This measurement is a CC counter, and is incremented by 1 when the incoming
LWAAP PDUs are received by the eNB from WT for a UE, which has not been
counted in the collection period. The measurement is split into subcounters
per WLAN.
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
New performance measurements for WT:
1) Number of octets of outgoing LWAAP PDUs transmitted over Xw interface
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the
LWAAP PDUs over the Xw interface by the WT. The measurement is split into
subcounters per WLAN.
The measured object is WTFunction.
2) Number of octets of incoming LWAAP PDUs received over Xw interface
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the LWAAP
PDUs over the Xw interface by the WT. The measurement is split into
subcounters per WLAN.
The measured object is WTFunction.
3) Mean number of UEs associated with WLAN
This measurement is a SI counter, and is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined
interval, the number of UEs associated with WLAN then taking the arithmetic
mean.
The measured object is WTFunction.
4) Number of UEs for which the outgoing LWAAP PDUs are transmitted over Xw
interface
This measurement is a CC counter, and is incremented by 1 when the outgoing
LWAAP PDUs are transmitted by the WT to eNB for a UE, which has not been
counted in the collection period. The measurement is split into subcounters
per WLAN.
The measured object is WTFunction.
5) Number of UEs for which the incoming LWAAP PDUs are received over Xw
interface
This measurement is a CC counter, and is incremented by 1 when the incoming
LWAAP PDUs are received by the WT from eNB for a UE, which has not been
counted in the collection period. The measurement is split into subcounters
per WLAN.
The measured object is WTFunction.
### 7.2.3 Potential solutions for monitoring of XwAP procedures for non-
collocated LWA
#### 7.2.3.1 General
This subclause provides the potential solutions for the use case on
\"Monitoring of XwAP procedures for non-collocated LWA\" as described in
clause 5.1.2.2 and the corresponding requirements **REQ-PM_NonCo_LWA_CON-2**
as documented in clause 6.1.2.
#### 7.2.3.2 Potential new performance measurements
The following performance measurements are to be defined in TS 32.425 [9].
New performance measurements for eNB:
1) Number of attempted WT Configuration Updates
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the WT
CONFIGURATION UPDATE message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the eNB from WT.
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
2) Number of failed WT Configuration Updates
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the WT
CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the eNB to WT.
This measurement is split to subcounter per failure cause (see 9.2.4 of TS
36.463 [3]).
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
3) Number of WT status requests
> This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the WT
> STATUS REQUEST message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the eNB to WT.
>
> The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
4) Number of WT status failures
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the WT STATUS
FAILURE message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the eNB from WT, or in case no reply is
received for the corresponding WT STATUS REQUEST message. This measurement is
split to subcounter per failure cause (see clause 9.2.4 of TS 36.463 [3]).
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
5) Number of WT addition requests
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the WT
ADDITION REQUEST message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the eNB to WT.
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
6) Number of WT addition rejections
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the WT
ADDITION REQUEST REJECT message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the eNB from WT, or in
case no reply is received for the corresponding WT ADDITION REQUEST message.
This measurement is split to subcounter per failure cause (see clause 9.2.4 of
TS 36.463 [3]).
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
7) Number of eNB initiated WT modification requests
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the WT
MODIFICATION REQUEST message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the eNB to WT.
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
8) Number of rejected eNB initiated WT modifications
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the WT
MODIFICATION REQUEST message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the eNB from WT, or in
case no reply is received for the corresponding WT MODIFICATION REQUEST
message. This measurement is split to subcounter per failure cause (see clause
9.2.4 of TS 36.463 [3]).
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
9) Number of WT initiated WT modification requests
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the WT
MODIFICATION REQUIRED message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the eNB from WT.
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
10) Number of refused WT initiated WT modifications
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the WT
MODIFICATION REFUSE message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the eNB to WT. This
measurement is split to subcounter per failure cause (see clause 9.2.4 of TS
36.463 [3]).
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
11) Number of eNB initiated WT releases
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the WT
RELEASE REQUEST message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the eNB to WT.
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
12) Number of WT initiated WT releases
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the WT
RELEASE REQUIRED message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the eNB from WT.
The measured object is EP_Xw (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
New performance measurements for WT:
1) Number of attempted WT Configuration Updates
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmissoin of the WT
CONFIGURATION UPDATE message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the WT to eNB.
The measured object is WTFunction.
2) Number of failed WT Configuration Updates
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the WT
CONFIGURATION UPDATE FAILURE message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the WT from eNB,
or in case no reply is received for the corresponding WT CONFIGURATION UPDATE
message. This measurement is split to subcounter per failure cause (see clause
9.2.4 of TS 36.463 [3]).
The measured object is WTFunction.
3) Number of WT status requests
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the WT STATUS
REQUEST message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the WT from eNB.
The measured object is WTFunction.
4) Number of WT status failures
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the WT
STATUS FAILURE message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the WT to eNB. This measurement
is split to subcounter per failure cause (see clause 9.2.4 of TS 36.463 [3]).
The measured object is WTFunction.
5) Number of WT addition requests
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the WT
ADDITION REQUEST message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the WT from eNB.
The measured object is WTFunction.
6) Number of WT addition rejections
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the WT
ADDITION REQUEST REJECT message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the WT to eNB. This
measurement is split to subcounter per failure cause (see clause 9.2.4 of TS
36.463 [3]).
The measured object is WTFunction.
7) Number of eNB initiated WT modification requests
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the WT
MODIFICATION REQUEST message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the WT from eNB.
The measured object is WTFunction.
8) Number of rejected eNB initiated WT modifications
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the WT
MODIFICATION REQUEST REJECT message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the WT to eNB. This
measurement is split to subcounter per failure cause (see clause 9.2.4 of TS
36.463 [3]).
The measured object is WTFunction.
9) Number of WT initiated WT modification requests
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the WT
MODIFICATION REQUIRED message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the WT to eNB.
The measured object is WTFunction.
10) Number of refused WT initiated WT modifications
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the WT
MODIFICATION REFUSE message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the WT from eNB, or in case
no reply is received for the corresponding WT MODIFICATION REQUIRED. This
measurement is split to subcounter per failure cause (see clause 9.2.4 of TS
36.463 [3]).
The measured object is WTFunction.
11) Number of eNB initiated WT releases
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the WT
RELEASE REQUEST message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the WT from eNB.
The measured object is WTFunction.
12) Number of WT initiated WT releases
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the WT
RELEASE REQUIRED message (see TS 36.463 [3]) by the WT to eNB.
The measured object is WTFunction.
### 7.2.4 Potential solutions for monitoring of user data transmission via
WLAN for LWIP
#### 7.2.4.1 General
This subclause provides the potential solutions for the use case on
\"Monitoring of user data transmission via WLAN for LWIP\" as described in
clause 5.2.2.1 and the corresponding requirement **REQ-PM_LWIP_CON-1** as
documented in clause 6.2.2.
#### 7.2.4.2 Potential new performance measurements
The following performance measurements are to be defined in TS 32.425 [9].
New performance measurements for eNB:
1) Number of octets of DL LWIPEP PDUs
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission of the DL
LWIPEP PDUs by the eNB. The measurement is split into subcounters per WLAN.
The measured object is ENBFunction.
2) Number of octets of UL LWIPEP PDUs
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the UL LWIPEP
PDUs by the eNB. The measurement is split into subcounters per WLAN.
The measured object is ENBFunction.
3) Mean number of UEs associated with WLAN for LWIP
This measurement is a SI counter, and is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined
interval, the number of UEs whose WLAN status is \"successfulAssociation\" in
the _WLANConnectionStatusReport_ message (see TS 36.331 [6]) received by the
eNB and then taking the arithmetic mean.
The measured object is ENBFunction.
4) Number of UEs with DL LWIPEP PDUs
This measurement is a CC counter, and is incremented by 1 when the DL LWIPEP
PDUs are transmitted by the eNB for a UE which has not been counted in the
collection period. The measurement is split into subcounters per WLAN.
The measured object is ENBFunction.
5) Number of UEs with UL LWIPEP PDUs
This measurement is a CC counter, and is incremented by 1 when the UL LWAAP
PDUs are received by the eNB for a UE which has not been counted in the
collection period. The measurement is split into subcounters per WLAN.
The measured object is ENBFunction.
### 7.2.5 Potential solutions for monitoring of RRC procedures for LWA and
LWIP
#### 7.2.5.1 General
This subclause provides the potential solutions for the use case on
\"Monitoring of RRC procedures for LWA\" as described in clause 5.1.2.3 and
the corresponding requirement **PM_LWA_CON-1** as documented in clause 6.1.2,
and the use case on \"Monitoring of RRC procedures for LWIP\" as described in
clause 5.2.2.2 and the corresponding requirement **REQ-PM_LWIP_CON-2** as
documented in clause 6.2.2.
#### 7.2.5.2 Potential new performance measurements
The following performance measurements are to be defined for eNB in TS 32.425
[9].
New performance measurements that are common for LWA and LWIP:
1) Number of WLAN status reports
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt of the
_WLANConnectionStatusReport_ message (see TS 36.331 [6]) by the eNB from UE.
This measurement is split into subcounters per the WLAN status (i.e.,
successfulAssociation, failureWlanRadioLink, failureWlanUnavailable,
failureTimeout, suspended, resumed) in the received
_WLANConnectionStatusReport_ message.
The measured object is WLANMobilitySet (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
New performance measurements for LWA:
1) Number of attempted WLAN additions to the LWA WLAN mobility set
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission by the eNB
of _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _wlan-ToAddList_
in the _lwa-MobilityConfig_ of _lwa-Configuration_ information element (see TS
36.331 [6]).
The measured object is WLANMobilitySet (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
2) Number of successful WLAN additions to the LWA WLAN mobility set
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt by the eNB of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message corresponding to transmitted
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _wlan-ToAddList_ in
the _lwa-MobilityConfig_ of _lwa-Configuration_ information element (see TS
36.331 [6]).
The measured object is WLANMobilitySet (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
3) Number of attempted WLAN releases from the LWA WLAN mobility set
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission by the eNB
of _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _wlan-
ToReleaseList_ in the _lwa-MobilityConfig_ of _lwa-Configuration_ information
element (see TS 36.331 [6]).
The measured object is WLANMobilitySet (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
4) Number of successful WLAN releases from the LWA WLAN mobility set
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt by the eNB of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message corresponding to transmitted
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _wlan-ToReleaseList_
in the _lwa-MobilityConfig_ of _lwa-Configuration_ information element (see TS
36.331 [6]).
The measured object is WLANMobilitySet (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
5) Number of attempted additions of LWA DRB
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission by the eNB
of _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _drb-
ToAddModList_ in the _radioResourceConfigDedicated_ information element, and
the _drb-ToAddModList_ contains at least one _drb-Identity_ that is not part
of the current UE configuration and the _drb-TypeLWA_ of this DRB set to
_TRUE_ (see TS 36.331 [6]).
The measured object is ENBFunction.
6) Number of successful additions of LWA DRB
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt by the eNB of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message (see TS 36.331 [6])
corresponding to transmitted _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which
triggered the measurement \"Number of attempted additions of LWA DRB\".
The measured object is ENBFunction.
7) Number of attempted reconfigurations of LTE DRB to LWA DRB
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission by the eNB
of _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _drb-
ToAddModList_ in the _radioResourceConfigDedicated_ information element, and
the _drb-ToAddModList_ contains at least one _drb-Identity_ that is part of
the current UE configuration but not an LWA DRB and the _drb-TypeLWA_ of this
DRB set to _TRUE_ (see TS 36.331 [6]).
The measured object is ENBFunction.
8) Number of successful reconfigurations of LTE DRB to LWA DRB
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt by the eNB of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message (see TS 36.331 [6])
corresponding to transmitted _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which
triggered the measurement \"Number of attempted reconfigurations of LTE DRB to
LWA DRB\".
The measured object is ENBFunction.
9) Number of attempted reconfigurations of LWA DRB
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission by the eNB
of _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _drb-
ToAddModList_ in the _radioResourceConfigDedicated_ information element, and
the _drb-ToAddModList_ contains at least one _drb-Identity_ that is an LWA DRB
of the current UE configuration and the _drb-TypeLWA_ of this DRB set to
_TRUE_ (see TS 36.331 [6]).
The measured object is ENBFunction.
10) Number of successful reconfigurations of LWA DRB
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt by the eNB of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message (see TS 36.331 [6])
corresponding to transmitted _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which
triggered the measurement \"Number of attempted reconfigurations of LWA DRB\".
The measured object is ENBFunction.
New performance measurements for LWIP:
1) Number of attempted WLAN additions to the LWIP WLAN mobility set
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission by the eNB
of _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _wlan-ToAddList_
in the _lwip-MobilityConfig_ of _lwip-Configuration_ information element (see
TS 36.331 [6]).
The measured object is WLANMobilitySet (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
2) Number of successful WLAN additions to the LWIP WLAN mobility set
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt by the eNB of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message corresponding to transmitted
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _wlan-ToAddList_ in
the _lwip-MobilityConfig_ of _lwip-Configuration_ information element (see TS
36.331 [6]).
The measured object is WLANMobilitySet (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
3) Number of attempted WLAN releases from the LWIP WLAN mobility set
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission by the eNB
of _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _wlan-
ToReleaseList_ in the _lwip-MobilityConfig_ of _lwip-Configuration_
information element (see TS 36.331 [6]).
The measured object is WLANMobilitySet (contained by the IOC ENBFunction).
4) Number of successful WLAN releases from the LWIP WLAN mobility set
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt by the eNB of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message corresponding to transmitted
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _wlan-ToReleaseList_
in the _lwip-MobilityConfig_ of _lwip-Configuration_ information element (see
TS 36.331 [6]).
The measured object is WLANMobilitySet (contained by the IOC ENBFunction)
5) Number of attempted additions of LWIP DRB
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission by the eNB
of _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _drb-
ToAddModList_ in the _radioResourceConfigDedicated_ information element, and
the _drb-ToAddModList_ contains at least one _drb-Identity_ that is not part
of the current UE configuration and the _drb-TypeLWIP_ of this DRB is included
and not set to _\"eutran\"_ (see TS 36.331 [6]).
The measured object is ENBFunction.
6) Number of successful additions of LWIP DRB
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt by the eNB of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message (see TS 36.331 [6])
corresponding to transmitted _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which
triggered the measurement \"Number of attempted additions of LWIP DRB\".
The measured object is ENBFunction.
7) Number of attempted reconfigurations of LTE DRB to LWIP DRB
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission by the eNB
of _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _drb-
ToAddModList_ in the _radioResourceConfigDedicated_ information element, and
the _drb-ToAddModList_ contains at least one _drb-Identity_ that it an LTE DRB
of the current UE configuration and the _drb-TypeLWIP_ of this DRB is included
and not set to _\"eutran\"_ (see TS 36.331 [6]).
The measured object is ENBFunction.
8) Number of successful reconfigurations of LTE DRB to LWIP DRB
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt by the eNB of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message (see TS 36.331 [6])
corresponding to transmitted _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which
triggered the measurement \"Number of attempted reconfigurations of LTE DRB to
LWIP DRB\".
The measured object is ENBFunction.
9) Number of attempted reconfigurations of LWIP DRB
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on transmission by the eNB
of _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which includes the _drb-
ToAddModList_ in the _radioResourceConfigDedicated_ information element, and
the _drb-ToAddModList_ contains at least one _drb-Identity_ that is an LWIP
DRB of the current UE configuration and the _drb-TypeLWIP_ of this DRB is
included and not set to _\"eutran\"_ (see TS 36.331 [6]).
The measured object is ENBFunction.
10) Number of successful reconfigurations of LWIP DRB
This measurement is a CC counter, and is triggered on receipt by the eNB of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message (see TS 36.331 [6])
corresponding to transmitted _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message which
triggered the measurement \"Number of attempted reconfigurations of LWIP
DRB\".
The measured object is ENBFunction.
## 7.3 Potential solutions for Fault Management of LWA and LWIP
This subclause provides the potential solutions for the use case on \"Alarm
monitoring for non-collocated LWA\" as described in clause 5.1.3.1 and the
corresponding requirements **REQ-FM_NonCo_LWA_CON-1** as documented in clause
6.1.3, and the use case on \"Alarm monitoring for LWIP\" as described in
clause 5.2.3.1 and the corresponding requirements **REQ-FM_LWIP_CON-1** as
documented in clause 6.2.3.
The Alarm IRP is applicable to manage the alarms for LWA and LWIP with no
changes needed. The fault of LWA and LWIP may be caused by the fault of WLAN
AP, therefore the WLAN alarm notification as described in TS 28.680 [11] can
be used by NM for correlation with the LWA and LWIP related alarms as
described in clause 5.1.3.1 and clause 5.2.3.1.
No further alarm information needs to be defined.
# 8 Conclusions
The study has identified the use cases and requirements on CM, PM and FM of
LWA (including both collocated and non-collocated scenarios) and LWIP, and
provided the potential solutions.
It is concluded that:
> \- the CM of LWA and LWIP requires enhancements to the Generic NRM IRP and
> E-UTRAN NRM IRP;
>
> \- the PM of LWA and LWIP requires new performance measurements to be
> defined for E-UTRAN;
>
> \- the FM of LWA and LWIP can be supported by the existing Alarm IRP and
> WLAN management TS (see 28.680 [11]) without further enhancements, once the
> LWA/LWIP related NRMs are defined.
Normative work is needed to enhance the existing TSs for CM and PM of LWA and
LWIP as above-mentioned.
# 9 Recommendations
It is recommended to start normative work to address the CM and PM of LWA and
LWIP based on the use cases, requirements and potential solutions as outlined
in this TR.
#