# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
There are many benefits to introduce NFV in mobile network, such as resource
sharing and automatic network deployment, efficient network scaling capability
and flexible network optimization and healing. The use of NFV-related policies
can help realize the benefits.
Policy management from the end-to-end mobile service and network function
management perspective will enrich and enhance the automation capability
during the different lifecycle phases (e.g. network deployment, network
updating, network scaling or migration, network termination etc.).
The present document investigates concepts of network policy management of
mobile network based on NFV. It investigates the policy classification,
functional roles and the scenarios for policy application, analyses processes
of the policy management and proposes corresponding solutions. Whether the
existing management solution could be reused or enhanced will also be
investigated.
# 1 Scope
From mobile service and network function management perspective, the present
document studies the end-to-end network policy management for mobile network
based on NFV scenarios:
\- Study the concepts and classification of the policy management for mobile
networks based on the NFV scenarios, analyse and classify the potential policy
management scenarios.
\- Identify the use cases and requirements of policy management for mobile
networks based on the NFV scenario.
\- Study the potential logical roles of the policy management for mobile
networks based on the NFV scenarios.
\- Identify the impacts of logical architecture and the potential requirements
to 3GPP management system. Analyse the existing 3GPP Management reference
model, interfaces, protocols and procedures to determine what can be re-used,
adapted or extended. Propose enhancements or extensions to the 3GPP solutions,
if an impact is foreseen.
\- Identify the impacts to NFV-MANO framework from the 3GPP service
perspective.
\- Provide recommendations to the standardization of policy management for
mobile networks based on the NFV scenario.
The study will focus on the policy solutions which are related to NFV
scenarios and will take into account of the outcome of SA5 existing
specifications and the outcome produced by ETSI. The study will investigate
whether the existing specification can be reused or not.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI GR NFV-IFA 023 (V3.1.1): \"Network Function Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Report on Policy Management in MANO; Release
3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Concepts and Background
## 4.1 Concepts
Policy Administration Function (PAF) defines the network policy.
Policy Storage Entity (PSE) stores the defined network policy.
Policy Function (PF) makes the policy execution decisions.
Policy Verification Function (PVF) evaluates the effectiveness of the network
policy execution.
## 4.2 NFV policy conflict detection and resolution
NFV policy management system may have policy conflict problem, which is a
newly created policy may be conflict with an existing policy.
There are two potential policy conflict detection approaches, one is policy
conflict detection in the PF, and the other one is policy conflict detection
in the PAF (As described in clauses 5.8.8 and 5.8.9 of GR NFV-IFA 023 [2]).
And GR NFV‑IFA 023 [2] also refers to ECA (Event-Condition-Action) model to
explain the UCs and the resolution mechanism.
There are multiple scenarios for policy conflict, for example:
1) If the events are the same and the same condition are triggered (e.g.
scaling policy on a VNF), but two policies have different actions, the
conflict should be detected and resolved.
2) If the event and condition of two policies are not be the same, but the
different actions (e.g. scaling policy vs. termination policy on a VNF) are
towards the same entity. The conflict should be detected and resolved.
3) If scenario 1) or 2) is enforced by different PFs. The conflict should be
detected and resolved.
It is not easier for one PF to resolve all of scenarios of the policy
conflict. Hence, it is reasonable to enable PAF to resolve policy conflict,
while the conflict can be detected by PAF or PF based on different specific
scenarios.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Use cases for network deployment
### 5.1.1 Deploy the network function in specific location
#### 5.1.1.1 Introduction and assumption
According to the network design and deployment location requirement, operator
usually requires some specific type virtualized network function to be
deployed in specific DC (data centre) or central office. Moreover, for some
dedicated network function, which need specific virtualized or hardware
resource capability, operator need select appropriate resource in the data
centre to deploy it.
The assumptions are:
1) The operator has two types\' DCs, core DCs are centralized in some
individual region and edge DCs are distributed in most cities.
2) The operator determines core DC supports the control plane network function
which handles signalling and edge DC supports the media plane or forwarding
plane network function which handles session service and data service.
3) The operator need deploy IMS network and determine CSCF should be deployed
in core DC and SBC should be in edge DC, where the hardware resource should
support the capability of transcoding and encryption and decryption.
#### 5.1.1.2 Actor and roles
1\. PAF creates the IMS deployment policy.
2\. PF executes the IMS deployment policy and can store the policy.
3\. PSE stores the IMS deployment policy. It exists standalone or is embedded
in PF.
4\. PVF evaluates the policy execution.
#### 5.1.1.3 Pre-condition
1\. The operator designs the IMS network deployment requirement and need
deploy the network based on the requirement.
2\. Management systems (i.e. OSS, EMS and NFV-MANO system) are running
normally.
Note: The relation between PAF/PF/PSE and management system is out of scope of
the present document.
#### 5.1.1.4 Description
1\. The operator sets up the IMS network deployment policy through PAF.
\- If exists standalone policy storage entity (PSE), the operator can create
the policy into PSE. The policy is:
\- For the IMS network, CSCF is allowed to be deployed in core DC and SBC is
only allowed to be deployed in edge DC, where the hardware resource should
support the capability of transcoding and encryption and decryption.
Or,
\- If the PSE is embedded in PF, the PAF can create the policy into PF.
2\. The PAF activates the policy and notifies related PF.
3\. The PF follows the policy to design the IMS network then the IMS network
is instantiated by the management system.
Note: Whether and how NSD or VNFD supports the policy is out of scope of the
present document.
4\. The PF informs the PAF the policy has been executed.
5\. The PAF requests PVF to evaluate the effectiveness of the policy execution
if needed.
6\. The PVF evaluates the effectiveness of the policy according to the result
of the policy execution. In this case the effectiveness is CSCF(s) and SBC(s)
in the IMS network are deployed in appropriate DCs and on appropriate hardware
resource.
#### 5.1.1.5 Post-condition
The IMS network is correctly configured and normally running.
### 5.1.2 Deploy the corresponding network functions in different location
#### 5.1.2.1 Introduction and assumption
According to the network design, load balancing, redundancy and restoration
requirement, operator usually requires some virtualized network functions with
same functionality cannot be deployed in the same resource pool, which is
controlled by one VIM, even they cannot be deployed in the same DC.
The assumptions are:
1) The operator determines to deploy one IMS network with 3 load sharing
CSCFs.
2) The operator determines it is not allowed to deploy more than 2 CSCFs in
the same core DC.
#### 5.1.2.2 Actor and roles
1\. PAF creates the IMS deployment policy.
2\. PF executes the IMS deployment policy and can store the policy.
3\. PSE stores the IMS deployment policy. It exists standalone or is embedded
in PF.
4\. PVF evaluates the policy execution.
#### 5.1.2.3 Pre-condition
1\. The operator designs the IMS network deployment requirement and need
deploy the network based on the requirement.
2\. Management systems (i.e. OSS, EMS and NFV-MANO system) are running
normally.
Note: The relation between PAF/PF/PSE and management system is out of scope of
the present document.
#### 5.1.2.4 Description
1\. The operator sets up the IMS network deployment policy through PAF.
\- If exists standalone policy storage entity (PSE), the operator can create
the policy into PSE. The policy is:
\- For the IMS network, each CSCF should be deployed in a standalone core DC.
And it is not allowed to deploy more than 2 CSCFs in the same core DC.
Or,
\- If the PSE is embedded in PF, the PAF can create the policy into PF.
2\. The PAF activates the policy and notifies related PF.
3\. The PF follows the deployment policy to design the IMS network then the
IMS network is instantiated by the management system.
Note : Whether and how NSD or VNFD supports the policy is out of scope of the
present document.
4\. The PF informs the PAF the policy has been executed.
5\. The PAF requests PVF to evaluate the effectiveness of the policy execution
if needed.
6\. The PVF evaluates the effectiveness of the policy according to the result
of the policy execution. In this case the effectiveness is all CSCFs in the
IMS network are deployed in appropriate DCs.
#### 5.1.2.5 Post-condition
The IMS network is correctly configured and normally running.
### 5.1.3 Deploy the network function based on certain location constraints
#### 5.1.3.1 Introduction and assumption
According to the IMS and EPC network design and the requirement of avoiding
media detour which may cause the transport network congestion, operator
usually requires one kind of the network functions should be adjacent to
another kind of the network functions.
The adjacent relationship means the two kinds of network functions, which
interact with each other, should be deployed in the same DC or in the nearby
same type DCs.
For instance:
**Instance1:** For IMS network, the IMS SBC (Session Border Controller) should
be adjacent to EPC SAE GW (Serving-GW/PDN-GW).
When the SAE GW is in the core DC (if it is virtualized) or centralized
central office (if it is non-virtualized), the virtualized SBC should not be
allowed to be deployed in the edge DC (as shown Figure 5.1.3-1) due to the
voice flow detour, when the SAE GW is in the edge DC or remote central office,
the virtualized SBC is better to be deployed in the edge DC (as shown in
Figure 5.1.3-2) to avoid voice flow detour.
Figure 5.1.3-1: Voice flow detour if SBC is not adjacent to SAE GW
Figure 5.1.3-2: No voice flow detour if SBC is adjacent to SAE GW
**Instance2:** For EPC network, there is the similar requirement that the SAE
GW should be adjacent to some content resource (e.g. CDN cache point).
When the CDN cache is in the edge DC, the virtualized SAE GW should not be
allowed to be deployed in the core DC, when the CDN cache is in the core DC,
the virtualized SAE GW is better to be deployed in the core DC.
The assumptions are (for Instance1):
1) The operator has two types\' DCs, core DCs are centralized in some
individual region and edge DCs are distributed in most cities.
2) The operator need deploy IMS network in one region and the EPC network has
already been running.
#### 5.1.3.2 Actor and roles
1\. PAF creates the IMS deployment policy.
2\. PF executes the IMS deployment policy and can store the policy.
3\. PSE stores the IMS deployment policy. It is standalone or is embedded in
PF.
4\. PVF evaluates the policy execution.
#### 5.1.3.3 Pre-condition
1\. The operator designs the IMS network deployment requirement and need
deploy the network based on the requirement.
2\. Management systems (i.e. NM, EM and NFV-MANO system) are running normally.
3\. The PF has the adjacent location information of the data centre(s) and
central office(s).
Editor\'s note: How the PF gets the adjacent location information is out of
scope of the present document.
#### 5.1.3.4 Description
1\. The operator sets up the IMS network deployment policy through PAF.
\- If exists standalone policy storage entity (PSE), the operator can create
the policy into PSE. The policy is:
\- For the IMS network, virtualized SBC should be deployed adjacently to the
SAE GW(S-GW/P-GW) which it interacts with. That is when the SAE GW is in the
core DC (if it is virtualized) or centralized central office (if it is non-
virtualized), the virtualized SBC should not be allowed to be deployed in the
edge DC, when the SAE GW is in the edge DC or remote central office, the
virtualized SBC is better to be deployed in the edge DC.
Or,
\- If the PSE is embedded in PF, the PAF can create the policy into PF.
2\. The PAF delivers the policy to PF and activates the policy if needed.
3\. The PF follows the policy to design the IMS network and determine the
virtualized SBC location after getting the SAE GW location.
4\. The management systems follow the location constraint to design template
(e.g. NSD or VNFD) and instantiate the IMS network.
5\. The PF informs the PAF the policy has been executed.
6\. The PAF requests PVF to evaluate the effectiveness of the policy execution
if needed.
7\. The PVF evaluates the effectiveness of the policy according to the result
of the policy execution. In this case the effectiveness is the virtualized SBC
is deployed adjacently to the running SAE GW.
#### 5.1.3.5 Post-condition
The IMS network is correctly configured and normally running.
# 6 Potential requirements
## 6.1 Requirements for the policy operation
**REQ-POM_PO-CON-1** The PAF should be able to support the capability to
create/query/update/delete/activate/de-activate the network policy.
**REQ-POM_PO-CON-2** The PF should be able to support the capability to
execute the activated network policy.
**REQ-POM_PO-CON-3** The PAF should be able to support the capability to
verify whether the policy is executed correctly.
## 6.2 Requirements for network deployment
**REQ-POM_ND-CON-1** The PF should be able to design the mobile network which
includes the virtualized network function(s) according to the defined network
policy.
**REQ-POM_ND-CON-2** The PF should be able to determine deployment location
and the appropriate virtualized resource of the virtualized network
function(s) according to the defined network policy.
**REQ-POM_ND-CON-3** The PF should be able to determine deployment location of
the virtualized network function based on certain location constraint with
other virtualized or non-virtualized network function(s) according to the
defined network policy.
# 7 Policy management architecture
## 7.1 Overview
The following clauses elaborate the potential NFV policy management
architecture of mobile networks which include virtualized network functions.
All of the functions, entities and the interfaces are logical designed. The
concepts and definitions basically refer to the MANO policy in [2]. The study
will elaborate the differences if there is a gap between this study and MANO
policy [2].
## 7.2 Architecture alternative
According to the concepts of NFV policy, there are four important logical
functions.
1) Policy Administration Function (PAF) provides the services as follows:
\- Allows the operator to define and administrate the network policy
2) Policy Storage Entity (PSE) provides the services as follows:
\- Services for storage/update/query/deletion of the defined network policy
(consumed by PAF)
\- Services for retrieval of the defined network policy (consumed by PF)
3) Policy Function (PF) makes the decision for policy execution and provides
the services as follows:
\- Activating/deactivating the network policy
\- Event subscription/notification of the network policy execution
\- Providing relevant data and parameters during the process of policy
execution (e.g. execution time consuming)
4) Policy Verification Function (PVF) provides the services as follows:
\- Evaluation of the effectiveness of the network policy execution based on
necessary analysis data (e.g. the data derived from the PF and/or the
network).
And the network is composed of non-virtualized NE(s), virtualized network
function(s) and the NFVI resources which the virtualized network function(s)
relies on.
Hence, one option for NFV policy management reference architecture is as
follows. Service-based interfaces are used through Npaf, Npse, Npvf and Npf
interfaces.
Note: N1 interface is used for PVF to get analysis data (e.g. resource
utilization). Whether PVF can get the analysis data from other logical entity
is out of scope of the present document.
Figure 7.2-1: NFV policy management architecture option
Figure 7.2-2: NFV policy management architecture option in reference point
presentation
## 7.3 Mapping of Policy Related Function to MANO functional blocks
### 7.3.1 Overview
The PAF, PF, PVF and the PSE are the abstracted roles applied in high-level
use case description of policy management. In the context of MANO
architecture, the PAF, PF, PVF and the PSE are mapped to MANO functional
blocks in different ways. The subsequent clauses elaborate the cases of PF
mapping in the MANO architecture and summarize the PAF, PVF and PSE mapping.
### 7.3.2 Mapping the PF to the NFVO and the PAF to the OSS/BSS
When the policy is applied for network service LCM operations and
orchestration of resources managed across VIM, the PF may be mapped to the
NFVO and the PAF may be mapped to the OSS/BSS. Those Network Service LCM
operations include but not be limited to: NS instantiation, NS scaling, NS
healing and NS termination, and examples of resource orchestration are (but
not limited to): virtualised resource reservation, and virtualised resource
quota management. The mapping relationship is shown in figure 7.3.2-1. This
mapping is exemplified by the use case in clause 5.
Figure 7.3.2-1: Mapping the PF to the NFVO and the PAF to the OSS/BSS
### 7.3.3 Mapping the PF to the VNFM and the PAF to the NFVO and/or the EM
When the policy is applied for VNF LCM operations, the PF may be mapped to the
VNFM and the PAF may be mapped to the NFVO or the EM. Those VNF LCM operations
include but not are limited to: VNF instantiation, VNF scaling, VNF healing
and VNF termination. The mapping relationship is shown in figure 7.3.3-1.
Figure 7.3.3-1: Mapping the PF to the VNFM and the PAF to the NFVO and/or the
EM
### 7.3.4 Mapping the PF to the VIM and the PAF to the NFVO or VNFM
When the policy is applied for virtualized resource management operations, the
PF may be mapped to the VIM and the PAF may be mapped to the NFVO. The mapping
relationship is shown in figure 7.3.4-1.
The policies applicable for this mapping include: virtualised resource
allocation policy, and virtualised resource reservation policy (only
applicable if the NFVO is the PAF), virtualised resource quota policy (only
applicable if the NFVO is the PAF), and virtualised resource capacity policy
(only applicable if the NFVO is the PAF).
Figure 7.3.4-1: Mapping the PF to the VIM and the PAF to the NFVO
When the policy is applied for virtualized resource management operations, the
PF may be mapped to the VIM and the PAF may also be mapped to the VNFM. The
mapping relationship is shown in figure 7.3.4-2. This case is only applicable
to the virtual resource(s) used by the VNF which the VNFM manages.
Figure 7.3.4-2: Mapping the PF to the VIM and the PAF to the VNFM
### 7.3.5 Summary of PAF mapping
Within MANO, the PAF is mapped to the NFVO. The PAF mapped to the VNFM is only
applicable to the virtual resource used by the VNF which the VNFM manages. The
PAF can also be mapped to OSS/BSS or the EM.
### 7.3.6 PVF Mapping
The PVF may be mapped to NFVO or OSS/BSS.
### 7.3.7 PSE Mapping
The PSE may be mapped to NFVO and VNFM/EM.
# 8 Potential solutions
## 8.1 General procedure of policy operation
1\. The PAF defines and creates the network policy into the PSE for storage.
2\. The PAF delivers the policy to the PF and activates the policy if needed.
3\. The PF executes the policy towards the network when the given condition is
triggered.
4\. The PF notifies the information of policy completion to the PAF or
optionally to the PVF when the policy is executed.
## 8.2 General message flow for policy create
After the PAF decides to create a policy, it will send the create request to
the PF combined with PSE. For the create request, it will include a callback
url for the PF to report the policy conflict information to the PAF.
Figure 8.2-1: policy create message flow
## 8.3 General message flow for policy query
After the PAF decides to query a policy, it will send the query request to the
PF combined with PSE. The PF send back the response with the policy to the
PAF.
Figure 8.3-1: policy query message flow
## 8.4 General message flow for policy active/deactive
After the PAF decides to active, deactive a policy, it will send the
active/deactive request to the PF. For the active request, it will include a
callback url for the PF to report the policy conflict information to the PAF.
Figure 8.4-1: policy active/deactive message flow
## 8.5 General message flow for policy update
After the PAF decides to update a policy, it will send the update request to
the PF. For the update request, it will include a callback url for the PF to
report the policy conflict information to the PAF.
Figure 8.5-1: policy update message flow
## 8.6 General message flow for policy conflict report
When the PF combined with PSE receives a new or updated policy from PAF, it
will check whether current received policy is conflicted with the previous
storage policy. If the conflict is detected, the PF will repost this
information to the PAF.
Figure 8.6-1: policy conflict report message flow
# 9 Conclusions
The present document makes the investigation on the use cases, potential
requirements, management architecture and potential solutions on policy
management for mobile networks based on NFV scenarios. Based on the output of
the study, normative work for policy management is needed in the following
aspects:
\- Management architecture aspect: It is suggested to start the normative work
in R16 and the services-based interface architecture is suggested to be chosen
as the only one architecture.
\- Management functions aspect: four policy management functions including PF,
PAF, PSE and PVF are introduced. The PFs can be mapped to the NFVO. The PAF
can be mapped to the OSS/BSS, NFVO respectively. The PSE can be mapped to NFVO
and EM. The PVF can be mapped to the NFVO or OSS/BSS.
\- Interface aspect: normative work for policy management on Policy create,
deletion, update, query, activation and deactivation and Policy conflict
notification between PAF and PF which are mapped to the OSS/BSS and EM in 3GPP
domain are suggested to be standardized.
#