# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies energy efficiency aspects of 5G networks, at both
network function level and at 3GPP system level. The study covers:
\- energy efficiency KPI definitions, including already existing definitions
from other 3GPP WGs and other SDOs and potentially new ones for 5G networks;
\- measurement methods, including already existing measurement methods from
other 3GPP WGs and other SDOs and potentially new ones for 5G networks;
\- potential solutions to improve energy efficiency of 5G networks;
\- energy efficiency control framework, as a SON-like framework for the
control of energy efficiency of 5G networks.
The study also makes conclusions on the preferred solution(s), and provides
recommendations for them.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI ES 202 706 (V1.4.1) (2014-12): \"Environmental Engineering (EE);
Measurement method for power consumption and energy efficiency of wireless
access network equipment\".
[3] ETSI GS OEU 001 (V2.1.1) (2014-12): \"Operational energy Efficiency for
Users (OEU); Global KPIs for ICT Sites\".
[4] ETSI ES 203 228 (V1.2.1) (2017-04): \"Environmental Engineering (EE);
Assessment of mobile network energy efficiency\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation L.1331 (2017-04): \"Assessment of mobile network
energy efficiency\".
[6] 3GPP TR 38.913: \"Study on Scenarios and Requirements for Next Generation
Access Technologies\".
[7] ETSI ES 203 539 (V0.0.5) (2017-05): \"Equipment Engineering; Measurement
method for Energy efficiency of Network Function Virtualization\".
[8] ETSI ES 202 336-12 (V1.1.1) (2015-06): \"Environmental Engineering (EE);
Monitoring and control interface for infrastructure equipment (power, cooling
and building environment systems used in telecommunication networks); Part 12:
ICT equipment power, energy and environmental parameters monitoring
information model\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture description\".
[10] ETSI ES 203 237 (V1.1.1) (2014-03): \"Environmental Engineering (EE);
Green Abstraction Layer (GAL); Power management capabilities of the future
energy telecommunication fixed network nodes\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration of networks and network
slicing; Performance Management (PM); Stage 1\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.551: \"Management and orchestration of networks and network
slicing; Performance Management (PM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration of networks and network
slicing; NR and NG-RAN performance measurements and assurance data\".
[14] 3GPP TS 28.553: \"Management and orchestration of networks and network
slicing; 5G Core Network (5GC) performance measurements and assurance data\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.304: \"Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and
Environmental (PEE) parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.305: \"Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and
Environmental (PEE) parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 28.306: \"Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and
Environmental (PEE) parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions\".
[18] 3GPP TS 32.500: \"Telecommunication Management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON); Concepts and requirements\".
[19] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration of networks and network
slicing; Concepts, use cases and requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core Network
DM Domain Manager
EAS Energy Aware State
EE Energy Efficiency
EM Element Manager
CP Control Plane
DGU Data Gathering Unit
gNB-CU gNB Central Unit
gNB-DU gNB Distributed Unit
GSI Green Standard Interface
ICT Information and Communication Technology
KPI Key Performance Indicator
MANO Management and Orchestration
MNO Mobile Network Operator
NFV Network Functions Virtualization
PNF Physical Network Function
PUE Power Usage Effectiveness
SDO Standards Development Organization
UP User Plane
VNF Virtualized Network Function
VNFC VNF Component
VS-RMS Vendor-Specific Remote Management Server
XCU XML Control Unit
# 4 EE KPIs and metrics
## 4.1 Introduction
Telecommunication networks energy efficiency KPIs are defined by various SDOs
/ organizations and are of various natures. They can be applied to either:
\- whole networks (i.e. end-to-end), or to
\- sub-networks (e.g. the radio access network), or to
\- single network elements, or to
\- telecommunication sites, which contain network elements and site equipment.
NOTE 1: with the advent of NFV (Network Functions Virtualization), the
definition of EE KPIs for Network Services (NS), Virtualized Network Functions
(VNF) and Virtualized Network Function Components (VNFC) is a new area of
investigation.
NOTE 2: data centers used by network operators are considered in this document
as telecommunication sites.
Moreover, EE KPIs can also be categorized according to the operator's network
life cycle phase they may apply to, e.g.:
\- during the Buy phase, mobile network operators may be willing to compare
network elements from various vendors from an EE standpoint. Some EE KPIs and
measurement methods have been specified for this purpose;
\- during the Design / Build phase, mobile network operators are always faced
to several design options, and may be willing to compare them from an EE
standpoint. This may happen for the whole network, sub-networks and for
telecom sites. For telecom sites, EE KPIs have been specified;
\- during the Run phase, mobile network operators need to assess the energy
efficiency of the live network, as a whole (i.e. end-to-end), or for sub-
networks, or for single network elements or telecom sites. Some EE KPIs and
measurement methods have also been specified for this purpose.
Generally, EE KPIs for network elements are expressed in terms of Data Volume
divided by the Energy Consumption of the considered network elements. In the
case of radio access networks, an EE KPI variant may also be used, expressed
by the Coverage Area divided by the Energy Consumption of the considered
network elements.
## 4.2 Existing EE KPI definitions
### 4.2.1 EE KPIs for Radio Access Networks
#### 4.2.1.1 EE KPI definitions in ETSI ES 202 706 [2]
ETSI ES 202 706 [2] defines methods to evaluate the power consumption and
energy efficiency of base stations in static and dynamic mode respectively.
These methods can be used by:
\- telecom equipment manufacturers in their labs. Measured KPIs are generally
captured in product specification datasheets;
\- mobile network operators, during their Buy phase. MNOs may use such
measurements to compare equipment from different vendors from an EE point of
view. They can also make their own measurements in their own labs in order to
check if they have the same results.
Under static test conditions, the Base Station (BS) average power consumption
is based on measured BS power consumption data when the BS is loaded
artificially in a lab for three different loads (low, medium and busy hour)
under given reference configuration. The power consumption of integrated BS
equipment in static method is defined for three different load levels as
follows:
\- P~BH~ is the power consumption [W] with busy hour load;
\- P~med~ is the power consumption [W] with medium term load;
\- P~low~ is the power consumption [W] with low load.
With this static method, the average power consumption [W] of BS equipment is
defined as:
{width="4.021527777777778in" height="0.6979166666666666in"}
in which t~BH~, t~med~ and t~low~ [hour] are durations of the different load
levels.
Under dynamic test conditions, the BS capacity is measured under dynamic
traffic load provided within a defined coverage area and the corresponding
power consumption is measured for given reference configurations. Dynamicity
of measurements may be achieved thanks to dynamic load, activation /
deactivation of radio network features, various user terminals performance and
distribution.
#### 4.2.1.2 EE KPI definitions in ETSI ES 203 228 [4]
ETSI ES 203 228 [4] defines energy efficiency metrics and measurement
procedures in operational radio access networks. Two high-level EE KPIs are
defined:
{width="1.4270833333333333in" height="0.5208333333333334in"}
, in which Mobile Network data Energy Efficiency (EE~MN,DV~), expressed in
bit/J, is the ratio between the performance indicator (i.e. Data Volume
DV~MN~) and the energy consumption (EC~MN~), and
{width="1.71875in" height="0.5520833333333334in"}
, in which EE~MN,CoA~, expressed in m²/J, is the ratio between the coverage
area (CoA-des~MN~) and the energy consumption EC~MN~.
In addition, ETSI ES 203 228 [4] gives a list of existing 3GPP performance
measurements and network parameters to be used, per radio access technology
(GERAN, UTRAN, E-UTRAN), for the calculation of aforementioned EE Run KPIs.
Finally, ETSI ES 203 228 [4] defines a method to define sub-networks from
which these EE KPIs are calculated and to extrapolate them to the operator's
whole radio access network. Various criteria may be used by MNOs to define
their sub-networks, including demography, topography, climate zones, etc. For
example, if demography is used by a MNO to compose its sub-networks, an
averaged EE KPI per demography class can be obtained as follows:
{width="1.78125in" height="0.5in"}
where \"class\" stands for one of the Demography Classes (Dense Urban, Urban,
Sub-Urban, RUral or Unpopulated), k is an index that runs over the number K of
sub-networks per each class.
Finally, the Total EE may be computed as a weighted sum of all the averages
available, the weights being the percentage of each demography class versus
the sum of the available classes percentages. The total EE KPI for the whole
RAN of the MNO can be computed as follows:
{width="2.96875in" height="0.7041666666666667in"}
where PofP~m~ is the percentage of presence of the m-th demography class in
the network under test, m is an index spanning over the number of classes and
EE~class,av,m~ is the m-th average as computed here above.
ITU-T Recommendation L.1331 [5] was developed jointly by ETSI TC EE and ITU-T
Study Group 5 and published by ITU-T and ETSI as Recommendation ITU-T L.1331
[5] and ETSI ES 203 228 [4] respectively, which are technically equivalent.
#### 4.2.1.3 Network Energy Efficiency quantitative KPI
3GPP TR 38.913 [6] recommends that the following Network Energy Efficiency
quantitative KPI (in bit per Joule) shall be used:
a) to compare different solutions or mechanisms directly related to energy
efficiency, when their impact is not obvious from qualitative analysis. When
qualitative evaluation provide clear conclusions for the comparison of
different network EE solutions and the evaluation of their impact, the
comparison through the proposed quantitative KPI is not required.
b) to compare the final NR system design with LTE to evaluate the overall
improvement brought in terms of network EE
Definition:
{width="2.0833333333333335in" height="0.375in"}
**_b~k~ refers to the weights of every deployment scenario where the network
energy efficiency is evaluated._**
{width="1.78125in" height="0.3958333333333333in"}
**V _~1~_ = Refers to the** traffic per second served by a base station (in
bits/s)
**EC _~1~_= Refers to the_ _power consumed by a base station to serve_ _V_
~1~_** (in Watt = Joule/s).
**a _~1~_ = Refers to the** weight for each traffic load level.
For the calculation of the above KPIs, the following assumptions are made:
\- Energy Efficiency Quantitative KPI should be evaluated by means of system
level simulations at least in 2 deployment scenarios: one coverage limited
environment (ex: Rural) AND one capacity limited environment (ex: Urban);
\- Evaluation should not be for peak hour but based on a 24 hour daily traffic
profile. We recommend that at least 3 load levels should be evaluated.
In 3GPP TR 38.913 [6] clause 6.1, deployment scenarios for eMBB, mMTC, URLLC
and eV2X are described:
\- Indoor hotspot
\- Dense urban
\- Rural
\- Urban macro
\- High speed
\- Extreme long distance coverage in low density areas
\- Urban coverage for massive connection
\- Highway scenario
\- Urban grid for Connect Car
\- Commercial Air to Ground scenario
\- Light aircraft scenario
\- Satellite extension to Terrestrial.
#### 4.2.1.4 Deployment scenario based EE KPIs
3GPP defines the energy efficiency per each deployment scenario i with a load
level of l as follows:
where:
\- _EE~scenario~_ is calculated per deployment scenario: the sum of traffic
load points over the Energy Consumption weighted by _a~i~_ in consideration of
the traffic load per each scenario. The traffic load measurement points with
their corresponding weight for each traffic load point depend on the location
of the system-wide EE control and measurement and network configurations.
\- As an example, the traffic load measurement can be performed over the
reference point between the based station and the core network such as S1 per
those areas covered by each of MME and the corresponding SGW(s) in LTE/EPC and
SGi between the core network and the external public data network for the
total amount of traffic load supported by the EPC.
\- Vl (in Mbps): the aggregated throughput served in the simulated or measured
area for traffic level l, or equivalently served traffic volume divided by the
simulation or measurement period. E.g. per each targeted area or deployment
scenario at a load level l = x%, Vl is calculated as the peak target traffic
throughput multiplied by x%. For example, the Vl with load level of 10% is
calculated to be total network or node capacity multiplied by 0.1
\- ECl (in Watt): sum of the average power consumption of all nodes in the
simulated or the measurement area under the load level l: the weight for load
level l; For example, for RAN Equipment Energy Efficiency testing (ETSI ES 202
706 [2]) three load levels can be taken into account: 10%, 30% and 50%, the
weight can be calculated, based on a daily traffic model, as:
= 6/24 for 10% Load;
= 10/24 for 30% Load;
= 8/24 for 50% Load.
The total energy efficiency for the whole system including all the targeted
scenarios is defined as:
Where:
\- _EE~global~_ is calculated as the sum of the _EE~scenario~_ per each
deployment scenario multiplied by the corresponding weight, _b~i~_ , for each
deployment scenario.
\- _b~i~_ is determined by summing the \"rural/suburban\" weights for the
coverage-limited scenario and the \"urban/dense urban\" weights for the
capacity-limited scenario.
To complement the definition and measurement EE KPI per specific throughput
during the measurement interval, it is also useful to consider the size of the
area covered by a network and the corresponding energy efficiency (ETSI ES 202
706 [2]):
where:
\- coverage area in m² (ETSI ES 203 228 [4] or Sq.km (ETSI ES 202 706 [2])) is
the size of the area covered by the network in deployment scenario _i_.
\- _EC~i~_ in Watt (ETSI ES 202 706 [2]) or J/Y (ETSI ES 203 228 [4]) is the
sum of the average power consumption of all nodes in the simulated or the
measurement area under the scenario _i_.
\- _C~i~_ is the weight to be applied to each of the measured energy
efficiency per each of the network deployment scenario by taking into account
of the size of coverage per the deployment scenario, and the relevance of the
deployment scenario to the total power consumption of a network, e.g. the
percentage of total power consumptions in dense urban versus rural area.
Network load has some key impacts on the achievable energy efficiency. For a
certain coverage area, the network load results from the traffic and
connection densities which drive the user throughput and signalling traffic
and the activated network capacity and performance to meet a set of minimum
QoS requirements. In a real network, network load can vary with the
geographical locations which have their own traffic profiles, e.g. busy hour
periods in a business area are different from those in a residential area.
This \"spatial variation\" of network load may increase the complexity in
calculating and assessing the EE KPI in considerations of network load. For
simplicity, this \"spatial variation\" can be taken into account by deciding
appropriate coefficients as. For \"temporal variations\" of network load which
varies according to the different time of a day, network load can be assumed
uniform, network-wide distribution in a specific time period during which the
energy consumption and EE KPI are monitored and measured. For example, the
following can be used as a guideline in assessing the \"temporal variation\"
of network load in measuring and calculating EE KPI.
\- In 6/24th of the time:
\- traffic density = 10% of max. traffic density, and
\- connection density = 10% of max. connection density, and
\- In 10/24th of the time:
\- traffic density = 30% of max. traffic density, and
\- connection density = 30% of max. connection density, and
\- In 8/24th of the time:
\- traffic density = 50% of max. traffic density, and
\- connection density = 50% of max. connection density.
### 4.2.2 EE KPIs for telecom sites
ETSI GS OEU 001 [3] defines KPIs in relation to energy management for ICT
sites including, but not limited to operator data centres and operator sites.
These KPIs allow having a global vision about the technical environment impact
on energy efficiency thanks to energy data collection, for any telecom site.
ETSI GS OEU 001 [3] addresses the following objectives:
\- energy consumption;
\- task efficiency;
\- energy reuse;
\- renewable energy,
and defines:
\- four KPIs addressing these objectives (Objective KPIs);
\- one Global KPI which combines the four Objective KPIs.
The Objective and Global KPIs defined in ETSI GS OEU 001 [3] apply to ICT
sites, including operators' radio access network sites, of any size from
initial operation to end of life.
One Objective KPI is "Task Efficiency" (KPI~TE~). KPI~TE~ is the ratio of the
electricity consumption of all the components, whatever they are (i.e. all
equipment downstream of the energy sources including, but not limited to:
cooling, lighting, safety, security, power distribution, devices extracting
heat for reusing energy, devices used to extract renewable energy), to that of
the components that manage data, for calculation, storage or transport
purposes (typically base stations).
KPI~TE~ is dimensionless and has the following properties:
\- KPI~TE~ ≥ 1;
\- KPI~TE~ = 1 is an ideal value;
\- a KPI~TE~ of between 2 and 2,5 is frequently reached.
KPI~TE~ is very similar to PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness), defined by the
Green Grid (https://www.thegreengrid.org/), which has emerged as the
recognized standard to measure the energy efficiency of data centers, and is
defined as follows:
{width="1.886111111111111in" height="0.59375in"}
### 4.2.3 EE KPIs for Virtualized Network Functions (VNF)
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
ETSI ES 203 539 [7] defines energy efficiency metrics and measurement methods
for NFV components including VNFs and NFVI. The energy efficiency of VNF is
evaluated according to hardware energy consumption, resource consumption and
utilization related with VNF. The measurement method described in this
document is intended to be used to assess and compare the energy efficiency of
same functional components independently in lab testing and pre-deployment
testing. Energy efficiency of co-located VNFs sharing same platform resources
cannot be compared using the defined method in present document. The scope of
ETSI ES 203 539 [7] is not to define a measurement method in operational NFV
environment.
As shown in figure 2 of ETSI ES 203 539 [7], the NFV paradigm introduces a
need to decompose traditional energy efficiency measurements and measurement
methods.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="2.75in"}
Figure 4.2.3.1.1: EE KPIs for Virtualized Network Functions
#### 4.2.3.2 VNF resource efficiency
The VNF's Resource Efficiency Rating (RER) metric can be defined as:
where:
$U_{i}$is the useful output of VNF under service capacity level _i_. Depending
on the different type of VNFs, it can be throughput (e.g. bps, pps) for data
plane VNF, or capacity (e.g. subscribers, sessions) for control plan VNF.
$\text{VNF}_{\text{RER}_{i}}$is resource efficiency of VNF under service
capacity level _i_.
$\text{VNF}_{\text{RER}}$is weighted resource efficiency of all service
capacity levels.
N is the total number of service capacity levels, and $w_{i}$is the weight
coefficient of level _i_.
The resource consumption of VMs allocated to the VNF under test, under service
capacity level _i_ , is decomposed as follows:
$R_{\text{cpu}}^{}$ is CPU resource consumption, defined as average CPU
utilization multiplied by CPU frequency;
$R_{\text{memory}}^{}$ is memory resource consumption, defined as memory
utilization multiplied by allocated memory;
$R_{\text{storage}}^{}$ is storage resource consumption, defined as the sum of
average throughput of storage read and write;
$R_{\text{network}}^{}$ is network resource consumption, defined as the sum of
average network throughput of bytes sent and received.
ETSI ES 203 539 [7] defines "useful output" as follows:
\"
useful output: maximum capacity of the system under test which is depending on
the different functions.
NOTE: It is expressed as the number of Erlang (Erl), Packets/s (PPS),
Subscribers (Sub), or Simultaneously Attached Users (SAU).
\".
#### 4.2.3.3 VNF energy efficiency
The VNF's Energy Efficiency Rating (EER) metric is defined as:
where:
$U_{i}$is the useful output of VNF under service capacity level _i_. Depending
on the different type of VNFs, it can be throughput (e.g. bps, pps) for data
plane VNF, or capacity(e.g. subscribers, sessions) for control plan VNF.
$P_{i}$is power consumption of NFVI platform introduced by VNF deployed under
service capacity level _i_.
$\text{VNF}_{\text{EER}_{i}}$is energy efficiency of VNF under service
capacity level _i_.
$\text{VNF}_{\text{EER}}$is weighted energy efficiency of all service capacity
levels
N is the total number of service capacity levels, and $w_{i}$is the weight
coefficient of level _i_.
#### 4.2.3.4 NFVI energy efficiency
The NFVI's energy efficiency rating (EER) metric is defined as:
where:
$U_{i,j}$is the useful output of $\text{VNF}_{j}$ under service capacity level
_i_.
$P_{i,j}$is power consumption of NFVI platform with $\text{VNF}_{j}$deployed
under service capacity level _i_.
$\text{NFVI}_{\text{EER}_{\text{VNF}_{j}}}$is energy efficiency of NFVI
platform with $\text{VNF}_{j}$deployed.
$\text{NFVI}_{\text{EER}}$is the aggregation of all energy efficiency of NFVI
platform with different VNFs deployed.
## 4.3 Definition and collection of EE KPIs for 5G networks
Defining EE KPIs for 5G networks introduces new potential issues to be
considered, including:
\- At NG-RAN level:
\- gNB CU-DU split (see 3GPP TS 38.401 [9] -- clause 6.1)
Figure 4.3.1: NG-RAN overall architecture
According to 3GPP TS 38.401 [9] -- clause 6.1:
\- A gNB may consist of a gNB-CU and gNB-DUs.
\- For resiliency, a gNB-DU may be connected to multiple gNB-CUs by
appropriate implementation.
\- Separation of Control and User Plane in the gNB-CU;
The figure 4.3.2 depicts the overall gNB architecture with CU-CP and CU-UP
separation.
{width="3.2493055555555554in" height="2.1770833333333335in"}
Figure 4.3.2: gNB overall architecture with control plane - user plane
separation
There is no justification for defining and calculating an EE KPI at a lowest
granularity than gNB, for a number of reasons, including:
\- for alignment with how EE KPI is defined for GERAN, UTRAN and E-UTRAN,
\- the architecture depicted in figure 4.3.2 is a logical architecture which
may lead to various physical deployment architectures. The EE KPI definition
for gNB should be independent from gNB physical architectures.
Consequently, both Data Volumes and Energy Consumption need to be calculated
at gNB level.
Regarding the measurement method:
\- for Data Volumes:
\- it's is proposed to collect Data Volumes at cell level, as for previous
radio access technologies
\- for Energy Consumption:
\- Energy Consumption of the whole gNB is to be measured. In case of a "all-
in-a-box" gNB, the method for measuring and collecting EC can be as defined in
ETSI ES 202 336-12 [8]. In case of a gNB distributed on different sites, EC
measurements need to be made and collected for each sub-part of the gNB;
\- at 5GC level:
\- Separation of Control and User Plane: EE KPI can be defined either per type
of NGC functions (e.g. one EE KPI for 5GC Control Plane functions, one other
EE KPI for 5GC User Plane functions), or globally at 5GC level.
\- at both NG-RAN and 5GC level:
\- Some network functions pertaining to either NG-RAN or to 5GC may be
virtualized, e.g. gNB-CU CP and/or 5GC CP network functions. Though measuring
Data Volumes for Virtualized Network Functions (VNF) can use the same methods
as for legacy equipment (PNF), measuring Energy Consumption of VNFs may
require a new measurement method; the Energy Consumption of a VNF is the part
of the Energy Consumption of the server (in the data centre) related to the
virtual resources used by the subject VNF,
\- Due to the separation of Control and User Plane in both NG-RAN and 5GC, the
relevance of defining an EE KPI for Control Plane functions, based on Data
Volumes (divided by Energy Consumption), may be questioned;
\- at Network Slice level:
\- Communication Service Providers may offer Network Slice as a Service
(NSaaS) to their business customers (cf. 3GPP TS 28.530 [19]). CSPs' NSaaS
offer catalog may then contain various types of NSaaSs characterized by
certain features, among which Energy Efficiency may be one of them. NSaaS
customers may have EE related requirements when ordering their Network Slice
(Instance) to CSPs. Once their Network Slice Instance(s) is in operation,
CSPs' NSaaS customers may also be willing to receive EE KPIs for those Network
Slice Instance(s) to assess if the delivered Network Slice Instance(s) meets
their requirements. Therefore, CSPs need to be ready to provide their NSaaS
customers with Network Slice EE KPIs.
\- Due to that Network Functions may be shared amongst network slice subnet
instances, network slice subnet instances may be shared among network slice
instances and that network slice instances may be shared among CSPs'
customers, defining and collecting EE KPI per CSPs' customer and/or per
network slice and/or per network slice subnet would certainly be complex.
# 5 Measurement methods
## 5.1 Existing measurement methods
Existing measurement methods for the calculation of EE KPIs for mobile
networks (cf. ETSI ES 203 228 [4], ETSI ES 202 706 [2] and 3GPP TR 21.866 [7])
are based on the collection, on a per network node basis, of:
\- Data Volume measurements, and
\- Energy Consumption measurements.
In some deployment scenarios of radio access networks, Coverage Area
measurements may be used instead of Data Volume measurements.
Data Volume measurements are collected via OA&M, as performance measurements,
e.g. as recommended in ETSI ES 203 228 [4] for radio access networks.
Energy Consumption information can be collected:
\- using power meters or information from invoices provided by power
suppliers,
\- via built-in sensors, e.g. in case base stations (cf. ETSI ES 202 336-12
[8]), enabling the collection of energy consumption measurements via OA&M,
\- via external sensors and XCU/DGU, as specified in ETSI ES 202 336-12 [8].
The methodology may vary depending on whether the measurements are made in
live networks or in testing laboratories.
\- In laboratories, ETSI ES 202 706 [2] defines a two level assessment method
to be used to both evaluate power consumption and energy efficiency of base
stations. The two levels are:
\- Base station equipment average power consumption for which it defines
reference base station equipment configurations and reference load levels to
be used when measuring base station power consumption,
\- Base station equipment energy efficiency, defined as the measured capacity
for a defined coverage area, divided by the simultaneously measured energy
consumption;
\- In live networks, ETSI ES 203 228 [4] recommends to split the total mobile
network operator network into a small number of networks with limited size
(\"sub-networks\"). These sub-networks are defined to represent some specific
characteristics, for example:
\- capacity limited networks representing urban and dense urban networks,
\- sub-urban networks with high requirements for coverage and capacity,
\- rural networks, which are usually coverage limited.
The size and scale of the sub-networks are defined by topologic, geographic or
demographic boundaries.
The measurement method defined in ETSI ES 203 228 [4] for sub-networks
provides the basis to estimate energy efficiency for large networks of one
mobile network operator or within an entire country, applying extrapolation
methods.
## 5.2 Potential measurement methods for 5G networks
The calculation of an EE KPI will rely on the collection of related
measurement data of two types:
\- Data volumes:
\- the collection method of data volumes for 5G network elements / functions
will be specified in TS 28.550 [11] for stage 1, and in TS 28.551 [12] for
stage 2 and stage 3,
\- the measurements (e.g. counters) will be defined in TS 28.552 [13] for the
5G radio access network, and in TS 28.553 [14] for the 5G core network;
Note: alternatively to data volumes, other metrics could be envisaged, in
particular for control plane network elements / functions, e.g. number of
sessions, number of users, etc.
\- Energy consumption:
\- for non-virtualized parts of base stations, regardless of whether these
base stations are equipped with built-in or external sensors, their energy
consumption can potentially be collected via XCU/DGU and/or VS-RMS and/or
their EM/DM (see Note 2), as specified in TS 28.304 [15], TS 28.305 [16] and
TS 28.306 [17]. This potentially applies to non-virtualized core network
elements as well;
\- for virtualized parts of base stations, the energy consumption of the
Virtualized Network Functions (VNFs) is the energy consumption of the
server(s) on which the VNF(s) run, minus the energy consumption of the subject
servers when they are in idle mode (cf. P~idle~ on figure 6.1). When multiple
VNFs run simultaneously on a given server, how to measure their respective
part in the overall energy consumption of the server is not specified. This
potentially applies to virtualized core network functions as well.
NOTE 1: The measurement method described in ETSI ES 203 539 [7] is intended to
be used to assess and compare the energy efficiency of VNFs in lab testing and
pre-deployment testing; it aims not to define measurement method in
operational NFV environment. In particular, it does not specify how the energy
consumption of each server is measured individually in an operational
environment.
NOTE 2: EM/DM is a component of the legacy 3GPP management architecture up to
and including Rel-14. In the context of Rel-15, a service-based management
architecture is being specified, in which EM/DM no longer appears.
# 6 Potential mechanisms to improve energy efficiency
Improving energy efficiency of mobile networks can be studied at various
levels:
\- network element / network function level
\- sub-network level
\- whole network level.
At network element / network function level, studies (cf. [A]) have shown
that:
1\. the power consumption of a server is the combination of the static power
consumption (cf. P~idle~ at zero CPU utilization) and a dynamic load-dependent
power consumption that increases linearly;
2\. the maximum power consumption (P~busy~) of the server is reached when CPU
utilization is 100%;
3\. P~idle~ is a large fraction of P~busy~ (about 50% in the figure below);
4\. P~idle~ equal to zero is not reached.
{width="4.575in" height="3.2333333333333334in"}
Figure 6.1: Power consumption of a server
In 5G networks, network functions virtualization is likely to be widely
adopted, e.g. in NGC and the CU part of NR. The power consumption of Network
Function Virtualization Infrastructure (NFVI) servers supporting virtualized
network functions which are part of NGC or the CU part of NR will vary as
shown in figure 6.1.
The power consumption of Physical Network Functions (PNF) will also vary as
shown in figure 6.1.
As seen in clause 4, EE KPIs for base stations are defined by traffic over
power consumption. Studies made on the power consumption of base stations (see
e.g. [B]) have shown results which are comparable with those depicted by
figure 6.1.
Figure 6.2 shows measurement results for a UMTS base station, in terms of
power consumption (in Watts) over traffic (in Mega Bytes).
{width="4.572222222222222in" height="3.6777777777777776in"}
Figure 6.2: Power consumption of a UMTS Base Station
The power consumption of base stations varies according to (signalling and
user plane) traffic load (which varies during the day / night) and depends on
the radio access technology being used.
Based on this, energy efficiency of 5G base stations and other network
elements / network functions may potentially be improved:
\- By reducing as much as possible signalling traffic load on a base station
serving no user;
\- By deploying mechanisms enabling to tend towards zero power consumption at
zero load (i.e. either zero CPU utilization or zero traffic load).
As shown by figure 6.1, P~idle~, i.e. the power consumption of a server when
its CPU load is null, is a large portion of P~max~, the power consumption of
the server when CPU load is 100%. Based on this observation, and extrapolating
it to the Network Function level of a 5G network, either PNF or VNF, smart
mechanisms enabling to reduce P~idle~ of Network Functions are expected,
possibly through introducing some standby modes in Network Functions when
their load is zero.
ETSI ES ES 203 237 [10] -- clause 6 - introduces Energy Aware States, modelled
as pairs of \"Primitive sub-States\" (PsSes) related to the configuration of
Power Scaling and Standby mechanisms.
EAS = {P~j~, S~k~} with 0 ≤ j ≤ J and 0 ≤ k ≤ K
where:
\- S~k~ represents the k-th Primitive sub-State (PsS) related to the Standby
techniques:
\- S~0~ shall be the active state,
\- in S~k~, with k > 0, the entity is sleeping,
\- in S~K~, the device is completely off;
\- P~j~ represents the j-th Primitive sub-State (PsS) related to the Power
Scaling techniques:
\- P~0~ shall be the Power Scaling sub-state (P-PsS) for the highest network
device performance (it also consumes the highest power),
\- with j > 0, P~j~ shall be the Power Scaling sub-state (P-PsS) for the
intermediate level where the entity is in reduced performance while still
being active.
{width="4.665972222222222in" height="2.957638888888889in"}
Figure 6.3: ETSI GAL Energy Aware States
Given the exclusive use of power scaling and standby capabilities, the J Power
Scaling sub-State (P-PsSes) can be adopted only when the entity is active
while the K Standby sub-State (S-PsSes) only when the entity is in standby
mode.
In this way, when an entity provides internal automatic mechanisms for
changing the operating mode (active or standby), the EAS P-PsS component
represents the power scaling configuration used during the active mode, while
the S-PsS component represents the standby configuration used during the
standby mode.
The support of Energy Aware States in 5G Network Functions (PNFs and VNFs) in
NG-RAT and NGC will be implementation-dependent. Therefore, it is important,
from an operator's perspective, to be able to discover Energy Aware States, if
any, supported by the various Network Functions which compose its multi-vendor
5G network. ETSI ES 203 237 [10] -- clause 5 -- defines the Green Standard
Interface (GSI), providing a set of commands to setup the power management and
monitoring of energy-aware resources, which may include 5G Network Functions.
The main functionalities offered by the GSI interface are:
\- Discovery: used to retrieve information such as e.g. available power states
and individually manageable components within the entity;
\- Provisioning: allows the configuration of an entity into a certain power
state;
\- Monitoring: permits to monitor relevant parameters, incl. power states,
etc.
\- Etc.
In order for a network operator to be able to discover, control and monitor
the Energy Aware States supported by its 5G Network Functions end-to-end, it
would be useful if the GSI functionalities are made available to the NM layer
via standardized management interfaces. Depending on use cases, the
"provisioning" functionalities can be located at various layers.
In the context of Virtualized Network Functions, MANO functional blocks need
to be involved.
# 7 EE control framework
## 7.1 General EE control framework
Figure 7.1.1 describes a general framework for EE control.
Figure 7.1.1: General framework for EE control
The key functions in self-managed automated energy efficiency control
processes should include:
\- **EE Policy Management:** defines and manages the energy efficiency control
policies related to the energy consumption status and control operations at
the network, equipment and site levels. It translates the policy information
into configurations at the EE optimisation entities at network, equipment and
site levels, where applicable. The policy may be adjusted according to
achievable EE KPI and the variations of QoS/QoE.
\- **EE Control and Coordination:** the energy efficiency control is designed
to be a self-managed and automated process to control and coordinate the power
saving operations across all the relevant elements at a network, equipment and
site levels.
The operating conditions such as traffic load and density at the network and
equipment levels and operational conditions such as temperature and humidity
at the site level are monitored and reported. According to the energy
efficiency control policy and the current status, energy efficiency control
operations are activated/deactivated in each of the EE optimisation entities.
The embedded energy metering function in each EE optimisation entity collects
the necessary statistics such as EE KPI and QoS/QoE and then report the
information to the EE Profiles Management. The energy efficiency optimisation
entity can be a logical or physical component to execute the EE policies and
the corresponding energy consumption optimisation operations.
\- **EE Profiles Management:** monitors, collects, processes, stores and
provides EE related information and statistics including the profiles for
traffic, operating conditions, the corresponding achievable EE KPI, the
variations of QoS/QoE in reference to the pre-fined QoS/QoE requirements from
the embedded energy metering functions in each of the EE optimisation
entities. The information is assessed and then sent to the EE Control and
Coordination for adjusting the power saving control operations and possible
policy adjustment by the EE Policy Control.
## 7.2 Potential architectural options
TS 32.500 [18] clause 3.1 describes, based on 3GPP legacy management
architecture, various potential architecture options for SON:
\- Centralised SON: SON solution where SON algorithms are executed in the OAM
system. Centralised SON has two variants:
\- NM-Centralised SON: SON solution where SON algorithms are executed at the
Network Management level.
\- EM-Centralised SON: SON solution where SON algorithms are executed at the
Element Management level.
\- Distributed SON: SON solution where SON algorithms are executed at the
Network Element level.
\- Hybrid SON: SON solution where SON algorithms are executed at two or more
of the following levels: NE or EM or NM.
Following this classification, various possible mappings of the EE control
framework depicted in clause 7.1 are described in sub-clauses below, given
that:
\- due to that there is not yet a standardized policy management framework for
the management and orchestration of 3GPP networks, the EE Policy Management
functional block of figure 7.1.1 cannot be represented in the following sub-
clauses;
\- the EE Profiles Management can be split into two sub-parts:
\- one is the network data collector which collects relevant EE related
information from the network. Such functionality is generally together with
the EE optimization entity;
\- another one is the traffic profile management function which enables the
operator to define traffic profiles, define EE KPIs per traffic profile and
assess EE related data collected from the network with regard to traffic
profiles. This functionality is out of scope of the present study.
### 7.2.1 NM-Centralised architecture
In this architecture, the multi-vendor EE optimization entity and EE control
and coordination are at NM level.
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="3.373611111111111in"}
Figure 7.2.1.1: NM-centralised architecture
### 7.2.2 EM-Centralised architecture
In this architecture, the vendor-specific EE optimization entity and EE
control and coordination are at EM/DM-level. NM provides multi-vendor EE
control and coordination functionalities.
{width="4.7243055555555555in" height="2.890972222222222in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1: EM-centralised architecture
### 7.2.3 Distributed architecture
In this architecture, the EE optimization entity is at VNF / PNF level. DM and
NM provide EE control and coordination functionalities. DM provides vendor-
specific EE control and coordination functionalities, whereas NM provides
multi-vendor EE control and coordination functionalities.
{width="4.7243055555555555in" height="2.854861111111111in"}
Figure 7.2.3.1: Distributed architecture
Note: architecture options depicted in clauses 7.2.1, 7.2.2 and 7.2.3 are
based on 3GPP legacy management architecture. From Rel-15 onwards, a service-
based architecture will replace the legacy one.
# 8 Use cases
## 8.1 Energy efficiency assessment
### 8.1.1 Creation of measurement job for collecting 5G NF EE measurement data
This use case is about enabling an authorized consumer to create one or more
measurement job(s) for collecting performance data on 5G network function(s).
For more information, see use case \"Creation of measurement job for 3GPP NF\"
in 3GPP TS 28.550 [13] - clause 5.1.1.1.1.
It can be:
\- one single measurement job for collecting the EE KPI of 5G NF(s);
\- one single measurement job for collecting both data volume and power,
energy and environmental parameters of 5G NF(s);
\- separate measurement jobs for collecting separately data volume and power,
energy and environmental parameters of 5G NF(s).
### 8.1.2 5G NF EE measurement data file reporting
This use case is about enabling authorized consumer(s) to get energy
efficiency measurement data file(s) of 5G network function(s).
For more information, see use case \"3GPP NF performance data file reporting\"
in 3GPP TS 28.550 [13] - clause 5.1.1.2.1.
### 8.1.3 5G NF EE measurement data streaming
This use case is about enabling authorized consumer(s) to get streamed energy
efficiency measurement data of 5G network function(s).
For more information, see use case \"3GPP NF performance data streaming\" in
3GPP TS 28.550 [13] - clause 5.1.1.3.1.
## 8.2 Energy saving management
Editor's note: this is FFS.
# 9 Potential requirements
## 9.1 Energy efficiency assessment
### 9.1.1 Potential requirements for the creation of measurement job for
collecting 5G NF EE measurement data
Requirements from TS 28.550 [13] -- clause 5.2.1 apply.
### 9.1.2 Potential requirements for 5G NF EE measurement data file reporting
Requirements from TS 28.550 [13] -- clause 5.2.2 apply.
### 9.1.3 Potential requirements for 5G NF EE measurement data streaming
Requirements from TS 28.550 [13] -- clause 5.2.3 apply.
## 9.2 Energy saving management
Editor's note: this is FFS.
# 10 Conclusion
# 11 Recommendations
###### ### Annex \: Bibliography
[A] Power Provisioning for a Warehouse-sized Computer, X. Fan, W-D. Weber, L.
A. Barroso, Google Inc., 34th annual international symposium on Computer
architecture, 2007
[B] Real Time Traffic Base Station Power Consumption Model for Telcos in
Ghana, J. D. Gadze, S. B. Aboagye, K.A.P. Agyekum, International Journal of
Computer Science and Telecommunications [Volume 7, Issue 5, July 2016]
#