# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 2 description of the Voice Broadcast
Service (VBS) which allows the distribution of speech (or other signals which
can be transmitted via the speech codec), generated by a service subscriber,
into a predefined geographical area to all or a group of service subscribers
located in this area.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[1a] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 42.009(Rel-4): \"Security aspects\".
[3] 3GPP TS 42.069: \"Voice Broadcast Service (VBS); Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 43.020: \"Security related network functions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 43.022: \"Functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in idle mode\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control Protocol\".
[8] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[9] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"Mobile-services Switching Centre - Base Station System
(MSC - BSS) interface layer 3 specification\".
[10] ITU‑T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
[11] 3GPP TS 44.069: \"Broadcast Call Control (BCC) protocol\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services; Stage 1\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[14] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.236: \"Intra-domain connection of Radio Access Network (RAN)
nodes to multiple Core Network (CN) nodes\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.062: \"Inband Tandem Free Operation (TFO) of Speech Codecs;
Service Description; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 42.069 and the following apply:
**Broadcast call attributes:** group call area, dispatcher identities
**Group call anchor MSC:** the MSC responsible for managing and maintaining a
particular voice broadcast call. The group call anchor MSC is determined as
the one controlling the cells of the group call area (see also group call
relay MSC). For a voice broadcast call where the group call area exceeds an
MSC area, the group call anchor MSC is predefined in the network. In a RANflex
configuration with group call redundancy, the group call anchor MSC redundancy
pool (instead of a group call anchor MSC) is predefined in a network for a
given voice broadcast call.
**Group members:** service subscribers entitled to belong to a particular
group classified by a certain group identification (group ID)
**Group Call Register (GCR):** functionality in the network containing the
broadcast call attributes
**group call serving MSC:** In a RANflex configuration the group call serving
MSC of a location area is a group call anchor MSC or a group call relay MSC
that controls the group call signalling for this location area. A location
area within the pool area has a unique group call serving MSC, or - in a
RANflex configuration with group call redundancy \- a unique group call
serving MSC redundancy pool. For a given broadcast call at any location, the
group call serving MSC is either the anchor MSC or one of the relay MSCs
controlling the broadcast call. For a service subscriber located in this
location area the visited MSC may be different from the location area\'s group
call serving MSC.
In a RANflex configuration all location areas within a BSC service area are
assigned to the same group call serving MSC.
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy all location areas
within a BSC service area are assigned to the same group call serving MSC
redundancy pool.
**Group call relay MSC:** the MSC controlling cells of a group call area which
are not under control of the group call anchor MSC for those voice broadcast
services where the group call area exceeds one MSC area. For a voice broadcast
call where the group area exceeds one MSC area, the address of the group call
relay MSC is pre-configured in the anchor MSC\'s GCR. In a RANflex
configuration with group call redundancy this preconfigured address identifies
a group call relay MSC redundancy pool (instead of a group call relay MSC).
**group call serving MSC redundancy pool:** A pool of group call serving MSCs
each of which can take the same role for a given broadcast call (anchor
/relay) and serve the same location areas within a RANflex pool area with
broadcast call services. For a given voice broadcast call a location area\'s
group call serving MSC redundancy pool is either the group call anchor MSC
redundancy pool or one of the group call relay MSC redundancy pools.
**group call anchor MSC redundancy pool:** A group call serving MSC redundancy
pool. Each MSC within the group call anchor MSC redundancy pool can take the
role of the group call anchor MSC for a given broadcast call. For a given
instance of a voice broadcast call one group call anchor MSC is selected from
the group call anchor MSC redundancy pool.
**group call relay MSC redundancy pool:** A group call serving MSC redundancy
pool. Each MSC within the group call relay MSC redundancy pool can take the
role of the group call relay MSC for a given broadcast call. For a given
instance of a voice broadcast call one group call relay MSC is selected from
every relevant group call relay MSC redundancy pool.
**Notification:** notifications are given on common channels or dedicated
channels in order to inform group members which are either in idle mode or in
dedicated mode or participating in a voice group call or broadcast call on the
existence of voice broadcast calls
**Notification CHannel (NCH):** Common control channel on which the
notifications are sent by the network (equivalent to a paging channel).
**Originator-to-dispatcher information:** information sent by the service
subscriber originating a voice broadcast call to the network during call setup
for distribution to the dispatchers to be attached to the voice broadcast call
during call
**RANflex configuration:** A network configuration that allows a location area
to be served by multiple MSCs in parallel. For details see 3GPP TS 23.236
[15]. In a RANflex configuration a given location area is associated with a
single group call serving MSC. There is no support of group call redundancy.
**RANflex configuration with group call redundancy** : A RANflex configuration
where a given location area is associated with a group call serving MSC
redundancy pool (instead of with a single group call serving MSC). For a given
voice broadcast call a location area\'s group call serving MSC redundancy pool
may be a group call anchor MSC redundancy pool or a group call relay MSC
redundancy pool.
**Voice broadcast call member:** any group member or dispatcher participating
in an on going voice broadcast call
**Voice broadcast channel:** downlink to be allocated in each cell of the
group call area for a particular voice broadcast call\ All mobile stations of
the destination subscriber being service subscribers in one cell shall listen
to the common downlink.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 and the following apply:
AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
CC Country Code
EFR Enhanced Full Rate
eMLPP enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption
GCR Group Call Register
NCH Notification Channel
NDC National Destination Code
SN Subscriber Number
VBS Voice Broadcast Service
VGCS Voice Group Call Service
# 4 Main concepts
## 4.1 Group definition
Service subscribers can become group members on a PLMN wide basis to one or
more groups pre-defined in the network by a corresponding group identification
(group ID). The membership enables them to receive voice broadcast calls
associated with that group ID. In addition, certain group members are entitled
by their subscription to initiate voice broadcast calls. Certain dispatchers
connected to external networks also require the capability to initiate or
receive voice broadcast calls.
In addition to subscriber details in the HLR, it is necessary for the mobile
station to be aware of its group membership by storing details on the
SIM/USIM. This is required because it shall respond to notification messages
which include only the group ID (i.e. no IMSI or TMSI details).
Having become a group member, each service subscriber can set to active state
or deactive state the group ID or any one out of his several group IDs on the
SIM/USIM. In active state the subscriber can initiate voice broadcast calls to
that group ID. When in deactive state the subscriber can not make voice
broadcast calls to the group and the mobile station ignores any notification
for that group ID.
If no NCH is defined in the cell, mobiles shall assume VBS service is not
available on that cell.
## 4.2 Broadcast process
### 4.2.1 Broadcast call initiation
#### 4.2.1.1 Normal operation with successful outcome
A group call area can exceed one MSC area. In a RANflex configuration (with or
without group call redundancy) a group call area can be restricted to a single
pool area or can exceed one pool area.
A voice broadcast call shall be initiated by a calling service subscriber by a
related input function, e.g. via MMI, specifying the selected service and the
group ID dialled or by a calling dispatcher by the MSISDN address (see
subclause 9.2). As an option, the request of the calling service subscriber to
set up a voice broadcast call may specify information to be sent as
originator-to-dispatcher information to the network; in this case the
originator-to-dispatcher information is included in the signalling for call
setup from the mobile station to the network. It is the responsibility of the
input function to ensure that the originator-to-dispatcher information has a
correct format (in particular, an allowed length).
The MSC in which the voice broadcast call is initiated obtains the group call
attributes by requesting the Group Call Register (GCR, see clause 5). Without
a RANflex configuration or in a RANflex configuration (with or without group
call redundancy), if visited MSC and group call serving MSC are identical, the
MSC performs a local GCR interrogation.
The local GCR interrogation after call initiation also determines whether the
MSC shall act as anchor- or as relay MSC. If the MSC is not the anchor-MSC
then the call will be \"forwarded\" from the relay to the respective anchor-
MSC (information also delivered by GCR) and further \"call-establishment\" is
done by the anchor-MSC as described in the following.
In a RANflex configuration the VMSC in which a voice broadcast call is
initiated may be different from the group call serving MSC of the voice
broadcast call initiating subscriber\'s location area. In this case the VMSC
derives the identity of the group call serving MSC from the initiating
subscriber\'s LAC and requests the group call anchor MSC address from the
group call serving MSC by means of the SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO MAP service. The
call is then \"forwarded\" from the VMSC to the anchor MSC and further \"call-
establishment\" is done by the anchor MSC as described in the following.
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy the VMSC in which a
voice broadcast call is initiated may not belong to the group call serving MSC
redundancy pool of the voice broadcast call initiating subscriber\'s location
area. In this case the VMSC derives the identity of the group call serving MSC
redundancy pool from the initiating subscriber\'s LAC and requests the group
call anchor MSC redundancy pool address from the group call serving MSC by
means of the SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO MAP service. The call is then \"forwarded\"
from the VMSC to the anchor MSC redundancy pool and further \"call-
establishment\" is done by the selected anchor MSC as described in the
following.
When a calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher initiates a voice
broadcast call, one voice broadcast channel shall be established in each cell
of the group call area and notifications for that call shall be sent in each
of these cells. As an alternative, voice broadcast channels may only be
established in cells in reaction to responses received from mobile stations on
the notifications using notification response procedure. At the same time
standard connections to dispatchers in the mobile network or in an external
network shall be established. If originator-to-dispatcher information has been
received in the signalling for call setup from the mobile station to the
network and if the originating MSC supports processing of originator-to-
dispatcher information, this information is transformed into user-to-user
information and sent to the dispatchers as UUS1 when setting up the standard
connections.
The calling service subscriber shall have a dedicated standard
uplink/downlink. All mobile stations of the listening service subscribers in
one cell shall only listen to the same common downlink (voice broadcast
channel).
Only one voice broadcast channel shall be established in each cell for any
given voice broadcast call, although there may be a number of simultaneous
voice broadcast calls within the same cell.
Service subscribers shall be notified on the voice broadcast call in each
cell. These voice broadcast call notification messages shall be broadcast on
the Notification CHannel (NCH).
The notification messages use the group ID rather than individual TMSIs/IMSIs.
If the length of the group ID is less than 8 decimal digits, then the group
call area ID is used in order to enable a resolution in the case of
overlapping group call areas. A service subscriber\'s mobile station needs to
be able to recognize notification messages for those group IDs subscribed to
and presently activated.
The network may also send messages on appropriate voice broadcast channel
FACCHs, in order to notify voice broadcast call members who may participate in
other voice broadcast calls. In addition , also paging information messages
for standard calls may be sent in order to inform voice broadcast call members
on actually paged point‑to‑point calls.
Further the network may provide notification on the voice broadcast call to
service subscribers who have subscribed to the paged group ID and which are in
dedicated mode.
The process of broadcasting messages on NCHs is to be carried out throughout
the call in order to provide the \"late entry\" facility whereby group members
entering the area can join the call.
On receiving notification of a voice broadcast call a voice broadcast call
member\'s mobile station shall adjust to the nominated channel to receive the
broadcast call if this channel was received in the notification message and
receive the information on the downlink. Whilst receiving, the mobile station
shall not transmit on the uplink SACCH. This group receive mode is different
to the normal idle mode or dedicated mode. If no channel description was
provided in the notification message, the mobile station shall establish a
dedicated connection by use of notification response procedure in order to
respond to the notification. The network may then provide the mobile station
with a channel description for the voice broadcast call.
As a further mobile station option, the mobile station may read its paging
subchannel in the current cell while in group receive mode or in group
transmit mode in order to receive paging messages for mobile terminated calls.
#### 4.2.1.2 Exceptional procedures
Completion of links into congested cells where pre-emption did not occur is
required.
If the cell in which the calling service subscriber is located is reset, the
voice broadcast call shall be released.
On receiving details of a voice broadcast call the user may choose to move to
the notified call or the mobile station may automatically move to the notified
call if the new call is of higher priority than the existing call and
automatic acceptance applies for this priority level.
### 4.2.2 On-going broadcast calls
#### 4.2.2.1 Normal operation with successful outcome
Within each voice broadcast call only the voice of the calling service
subscriber or calling dispatcher shall be transmitted on the voice broadcast
downlink channel.
Mobile stations in group receive mode use the group receive mode procedure
(see 3GPP TS 43.022) to \"camp-on\" in a new cell to be able to listen to the
voice broadcast channel. The mobile station may find the voice broadcast
channel details of a new cell on the related NCH.
A network may decide not to establish voice broadcast channels in all cells.
Instead, notifications containing no channel description may be provided. If a
mobile station moves to such a cell, it must establish a dedicated connection
and respond to the notification by use of the notification response procedure
in order to receive the voice broadcast call. The network may then establish a
voice broadcast channel and inform the mobile station on the channel position.
If the uplink reply procedure is applicable for the voice broadcast call, the
network may obtain knowledge on whether mobile stations are listening in a
cell by sending an uplink access request in an uplink free message on the
broadcast call channel downlink. Mobile stations receiving such a request
shall use uplink reply procedure and send uplink access bursts on the
broadcast call channel uplink with the establishment cause \"reply on uplink
access request\". If no uplink access bursts are received by the network, the
network may decide to release the broadcast call channel in that cell and then
provide notifications containing no channel description.
NOTE: Concerning security aspects, whilst authentication and membership
checking of mobile call originators can be carried out, it is not possible to
authenticate service subscribers in group receive mode if they have not before
established a dedicated connection to responded to a notification. No
equivalent of a group \"TMSI\" is provided to protect the \"identity\" of
established voice broadcast calls.
The network may decide to reconfigure an existing voice broadcast call's
physical channel configuration, frequencies and/or hopping sequences as well
as the cell channel description. For the cell in which the broadcast call is
being reconfigured, the network informs any listeners in group receive mode of
the change in VBS channel description by using the VBS reconfiguration
procedure (see 3GPP TS 44.018 [7]). Mobile stations on receipt of the VBS/VGCS
reconfiguration messages shall remain on the existing broadcast channel until
indicated starting time and then apply the new configuration to the VBS call
that the mobile station is currently involved in.
#### 4.2.2.2 Exceptional procedures
If a mobile station in group receive mode indicates a failure due to radio
link time-out, the mobile station shall behave as specified in 3GPP TS 45.008
and go back to idle mode, possibly in another cell, as determined by the cell
re-selection algorithm. If a notification is received for the same cell, the
mobile station shall try to reconnect.
### 4.2.3 Leaving of a broadcast call without termination
A destination subscriber being service subscriber can leave the voice
broadcast call at any point by \"deselecting\" it via an MMI function. Having
deselected the call the mobile station returns to idle mode and \"ignores\"
any further notification messages related to that call.
NOTE: If a service subscriber does not wish to participate in calls to a
particular group ID for long periods of time, the group ID shall be switched
to deactive state by the subscriber.
The service subscriber shall have the capability to reselect the voice
broadcast call. The mobile station shall not ignore notification messages to
that call any more.
The destination dispatcher shall be able to leave a voice broadcast call
without terminating it.
### 4.2.4 Broadcast call termination
A voice broadcast call can be terminated by the calling service subscriber or
the calling dispatcher or an entitled dispatcher who is allowed to terminate a
VBS call.
The call shall be terminated if the calling service subscriber leaves the
group call area (e.g. if he moves into an MSC area where a group call area is
no part of) or when calling dispatcher releases his call leg.
An entitled dispatcher can terminate the call at any time by using a network
defined user operation (e.g. via DTMF).
### 4.2.5 Acknowledgements
The acknowledgement is an application option.
For voice broadcast calls which are identified by an acknowledgement flag
mobile stations which have acknowledgement facilities have to return an
acknowledgement message with a predefined content in a predefined manner.
The acknowledgement shall be sent using an appropriate data service, to a
predefined address or with a predefined short code stored on the SIM/USIM
card. The network may apply geographical routing to a predefined
acknowledgement service centre.
### 4.2.6 Transactions between the mobile station and the network
Mobile stations which are in broadcast receive mode shall not perform any
transactions with the network while adjusted to the voice broadcast channel.
They shall leave the group receive mode and act in a standard way to perform
any transaction if necessary and return to the voice broadcast call
afterwards.
### 4.2.7 Processing of originator-to-dispatcher information
The originating service subscriber may include originator-to-dispatcher
information during call setup. If the originating MSC supports processing of
originator-to-dispatcher information, it transforms the received originator-
to-dispatcher information into UUS1, and sends it:
\- if the originating MSC is not the voice broadcast call anchor MSC: to the
voice broadcast call anchor MSC;
\- if the originating MSC is the voice broadcast call anchor MSC: to the
dispatchers to be attached to the voice broadcast call during call setup of
the connections to these dispatchers.
The anchor MSC receiving UUS1 in a voice broadcast call setup from an
originating relay MSC forwards this UUS1 to the dispatchers to be attached to
the voice broadcast call during call setup of the connections to these
dispatchers.
**Transformation of originator-to-dispatcher information:** Originator-to-
dispatcher information can be compressed or uncompressed.
\- Decompression of compressed originator-to-dispatcher information is
specified in 3GPP TS 44.069.
\- The transformation of uncompressed originator-to-dispatcher information
into UUS1 is the UUS1 containing the same user-user IE as the originator-to-
dispatcher information.
\- The transformation of compressed originator-to-dispatcher information into
UUS1 is the UUS1 resulting from transforming the decompressed originator-to-
dispatcher information into UUS1.
# 5 General architecture
## 5.1 Group Call Register (GCR)
The general architecture of GSM is maintained. In addition, a network function
is required which is used for registration of the broadcast call attributes,
the Group Call Register (GCR).
The GCR function is mainly a database function, holding information about
voice broadcast calls.
NOTE 1: The GCR implementation is not specified. It may be realized e.g. as a
new network node, in a PABX directly attached to an MSC, inside an MSC or as
an HLR. The interface between the GCR function and other functions is not
specified in the GSM technical specifications. As a consequence, the
functional split between MSC and GCR as developed in the present document is
only indicative, and other functional splits can be implemented.
The GCR data for a specific voice broadcast call is set at the creation of the
broadcast call attributes, and can be subsequently modified. No support for
these functions is specified in the GSM technical specifications.
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy GCRs associated to MSCs
belonging to the same redundancy pool need to communicate with each other by
means of SYNC_GCR messages.
Figure 1: Functional architecture with a Group Call Register
NOTE: Figure 1a shows the configuration with only one RANflex MSC pool. Other
configurations with more than one RANflex MSC pool are possible.
Figure 1a: Functional architecture with a Group Call Register in a RANflex
configuration
NOTE: Figure 1b shows the configuration with only one RANflex MSC pool. Other
configurations with more than one RANflex MSC pool are possible.
Figure 1b: Functional architecture with a Group Call Register in a RANflex
configuration with group call redundancy
Dashed lines in figure 1, figure 1a and figure 1b indicate MAP interfaces,
thin solid lines indicate ISUP interfaces, bold solid lines indicate
interfaces without standardized protocol.
Lines in figure 1b ending at an MSC Redundancy Pool actually connect to the
selected MSC within the redundancy pool. For MSC selection see subclause
5.3.1.
The signalling between the entities shown in figure 1, figure 1a and figure
1b, for the two cases of service subscriber and dispatcher originated calls,
shall be as defined in the following.
**Service subscriber originated:** The service Subscriber\'s VMSC shall
perform subscription checking against VLR records. In a RANflex configuration
it shall then derive from the service subscriber\'s current location area the
address of the group call serving MSC which may be different from the VMSC. In
a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy this address identifies a
group call serving MSC redundancy pool.
If one of the following configurations applies:
a) no RANflex configuration;
b) in a RANflex configuration , if the VMSC is the group call serving MSC; or
c) in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy, if the VMSC belongs
to the group call serving MSC redundancy pool,
the VMSC shall consult its GCR to determine the broadcast call attributes
related to its MSC area and whether it is the group call anchor MSC for that
voice broadcast call. If it is not, the GCR shall provide with the broadcast
call reference and the routing information identifying the group call anchor
MSC (the group call anchor MSC redundancy pool in a RANflex configuration with
group call redundancy) to the originating VMSC. The originating MSC shall then
route the voice broadcast call to the anchor MSC.
If one of the following configurations applies:
d) in a RANflex configuration, if the VMSC is not the group call serving MSC;
or
e) in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy, if the VMSC does not
belong to the group call serving MSC redundancy pool,
the VMSC shall consult the group call serving MSC by means of the MAP service
SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO and retrieve the group call anchor MSC address. The
originating VMSC shall then route the voice broadcast call to the anchor MSC
or the anchor MSC pool.
If the initiation of the voice broadcast call had specified originator-to-
dispatcher information and processing of originator‑to‑dispatcher information
is supported by the originating VMSC, the originator-to-dispatcher information
is transformed by the originating VMSC into UUS1 and sent to the anchor MSC or
the anchor MSC pool. If the originating VMSC is the group call anchor MSC (or
belongs to the group call anchor MSC redundancy pool), along with the
broadcast call attributes, the GCR shall provide information on all group call
relay MSCs or group call relay MSC pools to be involved.
The group call anchor MSC shall set up links to all group call relay MSCs or
relay MSC pools. It shall also initiate setup of point-to-point connections to
the dispatchers associated to the voice broadcast call (see subclause
8.1.2.2); if UUS1 information has been received in the signalling for call
setup from the originating VMSC, this UUS1 information is included in the
setup of point-to-point connections to the dispatchers. Each MSC involved in a
voice broadcast call obtains its own broadcast call attributes from the GCR
related to the MSC.
**Dispatcher originated:** In the case of dispatchers calling from an external
network, the call request, in the form of an ISDN number, shall be received at
a GMSC. The number shall be analysed and the call shall be directly routed to
the group call anchor MSC or anchor MSC pool by the GMSC based on the called
identity without requesting an HLR. The group call anchor MSC shall
interrogate the GCR and obtain the broadcast call attributes. If an identical
voice broadcast call is currently in progress, the dispatcher shall be
connected to this call and no new call shall be initiated. When interrogating
the GCR, the identity of the calling dispatcher is compared with the list of
dispatchers which are allowed to initiate the call. If the dispatcher is not
in the list, or an identity is not provided, the network shall reject the
call.
NOTE 2: A dispatcher may be a user of the GSM network in which the VBS service
is provided or may be connected to a PABX which is connected to the MSC
containing the GCR. A dispatcher which is registered in the GCR for a certain
voice broadcast call and which also has a subscription for VBS with the same
group ID as the voice broadcast call for which he is dispatcher shall
deactivate this group ID when he is located in the corresponding group call
area in order to avoid conflicts between paging for the dispatcher and
notifications for the group ID.
## 5.2 Voice broadcast call responsibility
The MSC responsible for the voice broadcast call is the one nominated within
the GCR or the one to which the call is routed from the GMSC in the case of a
dispatcher originated call. This MSC is termed the group call anchor MSC.
If the group call area extends beyond one MSC area then any MSCs controlling
cells in the area outside of the group call anchor MSC are referred to as
group call relay MSCs.
In a RANflex configuration a given location area within the pool area is
served (with group call services) by a single predefined group call serving
MSC which for a specific group call is either anchor or relay MSC.
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy a given location area
within the pool area is served (with broadcast call services) by predefined
group call serving MSCs which form up the location area\'s group call serving
MSC redundancy pool. One MSC shall not belong to more than one group call MSC
redundancy pool. For a specific ongoing broadcast call the group call serving
redundancy pool is either an anchor or a relay redundancy pool.
## 5.3 RANflex configuration with group call redundancy
### 5.3.1 MSC selection in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy, messages routed towards
a group call MSC redundancy pool eventually need to be processed by a selected
MSC out of the redundancy pool. MSC selection is done with appropriate routing
mechanisms at call setup time.
Mixed configurations where e.g. the anchor MSC belongs to an anchor MSC
redundancy pool but the relay MSC does not belong to a Relay MSC redundancy
pool may be considered a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy
where e.g. the relay MSC redundancy pool is formed up by just one relay MSC.
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy the following messages
sent to an MSC do not address an individual MSC but an MSC redundancy pool:
\- IAM (from dispatcher to Anchor MSC);
\- IAM (from VMSC to Anchor MSC);
\- SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO (from VMSC to Group Call Serving MSC); and
\- PREPARE_GROUP_CALL (from Anchor MSC to Relay MSC).
Network routing ensures that these messages are routed to one of the available
(i.e. not out of service) MSCs within the redundancy pool. MSC selection by
network routing can be based e.g. on a predefined prioritization mechanism or
a load distribution mechanism but the exact mechanism is out of scope of this
specification.
Once the message is received by one of the available MSCs, the receiving MSC
shall check whether there is the need to forward the message to another
specific MSC within the redundancy pool (for detailed behaviour of the MSC see
subclauses 11.4, 11.5, and 11.5A). Network routing ensures that the forwarded
message is routed to the specific MSC. Specific MSC routing may be done e.g.
with address prefixes and is out of scope of this specification.
If the message forwarding MSC detects that the specific target MSC is out of
service, it shall handle the request locally and repeat the GCR interrogation
with an override indication.
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy the following messages
sent to an MSC address an individual MSC and not an MSC redundancy pool:
\- IAM (dispatcher originated) when forwarded within the group call anchor MSC
redundancy pool from selected Anchor MSC to the Anchor MSC where the broadcast
call is on-going;
\- IAM (VMSC originated) when forwarded within the group call anchor MSC
redundancy pool from selected Anchor MSC to the Anchor MSC where the broadcast
call is on-going;
\- IAM (from Anchor MSC to Relay MSC) routed with the temporary group call
number allocated by the Relay MSC;
\- SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO (VMSC originated) when forwarded within the group call
serving MSC redundancy pool from selected group call serving MSC to the group
call serving MSC where the broadcast call is on-going; and
\- Subsequent messages within a dialogue opened by a PREPARE_GROUP_CALL
message (PREPARE_GROUP_CALL_ACK, SEND_GROUP_CALL_END_SIGNAL,
FORWARD_GROUP_CALL_SIGNALLING; PROCESS_GROUP_CALL_SIGNALLING). MAP dialogue
handling ensures that messages are exchanged between origin and selected
destination of the dialogue.
Network routing ensures that these messages are routed to the individual MSC
within the redundancy pool.
## 5.3.2 GCR synchronization in a RANflex configuration with group call
redundancy
GCRs associated to MSCs which belong to the same redundancy pool need to
synchronize their transient data. This is done by means of SYNC_GCR messages.
As soon as transient data are modified in a GCR as a result of GCR
interrogation from the associated MSC, the modification is propagated to the
other GCRs.
This mechanism prevents the establishment of two simultaneous group calls with
the same group call reference controlled by two different anchor MSCs.
## 5.3.3 GCR Restoration in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy
When a GCR (and its associated MSC) restarts after planned or unplanned
outage, its transient data may be lost or may be out of sync due to lost
SYNC_GCR messages. To restore the transient data, the GCR shall after restart
\- stop all T3 timers;
\- delete all stored initial talker information; and
\- mark all GCR records with \"transient data not reliable\".
When transient data are read while processing a GCR interrogation, the GCR
shall check whether the record is marked \"transient data not reliable\". If
so, the GCR shall retrieve transient data from the other GCR(s) within the
redundancy pool by means of a SYNC_GCR message with request indication, store
it and reset the mark \"transient data not reliable\" before processing the
GCR interrogation. If the retrieval of transient data is unsuccessful, the GCR
shall assume that the call is not on-going, reset the mark \"transient data
not reliable\" and process the GCR interrogation.
When processing a received SYNC_GCR message without request indication while
the record is marked \"transient data not reliable\", the GCR shall accept the
request and reset the \"transient data not reliable\" mark.
When processing a received SYNC_GCR message with request indication while the
record is marked \"transient data not reliable\", the GCR shall return a
negative response (failure) and keep the \"transient data not reliable\" mark.
# 6 Compatibility issues
VBS can not be used with standard Phase 1 or Phase 2 mobile stations. A
dedicated mobile station with VBS capability is required.
A mobile station with VBS capability shall also provide the complete
functionality in order to allow the use of Phase 2 services.
Standard Phase 1 and Phase 2 mobile stations in a network shall not be
impacted by the presence of VBS services in that network due to VBS
signalling, also if the mobile station is operated with a SIM/USIM of a VBS
service subscriber.
# 7 Transmission
## 7.1 Transmission architecture
A distribution function, is required to distribute the voice broadcast call to
the nominated cells and dispatchers, respectively. The distribution function
is to be located within the group call anchor MSC.
Without a RANflex configuration: The group call anchor MSC is responsible for
setting up all connections, both to the nominated cells (voice broadcast
channels) in the group call anchor MSC and to any related group call relay
MSC, and to the dispatchers. There shall be one common link for all cells
within the group call relay MSC which is involved in the voice broadcast call,
i.e. there shall be a secondary distribution function in the group call relay
MSCs.
In a RANflex configuration: The group call anchor MSC is responsible for
setting up all connections, both to those cells of the group call area that
belong to a location area for which the group call anchor MSC is the group
call serving MSC and to any related group call relay MSC, and to the
dispatchers. Except when a calling service subscriber, served by a relay MSC,
is on the initial dedicated link, there shall be one link towards every relay
MSC and a distribution function in the relay MSCs and from there one link per
cell of the group call area that belongs to a location area for which the
group call relay MSC is the group call serving MSC which is involved in the
voice broadcast call.
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy: The group call anchor
MSC selected from the anchor MSC redundancy pool is responsible for setting up
all connections, both to those cells of the group call area that belong to a
location area for which the group call anchor MSC is the group call serving
MSC and to any related group call relay MSC pool, and to the dispatchers.
Except when a calling service subscriber, served by a relay MSC, is on the
initial dedicated link, there shall be one link towards every relay MSC
redundancy pool and a distribution function in the selected relay MSCs and
from there one link per cell of the group call area that belongs to a location
area for which the group call relay MSC is the group call serving MSC which is
involved in the voice broadcast call.
## 7.1a Transmission architecture -- A interface circuit sharing
### 7.1a.1 Transmission architecture -- general
The MSC and BSC shall negotiate during the setup of a voice broadcast call
whether A-interface circuit sharing is supported by both entities. When this
optional feature is supported by both entities, the same A-interface circuit
can be shared for all cells belonging to a BSC for a given voice broadcast
call.
### 7.1a.2 Transmission architecture -- control plane
The control plane signalling shall be the same as in sub-clause 7.1.
### 7.1a.3 Transmission architecture -- user plane
The following distribution functions are required to distribute the voice
broadcast call to the nominated cells and dispatchers, respectively:
\- a distribution function within the group call anchor MSC. There will be one
link from the group call anchor MSC to each of the relay MSCs in the voice
broadcast call. Also, there will be one link from each of these relay MSCs and
the group call anchor MSC to each BSC controlled by the respective MSC and
involved in the voice broadcast call;
\- a distribution function within the BSC to distribute the speech to each of
the nominated cells.
## 7.1b Transmission architecture -- A interface link sharing
### 7.1b.1 Transmission architecture -- general
The MSC and BSC shall negotiate during the setup of a voice broadcast call
whether A-interface link sharing is supported by both entities. When this
optional feature is supported by both entities, the same A-interface link
(user and control plane) can be shared for all cells belonging to a BSC for a
given voice broadcast call.
A conference bridge is required to connect the transmission paths of the
nominated cells. The bridge is to be located within the group call anchor MSC.
The group call anchor MSC is responsible for setting up a single A-interface
link (i.e. A-interface circuit and resource controlling SCCP connection) to
each BSC containing nominated cells in the group call anchor MSC and links to
any group call relay MSCs and to the dispatchers.
Each BSC is responsible for setting up a speech and signalling connection
(voice broadcast call channel) to each nominated cell in the group call area
served by this BSC. The BSC contains a distribution function that distributes
speech and resource control related signalling from the MSC to each of the
nominated cells.
### 7.1b.2 Transmission architecture -- control plane
The MSC shall inform the BSC of the cells required to be setup for the
broadcast call in the VBS ASSIGMENT REQUEST. This message shall contain the
list of group call area cells served by this BSC. If the entire list of cell
identifiers does not fit into the message or if different methods of radio
resource allocation (e.g. "immediate allocation" or "delay allowed") are to be
used for different cells controlled by the BSC, the MSC shall send one or more
VBS AREA CELL INFO messages containing the remaining cell identifiers or the
cell identifiers of cells using a different method of radio resource
allocation. Once a channel could be established to the cell of origin or, if
the cell of origin is not served by this BSC, to any other cell, the VBS
ASSIGMENT RESULT shall be sent to the MSC and timer Tast shall be started.
Timer Tast is used to measure the duration between periodic reports from the
BSC to the MSC of group call area cells for which channels have been assigned
or released since the last periodic report. When timer Tast expires, if new
cells in the group call area have been established or existing ones have been
released, pre-empted or failed, the MSC shall be informed of the changes. If
no changes have taken place nothing shall be sent. Timer Tast shall be started
again to measure the period of time until the next report. The timer shall be
stopped when the call is released.
Once all cells for a given group call area served by a BSC are established
this BSC shall immediately send a VBS ASSIGNMENT STATUS message to the MSC
indicating this and restart timer Tast. This information shall be used by the
MSC to determine the conditions for call set up as described in subclause
11.3.1.1.2.
The BSS is responsible to establish the channel to the different cells and
manage the signalling accordingly (e.g. HO decisions, pre-emption, re-
establishment of cells). The A-interface link (user and control plane) between
MSC and BSC shall only be released when the call is released.
### 7.1b.3 Transmission architecture -- user plane
The transmission architecture of the user plane as specified in subclause
7.1a.3 applies.
## 7.2 Radio channels
In each cell of the group call area one voice broadcast channel may be
established consisting of a downlink received by all service subscribers'
mobile stations and also an uplink which shall be used by the listening
subscriber\'s mobile stations for the uplink reply procedure only.
The calling service subscriber\'s mobile station shall use a dedicated
standard uplink/downlink which is connected as input to the distribution
function.
A listening subscriber\'s mobile station which responds to a notification
because no description of the voice broadcast channel was provided in the
notification may be assigned a dedicated standard link up to the instant where
the radio access network decides that the mobile station shall join the voice
broadcast channel and the dedicated connection is released.
Voice broadcast channels shall be standard full rate or half rate speech
channels, EFR speech channels, full rate AMR speech or half rate AMR speech
channels. The support of voice broadcast channels other than full rate speech
is a network option. A specific voice broadcast call can use either the same
speech codec type in all cells of the group call area or different speech
codec types in different cells of the group call area. Those implementations
are optional for the network operator.
When establishing an AMR half rate or AMR full rate speech channel, the BSC
shall select a suitable AMR codec configuration:
\- for the dedicated channel used by the calling service subscriber, the BSC
may select any configuration permitted for a point-to-point call;
\- for a voice broadcast channel the BSC shall select one of the preferred
configurations as defined in 3GPP TS 28.062 [16], Table 7.11.3.1.3-2. The BSC
shall disable the rate adaptation mechanism and apply a single codec mode for
the downlink until the channel is released.
> Within a cell the BSC shall select the same codec configuration for all
> voice group and voice broadcast calls using the same AMR codec type, AMR FR
> or AMR HR, respectively. The selected configuration shall be broadcast on
> the NCH, as long as at least one voice group or voice broadcast call using
> the respective AMR codec type is active.
When A-interface circuit sharing or A-interface link sharing applies there is
one A-interface circuit allocated for the broadcast call per BSC. Therefore
the same speech codec is applied for all voice broadcast channels in the part
of the group call area served by one BSC, if the TRAU is locatedbetween the
MSC and the BSC-internal distribution function for speech (see subclause
7.1a.1 and 7.1b.1).
Full standard duplex channels shall be provided to all dispatchers listed in
the GCR as for normal calls and connected to the distribution function
although their speech shall not be added to the speech of the calling
subscriber in the distribution function if they are destination subscribers.
The links may be provided either via GSM, or via an external network.
Downlink and uplink radio channels are to be provided to all destination
service subscribers, with one common downlink and one common uplink per cell.
The uplink channel is used for the uplink reply procedure for VGCS and VBS
(see subclause 4.2.2.1).
A separate standard duplex channel is to be provided to the calling service
subscriber.
## 7.3 Data confidentiality
Data confidentiality on the radio link can be provided as a network option.
If data confidentiality is provided, the downlink of the voice broadcast
channel within cell of the group call area shall be ciphered using broadcast
group ciphering keys derived from the same group key, see 3GPP TS 43.020 [4].
The group key is related to the group ID. For each group ID, there is a number
of group keys stored on the SIM which are identified by a group key number.
The group key number identifying the group key to be used for a particular
voice broadcast call is provided with the notification to the mobile stations.
Mobile stations which have a responded to a notification shall be informed of
the group key number before they join the voice broadcast channel.
USIM based VBS ciphering uses a concept of short term keys where the short
term key is derived by the GCR and the USIM from the group key and a RAND
(random number) parameter. The actual broadcast group ciphering key is then
derived by the BSS and the ME from the short term key, the cell global
identifier, and a Cell Global Count parameter.
To include a subscriber into a voice group the required group data (including
the 2 master group keys) shall be stored on the USIM, e.g. during the
personalisation process or via OTA (over-the-air). To exclude a subscriber
from a voice group the group data shall be deleted from the USIM. If a USIM is
lost or stolen, all USIMs of the remaining members of the voice groups that
this USIM is a member of need to be changed (e.g. via OTA or manual
provisioning).
Details on data confidentiality for voice broadcast calls are provided in 3GPP
TS 42.009 [2] and 3GPP TS 43.020 [4].
NOTE 1: USIM based VBS ciphering is not compatible with SIM based VBS
ciphering which has not been completely specified. The SIM specifications
contain no support for the storage of the group keys. A pre-Rel-6 VBS capable
mobile station will be able to participate in an un-ciphered group call, if it
is part of that group.
If data confidentiality is provided, then for a mobile station in originator
in dedicated channel mode the uplink and the downlink of the dedicated channel
shall be ciphered using the individual ciphering key of the service
subscriber.
NOTE 2: The individual ciphering key is the key generated during a previous
authentication procedure.
If data confidentiality is provided, then for a mobile dispatcher the uplink
and the downlink of the dedicated channel shall be ciphered using the
individual ciphering key of the dispatcher.
# 8 Information storage
## 8.1 Information stored in the GCR
### 8.1.1 Information used for routing of service subscriber originated voice
broadcast calls
Without a RANflex configuration, the GCR shall hold for a related MSC area for
each group ID and cell from which voice broadcast calls can be established by
service subscribers the broadcast call reference to be used for a voice
broadcast call to be established and an indication whether the originating MSC
is the group call anchor MSC.
In a RANflex configuration, the GCR shall hold for a related MSC area (i.e.
for those location areas for which the related MSC is the group call serving
MSC) for each group ID and cell (within those location areas for which the
related MSC is the group call serving MSC) from which voice broadcast calls
can be established by service subscribers the broadcast call reference to be
used for a voice broadcast call to be established and an indication whether
the group call serving MSC is the group call anchor MSC.
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy, the GCR shall hold for
a related MSC area (i.e. for those location areas for which the related MSC
belongs to the group call serving MSC redundancy pool) for each group ID and
cell (within those location areas for which the related MSC can act as the
group call serving MSC) from which voice group calls can be established by
service subscribers the group call reference to be used for a voice group call
to be established and an indication whether the group call serving MSC belongs
to the group call anchor MSC redundancy pool.
If one of the following configurations applies:
a) without a RANflex configuration;
b) in a RANflex configuration, if the VMSC is the group call serving MSC; or
c) in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy, if the VMSC belongs
to the group call serving MSC redundancy pool:
If the VMSC is the group call anchor MSC or belongs to the group call anchor
MSC redundancy pool, the GCR shall provide the broadcast call attributes
related to that broadcast call reference as defined in subclause 8.1.2 and
8.1.3 to the VMSC and the VMSC shall establish the voice broadcast call.
If the VMSC is not the anchor MSC or does not belong to the group call anchor
MSC redundancy pool, the GCR shall provide the broadcast call reference plus
the routing information identifying the anchor MSC or anchor MSC redundancy
pool to the VMSC and the VMSC shall route the voice broadcast call to the
anchor MSC or anchor MSC redundancy pool.
If the following configuration applies:
d) In a RANflex configuration, if the VMSC is different from the group call
serving MSC:
If the group call serving MSC is a relay MSC for the broadcast call, the GCR
shall provide the broadcast call reference plus the routing information
identifying the anchor MSC to the group call serving MSC which passes this
information to the VMSC.
If the group call serving MSC is the anchor MSC for the broadcast call, the
GCR shall provide the broadcast call reference to the group call serving MSC
which adds the routing information identifying the anchor MSC (i.e. its own
MSC address) and passes the information to the VMSC.
Then the VMSC shall route the voice broadcast call to the anchor MSC.
If the following configuration applies:
e) In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy, if the VMSC does not
belong to the group call serving MSC redundancy pool:
If the group call serving MSC redundancy pool is a group call relay MSC
redundancy pool for the broadcast call, the GCR shall provide the group call
reference plus the routing information identifying the anchor MSC redundancy
pool to the requesting group call serving MSC which passes this information to
the VMSC.
If the group call serving MSC redundancy pool is the group call anchor MSC
redundancy pool for the broadcast call, the GCR shall provide the group call
reference to the requesting group call serving MSC which adds the routing
information identifying the anchor MSC redundancy pool and passes the
information to the VMSC.
Then the VMSC shall route the voice broadcast call to the anchor MSC
redundancy pool.
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy, the GCR shall provide
the requesting MSC with \"group call ongoing information\". If the broadcast
call is ongoing at another MSC within the redundancy pool, the requesting MSC
shall forward the actual request to that MSC.
NOTE: In case the GCR function is distributed over different physical
entities, each may hold only the information needed to treat requests coming
from the MSCs connected to the physical GCR entity.
### 8.1.2 Static Broadcast call attributes
The GCR stores a list of static Broadcast Call Attributes for a given group
call reference. These lists shall be programmed by the service provider at
registration of the network specific service configuration. In RANflex
configurations with group call redundancy these lists shall be identical in
GCRs which are associated to MSCs belonging to the same redundancy pool.
The contents of each list related to requests of the group call anchor MSC is
as follows:
\- a list of cells inside the MSC area of the group call anchor MSC (in a
RANflex configuration with or without group call redundancy, the cells
belonging to a location area for which the group call anchor MSC is the group
call serving MSC) into which the call is to be sent (part of the group call
area), see subclause 8.1.2.1;
\- a list of group call relay MSCs (or group call relay MSC redundancy pools)
into which the call is to be sent;
\- information on the cipher algorithm and the group key to be used for this
voice broadcast call;
\- information on the codecs allowed for this voice broadcast call. As an
operator option, the EFR codec, standard half rate codec, AMR half rate codec,
and AMR full rate codec can be supported;
NOTE: A pre-Rel-7 VBS capable mobile station will not be able to participate
in a broadcast call using the EFR codec, AMR half rate codec or AMR full rate
codec, if the mobile station is part of that group.
\- a list of identities of dispatchers to which a dedicated link is to be
established, see subclause 8.1.2.2;
\- a list of identities of dispatchers which are allowed to initiate the voice
broadcast call, see subclause 8.1.2.2;
\- a list of identities of dispatchers which are allowed to terminate the
voice broadcast call, see subclause 8.1.2.2;
\- the default priority level related to that voice broadcast call if eMLPP
applies, see subclause 8.1.2.3;
\- an indication whether the uplink reply procedure is applicable for this
voice broadcast call.
\- in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy: A list of GCR
addresses identifying GCRs associated to MSCs within the redundancy pool.
The contents of each list related to requests of a group call relay MSC is as
follows:
\- a list of cells inside the MSC area of the group call relay MSC (in a
RANflex configuration with or without group call redundancy, cells belonging
to a location area for which the requesting MSC is the group call serving MSC)
into which the call is to be sent (part of the group call area), see subclause
8.1.2.1;
\- identity of the group call anchor MSC (or group call anchor MSC redundancy
pool);
\- in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy: A list of GCR
addresses identifying GCRs associated to MSCs within the redundancy pool.
#### 8.1.2.1 Group call area
The group call area is defined as a list of cells. The cells shall be defined
by their cell identification consisting of the Location Area Code and the Cell
Identity as defined in 3GPP TS 48.008 and are therefore uniquely identified in
the network.
In the case the group call area extends over several MSCs, only the cells
belonging to the requesting MSC (in a RANflex configuration and in a RANflex
configuration with group call redundancy, cells belonging to location areas
for which the requesting MSC is the group call serving MSC) are included in
the broadcast call attributes.
#### 8.1.2.2 Dispatcher identities
Dispatcher identities shall be ISDN numbers or MSISDN numbers with the
structure according to ITU‑T Recommendation E.164. They shall correspond both
to the number to be used to establish a call toward the dispatcher and the
number provided as calling line identification when the call is originated by
a dispatcher.
The list of dispatcher identities to which a dedicated link is to be
established shall be passed to the MSC so that the distribution function can
be set up.
The list of dispatcher identities which are allowed to initiate voice
broadcast calls is used by the anchor MSC for verification for a voice
broadcast call establishment by a dispatcher.
The list of dispatcher identities which are allowed to terminate voice
broadcast calls is used by the anchor MSC for verification for a voice
broadcast call release by a dispatcher.
#### 8.1.2.3 Priorities
If the eMLPP supplementary service is applied to a voice broadcast call, the
priority level shall be stored in the GCR.
For further details see 3GPP TS 23.067.
### 8.1.3 Transient G roup Call Attributes
#### 8.1.3.0 General
The GCR stores transient data for a given group call reference. These data are
maintained by the GCR to reflect the current status of the corresponding voice
broadcast call.
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy Transient GCR Data needs
to be synchronized between all GCRs associated to MSCs belonging to the same
redundancy pool.
#### 8.1.3.1 Group Call Status Information
\- a status flag indicating if a voice broadcast call with the related
broadcast call reference is on-going, see subclause 11.3.1.1.1;
\- in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy: Address of the MSC
within the redundancy pool, where the broadcast call is ongoing (if so).
#### 8.1.3.2 Initial Talker Information
The relay MSC, and in a RANflex configuration (with or without group call
redundancy) the group call serving MSC of the initiating service subscriber\'s
current LAC, if this MSC is different from the VMSC, interrogate the GCR twice
when setting up the broadcast call: The first GCR interrogation is triggered
in the relay MSC by the service subscriber or in a RANflex configuration (with
or without group call redundancy) in the group call serving MSC by the MAP
service SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO received from the VMSC. The second GCR
interrogation is triggered in the relay MSC by the MAP service Prepare Group
Call or in a RANflex configuration (with or without group call redundancy), if
the anchor MSC is the group call serving MSC, by receiving the IAM from the
VMSC.
At the first GCR interrogation the GCR shall store transient data in the GCR
which are retrieved with the second GCR interrogation. These data are:
\- the initiating service subscriber\'s IMSI;
\- the originating cell id.
## 8.2 Information managed per subscriber
### 8.2.1 Stored in the HLR
The following additional information shall be stored in the HLR:
\- the subscription option for voice broadcast calls which can be made in the
HPLMN only or also in case of roaming;
\- a list of all the group IDs for which a service subscriber has a
subscription;
\- an indication whether the subscriber is entitled to establish a voice
broadcast call to one or more group IDs of his subscription.
The group IDs are defined in subclause 9.1.
A service subscriber shall not be provided with more than 50 group IDs.
### 8.2.2 Stored in the VLR
The list of all the group IDs a service subscriber is entitled to use and the
entitlement to establish a voice broadcast call to a group ID shall be brought
forward to a VLR at the same time as other subscriber information is copied,
and VLR entries shall be modified when corresponding HLR records are changed.
### 8.2.3 Stored in the SIM
The information detailed in subclause 8.2.1 also needs to be stored on the
SIM. The service subscriber shall be able to deactivate or reactivate a group
ID by MMI interaction so that the mobile station ignores notification messages
to this group ID, when the group ID is deactivated.
### 8.2.3a Stored in the USIM
The information detailed in subclause 8.2.1 also needs to be stored on the
USIM. The service subscriber shall be able to deactivate or reactivate a group
ID by MMI interaction so that the mobile station ignores notification messages
to this group ID, when the group ID is deactivated.
For each group ID where data confidentiality may be applied, the USIM needs to
store the cipher algorithm to be used and the possible group keys.
## 8.3 Information used for routing of dispatcher originated broadcast calls
Routing of dispatcher originated calls shall be performed on the MSISDN number
received at a GMSC in the Initial_Address_Message.
\- Because the group call reference is included in the called MSISDN number as
defined in subclause 9.2d the routing information can be derived by the
routing function of the GMSC. The GMSC afterwards directly routes the call
request to the group call anchor MSC without requesting an HLR.
# 9 Identities
## 9.1 Elementary identities for broadcast calls
**a) Group ID**
The group ID is a sequence of decimal digits with a maximumlength depending on
the composition of the broadcast call reference defined under c). The length
of Group ID shall be in a range of 1 to 8 digits.
The mobile station derives the group ID from the broadcast call reference by
identifying the longest group ID amongst those stored in the SIM/USIM and
matching the least significant digits of the broadcast call reference. If no
group ID is stored in the SIM that matches the least significant digits of the
broadcast call reference, the mobile station is not able to derive the group
ID from the broadcast call reference.
NOTE 1: The network should use Group IDs matching an initial part of other
group IDs with greatest care, if at all.
EXAMPLE: A mobile station storing the group IDs 678, 2 678 and 42 678 (and
only those) in the SIM/USIM will derive group ID 2 678 from BROADCAST call
reference 13 452 678.
For definition of Group ID on the radio interface, A interface and Abis
interface, see 3GPP TS 44.069 [11].
For definition of Group ID coding on MAP protocol interfaces, see 3GPP TS
29.002 [13].
**b) Group call area ID**
The group call area ID is a sequence of decimal digits uniquely assigned to a
group call area in one network and with a maximum lengthdepending on the
composition of the broadcast call reference defined under c).
**c) Broadcast call reference**
Each voice broadcast call in one network is uniquely identified by its
broadcast call reference. The broadcast call reference is a concatenated
sequence of the group ID (as the least significant part) and the group call
area ID (as the most significant part). The broadcast call reference shall
have a maximum length of 8 decimal digits. The composition of the group call
area ID and the group ID can be specific for each network operator.
* * *
Group call area ID Group ID
* * *
The group call reference is equal to the group ID when the group ID has a
length of 8 decimal digits.
For definition of Broadcast Call reference (with leading zeros inserted as
necessary) on the radio interface, A interface and Abis interface, see 3GPP TS
24.008 [14], 3GPP TS 44.018[7] and 3GPP TS 44.069 [11].
For definition of Broadcast Call reference coding (also known as ASCI Call
Reference, Voice Group Call Reference or Voice Broadcast Call Reference) on
MAP protocol interfaces, see 3GPP TS 29.002 [13].
## 9.2 Use of identities in the network
For each voice broadcast call the identifications as defined in the following
shall be used within the network for the related purpose mentioned.
For voice broadcast services which are to operate in more than one PLMN, group
identities have to be co-ordinated between the network operators involved.
**a) Identities used for GCR requests for service subscriber originated voice
broadcast calls**
For a service subscriber originated call, the identity of the call used by the
MSC in which the call is originated to interrogate the GCR shall consist of
the originating serving cell identity as defined in 3GPP TS 48.008 and the
group ID as defined in subclause 9.1. In a RANflex configuration (with or
without group call redundancy) the same identity is used by the group call
serving MSC to interrogate the GCR when it receives the MAP Send Group Call
Info service.
* * *
Originating cell ID Group ID
* * *
A service subscriber initiating a voice broadcast call has to call the wanted
group ID. The MSC in which the call is originated shall accumulate from the
BSS the called group ID and the originating cell ID.
If the group call area exceeds one MSC area, the identity used to interrogate
the GCR by an MSC in which the call was not originated shall consist of the
broadcast call reference as defined in subclause 9.1 except for the case in a
RANflex configuration (with or without group call redundancy) where the GCR
interrogation in the group call serving MSC is triggered by receipt of the MAP
Send Group Call Info service.
Without a RANflex configuration: If the group call area exceeds one MSC area
and the call was originated
in a relay MSC,
this relay MSC will perform a second GCR interrogation when the anchor MSC
sets up the link to the relay MSC (see subclause 11.5).
In a RANflex configuration: If the group call area exceeds one MSC area and
the call was originated
\- in a relay MSC; or
\- in a location area for which a relay MSC is the group call serving MSC,
this relay MSC will perform a second GCR interrogation when the anchor MSC
sets up the link to the relay MSC (see subclause 11.5).
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy: If the group call area
exceeds one MSC area and the call was originated
\- in a relay MSC; or
\- in a location area for which a relay MSC (belonging to a redundancy pool)
is the group call serving MSC,
this relay MSC or another relay MSC belonging to the same redundancy pool will
perform a second GCR interrogation when the anchor MSC sets up the link to the
relay MSC (see subclause 11.5).
Independent of the configuration for the second GCR interrogation the relay
MSC shall use the group call reference as defined in subclause 9.1 as the
identity.
**b) Identities used for GCR requests for dispatcher originated voice
broadcast calls**
In case of dispatcher originated call the identity used by the MSC to
interrogate the GCR shall consist of the broadcast call references defined in
subclause 9.1.
**c) Identities used for notifications to service subscribers**
Identities used for notification messages shall consist of the broadcast call
reference as defined in subclause 9.
**d) Identities used by dispatchers for voice broadcast call establishment**
For dispatcher originated calls an MSISDN is dialled. The Country Code (CC)
and National Destination Code (NDC) are used as normal for routing purposes.
The CC and NDC may be omitted for internal calls. The numbering scheme is
based on ITU‑T Recommendation E.164. The Subscriber Number (SN) is used to
indicate:
\- the request of a broadcast call by use of a prefix. The length of the
prefix shall be 1 to 2 digits [tbc]; FFS
\- the wanted broadcast call reference as defined in subclause 9.1.
* * *
CC NDC Prefix Broadcast call reference
* * *
**e) Identities used for VLR requests for service subscriber originated
broadcast calls**
The group ID shall be used on the B-Interface for VLR requests.
**f) Anchor MSC address for routing of service subscriber originated calls
from originating MSC to anchor MSC**
For service subscriber originated calls an anchor MSC address is used as
called party address to route the call from the originating MSC to the anchor
MSC. The anchor MSC address structure is the same as for dispatcher originated
calls (see subclause d)) The Country Code (CC) and National Destination Code
(NDC) are used as normal for routing purposes. The numbering scheme is based
on ITU‑T Recommendation E.164. The Subscriber Number (SN) is used to indicate:
\- the request of a broadcast call by use of a prefix. The length of the
prefix shall be 1 to 2 digits; the actual value of the prefix may be different
than the one dialled by dispatchers;
\- the wanted broadcast call reference as defined in subclause 9.1.
* * *
CC NDC Prefix Broadcast call reference
* * *
**g) Identities used for notifications to dispatchers**
Identities used for notification messages to dispatchers shall be identical to
those used by dispatchers to initiate calls as described in subclause d).
A notification identity is presented to a dispatcher terminal by making use of
CLIP. Between the anchor MSC and MSC to which the dispatcher is attached, the
information may be carried using the Calling Party Number parameter or Generic
Number Parameter as agreed between the network operators. The Country Code
(CC) and National Destination Code (NDC) are used as normal for routing
purposes. The numbering scheme is based on ITU‑T Recommendation E.164. The
Subscriber Number (SN) is used to indicate:
\- the indication of a broadcast call by use of a prefix. The length of the
prefix shall be 1 to 2 digits; the actual value of the prefix shall be the
same as the one dialled by dispatchers
\- the broadcast call reference as defined in subclause 9.1.
* * *
CC NDC Prefix Broadcast call reference
* * *
The Screening Indicator shall be set to "Network Provided"
The Type of Number shall be set to "International"
# 10 Operation and maintenance aspects
NOTE: A list and short description of the operation and maintenance aspects
will be given. This includes the options and parameters which can be set by
the operator.
\- handling of timers;
\- registration aspects etc.
# 11 Function and information flows
## 11.1 Broadcast function management
The broadcast call attributes, as given in subclause 8.1 shall be entered and
modified by the service provider. A list providing information on necessary
Operation and Maintenance actions is given in clause 10.
## 11.2 Group membership management
Once the membership is established, the individual membership of the group can
be placed in an active or deactive state on the SIM/USIM by the user. If a
subscriber has a group ID in an active state, the subscriber is able to
establish voice broadcast calls corresponding to that group ID if he is
entitled for it.
In a deactive state the mobile station prevents the service subscriber from
establishing calls using the group ID and the corresponding notifications need
to be \"ignored\" by the mobile station.
The active state and deactive state entries may be password protected as an
implementation option.
Group IDs are listed in the subscription data within the network and on the
SIM/USIM. The SIM/USIM must be returned to the network operator or service
provider for updating if the subscription is to be changed.
NOTE: Updating of subscription data over the radio interface is not
considered. However, this shall not preclude future applications if
corresponding mechanisms may be implemented.
Users can interrogate their mobile stations to determine to which groups they
are members and which subscriptions are currently in an active state.
## 11.3 Call management
### 11.3.1 Call establishment
A voice broadcast call can be established by either a service subscriber or by
a dispatcher.
#### 11.3.1.1 Service subscriber call establishment
##### 11.3.1.1.1 Initial stage
The initial signalling from the calling service subscriber informs the network
that a voice broadcast call is required and details the group ID; it may
specify originator-to-dispatcher information. No information relative to the
group call area is given by the calling service subscriber.
The network shall perform a number of checks in order to determine how to
handle the call:
\- check of the ability of the subscriber to establish the call;
\- check whether the call can be initiated from the cell;
\- check of the existence of an on-going call of the same broadcast call
reference.
The originating MSC shall check the VLR records for the ability of the
subscriber to start the call. If the service subscriber has no subscription
for the voice broadcast service with the indicated group ID, the call shall be
released. In addition, the VLR shall return barring and identity presentation
restriction checks to the MSC.
In a RANflex configuration the originating MSC shall then derive the group
call serving MSC address from the originating location area. If the group call
serving MSC is different from the originating MSC (or in a RANflex
configuration with group call redundancy if the originating MSC does not
belong to the group call serving MSC redundancy pool) then the group call
serving MSC is interrogated by means of the MAP service SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO.
The interrogation request contains the originating Cell Id and the Group Id.
If the group call serving MSC is a relay MSC for the broadcast call, then its
GCR shall derive the anchor MSC address and the broadcast call reference from
the originating Cell Id and Group Id, and return it to the VMSC. If the group
call serving MSC is the anchor MSC for the group call, then its GCR shall
derive the broadcast call reference from the originating Cell Id and Group Id,
and return it to the VMSC.
Without RANflex configuration or if in a RANflex configuration with or without
group call redundancy the originating MSC is the group call serving MSC
(derived from the originating location area) it shall then request information
from the GCR by giving the group ID and the originating cell ID as defined in
subclause 9.2.
If the length of the group ID is less than 8 decimal digits, the GCR first
derives the group call area ID from the group ID and the originating cell ID.
If no group call area ID is related to the group ID and originating cell ID,
the call shall be released. If a group call area ID is related to the group ID
and originating cell ID, the GCR shall transfer the corresponding broadcast
call attributes to the MSC.
If the group ID has a length of 8 decimal digits, the group call reference is
equal to the group ID. The GCR shall check whether the call was initiated
within the group call area stored in the GCR. If not, the call shall be
released; otherwise, the GCR shall transfer the corresponding group call
attributes to the MSC.
When the GCR has transfered the broadcast call attributes to the MSC, the call
shall be considered as on-going by the GCR, unless the GCR\'s associated MSC
acts as group call relay MSC in a RANflex configuration with or without group
call redundancy.
The GCR of the relay MSC and in a RANflex configuration with or without group
call redundancy, if the group call serving MSC of the initiating service
subscriber\'s current LAC is different from the VMSC, the GCR of this group
call serving MSC shall store the initiating service subscriber\'s IMSI and
originating cell id for later processing.
If the originating MSC is not the group call anchor MSC for the voice
broadcast call as indicated in the GCR, then the voice broadcast call request
shall be passed to the group call anchor MSC; in that case, if the initiation
of the voice broadcast call had specified originator-to-dispatcher information
and processing of originator-to-dispatcher information is supported by the
MSC, the originator-to-dispatcher information is transformed by the
originating MSC into UUS1 and sent to the anchor MSC.
When passing the call request to the anchor MSC the originating MSC shall
include the VBS prefix plus broadcast call reference in the calling party
number of the IAM. If in a RANflex configuration the originating MSC is not
the group call serving MSC, it shall in addition include the address of the
group call serving MSC in the generic number parameter of the IAM, with the
number qualifier indicator set to \"additional calling party number\". Without
RANflex configuration or if in a RANflex configuration with or without group
call redundancy the originating MSC is the group call serving MSC, it shall
additionally include the address of the originating relay MSC in the generic
number parameter of the IAM, with the number qualifier indicator set to
\"additional calling party number\", when passing the call request to the
anchor MSC.
If the group call reference is composed of Group ID and group call area ID, it
is possible that two service subscribers or a service subscriber and a
dispatcher or two dispatchers may attempt to establish a call using the same
group ID and corresponding to the same group call area ID. If the two voice
broadcast calls are established with the same group ID but for different group
call areas, then separate voice broadcast calls shall be established. If the
group call areas overlap, it is up to receiving mobile station to determine
which call to participate in. If more than one call is made to identical group
ID and group call area, the network shall reject all but one of the call
attempts.
If the group ID has a length of 8 decimal digits, if more than one call
attempt is made to the same group ID, the network shall reject all but one of
the call attempts.
If the GCR receives a new interrogation related to a broadcast call reference
where the call is indicated as on-going in the GCR, the GCR shall provide the
on-going status together with the broadcast call reference and - in a RANflex
configuration with group call redundancy - together with the address of the
MSC within the redundancy pool where the group call is ongoing back to the
MSC. The MSC shall then
a) in a configuration without RANflex;
b) in a RANflex configuration; and
c) in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy, if the group call is
ongoing at the requesting MSC:
release the call with a cause user busy in case of a service subscriber
originated call request. The mobile station of the service subscriber shall
then look for notifications of the respective group ID on the NCH and join the
voice broadcast call. In case of a dispatcher originated voice broadcast call
request, the MSC shall join the dispatcher to the distribution function of the
voice broadcast call, or
d) in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy, if the broadcast
call is ongoing at another MSCwithin the redundanc pool:
forward the original request to the MSC within the redundancy pool where the
broadcast call is ongoing.
A service subscriber which is entitled by his subscription to establish voice
broadcast calls while roaming shall only be able to use supra-PLMN group IDs
as defined in subclause 9.1 in case of roaming. In case of roaming, the mobile
station shall only react on notifications for supra-PLMN group IDs.
If the group ID has a length of 8 decimal digits, the operator can define for
this group ID only one group call and one group call area within his network.
If the length of the group ID is less than 8 decimal digits, the operator can
define more than one group call using the same group ID, but different group
call areas. Because of the possibility of overlapping group call areas, each
call requires an unique reference, assigned by the GCR related to the
originating MSC or the group call serving MSC (in a RANflex configuration).
The broadcast call reference shall be composed of the group ID and a group
call area ID (see clause 9).
Authentication of the calling service subscriber can be performed by the
network as for normal calls.
##### 11.3.1.1.2 Establishment of the transmission means
A voice broadcast call channel shall be established in all the cells
throughout the identified group call area using physical channels selected by
the BSCs as appropriate. The downlink channels shall be established without
any return signalling from mobile stations. Whilst the downlink channel is
being established, the MSC shall form a distribution function containing the
appropriate channels to all BTSs in the group call area or in case of
A-interface link sharing to all BSCs in the group call area. The MSC is
responsible for adding dispatchers to the distribution function.
Alternatively, the network may establish voice broadcast channels in a cell on
demand, i.e. if mobile stations respond to the notifications as defined in
subclause 4.2.2.1 (see \"uplink reply procedure\"). As a network option the
applicability of the uplink reply procedure for a voice broadcast call can be
controlled by the GCR of the anchor MSC. If the anchor MSC supports this
feature, it shall allow all affected BSCs to establish voice broadcast call
channels on demand only if the GCR indicates that the uplink reply procedure
is applicable. If the relay MSC supports this feature, it shall allow all
affected BSCs to establish voice broadcast call channels on demand only if the
anchor MSC indicates during the establishment of the voice broadcast call that
the uplink reply procedure is applicable.
In parallel, a dedicated suitable channel is allocated to the calling service
subscriber if not already the case. The call will be considered established
provided that at least the downlink channel in the originating cell, in the
case of a service subscriber originated voice broadcast call, or the downlink
channel in any one cell within the group call area, in the case of a
dispatcher originated voice broadcast call, is established. The MSC shall
signal to the calling service subscriber that this has occurred so that the he
knows when to start speaking. If a voice broadcast call does not meet the
above conditions in a configurable time (Txx) then the call shall be released.
The mobile station shall indicate connection to the subscriber. If channels
could not be established in particular cells because of congestion, channels
are allocated to these cells as soon as possible.
The MSC may retry the VBS Assignment procedure to establish channels in cells
where they are missing. If supported, the procedure may be initiated when:
i) congestion (i.e. a lack of A-interface circuits) prevented the VBS
ASSIGNMENT REQUEST message from being sent to the BSS;
ii) a VBS ASSIGNMENT FAILURE message is received and the cause value indicates
an acceptable reason for retry (e.g. no radio resource available);
iii) the radio and terrestrial resources for the broadcast call channel are
cleared (broadcast call on-going) and the cause value indicates an acceptable
reason for retry (e.g. pre-emption);
iv) no response to the VBS ASSIGNMENT REQUEST message is received (this is
determined by the MSC in an implementation-dependent manner such as expiry of
a timer); or
v) no response is received following receipt of a VBS QUEUING INDICATION (this
is determined by the MSC in an implementation-dependent manner such as expiry
of a timer).
NOTE: If A-interface link sharing or broadcast call re-establishment by the
BSS apply, the BSC is responsible for establishing/re-establishing channels in
cells and scenario (ii) and (iii) do not apply, unless A-interface resources
also need to be re-established (e.g. when the PCM system serving the
A-interface circuit fails (equipment failure)). Scenario (v) does not apply to
A-interface link sharing and broadcast call re-establishment by the BSS.
The MSC may repeat the VBS assignment procedure until a VBS ASSIGNMENT RESULT
message is received, the call is released or an unacceptable reason for retry
(e.g. protocol error between BSS and MSC) is received by the MSC. The time
between subsequent retries is implementation-dependent. The MSC shall send
each retry of the VBS ASSIGNMENT REQUEST over a new resource-controlling SCCP
connection.
If a message is received with an unacceptable reason for retry then existing
procedures apply. I.e. the MSC shall initiate the clearing of the radio and
terrestrial resources, if necessary, and no further attempts to establish a
broadcast call channel in the cell are made.
While using the retry procedure the MSC shall maintain the call controlling
SCCP connection to a BSS until the call is released or until the MSC decides
to stop any further attempts to establish broadcast call channels for the call
on a BSS where no cells are established.
##### 11.3.1.1.3 Release of the dedicated transmission means of mobile
stations responding to a notification
Mobile stations which respond to a notification for which no description of
the voice broadcast channel was given in the notification message may be given
a dedicated connection up to the time where the network requests the mobile
station to join the voice broadcast channel by use of a channel release
procedure.
#### 11.3.1.2 Dispatcher call establishment
In the case of dispatchers originated calls the call request, in the form of
an MSISDN number, shall be received at a GMSC. Such a call can be treated by
the GMSC as a normal mobile terminated call. In this case, the GMSC shall
interrogate an HLR, determined on the basis of the MSISDN number. The HLR in
turn may either interrogate the appropriate MSC/VLR to obtain an MSRN, or may
supply an MSRN predefined in the HLR and related to the respective broadcast
call reference in the MSC/VLR. If the HLR interrogates the MSC/VLR for the
MSRN, the HLR shall provide this MSC/VLR with the related IMSI including the
broadcast call reference as defined in clause 9.
Alternatively, the call request can be forwarded directly to the related group
call anchor MSC on basis of the GMSC\'s internal routing table. In this case,
the broadcast call reference shall already be included in the requested MSISDN
number as defined in clause 9.
When interrogated by the group call anchor MSC, the GCR shall check if the
calling line identity is within the list of dispatcher identities allowed to
establish the voice broadcast call. If not the case, the call shall be
rejected.
After reception of the call request, the group call anchor MSC checks whether
an on-going call of the same broadcast call reference exists, in which case
for the following configurations
a) for configurations with or without RANflex;
b) for RANflex configurations; and
c) for RANflex configurations with group call redundancy where the broadcast
call is ongoing at the call request receiving MSC:
the group call anchor MSC shall add the dispatcher to the call, and for the
following configuration
d) for RANflex configurations with group call redundancy where the broadcast
call is ongoing at another MSC within the redundancy pool:
the call request receiving MSC shall forward the call request to the MSC where
the broadcast call is ongoing.
At the point at which notification messages are sent to mobile stations, a
tone is relayed to the calling dispatcher to inform him that he can commence
his message.
#### 11.3.1.3 Notification procedures
Different notification procedures shall be applied in relation to the mode of
the mobile station as presented in table 1 and defined in the following
clauses.
Table 1: Overview on different information messages for new or on-going calls
* * *
**Incoming call type:** VBS or VGCS call point-to-point call
**MS states:**
Idle mode (section a) (standard paging)
Originator in dedicated channel mode (section b) (section c)
group receive mode (section b) (section c)
dedicated mode (section b) (standard Call Waiting)\ (note)
NOTE: Only for point to point calls with certain restrictions as defined in
3GPP TS 22.083.
* * *
**a) Notification for mobile stations in idle mode**
Once the voice broadcast channel has been established in a cell or the network
is waiting to receive notification responses to establish a voice broadcast
channel, notifications shall be broadcast on the NCH in that cell.
The position of the NCH shall be derived from the system information of the
BCCH.
The notification messages shall include the broadcast call reference and
possibly the description of the voice broadcast channel, the call priority if
eMLPP is applied, and the group cipher key number.
A notification message can contain no, one or more notifications.
The notification process needs to continue throughout the duration of the
broadcast call, in order to permit the \"late entry\" of other mobile
stations. Mobile stations moving into the group call area which are in idle
mode shall be directed to the voice broadcast channel by the notification
messages, possibly by means of the notification response procedure.
The scheduling of the notification messages in a cell shall be managed by the
BSS. Information can be added in the messages to limit the required reception
of NCH messages. The following constraints shall be met:
\- the three first initial notifications (i.e. the first for a given broadcast
call) shall have priority over subsequent notifications (i.e. the messages for
an on-going broadcast call) and must be sent as soon as possible;
NOTE 1: In addition initial notification messages for calls with or above an
operator defined priority level can be sent on all possible paging or access
grant channels to reduce the delay for those mobile stations which are not
using DRX.
\- afterwards, an on-going broadcast call in the cell shall be periodically
notified on the NCH.
Since the information for the establishment of a voice broadcast call is sent
onto the NCH rather than on the PCH as for normal point-to-point calls, the
mobile station must listen to the PCH as well as to the NCH. A \"reduced NCH
monitoring\" mechanism can be used to save power in the mobile station when
listening to the NCH.
A mobile station able to receive voice broadcast calls either, depending on
the implementation:
\- can use the \"reduced NCH monitoring\" mechanism. When entering a cell, the
mobile station shall listen to the NCH to get the notifications of the voice
broadcast calls on-going in the cell. Afterwards, the mobile station needs to
listen to the NCH only if it is informed on the availability of a notification
for a new voice broadcast call. This shall be based on the NCH status
information provided, as indicated in 3GPP TS 44.018.
\- do not apply the \"reduced NCH monitoring\" mechanism and read all possible
paging or access grant channels.
**b) Notification for mobile stations in group receive mode, dedicated mode or
originator in dedicated channel mode**
In addition to sending initial notification messages on the NCH for the voice
broadcast call, the BSS can provide initial notification into on-going voice
broadcast, group calls, and point to point calls informing mobile stations
partaking in these calls of new voice broadcast calls that are being set-up in
the cell.
NOTE 2: The additional notification into on-going voice broadcast, group calls
and point to point calls should be provided by the BSS if the priority level
of the new call is equal or higher than the O&M defined priority level.
In order to do this the BSS sends initial notification messages on FACCH to
all other on-going voice broadcast, group calls, and point to point calls in
the cell. The initial notification message on FACCH shall contain the
broadcast call reference, the priority level if eMLPP applies and possibly the
TCH description which allows the mobile station to connect directly to the new
call without reading the NCH.
An indication of change of notifications in the current cell may be provided
on SACCH by the BSS.
As a mobile station option, the mobile station may read the NCH of the current
cell while in group receive mode, dedicated mode or originator in dedicated
channel mode in order to be notified on other voice broadcast calls.
NOTE 3: Mobile stations may require an additional receiver to read the NCH in
order to ensure a higher probability of receiving notifications for all
present voice broadcast calls without degradation of the received speech
quality.
Late entry of mobile stations into ongoing high priority group calls is
covered by the following mechanisms:
\- Late entrance in dedicated mode
If a mobile station in dedicated mode is moving into an area where a group
call (VGCS or VBS) with priority level equal or higher to an operator specific
setting is on-going, the BSS shall resend the notification message to the
mobile station on FACCH, if the mobile station has ASCI capabilities. This
notification shall be triggered by completion of the dedicated channel
assignment.
Sending periodical notification on FACCH to mobile station in dedicated mode
is optional, and is done as long as the group call (VGCS or VBS) with priority
level equal or higher to an operator specific setting, is ongoing, with a
repetition period given by an operator specific setting.
\- Late entrance in group receive or group transmit mode
When a group call (VGCS or VBS) with priority level equal or higher to an
operator specific setting, is established, the BSS shall send periodical
notification on FACCH to all on-going voice broadcast and group calls in the
cell, except on the FACCH of the group call (VGCS or VBS) which has initiated
this periodical notification. By this method the mobile station in group
receive or group transmit mode moving into this cell is notified. Periodical
notification on FACCH is done as long as the group call (VGCS or VBS) with
priority level equal or higher to an operator specific setting, is ongoing,
with a repetition period given by an operator specific setting.
NOTE 3a: The operator determined Periodical FACCH notification period shall be
a BSS specific operator setting and be a minimum of 1s and maximum of 5s.
**c) Paging into on-going voice broadcast calls**
Paging into on-going voice broadcast calls shall be provided as an
implementation option.
In addition to establishing the links for the voice broadcast call, the
network can provide paging information into on-going voice broadcast calls
informing mobile stations partaking in a voice broadcast call of new incoming
point-to-point calls.
The mobile station shall be ready to receive a paging message on the FACCH
containing the mobile subscriber identity and the priority level if eMLPP
applies.
In the event of a reorganisation of the PCH the BSS shall inform the mobile
stations via the SACCH that paging reorganisation has occurred. A mobile
station receiving this indication shall decode the BCCH in order to obtain the
new paging configuration.
As a mobile station option, the mobile station may read its paging subchannel
in the current cell in group receive mode or group transmit mode in order to
receive paging messages.
NOTE 4: Mobile stations may require an additional receiver to read its PCH
subchannel in order to ensure a higher probability of receiving all relevant
paging messages without degradation of the received speech quality. The
additional receiver may be the same as used for reception of the NCH described
under b) above.
#### 11.3.1.4 Destination service subscribers
Mobile stations of destination service subscribers which are in idle mode
shall listen to notification messages on the NCH and move to the voice
broadcast channel or respond to the notification.
Mobile stations which are busy shall either pre-empt the current call (if
eMLPP is applied and the new call is of a sufficient priority, or shall
provide the service subscriber with an indication similar to call waiting,
when applicable.
#### 11.3.1.5 Destination dispatchers
Destination dispatchers are connected into the voice broadcast call as a
standard point-to-point call. The notification of the identity of the received
broadcast call shall be supplied in the Calling Line Identity, formatted
according to sub-clause 9.2.
### 11.3.2 Call release
The voice broadcast call can be terminated by the calling service subscriber
or the calling dispatcher clearing it down, or by any dispatcher nominated in
the GCR allowed to terminate the call.
#### 11.3.2.1 Call termination by the calling subscriber
If the calling service subscriber issues a termination request a channel
release message shall be sent on the FACCH of all cells in the group call area
and then all resources are freed.
#### 11.3.2.2 Call termination by dispatchers
A dispatcher entitled to terminate the call can be a mobile subscriber or a
fixed line subscriber. The dispatcher may use out-of-band DTMF messages as a
means for the control of the call termination, if it is a mobile dispatcher,
or DTMF tones, if it is a fixed line dispatcher.
If the call is terminated by a mobile dispatcher using DTMF, the out-of-band
messages START_DTMF(X) and STOP_DTMF are sent via the radio interface towards
the network. If the out-of-band DTMF messages are sent by a mobile dispatcher
who is not controlled by the anchor MSC, the DTMF messages will be converted
by the controlling MSC (e.g. relay MSC or visited MSC) into DTMF tones and
these DTMF tones will be sent through the network to the anchor MSC.
If a fixed dispatcher initiates DTMF tones, the DTMF tones will be sent
through the network to the anchor MSC.
Both in case of a mobile and a fixed line dispatcher the anchor MSC is
responsible for the detection and collection of the out-of-band or in-band
DTMF signals. After the evaluation of the DTMF signals, the anchor MSC has to
trigger the appropriate function (see the figures 4b to 4d in 11.3.8).
In order to avoid the erroneous detection of the specific DTMF tone sequence
for call termination by the MSC, this sequence shall consist of at least three
DTMF digits.
### 11.3.3 Leaving of a dispatcher
When the calling dispatcher releases his call leg, the entire VBS call shall
be terminated. A dispatcher who is not the originator can disconnect from the
call at any time without terminating the call. In order to terminate the call
a dispatcher who is entitled to do this must use the explicit signalling
described in subclause 11.3.2.1.
### 11.3.4 Leaving and returning to a voice broadcast call of a service
subscriber
A destination service subscriber shall automatically disconnect from the call
when leaving the group call area.
If the calling subscriber leaves the group call area or enters a BSC area not
belonging to the service area, the call shall be terminated by the network,
once the network has detected that the calling subscriber has left the Group
Call Area.
A destination subscriber\' mobile station shall leave the voice broadcast call
by no longer listening to the voice broadcast channel downlink and returning
to idle mode. A broadcast call is returned to by listening to the periodic
notification messages for that call, and reacting on them appropriately.
### 11.3.5 Cell change
#### 11.3.5.1 Listening subscriber
In all cases change of cell shall be initiated and performed by the service
subscriber\'s mobile station. In order for the service subscribers changing
from one cell to another within the group call area a cell list for the
neighbouring cells belonging to this broadcast call area is periodically
broadcast on the downlink SACCH of the voice broadcast call. In this case,
mobile stations entering a new cell shall perform cell change according to the
algorithm C2, see 3GPP TS 45.008 and 3GPP TS 43.022.
Mobile stations which want to enter a cell shall listen to the BCCH and to the
NCH to determine which channel they shall retune to so that they can continue
with the voice broadcast call if available in that cell.
NOTE: Mobile stations may require an additional receiver to read the BCCH and
NCH of the neighbour cells in order to ensure a higher probability of
receiving the relevant messages without degradation of the received speech
quality. The additional receiver may be the same as used in subclause
11.3.1.3.
Mobile stations entering a new location area shall perform location updating
as normal.
#### 11.3.5.2 Calling service subscriber
Standard mobile station assisted handover shall be used for the cell change of
the calling service subscriber as defined on 3GPP TS 45.008.
If the BSS does not know if one or more of the target cells are outside the
group call area, the BSS shall use the MSC controlled handover procedure. The
MSC shall reject the handover in the case that all target cells are outside
the GCA and as an option release the call.
#### 11.3.5.3 Dispatcher
Dispatchers which are mobile subscribers shall change the cell by standard
handover procedures.
### 11.3.6 New calls
Any service subscriber originated new voice broadcast calls which have
identical group ID and group call area to on-going voice broadcast calls shall
be rejected by the network with cause busy. The mobile station shall then read
the notifications for the corresponding group ID on the NCH.
For any dispatcher originated new voice broadcast calls which are identical to
on-going voice broadcast calls as described above the network shall include
the dispatcher in the on-going call.
Otherwise, new calls are treated as detailed in subclause 11.3.8. In the case
of congestion, voice broadcast calls are treated according to their priority
with each BSC treating each downlink depending on the situation in each cell
to which the call is sent. Therefore, it is possible that a voice broadcast
call might be established only in a subset of the required cells.
In the case where there are no distribution function free, and pre-emption is
not performed, then the call request shall be rejected.
In the case of group members involved in voice broadcast or point-to-point
calls who have been informed of a new voice broadcast call, the mobile station
shall make a decision as to which to monitor as if both the on-going call and
new call were point-to-point calls, and follow the procedure defined in 3GPP
TS 23.067.
### 11.3.7 Uplink transmission management
The uplink related to the voice broadcast channel downlink is not used. No
UPLINK_BUSY information is required.
### 11.3.7a Signalling procedures for the user plane
#### 11.3.7a.1 Broadcast call re-establishment by the BSS
The MSC and BSC negotiate during the setup of a voice broadcast call whether
broadcast call re-establishment by the BSS is supported by both entities.
If broadcast call re-establishment by the BSS is supported by both entities or
the network uses a transmission architecture with A-interface link sharing,
the following procedures apply:
i) If the BSS needs to release the broadcast call channel in a cell due to an
equipment failure or another BSS-generated reason (e.g. preemption), the BSS
shall inform the MSC of the failure with a VBS Assignment Status message.
> The terrestrial resource for the broadcast call channel is not released by
> the MSC.
ii) When the condition that caused the failure is subsequently removed, the
BSS shall re-allocate a radio resource for the broadcast call channel and
inform the MSC of the recovery with a VBS Assignment Status message.
iii) If A-interface link sharing is used, each of the VBS ASSIGNMENT STATUS
messages in item (i) and (ii) shall be sent after expiry of timer Tast.
Otherwise, if broadcast call re-establishment by the BSS is not supported by
both entities and the network does not use a transmission architecture with
A-interface link sharing, the following procedures apply:
i) If the BSS needs to release the broadcast call channel in a cell due to an
equipment failure or another BSS-generated reason (e.g. preemption), the BSS
shall inform the MSC of the failure with a Clear Request message.
ii) The MSC shall then initiate the clearing of the radio and terrestrial
resources for the broadcast call channel. If supported, the MSC may retry the
VBS Assignment procedure for the cell, depending on the reason for release.
Broadcast call re-establishment by the BSS does not apply to the dedicated
link of the originating service subscriber, i.e. if the BSS needs to release
the dedicated channel of the originating service subscriber due to an
equipment failure or another BSS-generated reason (e.g. preemption), the BSS
shall inform the MSC of the failure with a Clear Request message. The MSC
shall then initiate release of the voice broadcast call.
### 11.3.8 Overview of signalling
In this overview, the messages required to implement the specified concept are
identified, and brief details are given of each message.
A diagrammatic representation of the voice broadcast call message structure
proposed and actions required are given in figures 2 to 4f.
In order to simplify the message flows for voice broadcast call establishment
and call termination, the interaction between the MSC and the GCR is only
shown for the MSC where the originator of the broadcast call is located or,
for the case of a broadcast call originated by a dispatcher, only for the
anchor MSC. In all cases, a similar interaction also takes place between the
other MSC(s) and associated GCR(s) involved in the group call.
Summary of figures in this subclause:
Figure 2: voice broadcast call establishment by a service subscriber roaming
in the anchor MSC area;
Figure 3: voice broadcast call establishment by a service subscriber roaming
in the relay MSC area;
Figure 3a: voice broadcast call establishment by a service subscriber in a
RANflex configuration;
Figure 3b: voice broadcast call establishment by a mobile dispatcher or fixed
line dispatcher;
Figure 3c: Signalling information required for establishing voice broadcast
calls by a service subscriber in a RANflex configuration with group call
redundancy
Figure 4: termination of the broadcast call by the originating service
subscriber;
Figure 4a: voice broadcast call establishment by a service subscriber using
immediate setup;
Figure 4b: termination of the broadcast call by an entitled mobile dispatcher
controlled by the anchor MSC;
Figure 4c: termination of the broadcast call by an entitled mobile dispatcher
controlled by a visited MSC;
Figure 4d: termination of the broadcast call by an entitled fixed line
dispatcher.
Figure 4e: A-interface link sharing used or broadcast call re-establishment by
the BSS supported: Release after equipment failure (TRX, PCM, ...) concerning
a cell not serving the originating service subscriber;
Figure 4f: A-interface link sharing used or broadcast call re-establishment by
the BSS supported: Release after equipment failure concerning the link between
MSC and BSS;
* * *
MS\' MSs BSS MSC-A VLR GCR FNT MSC-R
         SYSY\_INFO (NCH allocated)\]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
         \
         IMM\_ASS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
         \                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                      COM\_L3\_INFO                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                      \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>                                                          PROC\_ACC\_REQUIREMENT                                                                                                         
         UA (SERV\_REQ)                                                                                                             \-\-\-\-\-\--\>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
         \
                                                                                                       SETUP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
         \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>   Txx   SEND\_INFO\_OUT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \_\_\_   \-\-\-\-\-\--\>                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \|                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \|       COMPLETE\_CALL                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                       ASS\_REQ                     \|                \                                                       ASS\_COMP                    \|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                      \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>                                                 \|       GCR\_INT                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \|       \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \|                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \|       GCR\_INT\_ACK                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \|       \                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                      \                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \|                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \|       PREPARE\_GROUPCALL\_ACK                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \|       \                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \|                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \|       CONNECT (from MSC-R)                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \|       \ __\|_
\  
NOTIFY_REQ (NCH)  
\
         IMM\_ASS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
         \                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                          COM\_L3\_INFO                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                          \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>      PROC\_ACC\_REQUIREMENT                                                                                                               
         UA (SERV\_REQ)                                                                                \-\-\-\-\-\--\>                                                                                                                                                                                              
         \
                                                                                                       SETUP                                                                                                                                                                                                        
         \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>         SEND\_INFO\_OUT                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                               \-\-\-\-\-\--\>
                                                                                                                                                                               COMPLETE\_CALL                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                       ASS\_REQ                           \                                                       ASS\_COMP                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                          \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>      GCR\_INT                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                               \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>
                                                                                                                                                                               GCR\_INT\_ACK                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                               \   \_\_\_                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               \|   
                                                                                                                                                                               PREPARE\_GROUP\_CALL                                                                                      \|                         
                                                                                                                                                                               \                                                                                     \|           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               \|   
                                                                                                                                                                               GCR\_INT\_ACK                                                                                                      \|                
                                                                                                                                                                               \                                                                                                                 \|   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               \|   
                                                                                                                                                                               ALLOCATE GROUP CALL NUMBER ACK                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                               \   \|
* * *
* * *
MS\' MSs BSS MSC-R VLR GCR MSC-A  
\|  
SETUP (from MSC-A) \|  
\ \|  
VBS_ASS_REQ \|  
\ CONNECT (to MSC-A) \|  
\| ---------------------------------------------------> \|  
\| \|  
VBS_ASS_STATUS \|  
_\|_ ---------------> \|  
NOTIFY_REQ (NCH) \|  
\ __\|_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONNECT (from MSC-A)                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                       CONNECT                                                                                                                                        \ MSs = destination subscriber mobile stations;\ MSC-A = anchor MSC;\ MSC-R =
> relay MSC;
>
> V-MSC = visited MSC;
>
> GMSC = Gateway MSC
Figure 3b: Signalling information required for establishing voice broadcast
calls\ by a mobile dispatcher or fixed line dispatcher
**SETUP:** Mobile dispatcher or fixed line dispatcher sets up a VGCS call. The
visited MSC or the Gateway MSC receives the SETUP message with details about
the voice broadcast call including the Group Call Reference within the MSISDN
dialled by the originating dispatcher.
**SETUP (IAM):** The visited MSC or the Gateway MSC sends an IAM message to
the anchor MSC of the group call based on the called party MSISDN number.
**SETUP (Mobile dispatcher in anchor MSC area):** If the originating mobile
dispatcher is located in the anchor MSC area, the SETUP message with details
about the voice broadcast call including the Group Call Reference within the
MSISDN dialled by the originating dispatcher is received directly by the
anchor MSC (further messages regarding the standard SETUP procedure are not
drawn in the Fig.)
**SEND_INFO_OUT:** The requested group ID is transferred to the VLR in the
internal MAP_SEND_INFO_FOR_OUTGOING_CALL message.
**COMPLETE_CALL:** The VLR returns the MAP_COMPLETE_CALL message confirming
the use of the requested group ID.
**GCR_INT:** The group call attributes are requested from the GCR through the
GCR Interrogation message sent by the MSC.
**GCR_INT_ACK:** The requested information is returned from the GCR in the GCR
Interrogation Ack message.
**VBS_SETUP:** Anchor MSC sends to BSS's a VBS SETUP message across VBS call
controlling SCCP connection to initiate a VBS call set-up procedures.
**VBS SETUP ACK** : After receiving the VBS_SETUP message, BSS will allocate
resources to the call and returns VBS SETUP ACK message to the MSC. This
connection is established for the lifetime of the VBS call.
**VBS_ASSIGNMENT_REQ:** This message is sent from the MSC to all affected
BSCs, [one dedicated message for every requested channel in a cell,] including
the group call reference, the channel type and possibly the call priority and
details on the ciphering.
**PREPARE_GROUP CALL:** The group call attributes are sent to every relay MSC
and a Group Call number for call set-up to is requested.
**PREPARE_GROUP CALL ACK:** The Group Call number for call set-up is returned
to the anchor MSC.
**SETUP to MSC-R:** The ISUP connection is set-up to the relay MSC.
**VBS_SETUP:** Relay MSC sends to BSSs a VBS SETUP message to initiate a VBS
call set-up procedures.
**VBS SETUP ACK** : After receiving the VBS_SETUP message, BSS will allocate
resources to the call and returns VBS SETUP ACK message to the MSC. This
connection is established for the lifetime of the VBS call.
**VBS_ASSIGNMENT_REQ:** This message is sent from the relay MSC to all
affected BSCs, [one dedicated message for every requested channel in a cell,]
including the group call reference, the channel type and possibly the call
priority and details on the ciphering.
**CONNECT from MSC-R:** Set-up of the ISUP connection to the relay MSC is
confirmed.
**VBS_ASSIGNMENT RESULT:** Acknowledgement message from the affected BSC in
answer to the assignment requests. If the assignment is not successful, a
VBS_ASSIGNMENT_FAILURE message shall be sent instead.
**SEND_GROUP CALL_END_SIGNAL:** Indicates to the anchor MSC that at least one
voice broadcast call channel has been established in the relay MSC area.
**Txx:** Timer implemented in the anchor MSC which is started with receipt of
the SETUP message from the dispatcher. If the timer expires before the
conditions for establishment have been met, as per subclause 11.3.1.1.2, then
the call shall be released.
**NOTIF_REQ (NCH):** Messages for notification which contain the group call
reference, the priority of the call if eMLPP is applied, and possibly the
channel description of the voice broadcast call channel to which the mobile
stations shall listen and the number of the group key used for ciphering.
**NOTIF_REQ (FACCH):** Message for notification sent on the FACCH to the
mobile stations currently involved in other calls. The notification on the
FACCH shall include the group call reference; and the priority level and may
also include the channel description and the group ciphering key numbers.
**CONNECT:** Information to the originating that the VBS is established with
the related group call reference as the connected number.
**Periodic NOTIF_REQ (NCH):** The notifications are sent periodically so that
mobile stations moving into the area can join the voice broadcast call.
**Periodic SACCH Info:** Periodic messages sent on SACCH. This message may
include:
\- information of changes of notifications;
> \- information used for cell re-selection.
Figure 3c: Signalling information required for establishing voice broadcast
calls\ by a service subscriber in a RANflex configuration with group call
redundancy
**See also figure 3a**
**1\. SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO:** The V-MSC derives from the originating cell\'s
LAC the address of the group call serving MSC redundancy pool and sends
MAP_SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO to it, to retrieve the group call anchor MSC
redundancy pool address. Network routing shall be configured so that the
message is routed to one of the available MSCs within the redundancy pool. In
this example MSC-R1 is selected. The message includes initial talker
information.
**2\. GCR_INT:** MSC-R 1 requests from its associated GCR the group call
reference and group call anchor MSC redundancy pool address. The message may
contain initial talker information.
**3a. SYNC_GCR:** Initial Talker Information is propagated to all GCRs
associated to MSCs within the redundancy pool.
**3b. GCR_INT_ACK:** The requested information is returned from the GCR in the
GCR Interrogation Ack message. To avoid glare cases GCR 1 may need to wait for
message 5 before sending message 3b.
**4\. SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO_ACK:** The requested information is returned to the
visited MSC.
**5\. SYNC_GCR_ACK:** Successfull GCR synchronization is acknowledged.
**6\. SETUP to MSC-A:** Based on information received from the group call
serving MSC the VMSC shall set-up a dedicated connection for the calling
service subscriber to the group call anchor MSC redundancy pool. Network
routing shall be configured so that the message is routed to one of the
available MSCs within the redundancy pool. In this example MSC-A1 is selected.
The VBS prefix plus broadcast call reference shall be sent as calling party
number. The address of the calling service subscriber\'s group call serving
MSC pool shall be sent as generic number parameter, with the number qualifier
indicator set to \"additional calling party number\"; this shall be the same
address as used to route message 1.
**7\. GCR_INT:** MSC-A 1 requests from its associated GCR the broadcast call
attributes and maks the broadcast call \"on-going\".
**8a. SYNC_GCR:** The \"on-going\" indication is propagated to all GCRs
associated to MSCs within the redundancy pool.
**8b. GCR_INT_ACK:** The requested information is returned from the GCR in the
GCR Interrogation Ack message. To avoid glare cases GCR 3 may need to wait for
message 9 before sending message 8b.
**9\. SYNC_GCR_ACK:** Successfull GCR synchronization is acknowledged.
**10\. PREPARE_GROUP_CALL:** MSC-A 1 sends PREPARE_GROUP_CALL to the group
call relay MSC redundancy pool. Network routing shall be configured so that
the message is routed to one of the available MSCs within the redundancy pool.
In this example MSC-R2 is selected.
**11\. GCR_INT:** MSC-R 2 interrogates its associated GCR to retrieve the
group call attributes and initial talker information and to mark the broadcast
call \"on-going\" and to delete the initial talker information.
**12a. SYNC_GCR:** The \"on-going\" indication is propagated to all GCRs
associated to MSCs within the redundancy pool.
**12b. GCR_INT_ACK:** The requested information is returned from the GCR in
the GCR Interrogation Ack message.
**13\. SYNC_GCR_ACK:** Successfull GCR synchronization is acknowledged.
**ALLOCATE GROUP CALL NUMBER (not shown in figure 8a):** MSC-R2 requests the
Group Call number from its associated VLR
**ALLOCATE GROUP CALL NUMBER ACK (not shown in figure 8a):** The Group Call
number is returned from the VLR.
**14\. PREPARE_GROUP_CALL_ACK:** The Group Call number is sent to MSC-A1.
**15\. SETUP from MSC-A1:** The ISUP connection is set-up between MSC-A1 and
MSC-R2 using the Group Call number received in step 14.
**RELEASE GROUP CALL NUMBER (not shown in figure 8a):** The VLR is requested
to release the Group Call number.
**16a. CONNECT to MSC-A:** Set-up of the ISUP connection from the anchor MSC
is confirmed.
**16b. SEND_GROUP CALL_END_SIGNAL (IMSI):** Indicates to the anchor MSC that
conversation can start. In addition the IMSI of calling service subscriber who
has established the voice group call and who is allowed to terminate the call
is included. After sending message 16b MSC-R2 deletes initial talker
information (if any) as it may be invalid due to a lost race condition. Valid
initial talker information (if any) may be received with message 17b.
**17\. CONNECT (from MSC-A):** Call set-up of the dedicated connection for the
calling service subscriber is confirmed.
MS' | MSs | BSS | MSC-A |  | GCR | FNT | MSC-R |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| TERMINATION REQUEST |  | Release (NOTE 9) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| \------------------------------------------> |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | CHANNEL RELEASE |  |  |  | VBS_TERMIN |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | CHANNEL RELEASE |  |  |  | Release |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | CLEAR COM |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | \---------------> |  | SEND_GROUP CALL_END_SIGNAL_ACK |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | SCCP_RLSD |  | \---------------------------------------------------> |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | CLEAR CMD |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | SCCP_RLSD |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Figure 4: Signalling required to disconnect the voice broadcast call
**TERMINATION REQUEST:** The calling service subscriber\'s mobile station can
send a TERMINATION REQUEST message to clear down the entire voice broadcast
call.
NOTE 9: Alternatively an authorized dispatcher can terminate the voice
broadcast call in which case a release message is received from the external
network.
NOTE 9a: Alternatively an authorized mobile dispatcher can terminate the voice
broadcast call by using a specific DTMF message sequence. If the mobile
dispatcher is controlled by the anchor MSC, the specific DTMF message sequence
is received by the anchor MSC (see figure 4b).
NOTE 9b: If the mobile dispatcher is controlled by a relay MSC, the specific
DTMF message sequence is received by the relay MSC. The relay MSC converts the
DTMF messages into DTMF tones and sends them towards the anchor MSC (see
figure 4c).
NOTE 9c: Alternatively an authorized fixed line dispatcher can terminate the
voice broadcast call by using a specific DTMF tone sequence. In this case, the
specific DTMF tone sequence is received by the anchor MSC (see figure 4d).
NOTE 10: Alternatively the calling service subscriber currently served by the
relay-MSC can terminate the call in which case a release message is received
from the relay MSC on the dedicated connection.
**CLEAR CMD:** This message is sent from the MSC to the BSS via each Resource
Controlling SCCP connection to clear radio and terrestrial resources.
**VBS_TERMIN:** The MSC informs the GCR that the voice broadcast call with the
related broadcast call reference is terminated.
**CHANNEL RELEASE: CHANNEL** RELEASE messages are sent to the calling
subscriber and on all downlink FACCH to the service subscribers. The
**CHANNEL** RELEASE messages shall be repeated for a predefined period in
order to provide a high probability that the listening mobile stations receive
the message.
\- CHANNEL RELEASE message is sent using I frame for the calling subscriber.
\- CHANNEL RELEASE messages are sent using UI frames for listeners.
In addition, release messages are sent to all related dispatchers and relay
MSCs.
**SEND_GROUP CALL_END_SIGNAL_ACK** : The dialogues to all relay MSCs are
closed.
**CLEAR COMPLETE:** standard message.
**SCCP_RLSD:** standard message sent via resource controlling SCCP connection.
**SCCP_RLC:** standard message.
**CLEAR CMD:** This message is sent from the MSC to the BSS via the Call
Controlling SCCP connection, after all the terrestrial resources associated
with the BSS for this broadcast call have been released.
**CLEAR COMPLETE:** standard message.
**SCCP_RLSD:** standard message sent via call controlling SCCP connection.
**SCCP_RLC:** standard message.
* * *
**[MS]{.underline}** []{.underline} **[BTS]{.underline}** []{.underline}
**[BSC]{.underline}** []{.underline} **[MSC]{.underline}** \| **_[From the VBS
call originator]{.underline}_** \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| SYS_INFO (NCH
allocated) \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| Channel_request \| \| \| \| \|
channel_required \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| channel_activate(SDCCH) \| \| \| \|
\| \| \| \| channel_activate_ack \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \|
imm_assignment_command \| \| \| Imm_assignment \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \|
SABM(Immediate _setup) \| \| \| \| \| est_ind(Immediate _setup) \| \| \|
UA(immediate_setup) \| \| SCCP_CR((COMPLETE LAYER 3 INFORMATION
(Immediate_setup) \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| SCCP_CC \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \|
assignment_req \| \| \| channel_activate(TCH) \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \|
channel_activate_ack \| \| \| \| \| \| \| assignment_command \|
assignment_command \| \| \| \| \| \| \| SABM \| \| \| \| \| est_ind \| \| \|
UA \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| assignment_comp \| assignment_comp \| \| \| \| \|
assignment_comp \| \| \| \| \| \| \| RF_channel_release(SDCCH) \| \| \| \| \|
\| \| \| RF_channel_release_ack \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \|
[]{.underline} \| **_[For each BSC in the Group]{.underline}_** \| \| \| \| \|
\| \| \| Same as Standard case \| \| \| \| \| \| \| []{.underline} \| **_[For
each cell in the Group]{.underline}_** \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| Same as
Standard case \|
* * *
Figure 4a: Signalling information required for establishing voice broadcast
calls\ by a service subscriber using immediate setup
**SYS_INFO (NCH allocated):** Message used to indicate if the NCH is allocated
on the CCCH in the cell.
**Initial RACH CHAN_REQ:** Standard message.
**IMM_ASSIGNMENT:** Standard message sent on the AGCH.
**IMMEDIATE_SETUP:** This message including all details of the broadcast call
is sent by the MS to the network in order to set-up a broadcast call
immediately, i.e. without previous establishment of an MM connection.
**UA (IMMEDIATE_SETUP):** This message is used to acknowledge the layer 2 link
and provide contention resolution of the immediate setup.
NOTE 11: Authentication and/ or activation of Ciphering may be performed
before or after sending a CONNECT message. If ciphering has not been activated
before sending a CONNECT message, a CM_SERVICE ACCEPT may be sent before the
CONNECT message by the MSC, however sending of the CM_SERVICE_ACCEPT is not
mandatory.
Figure 4b: Signalling required for broadcast call termination by an entitled
mobile dispatcher, if the mobile dispatcher is controlled by the anchor MSC of
the broadcast call.
Figure 4c: Signalling required for broadcast call termination by an entitled
mobile dispatcher, if the mobile dispatcher is controlled by a visited MSC
(could be a relay MSC) of the broadcast call.
Figure 4d: Signalling required for broadcast call termination by an entitled
fixed line dispatcher.
NOTE: The terrestrial resource for the broadcast call channel is not released.
Figure 4e: A-interface link sharing used or broadcast call re-establishment by
the BSS supported: release after equipment failure (TRX, PCM ...) concerning a
cell that is not serving the originating service subscriber
If A-interface link sharing is used or broadcast call re-establishment by the
BSS is supported, and a failure concerning a cell that is not serving the
originating service subscriber was detected, the BSS shall send the VBS
ASSIGNMENT STATUS message indicating that the connection to this cell is no
longer established (see figure 4e). If A-interface link sharing is used, the
VBS ASSIGNMENT STATUS message shall be sent on expiry of timer Tast.
Figure 4f: A-interface link sharing used or broadcast call re-establishment by
the BSS supported: release after equipment failure concerning the link between
MSC and BSS
If A-interface link sharing is used or broadcast call re-establishment by the
BSS is supported, the BSC shall send the message CLEAR REQUEST with cause
value \"equipment failure\" or another appropriate cause value, if a failure
concerning the link between MSC and BSS was detected and the resources related
to this connection shall be released (see figure 4f). After receipt of the
CLEAR REQUEST message the MSC shall send a CLEAR COMMAND message for the
respective connection and try to establish a new connection.
## 11.4 Functional requirement of Anchor-MSC
The VBS handling process in the anchor MSC is shown in figure 5.
**Successful call set-up**
When the VBS handling process in the anchor MSC receives a VBS call set-up
request from either a dispatcher or a service subscriber currently located in
the anchor MSC\'s area or a service subscriber currently located in a relay
MSC\'s area, or - in a RANflex configuration or in a RANflex configuration
with group call redundancy - from a service subscriber currently registered in
a VMSC, it interrogates its associated GCR to retrieve the broadcast call
attributes, and waits for a response.
If the GCR returns a positive response containing the broadcast call
attributes, the anchor MSC sets up the downlinks to the cells inside the MSC
area of the group call anchor MSC into which the call is to be sent, sets up
the connections to the dispatchers to which a dedicated link is to be
established , sets up the connections to the relay MSCs or relay MSC
redundancy pools into which the call is to be sent and waits for call release.
**Procedure Setup Connections to Relay MSCs and BSCs**
The procedure is shown in figure 6.
The procedure
\- sets up the downlinks to the cells inside the MSC area of the group call
anchor MSC into which the call is to be sent;
\- sends PREPARE_GROUP_CALL messages to all relay MSCs (in a RANflex
configuration with group call redundancy: to all group call relay MSC
redundancy pools) and waits for the responses.
If a positive response containing a Group Call number is received from a relay
MSC, the anchor MSC constructs an IAM using the Group Call number as called
party address, sends it to the relay MSC and waits for the
SEND_GROUP_CALL_END_SIGNAL message.
If a SEND_GROUP_CALL_END_SIGNAL message without IMSI is received from a relay
MSC, this indicates to the anchor MSC that at least one downlink to a cell has
been successfully connected in the relay MSC.
If the call was originated by a service subscriber in a relay MSC area and a
SEND_GROUP_CALL_END_SIGNAL message with the IMSI of the originator is received
from this relay MSC, this indicates to the anchor MSC that the downlink to the
originating cell has been successfully connected.
Relay MSCs (in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy: relay MSC
redundancy pools) that do not send positive responses to the
PREPARE_GROUP_CALL message are no longer considered to belong to the list of
relay MSCs (or relay MSC redundancy pools) for this VBS call.
If, after receipt of a positive response containing a Group Call number from a
relay MSC, the anchor MSC receives an ABORT from the relay MSC, the relay MSC
or relay MSC redundancy pool will no longer be considered to belong to the
list of relay MSCs or relay MSC redundancy pools for this VBS call.
Optionally in both cases the anchor MSC may retry to establish the connection
to the relay MSC or relay MSC redundancy pool, instead of no longer
considering the relay MSC or relay MSC redundancy pool to belong to the list
of relay MSCs or relay MSC redundancy pools.
If an ABORT message is received from the relay MSC or relay MSC redundancy
pool the anchor MSC releases the connection, established with the Group Call
number, to the relay MSC or relay MSC redundancy pool and the relay MSC or
relay MSC redundancy pool is no longer considered to belong to the list of
relay MSCs or relay MSC redundancy pools for this VBS call.
If a Release message for the connection established with the Group Call number
is received from a relay MSC or relay MSC redundancy pool, then the relay MSC
or relay MSC redundancy pool is no longer considered to belong to the list of
relay MSCs or relay MSC redundancy pools for this VBS call. If the negative
response on the PREPARE_GROUP_CALL message is received from originating relay
MSC, the call may be released.
**Unsuccessful call set-up**
If the call set-up is unsuccessful (i.e. conditions for call establishment
have not been met as per subclause 11.3.1.1.2) the anchor MSC releases the
connections to the relay MSCs, aborts any dialogues to relay MSCs, releases
all connections to dispatchers, all downlinks to cells inside the anchor MSC
area are released, the GCR is informed that the call is no longer on-going and
the process returns to the idle state.
**Negative response received from the GCR**
If the GCR returns a negative response to the anchor MSC indicating that the
call is already on-going locally i.e. at the associated MSC, the anchor MSC
checks whether the new call was initiated by a dispatcher. If so, the
dispatcher is connected to the on-going call and the process returns to the
idle state. If the new call was initiated by a service subscriber, a Release
message indicating \'user busy\' is returned in order to force the mobile
station of the service subscriber to look for notifications of the respective
group ID on the NCH and join the broadcast call.
If (in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy) the GCR returns a
negative response to the selected anchor MSC indicating that the call is
already on-going at another MSC within the group call anchor MSC redundancy
pool, the selected anchor MSC checks whether the new call was initiated by a
dispatcher or a service subscriber served by another VMSC. If so, the selected
anchor MSC forwards the call setup request to the anchor MSC where the group
call is ongoing (possibly using a special prefix for the called party number).
The selected anchor MSC then acts as a transit node unless it recognizes that
the anchor MSC where the broadcast call is ongoing is out of service. In the
latter case the selected anchor MSC repeats the GCR interrogation including
\"ongoing call override indication\". If the call was initiated by a service
subscriber served by the selected anchor MSC, the selected anchor MSC
interrogates the anchor MSC where the broadcast call is ongoing by means of
the MAP service SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO and waits for a response. If the selected
anchor MSC recognizes that the anchor MSC where the broadcast call is ongoing
is out of service or if that anchor MSC responds with a positive
SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO response (i.e. the GCRs are out of synch and the
broadcast call at the other anchor MSC is not ongoing), then the selected
anchor MSC repeats the GCR interrogation including \"ongoing call override
indication\". If the anchor MSC where the broadcast call is ongoing responds
with a negative SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO response (ongoing call), then the
selected anchor MSC returns a Release message indicating \"user busy\" in
order to force the mobile station of the service subscriber to look for
notifications of the respective group ID on the NCH and join the broadcast
call.
If the negative response from the GCR indicates any other reason than \'on-
going call\' the VBS call set-up request is rejected by sending a release
message back to the initiator and the process returns to the idle state.
**Call release**
If the anchor MSC receives the specific DTMF message sequence or the specific
DTMF tone sequence for call termination from a dispatcher who is allowed to
terminate the voice broadcast call (see figures 4b to 4d), or a Termination
Request message from the service subscriber who has initiated the VBS call or
a Release message from the relay MSC for the calling service subscriber's
dedicated connection to the anchor MSC, the connections to the relay MSCs are
released and any MAP dialogues to relay MSCs are closed by sending
SEND_GROUP_CALL_END_ SIGNAL_ACK, all connections to dispatchers are released,
all downlinks to cells inside the anchor MSC area are released, the GCR is
informed that the call is no longer on-going and the process returns to the
idle state.
Figure 5: VBS handling process in the anchor MSC (sheet 1 of 3)
Figure 5: The VBS handling process in the anchor MSC (sheet 2 of 3)
Figure 5: VBS handling process in the anchor MSC (sheet 3 of 3)
{width="5.992361111111111in" height="7.247916666666667in"}
Figure 6: Set-up connection to relay MSCs and BSCs (sheet 1 of 1)
## 11.5 Functional requirement of Relay-MSC
The VBS handling process in the relay MSC is shown in figure 7.
**Successful call set-up initiated by a service subscriber**
When the VBS handling process in the relay MSC receives a VBS call set-up
request from a service subscriber currently located in a relay MSC\'s area, it
interrogates its associated GCR to retrieve the anchor MSC address and waits
for a response.
If the GCR returns a positive response containing the anchor MSC address, the
relay MSC sets up a dedicated connection for the initiating service subscriber
to the anchor MSC by constructing an IAM with calling party number set to the
VBS prefix plus broadcast call reference, and with a generic number parameter
with the number qualifier indicator set to \"additional calling party number\"
and address signal set to the address of this relay MSC, sending it to the
anchor MSC, and waits for call release.
**Negative response received from the GCR**
If the GCR returns a negative response to the relay MSC indicating that the
call is already on-going locally, i.e. at the associated MSC, the relay MSC
sends a Release message indicating \'user busy\' to the service subscriber in
order to force the mobile station of the service subscriber to look for
notifications of the respective group ID on the NCH and join the broadcast
call.
If (in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy) the GCR returns a
negative response to the relay MSC indicating that the call is already on-
going at another MSC within the group call relay MSC redundancy pool, the
selected relay MSC interrogates the relay MSC where the broadcast call is
ongoing by means of the MAP service SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO and waits for a
response. If the selected relay MSC recognizes that the relay MSC where the
broadcast call is ongoing is out of service or if that relay MSC responds with
a positive SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO response (i.e. the GCRs are out of synch and
the broadcast call at the other relay MSC is not ongoing), then the selected
relay MSC repeats the GCR interrogation including \"ongoing call override
indication\". If the relay MSC where the broadcast call is ongoing responds
with a negative SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO response (ongoing call), then the
selected relay MSC returns a Release message indicating \"user busy\" in order
to force the mobile station of the service subscriber to look for
notifications of the respective group ID on the NCH and join the broadcast
call.
If the negative response from the GCR indicates any other reason than \'on-
going call\' the VBS call set-up request is rejected by sending a release
message back to the initiator and the process returns to the idle state.
**Successful call set-up initiated by the anchor MSC**
When the VBS handling process in the relay MSC receives a PREPARE_GROUP_CALL
message from the anchor MSC, it interrogates its associated GCR to retrieve
the list of cells inside the relay MSC area into which the call is to be sent.
If the GCR returns a positive response, the relay MSC requests a Group Call
number from its VLR.
If the VLR returns a Group Call number, a PREPARE_GROUP_CALL acknowledgement
containing the Group Call number is returned to the anchor MSC and the relay
MSC waits for the incoming call.
If the incoming call identified by the Group Call number is received, the
relay MSC releases the Group Call number and sets up the downlinks to the
cells inside the relay MSC area into which the call is to be sent.
If the call was originated by a service subscriber from the relay MSC area,
the relay MSC shall send a SEND_GROUP_CALL_END_SIGNAL message including the
IMSI of the originator to the anchor MSC when the downlink has been set up
successfully to the originating cell.
If the call was not originated by a service subscriber from the relay MSC
area, the relay MSC shall send a SEND_GROUP_CALL_END_SIGNAL message without
IMSI information element to the anchor MSC as soon as the downlink has been
set up successfully to any cell.
Then the relay MSC waits for the call to be released.
**Negative response received from the GCR II**
If the GCR returns a negative response to the relay MSC, the relay MSC returns
a PREPARE_GROUP_CALL negative response to the anchor MSC and returns to the
idle state.
**No Group Call number received from VLR**
If the VLR could not allocate a Group Call number, the relay MSC returns a
PREPARE_GROUP_CALL negative response to the anchor MSC, informs the GCR that
the call is no longer on-going and returns to the idle state.
**Abort received from VLR**
If the VLR indicates that the Group Call number supervision timer has expired,
the relay MSC sends an ABORT message to the anchor MSC, informs the GCR that
the call is no longer on-going and returns to the idle state.
**Abort received from Anchor MSC**
If, after returning a PREPARE_GROUP_CALL acknowledgement containing the Group
Call number, an ABORT is received from the anchor MSC the relay MSC releases
the Group Call number, informs the GCR that the call is no longer on-going and
returns to the idle state.
**Abort initiated by Relay MSC**
The relay MSC may abort the dialogue by sending an ABORT message to the anchor
MSC (e.g. if the relay MSC fails to establish any downlinks in its area). The
relay MSC then also releases any resources, informs the GCR that the call is
no longer on-going and returns to the idle state.
**Unsuccessful call set-up**
Unsuccessful call set-up is determined in the anchor MSC (as per subclause
11.3.1.1.2). The relay MSC follows the procedures specified for 'ABORT
received from Anchor MSC' and 'Call release'.
**Call release**
When receiving a release message from the anchor MSC for the dedicated
connection which was set-up to for the initiating service subscriber located
in the relay MSC area, the relay MSC releases the connection to the service
subscriber and the process returns to the idle state.
When the initiating service subscriber terminates the call, the relay MSC
sends a release message for the dedicated connection to the anchor MSC and the
process returns to the idle state.
When receiving a release message from the anchor MSC for the connection which
was set up using the Group Call number or an ABORT message, the relay MSC
releases all downlinks to cells inside the relay MSC area, informs the GCR
that the call is no longer on-going and the process returns to the idle state.
Figure 7: VBS handling process in the relay MSC (sheet 1 of 4)
Figure 7: The VBS handling process in the relay MSC (sheet 2 of 4)
Figure 7: VBS handling process in the relay MSC (sheet 3 of 4)
Figure 7: VBS handling process in the relay MSC (sheet 4 of 4)
## 11.5A Functional requirement of group call serving MSC (within a RANflex
pool)
The process in the group call serving MSC is shown in figure 7A.
The group call serving MSC is either the anchor MSC or a relay MSC.
**Successful call set-up initiated by a service subscriber**
When receiving a SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO interrogation request from a VMSC, the
group call serving MSC (in a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy:
the selected group call serving MSC) interrogates its associated GCR to
retrieve the Broadcast Call Reference and the Anchor MSC address from the
given cell Id / Group Id pair and return this information to the VMSC. The
group call serving MSC shall temporarily store in its associated GCR the
initiating subscriber\'s IMSI and originating cell Id as received in the
interrogation request from the VMSC. The group call serving MSC shall then
wait for the broadcast call being set up:\ If the group call serving MSC is
the anchor MSC, it waits for an IAM from the VMSC; if the group call serving
MSC is a relay MSC, it waits for a PREPARE_GROUP_CALL from the anchor MSC.\
Waiting for the broadcast call being set up shall be supervised by a timer
T3.\ When receiving IAM from the visited MSC, timer T3 is stopped and
processing continues in the process VBS_Handling_Anchor_MSC after reception of
the VBS call setup request in Idle state.\ When receiving PREPARE_GROUP_CALL
from the anchor MSC, timer T3 is stopped and processing continues in the
process VBS_Handling_Relay_MSC after reception of PREPARE GROUP CALL in Idle
state.
**Unsuccessful call set-up**
In a RANflex configuration: If the broadcast call reference could not be
retrieved or the GCR returns a negative response indicating \"on-going call\"
to the group call serving MSC, an error indication is returned to the VMSC and
the process returns to the idle state.
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy: If the GCR returns a
negative response indicating \"on-going call\" to the group call serving MSC,
the group call serving MSC forwards the SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO message within
the same redundancy pool to the group call serving MSC where the broadcast
call is ongoing.
If the selected group call serving MSC recognizes that the group call serving
MSC where the broadcast call is ongoing is out of service or if that group
call serving MSC responds with a positive SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO response (i.e.
the GCRs are out of synch and the broadcast call at the other group call
serving MSC is not ongoing), then the selected group call serving MSC repeats
the GCR interrogation including \"ongoing call override indication\". If the
group call serving MSC where the broadcast call is ongoing responds with a
negative SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO response (ongoing call), then the selected group
call serving MSC returns a negative SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO response indicating
\"ongoingGroupCall\" to the VMSC in order to force the mobile station of the
service subscriber to look for notifications of the respective group ID on the
NCH and join the broadcast call.
At timeout of timer T3 the temporarily stored initiating subscriber\'s IMSI
and originating cell Id shall be deleted from the GCR.
Figure 7A: The VBS handling process in the group call serving MSC (sheet 1 of
2)
Figure 7A: The VBS handling process in the group call serving MSC (sheet 2 of
2)
## 11.5B Functional requirement of VMSC (within a RANflex pool)
The process in the visited MSC is shown in figure 7B.
**Successful call set-up initiated by a service subscriber**
When the VBS handling process in the originating MSC receives a VBS call set-
up request from a service subscriber, the VMSC derives the address of the
group call serving MSC or group call serving MSC redundancy pool from the
requesting subscriber\'s current LAC. If the VMSC is the group call serving
MSC or belongs to the group call serving MSC redundancy pool of the requesting
subscriber\'s current LAC, processing continues in the process
VBS_Handling_Anchor_MSC or VGCS_Handling_Relay_MSC after reception of the VGCS
call setup request in Idle state. Otherwise, the visited MSC interrogates the
group call serving MSC by means of the MAP service SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO to
retrieve the anchor MSC address and Broadcast Call Reference and waits for a
response.
If the group call serving MSC returns a positive response containing the
address of the anchor MSC or anchor MSC redundancy pool and the address is
different from the visited MSC\'s address, the originating MSC sets up a
dedicated connection for the initiating service subscriber to the anchor MSC
by constructing an IAM with calling party number set to VBS prefix plus
broadcast call reference, and with a generic number parameter with the number
qualifier indicator set to \"additional calling party number\" and address
signal set to the address of the group call serving MSC (in a RANflex
configuration with group call redundancy this shall be the same address as
used to route the SEND_GROUP_CALL_INFO message , i.e. identifying the
redundancy pool), sending it to the anchor MSC, and waits for call release. If
the VMSC is the anchor MSC or belongs to the anchor MSC redundancy pool,
processing continues in the process VBS_Handling_Anchor_MSC after reception of
the VBS call setup request in Idle state.
**Negative response received from the group call serving** **MSC**
If the group call serving MSC returns a negative response to the originating
MSC indicating that the call is already on-going, the originating MSC sends a
Release message indicating \"user busy\" to the service subscriber in order to
force the mobile station of the service subscriber to look for notifications
of the respective group ID on the NCH and join the group call.
If the negative response from the group call serving MSC indicates any other
reason than \"on-going call\" the VBSS call set-up request is rejected by
sending a release message back to the initiator and the process returns to the
idle state.
Figure 7B: The VBS handling process in the VMSC
## 11.6 Functional requirement of GCR
The process in the GCR for RANflex and without RANflex configurations is shown
in figure 8.
The process in the GCR for RANflex configuration with group call redundancy is
shown in figure 8A. Figure 8A does not show details on GCR restoration (see
subclause 5.3.3).
**Service subscriber initiated call**
If the GCR receives an interrogation request for a call initiated by a service
subscriber who is located in the MSC area of the associated MSC, the GCR
calculates the broadcast call reference from the Group ID and the originating
cell ID.
If the broadcast call reference was successfully calculated, the GCR checks
whether a VBS call with that broadcast call reference is already on-going.
If the call is not marked as on-going, the GCR checks whether an anchor MSC
address is stored in its broadcast call reference record. If this is the case
and initial talker information is not yet stored, a positive response
including the anchor MSC address is returned to the MSC, the initial talker
information (IMSI, originating cell id) of the initiating service subscriber
is stored in the GCR and the process returns to the idle state. If anchor MSC
address and initial talker information are stored (this is the case where the
associated MSC is relay MSC, and timer T3 is running, i.e. broadcast call
setup is in progress but the call is not yet fully established ), a negative
response indicating \"on-going call\" is returned to the MSC and the process
returns to the idle state. If no anchor MSC address is stored ( i.e. the
associated MSC is anchor MSC with respect to this broadcast call reference)
the GCR marks its broadcast call reference record with \'on-going call\' and
returns a positive response including the broadcast call attributes to the MSC
and the process returns to the idle state.
If the broadcast call reference could not be successfully calculated from the
Group ID and the originating cell ID, the GCR returns a negative response
indicating \'failure\' to the MSC and the process returns to the idle state.
If the call was marked as on-going , the GCR returns a negative response
indicating \'on-going call\' to the MSC and the process returns to the idle
state.
**IAM initiated call**
If the GCR receives an interrogation request for a call initiated by a
dispatcher or by a service subscriber who is not located in the MSC area of
the associated MSC, the GCR checks the calling party number of the initiator
against the list of identities of dispatchers which are allowed to initiate
the voice broadcast call and against the prefix for VBS plus broadcast call
reference in order to determine whether the initiator is allowed to set-up the
call. If the check is successful the GCR checks whether a VBS call with the
same broadcast call reference is already on-going.
If the call is not marked as on-going, the GCR marks its broadcast call
reference record with \'on-going call\' and returns a positive response
including the broadcast call attributes to the MSC and the process returns to
the idle state. In addition the GCR shall delete stored initial talker
information (if any).
If the calling party number check was not successful, the GCR returns a
negative response indicating \'failure\' to the MSC and the process returns to
the idle state.
If the call was marked as on-going , the GCR returns a negative response
indicating \'on-going call\' to the MSC and the process returns to the idle
state.
**Anchor MSC triggered call**
If the GCR (associated to a relay MSC) receives an interrogation request for a
call triggered by the anchor MSC, the GCR returns a positive response to the
MSC including:
\- the list of cells inside the MSC area of the requesting MSC in which the
call is to be sent; and
\- the stored initial talker information (if any) to the MSC;
and:
\- marks its broadcast call reference with \"on-going call\";
\- deletes the stored initial talker information (if any)
and the process returns to the idle state.
**VMSC triggered call (in a RANflex configuration)**
If the GCR (associated to a group call serving MSC) receives an interrogation
request for a call triggered by the VMSC, the GCR
\- calculates the broadcast call reference from the Group ID and the
originating cell ID;
If for the calculated broadcast call reference the record is marked with \"on-
going call\" or initial talker information are already stored, a negative
response indicating \"on-going call\" is returned to the GCSMSC and the
process returns to the idle state. Otherwise the GCR:
\- stores the initial talker information (IMSI and originating cell ID
received with the request); and
\- returns a positive response including broadcast call reference and, if the
group call serving MSC is a relay MSC, the anchor MSC address.
**Call release**
If the GCR receives a call released indication from the MSC, the \'on-going
call\' indicator in the broadcast call reference record is reset, the initial
talker information is deleted (if any) and the process returns to the idle
state.
Figure 8: Process in the GCR (sheet 1 of 3)
Figure 8: Process in the GCR (sheet 2 of 3)
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.161805555555556in"}
Figure 8: Process in the GCR (sheet 3 of 3)
Figure 8A: The Process in the GCR for RANflex with group call redundancy
(sheet 1 of 4)
Figure 8A: The Process in the GCR for RANflex with group call redundancy
(sheet 2 of 4)
Figure 8A: The Process in the GCR for RANflex with group call redundancy
(sheet 3 of 4)
Figure 8A: The Process in the GCR for RANflex with group call redundancy
(sheet 4 of 4)
Figure 8B: Procedure Synchronize Transient Data
## 11.7 Functional requirement of VLR
The Group Call number allocation process in the VLR is shown in figure 9.
**Successful procedure**
When receiving a request from the relay MSC to allocate a Group Call number,
the VLR checks if a Group Call number is available. If so it selects a Group
Call number, marks the number as allocated, returns a positive response
including the Group Call number to the MSC, starts a supervision timer and
waits for removal of the Group Call number. If the VLR receives a request to
release the Group Call number, the VLR marks the Group Call number as free and
the process returns to the idle state.
**No Group Call number available**
If no Group Call number is available, the VLR returns a negative response
indicating \'no Group Call number available\' to the MSC and the process
returns to the idle state.
**Supervision timer expires**
If the supervision timer expires, the VLR indicates to the relay MSC that the
dialogue has to be aborted.
{width="6.488888888888889in" height="8.188194444444445in"}
Figure 9: Group Call number allocation process in the VLR
# 12 Content of messages
This clause specifies the content of the following messages:
On the B interface (MSC-VLR):
\- Allocate Group Call Number;
\- Allocate Group Call Number ack;
\- Allocate Group Call Number negative response;
\- Release Group Call Number.
On the E interface (MSC-MSC):
\- Prepare Group Call;
\- Prepare Group Call ack;
\- Prepare Group Call negative response;
\- Send Group Call End Signal;
\- Send Group Call Info;
\- Send Group Call Info ack;
\- Send Group Call Info negative response.
On the I interface (MSC-GCR):
\- GCR Interrogation;
\- GCR Interrogation ack;
\- GCR Interrogation negative response;
\- Call Released.
On the GCR-GCR-interface:
\- Sync GCR ;
\- Sync GCR ack;
\- Sync GCR negative response.
In the tables which follow, information elements are shown as Mandatory (M),
Conditional (C) or Optional (O). A mandatory information element shall always
be present. A conditional information element shall be present if certain
conditions are fulfilled; if those conditions are not fulfilled it shall be
absent. An optional element may be present or absent, at the discretion of the
application at the sending entity.
## 12.1 Messages on the B interface (MSC-VLR)
### 12.1.1 Allocate Group Call Number
No information element is required.
### 12.1.2 Allocate Group Call Number ack
The following information element is required.
* * *
Information element name Required Description Group Call number M E.164 number
required to route the call from the anchor MSC to the relay MSC
* * *
### 12.1.3 Allocate Group Call Number negative response
The negative response information element can takes the following value:
\- No Group Call number available.
### 12.1.4 Release Group Call Number
The following information element is required.
* * *
Information element name Required Description Group Call number M E.164 number
required to route the call from the anchor MSC to the relay MSC
* * *
## 12.2 Messages on the E interface (MSC-MSC)
### 12.2.1 Prepare Group Call
The following information elements are required.
* * *
Information element name Required Description Teleservice M The teleservice
Voice Broadcast Call indicates that a VBS call has to be prepared Broadcast
call reference M see clause 9 Ciphering Algorithm, Group Key and Number M
information on the cipher algorithm and group key to be used Priority C The
default priority level must be present if eMLPP applies Codec Info M
Information on the codecs allowed for the VBS call Uplink Reply Indicator O
Indicates that the uplink reply procedure is applicable for the voice
broadcast call. Must be present if the GCR provides the corresponding
information.
* * *
### 12.2.2 Prepare Group Call ack
The following information element is required.
* * *
Information element name Required Description Group Call number M E.164 number
required to route the call from the anchor MSC to the relay MSC
* * *
### 12.2.3 Prepare Group Call negative response
The negative response information element can takes the following value:
\- No Group Call number available.
### 12.2.4 Send Group Call End Signal
The following information element is required.
* * *
Information element name Required Description IMSI C The IMSI of the service
subscriber who has initiated the call. Must be present if the call was
initiated by a service subscriber in the relay MSC area.
* * *
### 12.2.5 Send Group Call Info
The following information elements are required.
+--------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Information element name | Required | Description | +--------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Teleservice | M | The teleservice Voice | | | | Broadcast Call indicates | | | | that the request is for | | | | VBS | +--------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Requested Info | M | Indicates that | | | | | | | | Anchor MSC Address and | | | | Broadcast Call Reference | | | | | | | | are requested | +--------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Group ID | M | see clause 9. | +--------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Cell Id | M | Identification of the cell | | | | where the group call | | | | initiating service | | | | subscriber is located. | +--------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | IMSI | M | IMSI of the service | | | | subscriber for whom the | | | | request is sent. | +--------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
### 12.2.6 Send Group Call Info ack
The following information elements are required.
* * *
Information element name Required Description Anchor MSC Address M E.164
number required to route the call from the VMSC to the anchor MSC. Broadcast
call reference M see clause 9.
* * *
### 12.2.7 Send Group Call Info negative response
The negative response information element can take the following value:
\- ongoing call;
\- failure.
## 12.3 Messages on the I interface (MSC-GCR)
### 12.3.1 GCR Interrogation
The following information elements are required.
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Information element name | Required | Description | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Broadcast call reference | C | see clause 9. Must be | | | | present if the VBS call | | | | was initiated by a | | | | dispatcher or by a service | | | | subscriber in the relay | | | | MSC area and the receiving | | | | GCR is associated to the | | | | anchor MSC, or if the | | | | receiving GCR is | | | | associated to a relay MSC | | | | and the GCR interrogation | | | | was triggered by a Prepare | | | | Group Call message | | | | received from the anchor | | | | MSC. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Group ID | C | see clause 9. Must be | | | | present if one of the | | | | following conditions is | | | | fulfilled: | | | | | | | | 1) the MSC is the visited | | | | MSC of the service | | | | subscriber initiating the | | | | VBS call, except if the | | | | MSC is a relay MSC and the | | | | GCR interrogation was | | | | triggered by a Prepare | | | | Group Call message | | | | received from the anchor | | | | MSC; | | | | | | | | 2) the GCR interrogation | | | | was triggered by a Send | | | | Group Call Info message | | | | received from the VMSC. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Originating Cell ID | C | see clause 9. Must be | | | | present if one of the | | | | following conditions is | | | | fulfilled: | | | | | | | | 1) the MSC is the visited | | | | MSC of the service | | | | subscriber initiating the | | | | VBS call, except if the | | | | MSC is a relay MSC and the | | | | GCR interrogation was | | | | triggered by a Prepare | | | | Group Call message | | | | received from the anchor | | | | MSC; | | | | | | | | 2) the GCR interrogation | | | | was triggered by a Send | | | | Group Call Info message | | | | received from the VMSC. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | CLI | C | Calling Line Identity of | | | | the initiating dispatcher, | | | | or VBS prefix plus | | | | broadcast call reference | | | | in case of service | | | | subscriber originated VBS | | | | call in the relay MSC. | | | | Must be present if the MSC | | | | is not the visited MSC of | | | | the service subscriber | | | | initiating the VBS call. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Relay MSC indicator | M | A flag indicating whether | | | | the GCR interrogation was | | | | triggered from a Prepare | | | | Group Call message | | | | received from the anchor | | | | MSC | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Group Call Serving MSC | C | A flag indicating whether | | indicator | | the GCR interrogation was | | | | triggered from a Send | | | | Group Call Info message | | | | received from the VMSC. | | | | May be set to \"yes\" in a | | | | RANflex configuration | | | | (with or without group | | | | call redundancy) only. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | IMSI | C | IMSI of the service | | | | subscriber who has | | | | initiated the VBS call. | | | | Must be present if the MSC | | | | is the visited MSC of the | | | | service subscriber | | | | initiating the VBS call, | | | | or the GCR interrogation | | | | was triggered by a Send | | | | Group Call Info message | | | | received from the VMSC | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Uplink Reply Indicator | O | Indicates that the uplink | | | | reply procedure is | | | | applicable for the voice | | | | broadcast call. Must be | | | | present if the MSC is the | | | | anchor MSC and the related | | | | flag exists and is set in | | | | the GCR. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Ongoing Call Override | C | Indicates that the GCR | | Indication | | shall delete any ongoing | | | | call information before | | | | processing the request. | | | | | | | | May be set to \"yes\" in a | | | | RANflex configuration with | | | | group call redundancy | | | | only. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
### 12.3.2 GCR Interrogation ack
The following information elements are required.
* * *
Information element name Required Description **Broadcast Call Reference** C
**Must be present if the GCR receives an interrogation request containing a
Group ID and an Originating Cell ID.** Cell List C A list of cells inside the
MSC area into which the call is to be sent. Must be present if a) no anchor
MSC address is present in the broadcast call reference record and the GCR
interrogation was not triggered by a Send Group Call Info message, or b) the
relay MSC indicator was set in the GCR Interrogation message Anchor MSC
Address C E.164 number required to route the call from the relay MSC and in a
RANflex configuration (with or without group call redundancy) from the VMSC to
the anchor MSC. Must be present if the anchor MSC Address is present in the
broadcast call reference record Relay MSC List C A list of relay MSCs into
which the call is to be sent. Must be present if a relay MSC list is present
in the broadcast call reference record and the GCR interrogation was not
triggered by a Send Group Call Info message Group Key and Number C Information
on the cipher algorithm and the group key to be used. Must be present if Group
Key and Number is present in the broadcast call reference record and the GCR
interrogation was not triggered by a Send Group Call Info message Codec Info C
Information on the codecs allowed for the voice broadcast call. Must be
present if Codec Info is present in the broadcast call reference record and
the GCR interrogation was not triggered by a Send Group Call Info message
Establish to Dispatcher List C A list of identities of dispatchers to which a
dedicated link is to be established. Must be present if included in the
broadcast call reference record. Note that the CLI possibly received with the
GCR interrogation message must not be included Release from Dispatcher List C
A list of identities of dispatchers which are allowed to terminate the voice
broadcast call. Must be present if included in the broadcast call reference
record and the GCR interrogation was not triggered by a Send Group Call Info
message Priority C The default priority level related to the voice broadcast
call if eMLPP applies. Must be present if included in the broadcast call
reference record and the GCR interrogation was not triggered by a Send Group
Call Info message IMSI C IMSI of the service subscriber who has initiated the
VBS call. Must be present if the Relay MSC Indicator was set in the GCR
interrogation message and the IMSI is present in the broadcast call reference
record Originating Cell ID C Must be present if originating cell id is present
in the broadcast call reference record
* * *
### 12.3.3 GCR interrogation negative response
The negative response information element can take the following values:
\- on-going call. In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy the
MSC address of the MSC within the redundancy pool at which the group call is
ongoing shall be present in the negative response; and
\- failure.
### 12.3.4 Call released
The following information element is required.
* * *
Information element name Required Description Broadcast call reference M see
clause 9
* * *
## 12.4 Messages on the GCR - GCR interface
### 12.4.1 Sync GCR
The following information elements are required.
* * *
Information element name Required Description Teleservice M The teleservice
Voice Broadcast Service indicates that a VBS call has to be prepared Group
call reference M see clause 9 Initial Talker Information C see subclause
8.1.3.2 on-going indication C indicates by its present that the broadcast call
is ongoing MSC Address C Address of the sending GCR\'s associated MSC, at
which the broadcast call is ongoing. call released indication C indicates by
its presence that the broadcast call is no longer ongoing. override indication
C indicates by its presence that the receiving GCR shall replace the stored
MSC-Address with the received value. request indication C indicated by its
presence that the sending GCR requests ongoing information and MSC Address
from the receiving GCR
* * *
### 12.4.2 Sync GCR ack
The following information elements are required.
* * *
Information element name Required Description Status of the voice group call C
Indicating whether the voice broadcast call is established or not. MSC Address
C Address of the MSC, at which the broadcast call is ongoing. Initial Talker
Information C see subclause 8.1.3.2
* * *
### 12.4.3 Sync GCR negative response
The negative response information element can take the following values:
\- on-going call. The MSC address of the MSC within the redundancy pool at
which the broadcast call is ongoing shall be present in the negative response;
\- initial talker information; and
\- failure.
# 13 List of system parameters
## 13.1 Timers
### 13.1.1 Txx
This is a supervision timer on the anchor MSC for the setup of the voice
broadcast call. It is started on receipt of a SETUP message from the calling
subscriber when the calling subscriber is in the anchor MSC area and on
receipt of an ISUP IAM from the relay MSC when the calling subscriber is in
the relay MSC area. Refer to subclause 11.3.1.1.2 for procedures on expiry.
The value of timer Txx is operator specific.
### 13.1.2 Tast
In a network supporting A-interface link sharing timer Tast shall be used to
measure the duration between periodic reports from the BSC to the MSC of Group
Call Area cells for which channels have been assigned or released, pre-empted
or failed since the last periodic report. When timer Tast expires, if new
cells in the Group Call Area have been established or existing ones have been
released, pre-empted or failed, the MSC shall be informed of the changes (see
subclause 7.1b). If no changes have occurred nothing shall be sent. Timer Tast
shall be restarted to measure the period of time until the next report. The
timer shall be stopped when the call is released.
The value of timer Tast is operator specific. Its default value is 5 seconds.
### 13.1.3 T3
In a RANflex configuration the group call serving MSC when receiving Send
Group Call Info from the VMSC shall supervise the setup of the broadcast call
by timer T3. T3 is started when a positive Send Group Call Info result is
returned to the VMSC and it is stopped when thebroadcast call is set up. At
timeout the temporarily stored transient data are deleted from the GCR.
In a RANflex configuration with group call redundancy T3 shall be implemented
in the GCR instead of in the MSC. T3 is started when initial talker
information is stored and stopped when initial talker information is deleted.
At timeout initial talker information is deleted from the GCR.
The value of timer T3 is operator specific. Its default value is 5 seconds.
#